
Neurons have a limited capacity for heat shock protein (HSP) induction and are vulnerable to the pathogenic consequence of protein misfolding and aggregation as seen in age-related neurodegenerative diseases. Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1), an NAD(+) -dependent lysine deacetylase with important biological functions, has been shown to sustain the DNA-binding state of HSF1 for HSP induction. Here we show that differentiation and maturation of embryonic cortical neurons and N2a neuroprogenitor cells is associated with decreases in SIRT1 expression and heat shock-dependent induction of HSP70 protein. Tests of a pharmacological activator and an inhibitor of SIRT1 affirm the regulatory role of SIRT1 in HSP70 induction. Protein cross-linking studies show that nuclear SIRT1 and HSF1 form a co-migrating high molecular weight complex upon stress. The use of retroviral vectors to manipulate SIRT1 expression in N2a cells show that shRNA-mediated knock down of SIRT1 causes spontaneous neurite outgrowth coincident with reduced growth rate and decreased induction of hsp70-reporter gene, whereas SIRT1 over-expression blocks the induced neural differentiation of N2a cells. Our results suggest that decreased SIRT1 expression is conducive to neuronal differentiation and this decrease contributes to the attenuated induction of HSPs in neurons. J. Cell. Physiol. 229: 1224-1235, 2014.  2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
The ability to detect artificially induced visual-proprioceptive asynchrony reflects an awareness of the first-person experience of self-generated movement. The current study assessed children's (5- to 8-year-olds) and adults' ability to integrate asynchronous visual and proprioceptive stimulation by delaying the visual feedback of self-generated action in videos. Children and adults observed a monitor showing their movements of a joystick at varying delay durations and were then asked to make judgments on whether their movements appeared to be delayed or live. Children demonstrated age-related differences in their reporting of delay judgments across all delay conditions. Adults' performances on the same task exceeded those of children. The results of this study provide a mapping of visual-proprioceptive integration abilities in 5 to 8 year old children. The age-related increase in sensitivity to visual-proprioceptive asynchrony is suggestive of increasing sensitivity to the temporal properties of multisensory feedback of self-generated movement with development.
Prescription opioid (PO) dependence is a critical health problem. Although examination of drug cue reactivity paradigms has advanced the understanding of risk factors for relapse for a variety of substances (e.g., cocaine, alcohol, nicotine), no PO specific drug cue paradigm has been developed. The current study addressed this gap in the literature and evaluated the ability of a newly developed PO drug cue paradigm to elicit subjective, physiological, and neuroendocrine changes among PO-dependent participants (n=20) as compared to controls (n=17). The drug cue paradigm included an induction script, viewing and handling paraphernalia (e.g., bottle of oxycontin pills, pill crusher) and watching a video depicting people using POs as well as places related to POs (e.g., pharmacies). Consistent with hypotheses, the PO group demonstrated significant pre- to post-cue increases on subjective ratings of craving, difficulty resisting POs, stress, and anger. The control group did not demonstrate significant changes on any of the subjective measures. Both the PO group and the control group evidenced significant pre- to post-cue increases in physiological responses (e.g., blood pressure, skin conductance), as expected given the arousing nature of the drug cue stimuli. The PO group, but not the control group, evidenced a significant pre- to post-cue increase in heart rate and salivary cortisol levels. The development and validation of a drug cue paradigm for POs may help inform future research and treatment development efforts for patients with PO dependence.
This study compared outcomes in methamphetamine use and sexual risk behaviors from a modified gay-specific, cognitive behavioral therapy (GCBT) combined with a low-cost contingency management (CM; [GCBT+CM]) intervention to prior findings from clinical trials of the original GCBT. Effect sizes for primary outcomes were compared using meta analysis. Comparisons of effect sizes at end of treatment showed the modified GCBT+CM produced significantly fewer consecutive weeks of methamphetamine abstinence (-0.44, CI: -0.79, -0.09) and fewer male sexual partners (-0.36, CI: -0.71, -0.02) than the first trial of GCBT, and more days of methamphetamine use (0.35, CI: 0.02, 0.68) than the second trial of GCBT. At 26-week follow-up, the modified GCBT+CM produced greater effects in reducing the number of male sexual partners (-0.54, CI: -0.89, -0.19; -0.51, CI: -0.84, -0.18). The original GCBT produced more and mostly short-term beneficial drug use outcomes, though sexual behavior changes consistently favored the modified GCBT+CM. On balance, most benefits are retained with the modified GCBT+CM intervention.
Background: Family caregivers of patients with dementia frequently experience psychological stress, depression and disturbed psychophysiological activity, with increased levels of diurnal cortisol secretion.Objectives: To compare the effects of a cognitive-behavioural group therapy (CBT) to a psychoeducation group programme (EDUC) on cortisol secretion in caregivers of patients with moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD).Method: Caregivers of AD outpatients were semi-randomly allocated to one of two intervention programmes (CBT or EDUC) consisting of eight weekly sessions. Twenty-six participants completed the study. Before and after intervention, salivary cortisol was collected at four different times of the day. Effects of the interventions were evaluated with self-report psychological scales and questionnaires related to functional abilities and neuropsychiatric symptoms of the AD relative.Results: Only in the CBT group did salivary cortisol levels significantly decrease after intervention, with a large effect size and high achieved power. Both groups reported a reduction of neuropsychiatric symptoms of their AD relative after intervention.Conclusion: Psychoeducation for caregivers may contribute to a reduction of neuropsychiatric symptoms of AD patients while CBT additionally attenuates psychophysiological responses to stressful situations in caregivers, by reducing diurnal cortisol levels. This may lead to a positive impact in the general health of the caregiver, eventually resulting in better care of the AD patient.
This study aimed to examine gender moderation within a stress and coping model of HIV medication adherence in adults with a history of childhood sexual abuse (CSA). Sequelae of CSA, including negative coping, psychological distress, and drug use, interfere with adherence to highly active antiretroviral treatment (HAART). These obstacles to adherence are likely moderated by gender. Gender may particularly influence the mediational effect of drug use on adherence. Participants included 206 adults living with HIV/AIDS and CSA. Categorical/continuous variable methodology in a structural equation modeling framework was used to test a multigroup model with women and men. Gender significantly moderated several effects in the model. For women, the effect of psychological distress on HAART adherence was mediated by drug use and the effect of drug use on viral load was mediated by HAART adherence. Among men, drug use did not significantly impact adherence. Since gender appears to moderate the effect of drug use on medication adherence, it is particularly important to address drug use within the context of HIV disease management in women with a history of CSA. Further, interventions to increase HAART adherence should take trauma history, gender, and drug abuse into account when assessing efficacy.
Tinnitus can be defined as the perception of noxious disabling internal sounds in the absence of external stimulation. While most individuals with tinnitus show some habituation to these internal sounds, many of them experience significant daily life impairments. There is now convincing evidence that impairment in attentional processes may be involved in tinnitus, particularly by hampering the habituation mechanism related to the prefrontal cortex activity. However, it is thus still unclear whether this deficit is an alteration of alerting and orienting attentional abilities, or the consequence of more general alteration in the executive control of attention. In the present study, 20 tinnitus patients were compared to 20 matched healthy controls using the Attention Network Test, to clarify which attentional networks, among alerting, orienting, and executive networks, show differences between the groups. The results showed that patients with tinnitus do not present a general attentional deficit but rather a specific deficit for top-down executive control of attention. This deficit was highly correlated with patient characteristics of years of tinnitus duration and the frequency of coping strategies employed to alleviate tinnitus distress in daily life. These findings are discussed in terms of recent neurobiological models suggesting that prefrontal cortex activity might especially be related to tinnitus habituation. Therapeutic perspectives focusing both on rehabilitation of the executive control of attention and neuromodulation are also discussed.
Social isolation (SI) has been linked epidemiologically to high rates of morbidity and mortality following stroke. In contrast, strong social support enhances recovery and lowers stroke recurrence. However, the mechanism by which social support influences stroke recovery has not been adequately explored. The goal of this study was to examine the effect of post-stroke pair housing and SI on behavioral phenotypes and chronic functional recovery in mice. Young male mice were paired for 14 days before a 60min transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) or sham surgery and assigned to various housing environments immediately after stroke. Post-stroke mice paired with either a sham or stroke partner showed significantly higher (P&lt;0.05) sociability after MCAO than isolated littermates. Sociability deficits worsened over time in isolated animals. Pair-housed mice showed restored sucrose consumption (P&lt;0.05) and reduced immobility in the tail suspension test compared to isolated cohorts. Pair-housed stroked mice demonstrated significantly reduced cerebral atrophy after 6 weeks (17.51.5% in PH versus 40.81.3% in SI; P&lt;0.001). Surprisingly, total brain arginase-1, a marker of a M2 &quot;alternatively activated&quot; myeloid cells was higher in isolated mice. However, a more detailed assessment of cellular expression showed a significant increase in the number of microglia that co-labeled with arginase-1 in the peri-infarct region in PH stroke mice compared to SI mice. Pair housing enhances sociability and reduces avolitional and anhedonic behavior. Pair housing reduced serum IL-6 and enhanced peri-infarct microglia arginase-1 expression. Social interaction reduces post-stroke depression and improves functional recovery.
Alcohol consumption by women during gestation has become increasingly common. Although it is widely accepted that exposure to high doses of ethanol has long-lasting detrimental effects on brain development, the case for moderate doses is underappreciated, and benchmark studies have demonstrated structural and behavioral defects associated with moderate prenatal alcohol exposure in humans and animal models. This study aimed to investigate the influence of in utero exposure to moderate levels of ethanol throughout pregnancy on learning/memory, anxiety parameters and neuroglial parameters in adolescent offspring. Female rats were exposed to an experimental protocol throughout gestation up to weaning. After mating, the dams were divided into three groups and treated with only water (control), non-alcoholic beer (vehicle) or 10% (vv) beer solution (moderate prenatal alcohol exposure - MPAE). Adolescent male offspring were subjected to the plus-maze discriminative avoidance task to evaluate learning/memory and anxiety-like behavior. Hippocampi were dissected and slices were obtained for immunoquantification of GFAP, NeuN, S100B and the NMDA receptor. The MPAE group clearly presented anxiolytic-like behavior, even though they had learned how to avoid the aversive arm. S100B protein was increased in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in the group treated with alcohol, and alterations in GFAP expression were also shown. This study indicates that moderate ethanol doses administered during pregnancy could induce anxiolytic-like effects, suggesting an increase in risk-taking behavior in adolescent male offspring. Furthermore, the data show the possibility that glial cells are involved in the altered behavior present after prenatal ethanol treatment.
Behavioral and genetic differences among Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats from different vendors and different breeders have long been observed, but generally overlooked. In our prior work, we found that two closely related WKY substrains, the WKY/NCrl and WKY/NHsd rats, differ in a small percentage of their genome which appeared to be highly enriched for autism risk genes. Although both substrains have been used widely in studies of hypertension, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and depression, they have not been tested for any autism-related behavioral phenotypes. Furthermore, these two substrains have often been used interchangeably in previous studies; no study has systematically examined the phenotypic differences that could be attributed by their small yet potentially meaningful genetic differences. In this paper we compared these two substrains on a battery of neurobehavioral tests. Although two substrains were similar in locomotor activity, WKY/NCrl rats were significantly different from WKY/NHsd rats in the elevated plus maze test, as well as measures of social interaction and ultrasonic vocalization. These strains were also compared with Sprague Dawley (SD) rats, a common outbred strain, and spontaneous hypertensive rats (SHR), an inbred rat model for ADHD and hypertension, which were derived from the same ancestor strain as the WKY strains. Our behavioral findings suggest that WKY/NCrl rats may be useful as a model autism spectrum disorders due to their lower social interest, lower ultrasonic vocalization and higher anxiety levels when WKY/NHsd rats are used as the control strain. Given the small genetic difference between the two inbred substrains, future studies to identify the exact gene and sequence variants that differ between the two may be useful for identifying the genetic mechanisms underlying these behaviors.
Drugs of abuse possess the seemingly paradoxical property of conditioning rats to avoid from drinking a saccharin solution that had been predictively paired with their systemic administration (conditioned saccharin avoidance, CSA). CSA is dependent upon an intact dopamine (DA) transmission but the locus, central or peripheral, and eventually the brain area from which this effect originates and its relationship with the rewarding properties of the drug is debated. In order to clarify this issue we tested the ability of amphetamine and morphine to induce CSA after infusion at the same dose-range and in the same areas from which these drugs induce conditioned place preference (CPP). Drugs were infused intracerebrally immediately after saccharin drinking in two acquisition trials and CSA was tested on a two bottle saccharin/water choice. Amphetamine (10 and 20g/0.5l) induced CSA after infusion in the NAc shell but was ineffective in the NAc core. Morphine (0.5 and 1g/0.5l) induced CSA from the VTA at both doses tested. Amphetamine (20g/0.5l) and morphine (1g/0.5l) failed to induce CSA after infusion 1.2mm dorsal the NAc shell and the VTA respectively. Finally, morphine (1g/0.5l), infused in the VTA, elicited a selective increase in dialysate DA in the NAc shell. These results indicate that drugs of abuse induce CSA from the same intracerebral sites and at the same doses at which they induce CPP. These observations are consistent with the existence of a strong relationship between CSA and drug reward related to their ability to stimulate DA transmission in the NAc shell.
Persistent deficits in social behavior are among the major negative consequences associated with exposure to ethanol during prenatal development. Prior work from our laboratory has linked deficits in social behavior following moderate prenatal alcohol exposure (PAE) in the rat to functional alterations in the ventrolateral frontal cortex [21]. In addition to social behaviors, the regions comprising the ventrolateral frontal cortex are critical for diverse processes ranging from orofacial motor movements to flexible alteration of behavior in the face of changing consequences. The broader behavioral implications of altered ventrolateral frontal cortex function following moderate PAE have, however, not been examined. In the present study we evaluated the consequences of moderate PAE on social behavior, tongue protrusion, and flexibility in a variant of the Morris water task that required modification of a well-established spatial response. PAE rats displayed deficits in tongue protrusion, reduced flexibility in the spatial domain, increased wrestling, and decreased investigation, indicating that several behaviors associated with ventrolateral frontal cortex function are impaired following moderate PAE. A linear discriminant analysis revealed that measures of wrestling and tongue protrusion provided the best discrimination of PAE rats from saccharin-exposed control rats. We also evaluated all behaviors in young adult (4-5 months) or older (10-11 months) rats to address the persistence of behavioral deficits in adulthood and possible interactions between early ethanol exposure and advancing age. Behavioral deficits in each domain persisted well into adulthood (10-11 months), however, there was no evidence that aging enhances the effects of moderate PAE within the age ranges that were studied.
Current dopamine replacement therapies, in Parkinson's disease (PD), result in aversive side effects and rapid drug dose escalation over time. Therefore, a non-dopaminergic treatment would be an advantageous supplement to lower the dose of dopamine replacement treatment postponing the occurrence of side effects. The noradrenergic system plays an important role in the facilitation or maintenance of the activity of the nigrostriatal dopamine pathways. Here the putative anti-Parkinson effects of the oral selective alpha2C-adrenoceptor antagonist (JNJ27063699 0.1-10mg/kg p.o.) and of vehicle (fruit syrup) were evaluated in the MPTP-marmoset model. Dose-related anti-Parkinson effects were assessed by means of a behavioural rating scale covering parkinsonian symptoms, body weight and body temperature, and two test systems assessing locomotor activity and complex motor skills of hand-eye coordination for controlled movements in MPTP- or saline-pretreated marmosets. JNJ27063699, at the middle and higher doses, consistently improved locomotor activity and hand-eye coordination capabilities, which indicates an improvement in the coordination of motor control -or movements- in MPTP-pretreated monkeys. No additional effects on the parkinsonian symptoms or side effects were observed on other test systems. Overall, the findings link deficit in motor coordination with dysfunctional adrenergic signalling and it suggest that selective alpha2C adrenergic antagonism may contribute to behavioural improvement in the MPTP-monkey model of PD. In multi-drug medication JNJ27063699 might have potential in the treatment of motor deficit in PD.
Mating behavior, particularly ejaculation, induces a state of sexual reward, which is evaluated by the conditioned place preference test. Several studies have shown that opioid receptors are involved in inducing the state of sexual reward, mainly because this state is blocked with naloxone, a mu opioid receptor antagonist. Dopamine has been implicated in sexual motivation, coital behavior and sexual reward, however, some experiments show that D2-like or non-specific dopaminergic antagonists are not capable of blocking the conditioned place preference induced by ejaculation; therefore, the role of dopamine on sexual reward has not been demonstrated, or has been frequently discarded. We show that a dose of SCH 23390 (a specific dopamine D1-like receptor antagonist), which does not modify locomotion, blocks the conditioned place preference induced by ejaculation and the conditioned place preference induced by SKF 38393 (D1-like agonist). Our results indicate that dopamine, across the D1-like receptors, is involved in the sexual reward induced by ejaculation.
The orexinergic system has been implicated in a number of behaviors, including reward and incentive motivation. Orexin 1 receptor antagonism has been reported to reduce drug self-administration, conditioned place preference, and reinstatement in rodents, but the role of the orexin 2 receptor is unclear. Here we evaluated the impact of the novel and selective orexin 2 receptor antagonist, 2-SORA 18, on motivation for nicotine as measured by responding on a progressive ratio schedule, as well as cue-induced reinstatement of a response previously associated with nicotine reward, and nicotine-induced reinstatement. 2-SORA 18 demonstrated selective effects on these behaviors. Specifically, doses up to 60mg/kg 2-SORA 18 were without significant effect on nicotine self-administration or nicotine-induced reinstatement, but doses as low as 15mg/kg 2-SORA 18 completely blocked cue-induced reinstatement. These findings indicate that orexin 2 receptor antagonism might have utility for attenuating relapse, particularly for patients sensitive to environmental stimuli associated with drug taking.
Flavor preferences vary; what one enjoys may be disgusting to another. Previous research has indicated several brain regions associated with flavor preferences. However, by using different stimuli or different internal states to obtain differences in liking, results of these studies may be confounded. Therefore, we used one target stimulus (grapefruit juice) and fMRI to compare brain activation patterns between participants that either liked (n=16) or disliked (n=18) this stimulus. Our first aim was to investigate whether differential neural activation exists that accounts for the difference in subjective flavor preference for the target stimulus. Secondly, multivariate analysis was used to investigate whether differences in subjective liking for the target revealed similar activation patterns as differences in general liking for a sweet and bitter solution. A direct comparison of likers and dislikers of the target stimulus revealed only small differences in activations in orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC). However, when using multivariate analysis, a broader activation pattern (including OFC, dACC, pregenual anterior cingulate, anterior insula and ventral striatum) was identified that discriminated likers from dislikers with an 88% success rate. Interestingly though, little overlap was found between this pattern and the pattern that discriminates liking for the sweet and bitter solutions and lesser voxels contributed to the former compared with the latter. These differences between patterns discerning innate versus learned preferences may suggest that different mechanisms are at work and highlight the importance of elucidating the neural processes of how subjective preferences are learned and acquired.
This project assessed dyspraxia in high-functioning school aged children with autism with a focus on Ideational Praxis. We examined the association of specific underlying motor function including eye movement with ideational dyspraxia (sequences of skilled movements) as well as the possible role of visual-motor integration in dyspraxia. We found that compared to IQ-, sex- and age-matched typically developing children, the children with autism performed significantly worse on: Ideational and Buccofacial praxis; a broad range of motor tests, including measures of simple motor skill, timing and accuracy of saccadic eye movements and motor coordination; and tests of visual-motor integration. Impairments in individual children with autism were heterogeneous in nature, although when we examined the praxis data as a function of a qualitative measure representing motor timing, we found that children with poor motor timing performed worse on all praxis categories and had slower and less accurate eye movements while those with regular timing performed as well as typical children on those same tasks. Our data provide evidence that both motor function and visual-motor integration contribute to dyspraxia. We suggest that dyspraxia in autism involves cerebellar mechanisms of movement control and the integration of these mechanisms with cortical networks implicated in praxis.
People constantly face the need to choose one option from among many, such as when selecting words to express a thought. Selecting between many options can be difficult for anyone, and can feel overwhelming for individuals with elevated anxiety. The current study demonstrates that anxiety is associated with impaired selection across three different verbal tasks, and tests the specificity of this finding to anxiety. Anxiety and depression frequently co-occur; thus, it might be assumed that they would demonstrate similar associations with selection, although they also have distinct profiles of symptoms, neuroanatomy and neurochemistry. Here, we report for the first time that anxiety and depressive symptoms counter-intuitively have opposite effects on selection among competing options. Specifically, whereas anxiety symptoms are associated with impairments in verbal selection, depressive symptoms are associated with better selection performance. Implications for understanding the mechanisms of anxiety, depression and selection are discussed.
We investigate the hypothesis that infant-directed speech is a form of hyperspeech, optimized for intelligibility, by focusing on vowel devoicing in Japanese. Using a corpus of infant-directed and adult-directed Japanese, we show that speakers implement high vowel devoicing less often when speaking to infants than when speaking to adults, consistent with the hyperspeech hypothesis. The same speakers, however, increase vowel devoicing in careful, read speech, a speech style which might be expected to pattern similarly to infant-directed speech. We argue that both infant-directed and read speech can be considered listener-oriented speech styles-each is optimized for the specific needs of its intended listener. We further show that in non-high vowels, this trend is reversed: speakers devoice more often in infant-directed speech and less often in read speech, suggesting that devoicing in the two types of vowels is driven by separate mechanisms in Japanese.
It is generally accepted that low-level features (e.g., inter-word spaces) are responsible for saccade-target selection in eye-movement control during reading. In two experiments using Uighur script known for its rich suffixes, we demonstrate that, in addition to word length and launch site, the number of suffixes influences initial landing positions. We also demonstrate an influence of word frequency. These results are difficult to explain purely by low-level guidance of eye movements and indicate that due to properties specific to Uighur script low-level visual information and high-level information such as morphological structure of parafoveal words jointly influence saccade programming.
We hypothesized that the analysis of mRNA level and activity of key enzymes in amino acid and carbohydrate metabolism in a feeding/fasting/refeeding setting could improve our understanding of how a carnivorous fish, like the European seabass (Dicentrarchus labrax), responds to changes in dietary intake at the hepatic level. To this end cDNA fragments encoding genes for cytosolic and mitochondrial alanine aminotransferase (cALT; mALT), pyruvate kinase (PK), glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH) and 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (6PGDH) were cloned and sequenced. Measurement of mRNA levels through quantitative real-time PCR performed in livers of fasted seabass revealed a significant increase in cALT (8.5-fold induction) while promoting a drastic 45-fold down-regulation of PK in relation to the levels found in fed seabass. These observations were corroborated by enzyme activity meaning that during food deprivation an increase in the capacity of pyruvate generation happened via alanine to offset the reduction in pyruvate derived via glycolysis. After a 3-day refeeding period cALT returned to control levels while PK was not able to rebound. No alterations were detected in the expression levels of G6PDH while 6PGDH was revealed to be more sensitive specially to fasting, as confirmed by a significant 5.7-fold decrease in mRNA levels with no recovery after refeeding. Our results indicate that in early stages of refeeding, the liver prioritized the restoration of systemic normoglycemia and replenishment of hepatic glycogen. In a later stage, once regular feeding is re-established, dietary fuel may then be channeled to glycolysis and de novo lipogenesis.
The brain is characterized by performing many diverse processing tasks ranging from elaborate processes such as pattern recognition, memory or decision making to more simple functionalities such as linear filtering in image processing. Understanding the mechanisms by which the brain is able to produce such a different range of cortical operations remains a fundamental problem in neuroscience. Here we show a study about which processes are related to chaotic and synchronized states based on the study of in-silico implementation of Stochastic Spiking Neural Networks (SSNN). The measurements obtained reveal that chaotic neural ensembles are excellent transmission and convolution systems since mutual information between signals is minimized. At the same time, synchronized cells (that can be understood as ordered states of the brain) can be associated to more complex nonlinear computations. In this sense, we experimentally show that complex and quick pattern recognition processes arise when both synchronized and chaotic states are mixed. These measurements are in accordance with in vivo observations related to the role of neural synchrony in pattern recognition and to the speed of the real biological process. We also suggest that the high-level adaptive mechanisms of the brain that are the Hebbian and non-Hebbian learning rules can be understood as processes devoted to generate the appropriate clustering of both synchronized and chaotic ensembles. The measurements obtained from the hardware implementation of different types of neural systems suggest that the brain processing can be governed by the superposition of these two complementary states with complementary functionalities (nonlinear processing for synchronized states and information convolution and parallelization for chaotic).
Experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) is considered as the murine model of multiple sclerosis. Daidzein a phytostrogenic compound of soy is known to impose immunomodulatory and antioxidative effects. We conducted this study to assess the potential protective and therapeutic effects of daidzein on allergic encephalomyelitis.C57BL/6 mice were induced with allergic encephalomyelitis using myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (35-55) and received daidzein or dimethyl sulfoxide as the vehicle control. To assess the protective effect of daidzein, the mice were administered with 20 mg/kg of daidzein from 21 days prior to 21 days post EAE induction on a daily basis. To evaluate the therapeutic effect of daidzein, mice were fed with 300 mg/kg daidzein after the appearance of the first clinical signs for 10 days. One day after the last gavage, the mice were sacrificed. Spleen and brain were removed for further histological and immunological analysis.Feeding mice with low dose of daidzein prior to disease induction did not affect disease severity. However, treating with high dose of daidzein after the onset of the disease reduced interferon- and interleukin-12 secretion, enhanced interleukin-10 production, suppressed lymphocyte proliferation, and decreased cytotoxicity as judged by lactate dehydrogenase release.In conclusion, daidzein reduced the extent of demyelination and disease severity. Chronic oral therapy with low dose of daidzein did not prevent experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. However, high doses of daidzein could prohibit disease exacerbation.






The insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) signaling pathway plays an important role in neuronal cell differentiation. Recent studies have shown that IGF-1 has the capacity to counteract the retraction of neuronal processes in response to inflammatory cytokines such as TNF-, which is a known factor for neuronal injury in the central nervous system. This event is thought to be mediated via interference of TNF--induced interaction of 1-integrin with insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1). Here, we demonstrate the interaction of IRS-1 with disintegrin and metalloproteinase ADAM10 through the N-terminal domain of IRS-1 and that this is involved in the regulation of neurite extension and retraction by IGF-1 and TNF-, respectively. PC12 cells expressing the N-terminal domain show enhanced neurite extension after IGF-1 treatment and reduced neurite depletion relative to control cells after TNF- treatment. The level of ADAM10 was found to be increased in immunohistochemical studies of HIV encephalitis clinical samples and is present with TNF- and TNFR1 in both astrocytes and neurons. Altogether, these observations suggest a role for ADAM10 in the mechanism for IGF1/IRS-1 signaling pathway in sustaining the stability of neuronal processes.
Interleukin-18 (IL-18) is increased along with IL-1 by activation of the inflammasome and has been implicated in inflammatory and autoimmune diseases, but its role in the eye is uncertain. In patients with macular edema due to retinal vein occlusion, intraocular IL-18 levels increased significantly (P&lt;0.001) after treatment with ranibizumab particularly in patients with high baseline IL-18 which correlated with good visual outcome (P&lt;0.05). In mice with ischemic retinopathy, suppression of VEGF caused an increase in IL18 mRNA due to an increase in IL-18-positive myeloid cells. VEGF significantly and specifically inhibited IL-18 production by myeloid cells stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (P&lt;0.001). Intraocular injection of IL-18 reduced VEGF-induced leakage and neovascularization, and reversed VEGF-induced suppression of Claudin5 expression and Claudin 5 labeling of vascular tight junctions. Injection of IL-18 also increased expression of Thrombospondin 1 and reduced ischemia-induced retinal neovascularization relevant to diabetic retinopathy and subretinal neovascularization relevant to neovascular age-related macular degeneration. Thus, VEGF and IL-18 suppress each other's production and effects on the vasculature suggesting that IL-18 may provide benefit in multiple retinal/choroidal vascular diseases.
Chikungunya (CHIKV) is an emerging arboviral infection of public health concern in India contributing to widespread morbidity. The precise molecular events occurring early in the infection have not been well understood. Cytokines/chemokines are suspected to play a key role in its pathogenesis. Very few studies have correlated the plasma levels of cytokines/chemokines with diagnostic markers such as viral loads and presence of CHIKV IgM antibodies. Understanding these dynamics in the early phase of CHIKV infection is likely to provide an insight into the evolution of the immune response, identify biomarkers for assessing severity, and for development of newer therapeutic strategies. This study was therefore undertaken to estimate the levels of various cytokines/chemokines in plasma samples of patients infected with CHIKV and correlate to viral load and CHIKV IgM antibodies. Cytokine/chemokine levels and viral loads in plasma were measured using cytometric bead array and TaqMan real time PCR assay, respectively. The findings revealed that acute phase of CHIKV infection is characterized by predominant inflammatory responses mediated by IL-6, IL-8, IP-10, MCP-1, and MIG (P&lt;0.003). Plasma levels of IL-6 (r=0.53, P&lt;0.05) and MCP-1 (r=0.83, P&lt;0.05) emerged as reliable biomarkers of high viral loads in Chikungunya patients. Further, presence of elevated levels of MCP-1 and MIG during the chronic phase of the disease suggests that these chemokines may contribute to perpetuation of symptoms. Hence, these chemokines might serve as targets for the development of treatment to ameliorate the symptoms during the acute phase and prevent the development of chronic manifestations. J. Med. Virol. 86:1393-1401, 2014.  2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.


We recently showed that mutation of the VPS35 gene can cause late-onset Parkinson's disease. In the present study we sequenced 702 affected subjects from the Mayo Clinic Parkinson's disease patient-control series for the VPS29 and VPS26A/B genes. We identified only 2 rare nonsynonymous variants in the VPS26A p.K93E and VPS29 p.N72H. The results show that mutations in the genes composing the retromer cargo recognition subunit are not a common cause of Parkinson's disease.
Declines in the ability to learn motor skills in older adults are commonly attributed to deficits in the encoding of sensorimotor information during motor practice. We investigated whether aging also impairs motor memory consolidation by assessing the susceptibility to memory interference and off-line gains in motor skill learning after practice in children, young, and older adults. Subjects performed a ballistic task (A) followed by an accuracy-tracking task (B) designed to disrupt the consolidation of A. Retention tests of A were performed immediately and 24 hours after B. Older adults showed greater susceptibility to memory interference and no off-line gains in motor skill learning. Performing B produced memory interference and reduced off-line gains only in the older group. However, older adults also showed deficits in memory consolidation independent of the interfering effects of B. Age-related declines in motor skill learning are not produced exclusively by deficits in the encoding of sensorimotor information during practice. Aging also increases the susceptibility to memory interference and reduces off-line gains in motor skill learning after practice.
Epigenetic processes play a key role in the central nervous system and altered levels of 5-methylcytosine have been associated with a number of neurologic phenotypes, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recently, 3 additional cytosine modifications have been identified (5-hydroxymethylcytosine, 5-formylcytosine, and 5-carboxylcytosine), which are thought to be intermediate steps in the demethylation of 5-methylcytosine to unmodified cytosine. Little is known about the frequency of these modifications in the human brain during health or disease. In this study, we used immunofluorescence to confirm the presence of each modification in human brain and investigate their cross-tissue abundance in AD patients and elderly control samples. We identify a significant AD-associated decrease in global 5-hydroxymethylcytosine in entorhinal cortex and cerebellum, and differences in 5-formylcytosine levels between brain regions. Our study further implicates a role for epigenetic alterations in AD.
Adenosine to inosine (A-to-I) RNA editing is a base recoding process within precursor messenger RNA, catalyzed by members of the adenosine deaminase acting on RNA (ADAR) family. A notable example occurs at the Q/R site of the -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid glutamate receptor subunit GluA2. Abnormally, low editing at this site leads to excessive calcium influx and cell death. We studied hippocampus and caudate samples from Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and age-matched healthy controls, using direct sequencing and a high accuracy primer-extension technique to assess RNA editing at the Q/R GluA2 site. Both techniques revealed lower, more variable RNA editing in AD, specific to the hippocampus and the GluA2 site. Deficient editing also characterized the hippocampus of apolipoprotein 4 allele carriers, regardless of clinical diagnosis. In AD, messenger RNA expression of neuronal markers was decreased in the hippocampus, and expression of the Q/R-site editing enzyme ADAR2 was decreased in caudate. These findings provide a link between neurodegenerative processes and deficient RNA editing of the GluA2 Q/R site, and may contribute to both diagnosis and treatment of AD.
A pressing need exists to disentangle age-related changes from pathologic neurodegeneration. This study aims to characterize the spatial pattern and age-related differences of biologically relevant measures invivo over the course of normal aging. Quantitative multiparameter maps that provide neuroimaging biomarkers for myelination and iron levels, parameters sensitive to aging, were acquired from 138 healthy volunteers (age range: 19-75years). Whole-brain voxel-wise analysis revealed a global pattern of age-related degeneration. Significant demyelination occurred principally in the white matter. The observed age-related differences in myelination were anatomically specific. In line with invasive histologic reports, higher age-related differences were seen in the genu of the corpus callosum than the splenium. Iron levels were significantly increased in the basal ganglia, red nucleus, and extensive cortical regions but decreased along the superior occipitofrontal fascicle and optic radiation. This whole-brain pattern of age-associated microstructural differences in the asymptomatic population provides insight into the neurobiology of aging. The results help build a quantitative baseline from which to examine and draw a dividing line between healthy aging and pathologic neurodegeneration.
This study used path analysis to examine effects of cognitive activity and physical activity on cognitive functioning in older adults, through pathways involving beta-amyloid (A) burden, cerebrovascular lesions, and neural injury within the brain regions affected in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Ninety-two cognitively normal older adults (75.2  5.6years) reported lifetime cognitive activity and current physical activity using validated questionnaires. For each participant, we evaluated cortical A burden (using [(11)C] labeled Pittsburgh-Compound-B positron emission tomography), cerebrovascular lesions (using magnetic resonance imaging-defined white matter lesion [WML]), and neural integrity within AD regions (using a multimodal neuroimaging biomarker). Path models (adjusted for age, gender, and education) indicated that higher lifetime cognitive activity and higher current physical activity was associated with fewer WMLs. Lower WML volumes were in turn related to higher neural integrity and higher global cognitive functioning. As shown previously, higher lifetime cognitive activity was associated with lower [(11)C] labeled Pittsburgh-Compound-B retention, which itself moderated the impact of neural integrity on cognitive functioning. Lifestyle activity may thus promote cognitive health in aging by protecting against cerebrovascular pathology and A pathology thought to be relevant to AD development.
Mutations of 3 causative genes, namely presenilin 1 (PSEN1), presenilin 2 (PSEN2), and amyloid precursor protein (APP), have been identified as the major causes of early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease (EOFAD). Recently, a GGGGCC repeat expansion in the noncoding region of C9orf72 was also detected in some patients with clinically diagnosed familial Alzheimer's disease. The prevalence of causative gene mutations in patients with EOFAD has been reported in previous studies but their prevalence remains unclear in Mainland China. The aim of this study was to characterize the common causative gene mutation spectrum and genotype-phenotype correlations in Chinese patients with EOFAD. Genetic screening for mutations in PSEN1, PSEN2, and APP was conducted in a total of 32 families with clinical diagnoses of EOFAD from Mainland China. Subsequently, a hexanucleotide repeat expansion in C9orf72 was detected in all patients. Four novel mutations in PSEN1 (p.A434T, p.I167del, p.F105C, and p.L248P) were identified in 4 respective families, and 1 previously recognized pathogenic mutation in APP (p.V717I) was detected in another 2 unrelated families. The PSEN2 mutation and pathogenic repeat expansions of C9orf72 were not detected in all patients. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first cohort report of a causative gene screen in patients with EOFAD in Mainland China. The analysis of the genetic-clinical correlations in this cohort supports the idea that the clinical phenotype might be influenced by specific genetic defects.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease characterized by selective loss of upper and lower motor neurons and skeletal muscle atrophy. Epidemiologic and experimental evidence suggest the involvement of androgens in ALS pathogenesis, but the mechanism through which androgens modify the ALS phenotype is unknown. Here, we show that androgen ablation by surgical castration extends survival and disease duration of a transgenic mouse model of ALS expressing mutant human SOD1 (hSOD1-G93A). Furthermore, long-term treatment of orchiectomized hSOD1-G93A mice with nandrolone decanoate (ND), an anabolic androgenic steroid, worsened disease manifestations. ND treatment induced muscle fiber hypertrophy but caused motor neuron death. ND negatively affected survival, thereby dissociating skeletal muscle pathology from life span in this ALS mouse model. Interestingly, orchiectomy decreased androgen receptor levels in the spinal cord and muscle, whereas ND treatment had the opposite effect. Notably, stimulation with ND promoted the recruitment of endogenous androgen receptor into biochemical complexes that were insoluble in sodium dodecyl sulfate, a finding consistent with protein aggregation. Overall, our results shed light on the role of androgens as modifiers of ALS pathogenesis via dysregulation of androgen receptor homeostasis.
Fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome (FXTAS) is a late-onset movement disorder associated with FMR1 premutation alleles. Asymptomatic premutation (aPM) carriers have preserved cognitive functions, but they present subtle executive deficits. Current efforts are focusing on the identification of specific cognitive markers that can detect aPM carriers at higher risk of developing FXTAS. This study aims at evaluating verbal memory and executive functions as early markers of disease progression while exploring associated brain structure changes using diffusion tensor imaging. We assessed 30 aPM men and 38 intrafamilial controls. The groups perform similarly in the executive domain except for decreased performance in motor planning in aPM carriers. In the memory domain, aPM carriers present a significant decrease in verbal encoding and retrieval. Retrieval is associated with microstructural changes of the white matter (WM) of the left hippocampal fimbria. Encoding is associated with changes in the WM under the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, a region implicated in relational memory encoding. These associations were found in the aPM group only and did not show age-related decline. This may be interpreted as a neurodevelopmental effect of the premutation, and longitudinal studies are required to better understand these mechanisms.
Inclusion body myopathy (IBM) associated with Paget disease of the bone, frontotemporal dementia (FTD), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), sometimes called IBMPFD/ALS or multi system proteinopathy, is a rare, autosomal dominant disorder characterized by progressive degeneration of muscle, brain, motor neurons, and bone with prominent TDP-43 pathology. Recently, 2 novel genes for multi system proteinopathy were discovered; heterogenous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) A1 and A2B1. Subsequently, a mutation in hnRNPA1 was also identified in a pedigree with autosomal dominant familial ALS. The genetic evidence for ALS and other neurodegenerative diseases is still insufficient. We therefore sequenced the prion-like domain of these genes in 135 familial ALS, 1084 sporadic ALS, 68 familial FTD, 74 sporadic FTD, and 31 sporadic IBM patients in a Dutch population. We did not identify any mutations in these genes in our cohorts. Mutations in hnRNPA1 and hnRNPA2B1 prove to be a rare cause of ALS, FTD, and IBM in the Netherlands.
One of the current challenges in the field of advanced prosthetics is the development of artificial limbs that provide the user with detailed sensory feedback. Sensory feedback from our limbs is not only important for proprioceptive awareness and motor control, but also essential for providing us with a feeling of ownership or simply put, the sensation that our limbs actually belong to ourselves. The strong link between sensory feedback and ownership has been repeatedly demonstrated with the so-called rubber hand illusion (RHI), during which individuals are induced with the illusory sensation that an artificial hand is their own. In healthy participants, this occurs via integration of visual and tactile signals, which is primarily supported by multisensory regions in premotor and intraparietal cortices. Here, we describe a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study with two upper limb amputees, showing for the first time that the same brain regions underlie ownership sensations of an artificial hand in this population. Albeit preliminary, these findings are interesting from both a theoretical as well as a clinical point of view. From a theoretical perspective, they imply that even years after the amputation, a few seconds of synchronous visuotactile stimulation are sufficient to activate hand-centered multisensory integration mechanisms. From a clinical perspective, they show that a very basic sensation of touch from an artificial hand can be obtained by simple but precisely targeted stimulation of the stump, and suggest that a similar mechanism implemented in prosthetic hands would greatly facilitate ownership sensations and in turn, acceptance of the prosthesis.
The standard uptake value (SUV), commonly used to quantify (18)F-FluoroDeoxyGlucose (FDG) uptake in small animal brain PET imaging, is affected by many factors. In this study the influence of fasting times, inter-scan duration and repetitive scanning on the variability of different SUV measures is investigated. Additionally it is demonstrated that these variables could adversely influence the outcome of a pharmacological challenge when not accounted for. Naive Sprague-Dawley rats (n=20) were randomly divided into five different fasting groups (no fasting up to 24h of fasting). SUV brain uptake values were reproducible in naive animals when a fasting period of at least 12h is used and for shorter fasting periods SUV values need to be corrected for the glucose level. Additionally, a separate animal group (n=6) was sufficiently fasted for 16h and in a longitudinal setting being scanned six times in three weeks. Especially with short inter-scan durations, increasing glucose levels were found over time which was attributed to increased stress due to repeated food deprivation, altered food intake or scan manipulations. As a result, even with controlled and sufficient fasting, blood glucose levels should be taken into account for data quantification. Strikingly, even the brain activation effects of an NMDA-antagonist challenge with memantine could not be detected in experiments with a short inter-scan duration if glucose levels were not taken into account. Correcting for glucose levels decreases the inter- and intra-animal variability for rat brain imaging. SUV corrected for glucose levels yields the lowest inter-animal variation. However, if the body weight changes significantly, as in a long experiment, quantification based on the glucose corrected percentage injected dose (and not SUV) is recommendable as this yields the lowest intra-animal variation.
The potential improvements in spatial resolution of neonatal EEG used in source localization have been challenged by the insufficiencies in realistic neonatal head models. Our present study aimed at using empirical methods to indirectly estimate skull conductivity; the model parameter that is known to significantly affect the behavior of newborn scalp EEG and cause it to be markedly different from that of an adult. To this end, we used 64 channel EEG recordings to study the spatial specificity of scalp EEG by assessing the spatial decays in focal transients using both amplitudes and between-c'hannels linear correlations. The findings showed that these amplitudes and correlations decay within few centimeters from the reference channel/electrode, and that the nature of the decay is independent of the scalp area. This decay in newborn infants was found to be approximately three times faster than the corresponding decay in adult EEG analyzed from a set of 256 channel recordings. We then generated realistic head models using both finite and boundary element methods along with a manually segmented magnetic resonance images to study the spatial decays of scalp potentials produced by single dipole in the cortex. By comparing the spatial decays due to real and simulated EEG for different skull conductivities (from 0.003 to 0.3S/m), we showed that a close match between the empirical and simulated decays was obtained when the selected skull conductivity for newborn was around 0.06-0.2S/m. This is over an order of magnitude higher than the currently used values in adult head modeling. The results also showed that the neonatal scalp EEG is less smeared than that of an adult and this characteristic is the same across the entire scalp, including the fontanel region. These results indicate that a focal cortical activity is generally only registered by electrodes within few centimeters from the source. Hence, the conventional 10 to 20 channel neonatal EEG acquisition systems give a significantly spatially under sampled scalp EEG and may, consequently, give distorted pictures of focal brain activities. Such spatial specificity can only be reconciled by appreciating the anatomy of the neonatal head, especially the still unossified skull structure that needs to be modeled with higher conductivities than conventionally used in the adults.
Sodium is the second most abundant MR-active nucleus in the human body and is of fundamental importance for the function of cells. Previous studies have shown that many pathophysiological conditions induce an increase of the average tissue sodium concentration. To date, several MR sequences have been used to measure sodium. The aim of this study was to evaluate the performance and suitability of five different MR sequences for quantitative sodium imaging on a whole-body 9.4Tesla MR scanner. Numerical simulations, phantom experiments and in vivo imaging on healthy subjects were carried out. The results demonstrate that, of these five sequences, the Twisted Projection Imaging sequence is optimal for quantitative sodium imaging, as it combines a number of features which are particularly relevant in order to obtain high quality quantitative images of sodium. These include: ultra-short echo times, efficient k-space sampling, and robustness against off-resonance effects. Mapping of sodium in the human brain is a technique not yet fully explored in neuroscience. Ultra-high field sodium MRI may provide new insights into the pathogenesis of neurological disorders, and may help to develop new and disease-specific biomarkers for the early diagnosis and therapeutic intervention before irreversible brain damage has taken place.
Phase synchronization among neuronal oscillations within the same frequency band has been hypothesized to be a major mechanism for communication between different brain areas. On the other hand, cross-frequency communications are more flexible allowing interactions between oscillations with different frequencies. Among such cross-frequency interactions amplitude-to-amplitude interactions are of a special interest as they show how the strength of spatial synchronization in different neuronal populations relates to each other during a given task. While, previously, amplitude-to-amplitude correlations were studied primarily on the sensor level, we present a source separation approach using spatial filters which maximize the correlation between the envelopes of brain oscillations recorded with electro-/magnetoencephalography (EEG/MEG) or intracranial multichannel recordings. Our approach, which is called canonical source power correlation analysis (cSPoC), is thereby capable of extracting genuine brain oscillations solely based on their assumed coupling behavior even when the signal-to-noise ratio of the signals is low. In addition to using cSPoC for the analysis of cross-frequency interactions in the same subject, we show that it can also be utilized for studying amplitude dynamics of neuronal oscillations across subjects. We assess the performance of cSPoC in simulations as well as in three distinctively different analysis scenarios of real EEG data, each involving several subjects. In the simulations, cSPoC outperforms unsupervised state-of-the-art approaches. In the analysis of real EEG recordings, we demonstrate excellent unsupervised discovery of meaningful power-to-power couplings, within as well as across subjects and frequency bands.
The anticipation of favourable or unfavourable events is a key component in our daily life. However, the temporal dynamics of anticipation processes in relation to brain activation are still not fully understood. A modified version of the monetary incentive delay task was administered during separate functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and electroencephalogram (EEG) sessions in the same 25 participants to assess anticipatory processes with a multi-modal neuroimaging set-up. During fMRI, gain and loss anticipation were both associated with heightened activation in ventral striatum and reward-related areas. EEG revealed most pronounced P300 amplitudes for gain anticipation, whereas CNV amplitudes distinguished neutral from gain and loss anticipation. Importantly, P300, but not CNV amplitudes, were correlated to neural activation in the ventral striatum for both gain and loss anticipation. Larger P300 amplitudes indicated higher ventral striatum blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) response. Early stimulus evaluation processes indexed by EEG seem to be positively related to higher activation levels in the ventral striatum, indexed by fMRI, which are usually associated with reward processing. The current results, however, point towards a more general motivational mechanism processing salient stimuli during anticipation.
The nucleus accumbens (NAcc) plays critical roles in healthy motivation and learning, as well as in psychiatric disorders (including schizophrenia and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder). Thus, techniques that confer control of NAcc activity might inspire new therapeutic interventions. By providing second-to-second temporal resolution of activity in small subcortical regions, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) can resolve online changes in NAcc activity, which can then be presented as &quot;neurofeedback.&quot; In an fMRI-based neurofeedback experiment designed to elicit NAcc activity, we found that subjects could increase their own NAcc activity, and that display of neurofeedback significantly enhanced their ability to do so. Subjects were not as capable of decreasing their NAcc activity, however, and enhanced control did not persist after subsequent removal of neurofeedback. Further analyses suggested that individuals who recruited positive aroused affect were better able to increase NAcc activity in response to neurofeedback, and that NAcc neurofeedback also elicited functionally correlated activity in the medial prefrontal cortex. Together, these findings suggest that humans can modulate their own NAcc activity and that fMRI-based neurofeedback may augment their efforts. The observed association between positive arousal and effective NAcc control further supports an anticipatory affect account of NAcc function.
Developmental imaging studies show that cortical grey matter decreases in volume during childhood and adolescence. However, considerably less research has addressed the development of subcortical regions (caudate, putamen, pallidum, accumbens, thalamus, amygdala, hippocampus and the cerebellar cortex), in particular not in longitudinal designs. We used the automatic labeling procedure in FreeSurfer to estimate the developmental trajectories of the volume of these subcortical structures in 147 participants (age 7.0-24.3years old, 94 males; 53 females) of whom 53 participants were scanned twice or more. A total of 223 magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans (acquired at 1.5-T) were analyzed. Substantial diversity in the developmental trajectories was observed between the different subcortical gray matter structures: the volume of caudate, putamen and nucleus accumbens decreased with age, whereas the volume of hippocampus, amygdala, pallidum and cerebellum showed an inverted U-shaped developmental trajectory. The thalamus showed an initial small increase in volume followed by a slight decrease. All structures had a larger volume in males than females over the whole age range, except for the cerebellum that had a sexually dimorphic developmental trajectory. Thus, subcortical structures appear to not yet be fully developed in childhood, similar to the cerebral cortex, and continue to show maturational changes into adolescence. In addition, there is substantial heterogeneity between the developmental trajectories of these structures.
The MAP6 (microtubule-associated protein 6) KO mouse is a microtubule-deficient model of schizophrenia that exhibits severe behavioral disorders that are associated with synaptic plasticity anomalies. These defects are alleviated not only by neuroleptics, which are the gold standard molecules for the treatment of schizophrenia, but also by Epothilone D (Epo D), which is a microtubule-stabilizing molecule. To compare the neuronal transport between MAP6 KO and wild-type mice and to measure the effect of Epo D treatment on neuronal transport in KO mice, MnCl2 was injected in the primary somatosensory cortex. Then, using manganese-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MEMRI), we followed the propagation of Mn(2+) through axonal tracts and brain regions that are connected to the somatosensory cortex. In MAP6 KO mice, the measure of the MRI relative signal intensity over 24h revealed that the Mn(2+) transport rate was affected with a stronger effect on long-range and polysynaptic connections than in short-range and monosynaptic tracts. The chronic treatment of MAP6 KO mice with Epo D strongly increased Mn(2+) propagation within both mono- and polysynaptic connections. Our results clearly indicate an in vivo deficit in neuronal Mn(2+) transport in KO MAP6 mice, which might be due to both axonal transport defects and synaptic transmission impairments. Epo D treatment alleviated the axonal transport defects, and this improvement most likely contributes to the positive effect of Epo D on behavioral defects in KO MAP6 mice.
Primate occipitotemporal cortex (OTC) is composed of a mosaic of highly specialized brain regions each involved in the high-level visual analysis and recognition of particular stimulus categories (e.g., objects, faces, scenes, bodies and tools). Whereas theories attempting to account for this modular organization of category-selective responses in OTC have largely focused on visually driven, bottom-up inputs to OTC (e.g., dimensions related to the visual structure of the world and how it is experienced), other proposals have instead focused on the connectivity of OTC's outputs, emphasizing how the information processed by different OTC regions might be used by the rest of the brain. The latter proposals underscore the importance of interpreting the activity (and selectivity) of individual OTC areas within the greater context of the widely distributed network of areas in which they are embedded and that use OTC information to support behavior. Here, using resting-state fMRI, we investigated the functional connectivity (FC) patterns of OTC regions associated with object-, face-, scene-, body- and tool-related processing defined from task-based localizers acquired in the same cohort of participants. We observed notable differences in the whole-brain FC patterns, not only across OTC regions, but even between areas thought to form part of the same category-selective network. Furthermore, we found that the neuroanatomical location of OTC regions (e.g., adjacency) had little, if any, bearing on the FC networks observed. FC between certain OTC areas and other regions traditionally implicated in sensory-, motor-, affective- and/or cognitive-related processing and the associated theoretical implications is discussed.
Brain function relies on the flexible integration of a diverse set of segregated cortical modules, with the structural connectivity of the brain being a fundamentally important factor in shaping the brain's functional dynamics. Following up on macroscopic studies showing the existence of centrally connected nodes in the mammalian brain, combined with the notion that these putative brain hubs may form a dense interconnected 'rich club' collective, we hypothesized that brain connectivity might involve a rich club type of architecture to promote a repertoire of different and flexibly accessible brain functions. With the rich club suggested to play an important role in global brain communication, examining the effects of a rich club organization on the functional repertoire of physical systems in general, and the brain in particular, is of keen interest. Here we elucidate these effects using a spin glass model of neural networks for simulating stable configurations of cortical activity. Using simulations, we show that the presence of a rich club increases the set of attractors and hence the diversity of the functional repertoire over and above the effects produced by scale free type topology alone. Within the networks' overall functional repertoire rich nodes are shown to be important for enabling a high level of dynamic integrations of low-degree nodes to form functional networks. This suggests that the rich club serves as an important backbone for numerous co-activation patterns among peripheral nodes of the network. In addition, applying the spin glass model to empirical anatomical data of the human brain, we show that the positive effects on the functional repertoire attributed to the rich club phenomenon can be observed for the brain as well. We conclude that a rich club organization in network architectures may be crucial for the facilitation and integration of a diverse number of segregated functions.
Interhemispheric connectivity with resting state MEG has been elusive, and demonstration of the default mode network (DMN) yet more challenging. Recent seed-based MEG analyses have shown interhemispheric connectivity using power envelope correlations. The purpose of this study is to compare graph theoretic maps of brain connectivity generated using MEG with and without signal leakage correction to evaluate for the presence of interhemispheric connectivity. Eight minutes of resting state eyes-open MEG data were obtained in 22 normal male subjects enrolled in an IRB-approved study (ages 16-18). Data were processed using an in-house automated MEG processing pipeline and projected into standard (MNI) source space at 7mm resolution using a scalar beamformer. Mean beta-band amplitude was sampled at 2.5second epochs from the source space time series. Leakage correction was performed in the time domain of the source space beam formed signal prior to amplitude transformation. Graph theoretic voxel-wise source space correlation connectivity analysis was performed for leakage corrected and uncorrected data. Degree maps were thresholded across subjects for the top 20% of connected nodes to identify hubs. Additional degree maps for sensory, visual, motor, and temporal regions were generated to identify interhemispheric connectivity using laterality indices. Hubs for the uncorrected MEG networks were predominantly symmetric and midline, bearing some resemblance to fMRI networks. These included the cingulate cortex, bilateral inferior frontal lobes, bilateral hippocampal formations and bilateral cerebellar hemispheres. These uncorrected networks however, demonstrated little to no interhemispheric connectivity using the ROI-based degree maps. Leakage corrected MEG data identified the DMN, with hubs in the posterior cingulate and biparietal areas. These corrected networks demonstrated robust interhemispheric connectivity for the ROI-based degree maps. Graph theoretic analysis of MEG resting state data without signal leakage correction can demonstrate symmetric networks with some resemblance to fMRI networks. These networks however, are an artifact of high local correlation from signal leakage and lack interhemispheric connectivity. Following signal leakage correction, MEG hubs emerge in the DMN, with strong interhemispheric connectivity.

Brain white matter connections have become a focus of major interest with important maturational processes occurring in newborns. To study the complex microstructural developmental changes in-vivo, it is imperative that non-invasive neuroimaging approaches are developed for this age-group. Multi-b-value diffusion weighted imaging data were acquired in 13 newborns, and the biophysical compartment diffusion models CHARMED-light and NODDI, providing new microstructural parameters such as intra-neurite volume fraction (in) and neurite orientation dispersion index (ODI), were developed for newborn data. Comparative analysis was performed and twenty ROIs in the white matter were investigated. Diffusion tensor imaging and both biophysical compartment models highlighted the compact and oriented structure of the corpus-callosum with the highest FA and in values and the smallest ODI values. We could clearly differentiate, using the FA, in and ODI, the posterior and anterior internal capsule representing similar cellular structure but with different maturation (i.e. partially myelinated and absence of myelin, respectively). Late maturing regions (external capsule and periventricular crossroads of pathways) had lower in values, but displayed significant differences in ODI. The compartmented models CHARMED-light and NODDI bring new indices corroborating the cellular architectures, with the lowest in, reflecting the late maturation of areas with thin non-myelinated fibers, and with highest ODI indicating the presence of fiber crossings and fanning. The application of biophysical compartment diffusion models adds new insights to the brain white matter development in vivo.
The ability to predict learning performance from brain imaging data has implications for selecting individuals for training or rehabilitation interventions. Here, we used structural MRI to test whether baseline variations in gray matter (GM) volume correlated with subsequent performance after a long-term training of a complex whole-body task. 44 nave participants were scanned before undertaking daily juggling practice for 6weeks, following either a high intensity or a low intensity training regime. To assess performance across the training period participants' practice sessions were filmed. Greater GM volume in medial occipito-parietal areas at baseline correlated with steeper learning slopes. We also tested whether practice time or performance outcomes modulated the degree of structural brain change detected between the baseline scan and additional scans performed immediately after training and following a further 4weeks without training. Participants with better performance had higher increases in GM volume during the period following training (i.e., between scans 2 and 3) in dorsal parietal cortex and M1. When contrasting brain changes between the practice intensity groups, we did not find any straightforward effects of practice time though practice modulated the relationship between performance and GM volume change in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. These results suggest that practice time and performance modulate the degree of structural brain change evoked by long-term training regimes.
When multivariate pattern decoding is applied to fMRI studies entailing more than two experimental conditions, a most common approach is to transform the multiclass classification problem into a series of binary problems. Furthermore, for decoding analyses, classification accuracy is often the only outcome reported although the topology of activation patterns in the high-dimensional features space may provide additional insights into underlying brain representations. Here we propose to decode and visualize voxel patterns of fMRI datasets consisting of multiple conditions with a supervised variant of self-organizing maps (SSOMs). Using simulations and real fMRI data, we evaluated the performance of our SSOM-based approach. Specifically, the analysis of simulated fMRI data with varying signal-to-noise and contrast-to-noise ratio suggested that SSOMs perform better than a k-nearest-neighbor classifier for medium and large numbers of features (i.e. 250 to 1000 or more voxels) and similar to support vector machines (SVMs) for small and medium numbers of features (i.e. 100 to 600voxels). However, for a larger number of features (&gt;800voxels), SSOMs performed worse than SVMs. When applied to a challenging 3-class fMRI classification problem with datasets collected to examine the neural representation of three human voices at individual speaker level, the SSOM-based algorithm was able to decode speaker identity from auditory cortical activation patterns. Classification performances were similar between SSOMs and other decoding algorithms; however, the ability to visualize decoding models and underlying data topology of SSOMs promotes a more comprehensive understanding of classification outcomes. We further illustrated this visualization ability of SSOMs with a re-analysis of a dataset examining the representation of visual categories in the ventral visual cortex (Haxby et al., 2001). This analysis showed that SSOMs could retrieve and visualize topography and neighborhood relations of the brain representation of eight visual categories. We conclude that SSOMs are particularly suited for decoding datasets consisting of more than two classes and are optimally combined with approaches that reduce the number of voxels used for classification (e.g. region-of-interest or searchlight approaches).
Nandrolone decanoate, an anabolic androgen steroid (AAS) illicitly used by adult and adolescent athletes to enhance physical performance and body image, induces psychiatric side effects, such as aggression, depression as well as a spectrum of adverse physiological impairments. Since adolescence represents a neurodevelopmental window that is extremely sensitive to the detrimental effects of drug abuse, we investigated the long-term behavioral and neurophysiological consequences of nandrolone abuse during adolescence. Adolescent rats received daily injections of nandrolone decanoate (15mg/kg, i.m.) for 14 days (PND 40-53). At early adulthood (PND 68), forced swim, sucrose preference, open field and elevated plus maze tests were performed to assess behavioral changes. Invivo electrophysiological recordings were carried out to monitor changes in electrical activity of serotonergic neurons of the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) and noradrenergic neurons of the locus coeruleus (LC). Our results show that after early exposure to nandrolone, rats display depression-related behavior, characterized by increased immobility in the forced swim test and reduced sucrose intake in the sucrose preference test. In addition, adult rats presented anxiety-like behavior characterized by decreased time and number of entries in the central zone of the open field and decreased time spent in the open arms of the elevated plus maze. Nandrolone decreased the firing rate of spontaneously active serotonergic neurons in the DRN while increasing the firing rate of noradrenergic neurons in the LC. These results provide evidence that nandrolone decanoate exposure during adolescence alters the emotional profile of animals in adulthood and significantly modifies both serotonergic and noradrenergic neurotransmission.
Because of the complexity and heterogeneity of human neuropsychiatric disorders, it has been difficult to identify animal models that mimic the symptoms of these neuropathologies and can be used to screen for antipsychotic agents. For this study we selected the murine 5HT2A/2C receptor agonist-induced head twitch response (HTR) induced by the administration of 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI), which has been proposed as an animal model of symptoms associated with a variety of behavioral and psychiatric conditions. We investigated the DOI-induced HTR in male DBA/2J mice using a panel of D2-like (D2, D3 and D4) and D2 dopamine receptor selective compounds. When DBA/2J mice were administered a daily dose of DOI (5mg/kg), tolerance to the DOI occurs. However, administrations of the same dose of DOI every other day (48h) or on a weekly basis did not lead to tolerance and the ability to induce tolerance after daily administration of DOI remains intact after repeated weekly administration of DOI. Subsequently, a panel of D2-like dopamine receptor antagonists was found to effectively inhibit the DOI-induced HTR in DBA/2J mice. However, the benzamide eticlopride, which is a high affinity D2-like antagonist, was a notable exception. SV 293, SV-III-130s and N-methylbenperidol, which exhibit a high affinity for D2 versus the D3 dopamine receptor subtypes (60- to 100-fold binding selectivity), were also found to inhibit the HTR in DBA/2J mice. This observation suggests a functional interaction between dopaminergic and serotonergic systems through D2 dopamine receptors and the 5-HT2A serotonin receptors invivo.
Despite the well-documented importance of paternal caregiving for positive child development, little is known about the neural changes that accompany the transition to fatherhood in humans, or about how changes in hormone levels affect paternal brain function. We compared fathers of children aged 1-2 with non-fathers in terms of hormone levels (oxytocin and testosterone), neural responses to child picture stimuli, and neural responses to visual sexual stimuli. Compared to non-fathers, fathers had significantly higher levels of plasma oxytocin and lower levels of plasma testosterone. In response to child picture stimuli, fathers showed stronger activation than non-fathers within regions important for face emotion processing (caudal middle frontal gyrus [MFG]), mentalizing (temporo-parietal junction [TPJ]) and reward processing (medial orbitofrontal cortex [mOFC]). On the other hand, non-fathers had significantly stronger neural responses to sexually provocative images in regions important for reward and approach-related motivation (dorsal caudate and nucleus accumbens). Testosterone levels were negatively correlated with responses to child stimuli in the MFG. Surprisingly, neither testosterone nor oxytocin levels predicted neural responses to sexual stimuli. Our results suggest that the decline in testosterone that accompanies the transition to fatherhood may be important for augmenting empathy toward children.

Experiences of severe trauma during childhood are thought to be risk factors for developing mental disorders, such as anxiety and mood disorders, later in life. Correspondingly, exposure of rodents to early-life stress has been shown to affect neuronal circuitry and emotional behavior in adulthood, indicating a significant impact of stress on brain development. One current hypothesis proposes that the developing central nervous system is more sensitive to environmental influences, such as stress, than the adult. To test this hypothesis, we compared long-lasting effects of systemic corticosterone (CORT) administrations in two distinct early developmental periods. Mice exposed to early-neonatal CORT treatment on postnatal days (PD) 2-4 exhibited strongly enhanced excitability of neurons of the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA) in early adolescence and displayed impaired extinction of contextually conditioned fear memory, a type of behavior in which the BLA plays an important role. Furthermore, gene-expression of NMDA receptor subunits as well as calcium-activated K(+)-channels was reduced in the amygdala. In contrast, exposure to the same CORT concentrations in a late-neonatal period (PD17-19) did not significantly affect BLA electrophysiology or extinction learning in adolescence. These results suggest age-dependent consequences of neonatal CORT exposure in amygdala neurons and provide evidence for a detrimental influence of early-neonatal stress on adolescent fear-memory processing.
MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine, 'ecstasy') is reportedly used recreationally because it increases feelings of sociability and interpersonal closeness. Prior work suggests that the pro-social effects of MDMA may be mediated by release of oxytocin. A direct examination of plasma levels of oxytocin after acute doses of oxytocin and MDMA, in the same individuals, would provide further evidence for the idea that MDMA produces its pro-social effects by increasing oxytocin. Fourteen healthy MDMA users participated in a 4-session, double-blind study in which they received oral MDMA (0.75 and 1.5mg/kg), intranasal oxytocin (20IU or 40IU), and placebo. Plasma oxytocin concentrations, as well as cardiovascular and subjective effects were assessed before and at several time points after drug administration. MDMA (1.5mg/kg only) increased plasma oxytocin levels to a mean peak of 83.7pg/ml at approximately 90-120min, compared to 18.6pg/ml after placebo. Intranasal oxytocin (40IU, but not 20IU) increased plasma oxytocin levels to 48.0pg/ml, 30-60min after nasal spray administration. MDMA dose-dependently increased heart rate, blood pressure, feelings of euphoria (e.g., 'High' and 'Like Drug'), and feelings of sociability, whereas oxytocin had no cardiovascular or subjective effects. The subjective and cardiovascular responses to MDMA were not related to plasma oxytocin levels, although the N was small for this analysis. Future studies examining the effects of oxytocin antagonists on responses to MDMA will help to determine the mechanism by which MDMA produces pro-social effects.
Previous research has robustly established a Williams syndrome (WS) specific personality profile, predominantly characterized a gregarious, people-oriented, and tense predisposition. Extending this work, the aims of the current, cross-sectional study were two-fold: (1) to elucidate the stability of personality characteristics in individuals with WS and typically developing (TD) comparisons across development, and (2) to explore the personality attributes that may be related to the respective profiles of social functioning characterizing the two groups, which is currently poorly understood. The sample comprised of participants with WS and TD matched on chronological age. The test battery included the Multidimensional Personality Questionnaire (MPQ) and the Salk Institute Sociability Questionnaire (SISQ), an index of real-life social behavior. The main results showed that compared to the TD individuals, the WS group were consistently rated higher in Social Closeness, and this trait remained stable across development. Interpersonal behaviors were best predicted by Social Closeness in WS and by Social Potency in TD. Regression analysis highlighted that while a central motive underlying the increased drive toward social interaction in individuals with WS pertains to a desire to form affectionate relationships, TD individuals by contrast are motivated by a desire to exert social influence over others (leadership, social-dominance) and Well-Being (positive emotional disposition). In conclusion, these findings provide novel insight into social motivational factors underpinning the WS social behavior in real life, and contribute toward a deeper characterization of the WS affiliative drive. We suggest potential areas for behavioral intervention targeting improved social adjustment in individuals with WS.
Attachment to one's kin as an in-group emerges from a fundamental human motivation and is vital for human survival. Despite important recent advances in the field of social neuroscience, the neural mechanisms underlying family-related in-group perception remain obscure. To examine the neural basis of perceiving family-related in-group boundaries in response to written kinship scenarios, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging in 27 healthy adults and obtained self-report ratings of family-related entitativity, which measures to what degree participants perceive their family as a coherent and distinct group in society. We expected that activity in the subgenual cingulate cortex and septo-hypothalamic region would track individual differences in entitativity. Perceiving one's family as a distinct and cohesive group (high entitativity) was associated with increased subgenual cortex response to kinship scenarios. The subgenual cingulate cortex may represent a key link between kin-related emotional attachment and group perception, providing a neurobiological basis for group belongingness.
Oxytocin has repeatedly been shown to influence human behavior in social contexts; also, a relationship between oxytocin and the pathophysiology of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) has been suggested. In the present study, we investigated single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the oxytocin gene (OXT) and the genes for single-minded 1 (SIM1), aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator 2 (ARNT2) and cluster of differentiation 38 (CD38) in a population of 1771 children from the Child and Adolescent Twin Study in Sweden (CATSS). Statistical analyses were performed to investigate any association between SNPs and autistic-like traits (ALTs), measured through ASD scores in the Autism-Tics, ADHD and other Co-morbidities inventory. Firstly, we found a statistically significant association between the SIM1 SNP rs3734354 (Pro352Thr) and scores for language impairment (p=.0004), but due to low statistical power this should be interpreted cautiously. Furthermore, nominal associations were found between ASD scores and SNPs in OXT, ARNT2 and CD38. In summary, the present study lends support to the hypothesis that oxytocin and oxytocin neuron development may have an influence on the development of ALTs and suggests a new candidate gene in the search for the pathophysiology of ASD.
Blood-cerebrospinal barrier (BCB) dysfunction has previously been shown in subjects with schizophrenia and depressed patients with attempted suicide. Bipolar disorder (BPD) shares clinical features with both these disorders, but it is unknown if the integrity of the BCB is altered also in BPD. To assess if BCB function in BPD we surveyed 134 mood-stabilized BPD patients and 86 healthy controls. Serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples were collected and analyzed for albumin concentration by immunonephelometry. CSF/serum albumin ratio, an established measure of BCB function, was significantly elevated in BPD patients as compared to controls. After stratifying patients according to diagnostic subtype, BPD I patients had the highest CSF/serum albumin ratios. Moreover, BPD patients on antipsychotic treatment had higher CSF/serum albumin ratio than BPD patients on other treatments. When excluding BPD patients on antipsychotic treatment the difference in CSF/serum albumin ratio between the BPD and control groups disappeared. In conclusion, antipsychotic treatment in BPD is associated with elevated CSF/serum albumin ratio, tentatively as a sign of impaired BCB function. Whether this elevation is caused by antipsychotic treatment or is associated with a certain subtype of BPD, requiring antipsychotic treatment, remains to be determined.
We investigated whether symptom overreporting affects the dose-response relationship between self-reported abuse severity and psychiatric symptoms in two samples. The first sample (N=599) consisted of adults who had previously reported to a public commission that they had been witnesses to or victims of childhood sexual abuse by Roman Catholic Church representatives. The second sample (N=1756) consisted of general population respondents who indicated that they had been victims of non-familial childhood sexual abuse. Using a web-based data collection procedure, both samples completed the Brief Symptom Inventory (BSI-18), items addressing abuse severity, and items flagging symptom overreporting. Adjusting for overreporting reduced the proportion of participants with clinically raised BSI-18 scores from 60% to 47% in sample 1 and from 26% to 22% in sample 2. Also, in both samples, normal range reporting participants exhibited the typical dose-response relationship between trauma severity and BSI-18 scores, whereas this pattern was largely non-significant in overreporting participants. Our findings show that symptom overreporting has a psychometric impact that may obscure relationships between clinically relevant variables and should therefore preferably be monitored in surveys.

Cannabis is the most consumed illicit drug worldwide, but among patients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia, this consumption is higher suggesting that they are differentially sensitive to cannabis. We chose to study this problematic using a neurodevelopmental model of schizophrenia: neonatal ventral hippocampus lesions (NVHL). In a first study, we compared the locomotor response to novelty, a mild stress and two doses of amphetamine (0.75 and 1.5mg/kg) in sham and NVHL rats at post-natal day 35 (PD35) or 56 (PD56). In a second study, we investigated the valence of the motivational effect of Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinnol (THC, 0.5mg/kg, i.p.) and the cannabinoid receptor agonist, WIN55,212-2 (WIN, 1mg/kg, i.p.), using the conditioned place preference paradigm; we used a biased procedure that comprised 12 days of testing with 3 paired-conditioning. The effects of this dose of WIN were also measured on locomotor activity. Results confirmed that the adult NVHL animals displayed a stronger locomotor response to the two doses of amphetamine, but not to novelty and a mild stress. In adult NVHL, but not sham animals, WIN stimulated locomotor activity and produced a conditioned place aversion. At the dose tested, THC tended to produce an aversion in adult sham but not NVHL animals. Taken together these findings show that adult animals with a schizophrenia-like phenotype are differentially sensitive to the motivational effect of cannabinoids.
Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder associated with age which represents the most common cause of dementia. It is characterized by an accelerated memory loss compared to normal aging, and deterioration of other cognitive abilities that interfere with mood, reason, judgment and language. The main neuropathological hallmarks of the disorder are -amyloid (A) plaques and neurofibrillary Tau tangles. Triple transgenic 3TgAD mouse model develops A and Tau pathologies in a progressive manner, with a specific temporal and anatomic profile mimicking the pattern that takes place in the human brain with AD, and showing cognitive alterations characteristic of the disease. Environmental enrichment treatment in mice induces behavioral and emotional reactivity changes, including cognitive improvements in some AD-related transgenic mice. The present work intended to characterize the behavioral profile of 3TgAD mice at advanced stages of neuropathological development (12 and 15 months of age) and to investigate whether environmental enrichment administered during adulthood was able to modify some of their behavioral and cognitive alterations. Results show that, at advanced stages of the disease 3TgAD mice show deficits of spatial learning acquisition, as well as short-term and working memory deficits, while displaying increased levels of anxiety/fearfulness and normal sensorimotor functions. 3TgAD mice also show sexual dimorphism, as reflected by increased cognitive deficits in females and increased levels of novelty-induced behavioral inhibition in males. Environmental enrichment exerts some slight positive effects, by mainly improving the initial acquisition of the spatial learning and working memory in 12-month-old 3TgAD mice. Such effects vary depending on the gender.
Chronic stress underlies and/or exacerbates many psychiatric conditions and often results in memory impairment as well as depressive symptoms. Such afflicted individuals use tobacco more than the general population and this has been suggested as a form of self-medication. Cotinine, the predominant metabolite of nicotine, may underlie such behavior as it has been shown to ameliorate anxiety and memory loss in animal models. In this study, we sought to investigate the effects of cotinine on working memory and depressive-like behavior in mice subjected to prolonged restraint. Cotinine-treated mice displayed better performance than vehicle-treated cohorts on the working memory task, the radial arm water maze test. In addition, with or without chronic stress exposure, cotinine-treated mice engaged in fewer depressive-like behaviors as assessed using the tail suspension and Porsolt's forced swim tests. These antidepressant and nootropic effects of cotinine were associated with an increase in the synaptophysin expression, a commonly used marker of synaptic density, in the hippocampus as well as the prefrontal and entorhinal cortices of restrained mice. The beneficial effects of cotinine in preventing various consequences of chronic stress were underscored by the inhibition of the glycogen synthase kinase 3  in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. Taken together, our results show for the first time that cotinine reduces the negative effects of stress on mood, memory, and the synapse.
Persons with Parkinson's disease (PD) are characterized by multifactorial gait deficits, though the factors which influence the abilities of persons with PD to adapt and store new gait patterns are unclear. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of dopaminergic therapy on the abilities of persons with PD to adapt and store gait parameters during split-belt treadmill (SBT) walking. Ten participants with idiopathic PD who were being treated with stable doses of orally-administered dopaminergic therapy participated. All participants performed two randomized testing sessions on separate days: once while optimally-medicated (ON meds) and once after 12-h withdrawal from dopaminergic medication (OFF meds). During each session, locomotor adaptation was investigated as the participants walked on a SBT for 10min while the belts moved at a 2:1 speed ratio. We assessed locomotor adaptive learning by quantifying: (1) aftereffects during de-adaptation (once the belts returned to tied speeds immediately following SBT walking) and (2) savings during re-adaptation (as the participants repeated the same SBT walking task after washout of aftereffects following the initial SBT task). The withholding of dopaminergic medication diminished step length aftereffects significantly during de-adaptation. However, both locomotor adaptation and savings were unaffected by levodopa. These findings suggest that dopaminergic pathways influence aftereffect storage but do not influence locomotor adaptation or savings within a single session of SBT walking. It appears important that persons with PD should be optimally-medicated if walking on the SBT as gait rehabilitation.
Behavioural arousal in mammals is regulated by various interacting central monoamine- and peptide-neurotransmitter/receptor systems, which function to maintain awake, alert and active states required for performance of goal-directed activities essential for survival, including food seeking. Existing anatomical and functional evidence suggests the highly-conserved neuropeptide, relaxin-3, which signals via its cognate Gi/o-protein coupled receptor, RXFP3, contributes to behavioural arousal and feeding behaviour in rodents. In studies to investigate this possibility further, adult male C57BL/6J mice were treated with the selective RXFP3 antagonist peptides, R3(B1-22)R/I5(A) and R3(B1-22)R, and motivated food seeking and consumption was assessed as a reflective output of behavioural arousal. Compared to vehicle treatment, intracerebroventricular (icv) injection of RXFP3 antagonists reduced: (i) food anticipatory activity before meal time during food restriction; (ii) consumption of highly palatable food; (iii) consumption of regular chow during the initial dark phase, and; (iv) consumption of regular chow after mild (4-h) food deprivation. Effects were not due to sedation and appeared to be specifically mediated via antagonism of relaxin-3/RXFP3 signalling, as RXFP3 antagonist treatment did not alter locomotor activity in wild-type mice or reduce palatable food intake in relaxin-3 deficient (knock-out) mice. Notably, in contrast to similar studies in the rat, icv injection of RXFP3 agonists and infusion into the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus did not increase food consumption in mice, suggesting species differences in relaxin-3/RXFP3-related signalling networks. Together, our data provide evidence that endogenous relaxin-3/RXFP3 signalling promotes motivated food seeking and consumption, and in light of the established biological and translational importance of other arousal systems, relaxin-3/RXFP3 networks warrant further experimental investigation.
Brain cholinergic dysfunction is associated with neuropsychiatric illnesses such as depression, anxiety, and schizophrenia. Maternal stress exposure is associated with these same illnesses in adult offspring, yet the relationship between prenatal stress and brain cholinergic function is largely unexplored. Thus, using a rodent model, the current study implemented an intervention aimed at buffering the potential effects of prenatal stress on the developing brain cholinergic system. Specifically, control and stressed dams were fed choline-supplemented or control chow during pregnancy and lactation, and the anxiety-related behaviors of adult offspring were assessed in the open field, elevated zero maze and social interaction tests. In the open field test, choline supplementation significantly increased center investigation in both stressed and nonstressed female offspring, suggesting that choline-supplementation decreases female anxiety-related behavior irrespective of prenatal stress exposure. In the elevated zero maze, prenatal stress increased anxiety-related behaviors of female offspring fed a control diet (normal choline levels). However, prenatal stress failed to increase anxiety-related behaviors in female offspring receiving supplemental choline during gestation and lactation, suggesting that dietary choline supplementation ameliorated the effects of prenatal stress on anxiety-related behaviors. For male rats, neither prenatal stress nor diet impacted anxiety-related behaviors in the open field or elevated zero maze. In contrast, perinatal choline supplementation mitigated prenatal stress-induced social behavioral deficits in males, whereas neither prenatal stress nor choline supplementation influenced female social behaviors. Taken together, these data suggest that perinatal choline supplementation ameliorates the sex-specific effects of prenatal stress.
Recent imaging and lesion studies suggest that the human medial temporal lobe (including the hippocampus and the perirhinal cortex), which is traditionally believed to be of central importance for memory processing, is also involved in processing and discrimination of complex visual stimuli. The aim of this study was to use functional magnetic resonance imaging in healthy subjects to further elucidate the contributions of different medial temporal lobe structures to perceptual and mnemonic processing of faces and scenes, by directly comparing the activation in a visual discrimination and a recognition task (one week after encoding). A within-subjects full factorial analysis revealed significant hippocampal activation for both discrimination and recognition task, with no differential activations for the processing of faces or scenes. No perirhinal activation was found in either of the experimental conditions. These results support a perceptual-mnemonic theory of the medial temporal lobe, while questioning a simple mapping of different functions to single structures like hippocampus and perirhinal cortex.
Botulinum neurotoxin A (BoNT/A) has intrinsic endoprotease activity specific for SNAP-25, a key protein for presynaptic neurotransmitter release. The inactivation of SNAP-25 by BoNT/A underlies botulism, a rare but potentially fatal disease. There is a crucial need for a rapid and sensitive in vitro serological test for BoNT/A to replace the current in vivo mouse bioassay. Cleavage of SNAP-25 by BoNT/A generates neo-epitopes which can be detected by binding of a monoclonal antibody (mAb10F12) and thus measured by surface plasmon resonance (SPR). We have explored two SPR assay formats, with either mAb10F12 or His6-SNAP-25 coupled to the biosensor chip. When BoNT/A was incubated with SNAP-25 in solution and the reaction products were captured on a mAb-coated chip, a sensitivity of 5 fM (0.1LD50/ml serum) was obtained. However, this configuration required prior immunoprecipitation of BoNT/A. A sensitivity of 0.5 fM in 10% serum (0.1 LD50/ml serum) was attained when SNAP-25 was coupled directly to the chip, followed by sequential injection of BoNT/A samples and mAb10F12 into the flow system to achieve on-chip cleavage and detection, respectively. This latter format detected BoNT/A endoprotease activity in 50-100 l serum samples from all patients (11/11) with type A botulism within 5h. No false positives occurred in sera from healthy subjects or patients with other neurological diseases. The automated chip-based procedure has excellent specificity and sensitivity, with significant advantages over the mouse bioassay in terms of rapidity, required sample volume and animal ethics.
Vertebrate cranial sensory organs are derived from region at the border of the anterior neural plate called the pre-placodal region (PPR). The otic placode, the anlagen of the inner ear, is induced from PPR ectoderm by FGF signaling. We have previously shown that competence of embryonic ectoderm to respond to FGF signaling during otic placode induction correlates with the expression of PPR genes, but the molecular basis of this competence is poorly understood. Here, we characterize the function of a transcription factor, Foxi3 that is expressed at very early stages in the non-neural ectoderm and later in the PPR of chick embryos. Ablation experiments showed that the underlying hypoblast is necessary for the initiation of Foxi3 expression. Mis-expression of Foxi3 was sufficient to induce markers of non-neural ectoderm such as Dlx5, and the PPR such as Six1 and Eya2. Electroporation of Dlx5, or Six1 together with Eya1 also induced Foxi3, suggesting direct or indirect positive regulation between non-neural ectoderm genes and PPR genes. Knockdown of Foxi3 in chick embryos prevented the induction of otic placode markers, and was able to prevent competent cranial ectoderm from expressing otic markers in response to FGF2. In contrast, Foxi3 expression alone was not sufficient to confer competence to respond to FGF on embryonic ectoderm. Our analysis of PPR and FGF-responsive genes after Foxi3 knockdown at gastrula stages suggests it is not necessary for the expression of PPR genes at these stages, nor for the transduction of FGF signals. The early expression but late requirement for Foxi3 in ear induction suggests it may have some of the properties associated with pioneer transcription factors.
To further the understanding how the human brain adapts to early-onset blindness, we searched in early-blind and normally-sighted subjects for functional brain networks showing the most and least spatial variabilities across subjects. We hypothesized that the functional networks compensating for early-onset blindness undergo cortical reorganization. To determine whether reorganization of functional networks affects spatial variability, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to compare brain networks, derived by independent component analysis, of 7 early-blind and 7 sighted subjects while they rested or listened to an audio drama. In both conditions, the blind compared with sighted subjects showed more spatial variability in a bilateral parietal network (comprising the inferior parietal and angular gyri and precuneus) and in a bilateral auditory network (comprising the superior temporal gyri). In contrast, a vision-related left-hemisphere-lateralized occipital network (comprising the superior, middle and inferior occipital gyri, fusiform and lingual gyri, and the calcarine sulcus) was less variable in blind than sighted subjects. Another visual network and a tactile network were spatially more variable in the blind than sighted subjects in one condition. We contemplate whether our results on inter-subject spatial variability of brain networks are related to experience-dependent brain plasticity, and we suggest that auditory and parietal networks undergo a stronger experience-dependent reorganization in the early-blind than sighted subjects while the opposite is true for the vision-related occipital network.
Decline in executive function is the most common age-associated cognitive deficit and may be a risk factor for neurodegenerative disease. The antisaccade (AS) task involves inhibition of a prepotent visuomotor response and is a well-validated executive function test in aging and neurodegeneration. We investigated the functional connectivity of the cortical oculomotor network during successful AS performance in healthy elders. Elevated BOLD activity in the right lateral frontal eye field (rlatFEF), a region linked to volume loss in individuals with impaired AS performance, was associated with worse AS performance and weaker network efficiency. In contrast, hub integrity of the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (rDLPFC) and anterior cingulate cortex (rACC) was associated with better AS performance. These data suggest that while several right lateral frontal regions are central nodes in the oculomotor network, the rlatFEF demonstrates early neural aberrations and the rDLPFC and rACC continue to support inhibitory cognitive control in healthy elders. We conclude that alterations in AS task functional connectivity, quantified as hub and network efficiency, may be clinically-relevant biomarkers of cognitive decline in executive functioning.
Blood oxygenation level dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging (BOLD-fMRI), one of the most powerful technologies in neuroscience, measures neural activity indirectly. Therefore, systematic correlation of BOLD signals with other neural activity measurements is critical to understanding and then using the technology. Numerous studies have revealed that the BOLD signal is determined by many factors and is better correlated with local field potentials (LFP) than single/multiple unit firing. The relationship between BOLD and LFP signals under higher spatial resolution is complex and remains unclear. Here, changes of BOLD and LFP signals in the glomerular (GL), mitral cell (MCL), and granular cell layers (GCL) of the olfactory bulb were evoked by odor stimulation and sequentially acquired using high-resolution fMRI and electrode array. The experimental results revealed a rather complex relationship between BOLD and LFP signals. Both signal modalities were increased layer-dependently by odor stimulation, but the orders of signal intensity were significantly different: GL&gt;MCL&gt;GCL and GCL&gt;GL&gt;MCL for BOLD and LFP, respectively. During odor stimulation, the temporal features of LFPs were similar for a given band in different layers, but different for different frequency bands in a given layer. The BOLD and LFP signals in the low gamma frequency band correlated the best. This study provides new evidence for the consistency between structure and function in understanding the neurophysiological basis of BOLD signals, but also reminds that caution must be taken in interpreting of BOLD signals in regard to neural activity.
Stimulus repetition can produce neural response attenuation in stimulus-category selective networks within the occipito-temporal lobe. It is hypothesized that this neural suppression reflects the functional sharpening of local neuronal assemblies which boosts information processing efficiency. This neural suppression phenomenon has been mainly reported during conditions of conscious stimulus perception. The question remains whether frequent stimuli processed in the absence of conscious perception also induce repetition suppression in those specialized networks. Using rare intracranial EEG recordings in the ventral occipito-temporal cortex (VOTC) of human epileptic patients we investigated neural repetition suppression in conditions of conscious and unconscious visual processing of words. To this end, we used an orthogonal design manipulating respectively stimulus repetition (frequent vs. unique stimuli) and conscious perception (masked vs. unmasked stimuli). By measuring the temporal dynamics of high-frequency broadband gamma activity in VOTC and testing for main and interaction effects, we report that early processing of words in word-form selective networks exhibits a temporal cascade of modulations by stimulus repetition and masking: neuronal attenuation initially is observed in response to repeated words (irrespective of consciousness), that is followed by a second modulation contingent upon word reportability (irrespective of stimulus repetition). Later on (&gt;300ms post-stimulus), a significant effect of conscious perception on the extent of repetition suppression was observed. The temporal dynamics of consciousness, the recognition memory processes and their interaction revealed in this study advance our understanding of their contributions to the neural mechanisms of word processing in VOTC.
A number of theories have been proposed to account for the role of anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and the broader medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) in cognition. The recent Prediction of Response Outcome (PRO) computational model casts the mPFC in part as performing two theoretically distinct functions: learning to predict the various possible outcomes of actions, and then evaluating those predictions against the actual outcomes. Simulations have shown that this new model can account for an unprecedented range of known mPFC effects, but the central theory of distinct prediction and evaluation mechanisms within ACC remains untested. Using combined computational neural modeling and fMRI, we show here that prediction and evaluation signals are indeed each represented in the ACC, and furthermore, they are represented in distinct regions within ACC. Our task independently manipulated both the number of predicted outcomes and the degree to which outcomes violated expectancies, the former providing assessment of regions sensitive to prediction and the latter providing assessment of regions sensitive to evaluation. Using quantitative regressors derived from the PRO computational model, we show that prediction-based model signals load on a network including the posterior and perigenual ACC, but outcome evaluation model signals load on the mid-dorsal ACC. These findings are consistent with distinct prediction and evaluation signals as posited by the PRO model and provide new perspective on a large set of known effects within ACC.
When we decide between two options, we can make our decision based on what we prefer, (preference-based choice), or we can also choose based on which option we want to avoid more (non-preference-based choice). Most decision making research has examined preference-based choice but has not differentiated it from non-preference-based choice. The decision making process can be decomposed into multiple value-based computational processes, which are shown to be subserved by different regions in the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Here we show that the same decision circuits within the PFC are configured differently depending on whether decisions are made based on preference or non-preference criteria (decision rule). Activation in the dorsolateral PFC changed depending on both the values of the two choice options and decision rule. We also found that activation in the medial and lateral PFC was modulated linearly according to the difference in value between the two items and according to the value of the chosen item, respectively. In the medial and lateral PFC, there were distinct patterns of activation between dorsal and ventral regions: in dorsal regions value-related changes in activation were modulated by the decision rule, whereas in ventral regions activation patterns were not modulated. We propose that preference and non-preference decision rules represented in the dorsal PFC differently configure decision processes, resulting in context-specific significance being attached to the choice values represented in the ventral PFC.
The N30 component of the somatosensory evoked potential is known to be modulated by sensory interference, motor action, movement ideation and observation. We introduce a new paradigm in which the observation task of another person's hand movement triggers the somatosensory stimulus, inducing the N30 response in participants. In order to identify the possible contribution of the mirror neuron network (MNN) to this early sensorimotor processing, we analyzed the N30 topography, the event-related spectral perturbation and the inter-trial coherence on single electroencephalogram (EEG) trials, and we applied swLORETA to localize the N30 sources implicated in the time-frequency domain at rest and during observation, as well as the generators differentiating these two contextual brain states. We found that N30 amplitude increase correlated with increased contralateral precentral alpha, frontal beta, and contralateral frontal gamma power spectrum, and with central and precentral alpha and parietal beta phase-locking of ongoing EEG signals. We demonstrate specific activation of the contralateral post-central and parietal cortex where the angular gyrus (BA39), an important MNN node, is implicated in this enhancement during observation. We conclude that this part of the MNN, involved in proprioceptive processing and more complex body-action representations, is already active prior to somatosensory input and may enhance N30.
Graph theory enables the study of systems by describing those systems as a set of nodes and edges. Graph theory has been widely applied to characterize the overall structure of data sets in the social, technological, and biological sciences, including neuroscience. Modular structure decomposition enables the definition of sub-networks whose components are gathered in the same module and work together closely, while working weakly with components from other modules. This processing is of interest for studying memory, a cognitive process that is widely distributed. We propose a new method to identify modular structure in task-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) networks. The modular structure was obtained directly from correlation coefficients and thus retained information about both signs and weights. The method was applied to functional data acquired during a yes-no odor recognition memory task performed by young and elderly adults. Four response categories were explored: correct (Hit) and incorrect (False alarm, FA) recognition and correct and incorrect rejection. We extracted time series data for 36 areas as a function of response categories and age groups and calculated condition-based weighted correlation matrices. Overall, condition-based modular partitions were more homogeneous in young than elderly subjects. Using partition similarity-based statistics and a posteriori statistical analyses, we demonstrated that several areas, including the hippocampus, caudate nucleus, and anterior cingulate gyrus, belonged to the same module more frequently during Hit than during all other conditions. Modularity values were negatively correlated with memory scores in the Hit condition and positively correlated with bias scores (liberal/conservative attitude) in the Hit and FA conditions. We further demonstrated that the proportion of positive and negative links between areas of different modules (i.e., the proportion of correlated and anti-correlated areas) accounted for most of the observed differences in signed modularity. Taken together, our results provided some evidence that the neural networks involved in odor recognition memory are organized into modules and that these modular partitions are linked to behavioral performance and individual strategies.
A central challenge for neuroscience lies in relating inter-individual variability to the functional properties of specific brain regions. Yet, considerable variability exists in the connectivity patterns between different brain areas, potentially producing reliable group differences. Using sex differences as a motivating example, we examined two separate resting-state datasets comprising a total of 188 human participants. Both datasets were decomposed into resting-state networks (RSNs) using a probabilistic spatial independent component analysis (ICA). We estimated voxel-wise functional connectivity with these networks using a dual-regression analysis, which characterizes the participant-level spatiotemporal dynamics of each network while controlling for (via multiple regression) the influence of other networks and sources of variability. We found that males and females exhibit distinct patterns of connectivity with multiple RSNs, including both visual and auditory networks and the right frontal-parietal network. These results replicated across both datasets and were not explained by differences in head motion, data quality, brain volume, cortisol levels, or testosterone levels. Importantly, we also demonstrate that dual-regression functional connectivity is better at detecting inter-individual variability than traditional seed-based functional connectivity approaches. Our findings characterize robust-yet frequently ignored-neural differences between males and females, pointing to the necessity of controlling for sex in neuroscience studies of individual differences. Moreover, our results highlight the importance of employing network-based models to study variability in functional connectivity.
Combining datasets across independent studies can boost statistical power by increasing the numbers of observations and can achieve more accurate estimates of effect sizes. This is especially important for genetic studies where a large number of observations are required to obtain sufficient power to detect and replicate genetic effects. There is a need to develop and evaluate methods for joint-analytical analyses of rich datasets collected in imaging genetics studies. The ENIGMA-DTI consortium is developing and evaluating approaches for obtaining pooled estimates of heritability through meta-and mega-genetic analytical approaches, to estimate the general additive genetic contributions to the intersubject variance in fractional anisotropy (FA) measured from diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). We used the ENIGMA-DTI data harmonization protocol for uniform processing of DTI data from multiple sites. We evaluated this protocol in five family-based cohorts providing data from a total of 2248 children and adults (ages: 9-85) collected with various imaging protocols. We used the imaging genetics analysis tool, SOLAR-Eclipse, to combine twin and family data from Dutch, Australian and Mexican-American cohorts into one large &quot;mega-family&quot;. We showed that heritability estimates may vary from one cohort to another. We used two meta-analytical (the sample-size and standard-error weighted) approaches and a mega-genetic analysis to calculate heritability estimates across-population. We performed leave-one-out analysis of the joint estimates of heritability, removing a different cohort each time to understand the estimate variability. Overall, meta- and mega-genetic analyses of heritability produced robust estimates of heritability.
Functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) is an optical neuroimaging method that detects temporal concentration changes of oxygenated and deoxygenated hemoglobin within the cortex, so that neural activation can be inferred. However, even though fNIRS is a very practical and well-tolerated method with several advantages particularly in methodically challenging measurement situations (e.g., during tasks involving movement or open speech), it has been shown to be confounded by systemic compounds of non-cerebral, extra-cranial origin (e.g. changes in blood pressure, heart rate). Especially event-related signal patterns induced by dilation or constriction of superficial forehead and temple veins impair the detection of frontal brain activation elicited by cognitive tasks. To further investigate this phenomenon, we conducted a simultaneous fNIRS-fMRI study applying a working memory paradigm (n-back). Extra-cranial signals were obtained by extracting the BOLD signal from fMRI voxels within the skin. To develop a filter method that corrects for extra-cranial skin blood flow, particularly intended for fNIRS data sets recorded by widely used continuous wave systems with fixed optode distances, we identified channels over the forehead with probable major extra-cranial signal contributions. The averaged signal from these channels was then subtracted from all fNIRS channels of the probe set. Additionally, the data were corrected for motion and non-evoked systemic artifacts. Applying these filters, we can show that measuring brain activation in frontal brain areas with fNIRS was substantially improved. The resulting signal resembled the fMRI parameters more closely than before the correction. Future fNIRS studies measuring functional brain activation in the forehead region need to consider the use of different filter options to correct for interfering extra-cranial signals.
The cerebellum has classically been linked to motor learning and coordination. However, there is renewed interest in the role of the cerebellum in non-motor functions such as cognition and in the context of different neuropsychiatric disorders. The contribution of neuroimaging studies to advancing understanding of cerebellar structure and function has been limited, partly due to the cerebellum being understudied as a result of contrast and resolution limitations of standard structural magnetic resonance images (MRI). These limitations inhibit proper visualization of the highly compact and detailed cerebellar foliations. In addition, there is a lack of robust algorithms that automatically and reliably identify the cerebellum and its subregions, further complicating the design of large-scale studies of the cerebellum. As such, automated segmentation of the cerebellar lobules would allow detailed population studies of the cerebellum and its subregions. In this manuscript, we describe a novel set of high-resolution in vivo atlases of the cerebellum developed by pairing MR imaging with a carefully validated manual segmentation protocol. Using these cerebellar atlases as inputs, we validate a novel automated segmentation algorithm that takes advantage of the neuroanatomical variability that exists in a given population under study in order to automatically identify the cerebellum, and its lobules. Our automatic segmentation results demonstrate good accuracy in the identification of all lobules (mean Kappa []=0.731; range 0.40-0.89), and the entire cerebellum (mean =0.925; range 0.90-0.94) when compared to &quot;gold-standard&quot; manual segmentations. These results compare favorably in comparison to other publically available methods for automatic segmentation of the cerebellum. The completed cerebellar atlases are available freely online (http://imaging-genetics.camh.ca/cerebellum) and can be customized to the unique neuroanatomy of different subjects using the proposed segmentation pipeline (https://github.com/pipitone/MAGeTbrain).
The impact of in-scanner head movement on functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) signals has long been established as undesirable. These effects have been traditionally corrected by methods such as linear regression of head movement parameters. However, a number of recent independent studies have demonstrated that these techniques are insufficient to remove motion confounds, and that even small movements can spuriously bias estimates of functional connectivity. Here we propose a new data-driven, spatially-adaptive, wavelet-based method for identifying, modeling, and removing non-stationary events in fMRI time series, caused by head movement, without the need for data scrubbing. This method involves the addition of just one extra step, the Wavelet Despike, in standard pre-processing pipelines. With this method, we demonstrate robust removal of a range of different motion artifacts and motion-related biases including distance-dependent connectivity artifacts, at a group and single-subject level, using a range of previously published and new diagnostic measures. The Wavelet Despike is able to accommodate the substantial spatial and temporal heterogeneity of motion artifacts and can consequently remove a range of high and low frequency artifacts from fMRI time series, that may be linearly or non-linearly related to physical movements. Our methods are demonstrated by the analysis of three cohorts of resting-state fMRI data, including two high-motion datasets: a previously published dataset on children (N=22) and a new dataset on adults with stimulant drug dependence (N=40). We conclude that there is a real risk of motion-related bias in connectivity analysis of fMRI data, but that this risk is generally manageable, by effective time series denoising strategies designed to attenuate synchronized signal transients induced by abrupt head movements. The Wavelet Despiking software described in this article is freely available for download at www.brainwavelet.org.
Eye movements are a constant and essential component of natural vision, yet, most of our knowledge about the human visual system comes from experiments that restrict them. This experimental constraint is mostly in place to control visual stimuli presentation and to avoid artifacts in non-invasive measures of brain activity, however, this limitation can be overcome with intracranial EEG (iEEG) recorded from epilepsy patients. Moreover, the high-frequency components of the iEEG signal (between about 50 and 150Hz) can provide a proxy of population-level spiking activity in any cortical area during free-viewing. We combined iEEG with high precision eye-tracking to study fine temporal dynamics and functional specificity in the fusiform face (FFA) and visual word form area (VWFA) while patients inspected natural pictures containing faces and text. We defined the first local measure of visual (electrophysiological) responsiveness adapted to free-viewing in humans: amplitude modulations in the high-frequency activity range (50-150Hz) following fixations (fixation-related high-frequency response). We showed that despite the large size of receptive fields in the ventral occipito-temporal cortex, neural activity during natural vision of realistic cluttered scenes is mostly dependent upon the category of the foveated stimulus - suggesting that category-specificity is preserved during free-viewing and that attention mechanisms might filter out the influence of objects surrounding the fovea.
Tumor stem cells have been implicated as cancer-initiating cells in malignant brain tumors. However, whether benign brain tumors also contain tumor stem cells are largely unexplored. Here, we investigated whether tumor stem-like cells were present in pituitary adenoma similar to malignant brain tumors. By immunocytochemistry, we found that pituitary adenoma tissues expressed neural stem cell marker. These cells could form neurospheres in vitro, expressed neural stem/progenitor cell markers and generated daughter cells with the capacity to differentiate into three neural lineages. Importantly, compared with non-invasive pituitary adenomas, we found that CD133 expression was significantly increased in invasive pituitary adenomas, suggesting that the proliferative capacity was correlated with the malignance of pituitary adenomas. Finally, invasive pituitary adenomas cells displayed lower proliferative ability than glioblastoma. Our data indicate that a subpopulation of stem/progenitor-like cells are present in pituitary adenomas, and these cells may be responsible for benign tumor initiation and maintenance.
While systemic steroid hormones are known to regulate reproductive behaviour, the actual mechanisms of steroidal regulation remain largely unknown. Steroidogenic enzyme activity can rapidly modulate social behaviour by influencing neurosteroid production. In fish, the enzyme 11-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (11-HSD) synthesizes 11-ketotestosterone (KT, a potent teleost androgen) and deactivates cortisol (the primary teleost glucocorticoid), and both of these steroid hormones can regulate behaviour. Here, we investigated the role of neurosteroidogenesis in regulating parenting in a haremic bidirectionally hermaphroditic fish, Lythrypnus dalli, where males provide all requisite parental care. Using an in vitro assay, we found that an 11-HSD inhibitor, carbenoxolone (CBX), reduced brain and testicular KT synthesis by 90% or more. We modulated neurosteroid levels in parenting males via intracerebroventricular injection of CBX. Within only 20 min, CBX transiently eliminated parenting behaviour, but not other social behaviour, suggesting an enzymatic mechanism for rapid neurosteroidal regulation of parenting. Consistent with our proposed mechanism, elevating KT levels rescued parenting when paired with CBX, while cortisol alone did not affect parenting. Females paired with the experimental males opportunistically consumed unattended eggs, which reduced male reproductive success by 15%, but some females also exhibited parenting behaviour and these females had elevated brain KT. Brain KT levels appear to regulate the expression of parenting behaviour as a result of changes in neural 11-HSD activity.
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a common and impairing disorder affecting millions of children, adolescents, and adults. Individuals with ADHD smoke cigarettes at rates significantly higher than their non-diagnosed peers and the disorder also confers risk for a number of related adverse smoking outcomes including earlier age of initiation, faster progression to regular use, heavier smoking/greater dependence, and more difficulty quitting. Progress in our understanding of dopamine neurotransmission and basic behavioral reinforcement processes in ADHD may help increase our understanding of the ADHD-smoking comorbidity. This review will examine how these areas have been studied and how further work may aid in the development of better prevention and treatment for smoking in those with ADHD.
Accumulating evidence suggests involvement of the endocannabinoid system in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, which signifies a potential application for this system in the treatment of this disorder. However, before new research can focus on potential treatments that work by manipulating the endocannabinoid system, it needs to be elucidated how this system is involved in symptoms of schizophrenia. Here we review human studies that investigated acute effects of cannabis or 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) on brain functions that are implicated in schizophrenia. Results suggest that the impact of THC administration depends on the difficulty of the task performed. Impaired performance of cognitive paradigms is reported on more challenging tasks, which is associated with both activity deficits in temporal and prefrontal areas and a failure to deactivate regions of the default mode network. Comparable reductions in prefrontal activity and impairments in deactivation of the default mode network are seen in patients during performance of cognitive paradigms. Normal performance levels after THC administration demonstrated for less demanding tasks are shown to be related to either increased neural effort in task-specific regions ('neurophysiological inefficiency'), or recruitment of alternative brain areas, which suggests a change in strategy to meet cognitive demands. Particularly a pattern of performance and brain activity corresponding with an inefficient working memory system is consistently demonstrated in patients. These similarities in brain function between intoxicated healthy volunteers and schizophrenia patients provide an argument for a role of the endocannabinoid system in symptoms of schizophrenia, and further emphasize this system as a potential novel target for treatment of these symptoms.
Tobacco produces an impressive burden of disease resulting in premature death in half of users. Despite effective smoking cessation medications (nicotine replacement therapies, bupropion and varenicline), there is a very high rate of relapse following quit attempts. The use of efficient strategies for the development of novel treatments is a necessity. A 'bench to bedside strategy' was initially used to develop cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonists for the treatment of nicotine addiction. Unfortunately, after being tested on experimental animals, what seemed to be an interesting approach for the treatment of nicotine addiction resulted in serious unwanted side effects when tested in humans. Current research is focusing again on pre-clinical models in an effort to eliminate unwanted side effects while preserving the initially observed efficacy. A 'bed side to bench strategy' was used to study the role of the insula (part of the frontal cortex) in nicotine addiction. This line of research started based on clinical observations that patients suffering stroke-induced lesions to the insula showed a greater likelihood to report immediate smoking cessation without craving or relapse. Subsequently, animal models of addiction are used to explore the role of insula in addiction. Due to the inherent limitations existing in clinical versus preclinical studies, the possibility of close interaction between both models seems to be critical for the successful development of novel therapeutic strategies for nicotine dependence.
Gelatin microspheres (GMSs) are widely used as drug carriers owing to their excellent biocompatibilities and toxicologically safe degradation products. The drug release profile is easily tailored by controlling the cross-linking density and surface-to-volume ratio, i.e. size, of the GMS. In this study, we employed GMSs which are 25m in diameter and cross-linked with 0.03125% glutaraldehyde, to enable rapid initial and a subsequent sustained release. Therapeutic potency of human recombinant osteopontin (rhOPN) with or without encapsulation into GMSs was investigated after administrating them to rat stroke model (Sprague-Dawley; middle cerebral artery occlusion, MCAO). The administration of rhOPN/GMS (100ng/100g) at 1h post-MCAO reduced the mean infarct volume by 81.8% of that of the untreated MCAO control and extended the therapeutic window at least to 12h post-MCAO, demonstrating a markedly enhanced therapeutic potency for the use of OPN in the post-ischemic brain. Scanning electron microscopy micrographs revealed that GMSs maintained the three-dimensional shape for more than 5days in normal brain but were degraded rapidly in the post-ischemic brain, presumably due to high levels of gelatinase induction. After encapsulation with GMS, the duration of OPN release was markedly extended; from the period of 2days to 5days in normal brain, and from 2days to 4days in the post-ischemic brain; these encompass the critical period for recovery processes, such as vascularization, and controlling inflammation. Together, these results indicate that GMS-mediated drug delivery has huge potential when it was used in the hyperacute period in the post-ischemic brain.


Estuaries are natural sinks for a wide range of urban, industrial and agricultural contaminants that accumulate at potentially toxic but non-lethal concentrations, yet we know relatively little about the long-term impacts of toxicants at these levels on aquatic organisms. In this study, we present an integrated, multi-pronged approach to detect and assess the impacts to estuarine fish of exposure to sublethal concentrations of metal mixtures. Our aims were to (1) examine the effects of sublethal metal exposure on the embryonic development of Galaxias maculatus, an estuarine spawning fish native to southeastern Australia, (2) determine whether sublethal exposure during development has knock-on effects on larval behaviour, and (3) establish whether a signature of metal exposure during embryogenesis can be detected in larval otoliths (&quot;ear bones&quot;). G. maculatus eggs are fertilised in water but develop aerially, in direct contact with estuarine sediments. We were thus also able to explore the relative importance of two exposure pathways, water and sediment. Embryos were exposed to two concentrations of a metal mixture containing Cu, Zn and Pb in water (during fertilisation) and on spiked sediments (during development), using a fully crossed experimental design. Overall, we found that exposure to the metal mixture reduced embryo survival and slowed embryonic development, resulting in poorer quality larvae that exhibited a reduced phototactic response. Differences in exposure to metals between treatment and control embryos were also permanently recorded in the developing otoliths. Combined these three approaches have the potential to be a powerful novel bioassessment tool as they provide a means of identifying a history of metal exposure during the embryonic period and linking it to suboptimal early growth and performance traits which could have long term fitness consequences.
The human papilloma virus (HPV) vaccines were introduced to reduce the incidence of cervical cancer. The bivalent vaccine is effective against HPV-16, -18, -31, -33 and -45 while the quadrivalent vaccine is effective against HPV-16, 18, 31, 6 and 11 types. The immunisation, recommended for adolescent females, has led to high vaccine coverage in many countries. Along with the introduction of the HPV vaccines, several cases of onset or exacerbations of autoimmune diseases following the vaccine shot have been reported in the literature and pharmacovigilance databases, triggering concerns about its safety. This vaccination programme, however, has been introduced in a population that is at high risk for the onset of autoimmune diseases, making it difficult to assess the role of HPV vaccine in these cases and no conclusive studies have been reported thus far. We have thus analysed and reviewed comprehensively all case reports and studies dealing with either the onset of an autoimmune disease in vaccinated subject or the safety in patients with autoimmune diseases to define the role of the HPV vaccines in these diseases and hence its safety. A solid evidence of causal relationship was provided in few cases in the examined studies, and the risk vs. benefit of vaccination is still to be solved. The on-going vigilance for the safety of this vaccine remains thus of paramount importance.
Repeated exposure to drugs of abuse, such as morphine, elicits a progressive enhancement of drug-induced behavioral responses, a phenomenon termed behavioral sensitization. These changes in behavior may reflect long-lasting changes in some of the important molecules involved in memory processing such as calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII). In the present study, we investigated the effect of morphine sensitization on mRNA expression of  and  isoforms and activity of CaMKII in the hippocampus of male rats. Animals were treated for 3 days with saline or morphine (20mg/kg) and following a washout period of 5 days, a challenge dose of morphine (5mg/kg) were administered. The results indicate that morphine administration in pre-treated animals produces behavioral sensitization, as determined by significant increase in locomotion and oral stereotypy behavior. In addition, repeated morphine treatment increased mRNA expression of both  and  isoforms of CaMKII in the hippocampus. The present study also showed that induction of morphine sensitization significantly increased both Ca2+/calmodulin-independent and Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent activities of CaMK II in the rat hippocampus. However, acute administration of morphine (5mg/kg) did not alter either  and  CaMKII mRNA expression or CaMKII activity in the hippocampus. The stimulation effects of morphine sensitization on mRNA expression and activity of CaMKII were completely abolished by administration of naloxone, 30min prior to s.c. injections of morphine (20mg/kg/day3 days). Our data demonstrated that induction of morphine sensitization could effectively modulate the activity and the mRNA expression of CaMKII in the hippocampus and this effect of morphine was exerted by the activation of opioid receptors.
The preclinical study of human disorders associated with comorbidities and for which the aetiology is still unclear may substantially benefit from multi-strain studies conducted in mice. The latter can help isolating experimental populations (strains) exhibiting distinct facets in the parameters isomorphic to the symptoms of a given disorder. Through a reverse-translation approach, multi-strain studies can inform both natural predisposing factors and environmental modulators. Thus, mouse strains selected for a particular trait may be leveraged to generate hypothesis-driven studies aimed at clarifying the potential role played by the environment in modulating the exhibition of the symptoms of interest. Tourette's syndrome (TS) constitutes a paradigmatic example whereby: it is characterized by a core symptom (tics) often associated with comorbidities (attention-deficit-hyperactivity and obsessive-compulsive symptoms); it has a clear genetic origin though specific genes are, as yet, unidentified; its course (exacerbations and remissions) is under the influence of environmental factors. Based on these considerations, we tested four mouse strains (ABH, C57, CD1, and SJL) - varying along a plethora of behavioural, neurochemical, and immunological parameters - on a test battery tailored to address the following domains: tics (through the i.p. administration of the selective 5-HT2 receptor agonist DOI, 5mg/kg); locomotion (spontaneous locomotion in the home-cage); perseverative responding in an attentional set shifting task; and behavioural stereotypies in response to a single amphetamine (10mg/kg, i.p.) injection. Present data demonstrate that while ABH and SJL mice respectively exhibit selective increments in amphetamine-induced sniffing behaviour and DOI-induced tic-like behaviours, C57 and CD1 mice show a distinct phenotype, compared to other strains, in several parameters.
Although the monoamine oxidase-A (MAOA) gene has been linked to spatial learning and memory in animal models, convincing evidence in humans is lacking. Performance on an ecologically-valid, virtual computer-based equivalent of the Morris Water Maze task was compared between 28 healthy males with the low MAOA transcriptional activity and 41 healthy age- and IQ-matched males with the high MAOA transcriptional activity. The results revealed consistently better performance (reduced heading error, shorter path length, and reduced failed trials) for the high MAOA activity individuals relative to the low activity individuals. By comparison, groups did not differ on pre-task variables or strategic measures such as first-move latency. The results provide novel evidence of MAOA gene involvement in human spatial navigation using a virtual analogue of the Morris Water Maze task.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is a common inherited cause of intellectual disability that results from a CGG repeat expansion in the FMR1 gene. Large repeat expansions trigger both transcriptional and translational suppression of Fragile X protein (FMRP) production. Fragile X-associated Tremor/Ataxia Syndrome (FXTAS) is an allelic neurodegenerative disease caused by smaller &quot;pre-mutation&quot; CGG repeat expansions that enhance FMR1 transcription but lead to translational inefficiency and reduced FMRP expression in animal models. Sensorimotor gating as measured by pre-pulse inhibition (PPI) is altered in both FXS patients and Fmr1 knock out (KO) mice. Similarly, FXTAS patients have demonstrated PPI deficits. Recent work suggests there may be overlapping synaptic defects between Fmr1 KO and CGG knock-in premutation mouse models (CGG KI). We therefore sought to interrogate PPI in CGG KI mice. Using a quiet PPI protocol more akin to human testing conditions, we find that Fmr1 KO animals have significantly impaired PPI. Using this same protocol, we find CGG KI mice demonstrate an age-dependent impairment in PPI compared to wild type (WT) controls. This study describes a novel phenotype in CGG KI mice that can be used in future therapeutic development targeting premutation associated symptoms.
Failures of inhibitory control can severely affect everyday life in healthy individuals and represent a common feature of many neuropsychiatric conditions, particularly disorders with dopaminergic disturbances implicated. This study's aim was to examine the interacting influences of three common and functional gene variants that influence dopaminergic pathways on an aspect of inhibitory control (action restraint). Three hundred and twenty two healthy adults were selected from an international consortium linked to Brain Research and Integrative Neuroscience (BRAINnet). DNA was extracted from cheek swab samples and participants were genotyped for the Val158Met single nucleotide polymorphism on COMT (rs 4680), C957T on DRD2 (rs 6277) and the 40bp variable number of tandem repeat on the DAT1 (SLC6A3, 10/10 vs 9+). Response inhibition was measured using a computerised Go/No-Go task. Main effects and interactions between genotypes were explored. We did not observe a genotype effect on fundamental measures of response inhibition, i.e. reaction time (RT) and commission errors. RT variability was significantly increased in DRD2 C957T heterozygotes. In conclusion, this large, non-clinical study reveals that the selected genetic polymorphisms regulating dopamine (COMT, DRD2 and DAT1) do not influence one aspect of response inhibition, action restraint, as measured by the Go/No-Go task, reinforcing the neuropharmacological dissociation between stop-signal and Go/No-Go tasks. Genetic variation in striatal dopamine may, however, contribute to intraindividual RT variability.
The main purpose of this study was to examine whether streptozotocin (STZ)-induced type 1 diabetes (T1D) and insulin (INS) treatment affect mitochondrial function, fission/fusion and biogenesis, autophagy and tau protein phosphorylation in cerebral cortex from diabetic rats treated or not with INS. No significant alterations were observed in mitochondrial function as well as pyruvate levels, despite the significant increase in glucose levels observed in INS-treated diabetic rats. A significant increase in DRP1 protein phosphorylated at Ser616 residue was observed in the brain cortex of STZ rats. Also an increase in NRF2 protein levels and in the number of copies of mtDNA were observed in STZ diabetic rats, these alterations being normalized by INS. A slight decrease in LC3-II levels was observed in INS-treated rats when compared to STZ diabetic animals. An increase in tau protein phosphorylation at Ser396 residue was observed in STZ diabetic rats while INS treatment partially reversed that effect. Accordingly, a modest reduction in the activation of GSK3 and a significant increase in the activity of phosphatase 2A were found in INS-treated rats when compared to STZ diabetic animals. No significant alterations were observed in caspases 9 and 3 activity and synaptophysin and PSD95 levels. Altogether our results show that mitochondrial alterations induced by T1D seem to involve compensation mechanisms since no significant changes in mitochondrial function and synaptic integrity were observed in diabetic animals. In addition, INS treatment is able to normalize the alterations induced by T1D supporting the importance of INS signaling in the brain.
Aberrant DNA methylation can lead to genome destabilization and to deregulated gene expression. Recently, 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC), derived from oxidation of 5-methylcytosine (5mC) by the Ten-Eleven Translocation (TET) enzymes, has been detected. 5hmC is now considered as a new epigenetic DNA modification with relevant roles in cell homeostasis regulating DNA demethylation and transcription. Our aim was to investigate possible changes in the DNA methylation/demethylation machinery in MS. We assessed the expression of enzymes involved in DNA methylation/demethylation in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 40 subjects with MS and 40 matched healthy controls. We performed also, DNA methylation analysis of specific promoters and analysis of global levels of 5mC and 5hmC. We show that TET2 and DNMT1 expression is significantly down-regulated in MS PBMCs and it is associated with aberrant methylation of their promoters. Furthermore, 5hmC is decreased in MS PBMCs, probably as a result of the diminished TET2 level.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a primary inflammatory demyelinating disease associated with a probably secondary progressive neurodegenerative component. Impaired mitochondrial functioning has been hypothesized to drive neurodegeneration and to cause increased anaerobic metabolism in MS. The aim of our multicentre study was to determine whether MS patients had values of circulating lactate different from those of controls. Patients (n=613) were recruited, assessed for disability and clinically classified (relapsing-remitting, secondary progressive, primary progressive) at the Catholic University of Rome, Italy (n=281), at the MS Centre Amsterdam, The Netherlands (n=158) and at the S. Camillo Forlanini Hospital, Rome, Italy (n=174). Serum lactate levels were quantified spectrophotometrically with the analyst being blinded to all clinical information. In patients with MS serum lactate was three times higher (3.041.26mmol/l) than that of healthy controls (1.090.25mmol/l, p&lt;0.0001) and increased across clinical groups, with higher levels in cases with a progressive than with a relapsing-remitting disease course. In addition, there was a linear correlation between serum lactate levels and the expanded disability scale (EDSS) (R(2)=0.419; p&lt;0.001). These data support the hypothesis that mitochondrial dysfunction is an important feature in MS and of particular relevance to the neurodegenerative phase of the disease. Measurement of serum lactate in MS might be a relative inexpensive test for longitudinal monitoring of &quot;virtual hypoxia&quot; in MS and also a secondary outcome for treatment trials aimed to improve mitochondrial function in patients with MS.
Insulin-like growth factor-II (IGF-II) is a naturally occurring peptide that exerts known pleiotropic effects ranging from metabolic modulation to cellular development, growth and survival. IGF-II triggers its actions by binding to and activating IGF (IGF-I and IGF-II) receptors. In this study, we assessed the neuroprotective effect of IGF-II on corticosterone-induced oxidative damage in adult cortical neuronal cultures and the role of IGF-II receptors in this effect. We provide evidence that treatment with IGF-II alleviates the glucocorticoid-induced toxicity to neuronal cultures, and this neuroprotective effect occurred due to a decrease in reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and a return of the antioxidant status to normal levels. IGF-II acts via not only the regulation of synthesis and/or activity of antioxidant enzymes, especially manganese superoxide dismutase, but also the restoration of mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase activity and mitochondrial membrane potential. Although the antioxidant effect of IGF-I receptor activation has been widely reported, the involvement of the IGF-II receptor in these processes has not been clearly defined. The present report is the first evidence describing the involvement of IGF-II receptors in redox homeostasis. IGF-II may therefore contribute to the mechanisms of neuroprotection by acting as an antioxidant, reducing the neurodegeneration induced by oxidative insults. These results open the field to new pharmacological approaches to the treatment of diseases involving imbalanced redox homeostasis. In this study, we demonstrated that the antioxidant effect of IGF-II is at least partially mediated by IGF-II receptors.
SQSTM1 mutations are common in patients with Paget disease of bone (PDB), with most affecting the C-terminal ubiquitin-associated (UBA) domain of the SQSTM1 protein. We performed structural and functional analyses of two UBA domain mutations, an I424S mutation relatively common in UK PDB patients, and an A427D mutation associated with a severe phenotype in Southern Italian patients. Both impaired SQSTM1's ubiquitin-binding function in pull-down assays and resulted in activation of basal NF-B signalling, compared to wild-type, in reporter assays. We found evidence for a relationship between the ability of different UBA domain mutants to activate NF-B signalling in vitro and number of affected sites in vivo in 1152 PDB patients from the UK and Italy, with A427D-SQSTM1 producing the greatest level of activation (relative to wild-type) of all PDB mutants tested to date. NMR and isothermal titration calorimetry studies were able to demonstrate that I424S is associated with global structural changes in the UBA domain, resulting in 10-fold weaker UBA dimer stability than wild-type and reduced ubiquitin-binding affinity of the UBA monomer. Our observations provide insights into the role of SQSTM1-mediated NF-B signalling in PDB aetiology, and demonstrate that different mutations in close proximity within loop 2/helix 3 of the SQSTM1 UBA domain exert distinct effects on protein structure and stability, including indirect effects at the UBA/ubiquitin-binding interface.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is a potent neuroprotective molecule for dopaminergic neurons of the nigrostriatal pathway that degenerate in Parkinson's disease. We have previously shown that H2O2- or l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA)-challenged dopaminergic neurons trigger the release of soluble factors that signal ventral midbrain astrocytes to increase GDNF expression. In the present work, we evaluated whether the factors released by ventral midbrain-challenged cells were able to alter GDNF expression in striatal cells, the targets of dopaminergic neurons projecting from the substantia nigra, and investigated the signalling pathways involved. Our data showed that soluble mediators released upon H2O2- or l-DOPA-induced dopaminergic injury up-regulated GDNF in striatal cells, with different temporal patterns depending on the oxidative agent used. Conditioned media from H2O2- or l-DOPA-challenged midbrain astrocyte cultures failed to up-regulate GDNF in striatal cultures. Likewise, there was no direct effect of H2O2 or l-DOPA on striatal GDNF levels suggesting that GDNF up-regulation was mediated by soluble factors released in the presence of failing dopaminergic neurons. Both phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways were involved in striatal GDNF up-regulation triggered by H2O2-induced dopaminergic injury, while diffusible factors released in the presence of l-DOPA-challenged dopaminergic neurons induced GDNF expression in striatal cells through the activation of the MAPK pathway. These soluble mediators may constitute, in the future, important targets for the control of endogenous GDNF expression enabling the development of new and, hopefully, more efficient neuroprotective/neurorestorative strategies for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress occur in Parkinson's disease (PD), but the molecular mechanisms controlling these events are not completely understood. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator-1 (PGC-1) is a transcriptional coactivator known as master regulator of mitochondrial functions and oxidative metabolism. Recent studies, including one from our group, have highlighted altered PGC-1 activity and transcriptional deregulation of its target genes in PD pathogenesis suggesting it as a new potential therapeutic target. Resveratrol, a natural polyphenolic compound proved to improve mitochondrial activity through the activation of several metabolic sensors resulting in PGC-1 activation. Here we have tested in vitro the effect of resveratrol treatment on primary fibroblast cultures from two patients with early-onset PD linked to different Park2 mutations. We show that resveratrol regulates energy homeostasis through activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) and raise of mRNA expression of a number of PGC-1's target genes resulting in enhanced mitochondrial oxidative function, likely related to a decrease of oxidative stress and to an increase of mitochondrial biogenesis. The functional impact of resveratrol treatment encompassed an increase of complex I and citrate synthase activities, basal oxygen consumption, and mitochondrial ATP production and a decrease in lactate content, thus supporting a switch from glycolytic to oxidative metabolism. Moreover, resveratrol treatment caused an enhanced macro-autophagic flux through activation of an LC3-independent pathway. Our results, obtained in early-onset PD fibroblasts, suggest that resveratrol may have potential clinical application in selected cases of PD-affected patients.

We investigated the interplay between arousal and valence in the early processing of affective words. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded while participants read words organized in an orthogonal design with the factors valence (positive, negative, neutral) and arousal (low, medium, high) in a lexical decision task. We observed faster reaction times for words of positive valence and for those of high arousal. Data from ERPs showed increased early posterior negativity (EPN) suggesting improved visual processing of these conditions. Valence effects appeared for medium and low arousal and were absent for high arousal. Arousal effects were obtained for neutral and negative words but were absent for positive words. These results suggest independent contributions of arousal and valence at early attentional stages of processing. Arousal effects preceded valence effects in the ERP data suggesting that arousal serves as an early alert system preparing a subsequent evaluation in terms of valence.
We aimed at gaining insights into principles of subcortical lexical processing. Therefore, effects of deep brain stimulation (DBS) in different target structures on verbal fluency (VF) were tested. VF was assessed with active vs. inactivated DBS in 13 and 14 patients with DBS in the vicinity of the thalamic ventral intermediate nucleus (VIM) and, respectively, of the subthalamic nucleus (STN). Results were correlated to electrode localizations in postoperative MRI, and compared to those of 12 age-matched healthy controls. Patients' VF performance was generally below normal. However, while activation of DBS in the vicinity of VIM provoked marked VF decline, it induced subtle phonemic VF enhancement in the vicinity of STN. The effects correlated with electrode localizations in left hemispheric stimulation sites. The results show distinct dependencies of VF on DBS in the vicinity of VIM vs. STN. Particular risks for deterioration occur in patients with relatively ventromedial thalamic electrodes.
Adipogenesis is the biological process that controls the development of adipocytes, and is one of the most well studied models of cellular differentiation. In the last decade the study of regulation of human adipogenesis was useful to understand this process, in order to reduce disease such as obesity and diabetes. Prox1 is a transcription factor related to Drosophila Prospero homeobox gene, that plays a major role in the development of central nervous system, liver and pancreas. Prox1 is one of the genes that control the embryonic development and differentiation of the lymphatic system. In this study we decided to analyze the gene expression of Prox-1 in fragments of human adipose tissue (subcutaneous and omental) and in human adipocytes isolated from omental and subcutaneous tissue. Our results show Prox-1 is always expressed in adipose tissue and overexpressed in omental adipocytes compared with subcutaneous adipocytes. These preliminary observations confirm a strong correlation of blood vessel development and adipogenesis.
Photoperiodism, the ability to respond to seasonal varying day length with suitable life history changes, is a common trait in organisms that live in temperate regions. In most studied organisms, the circadian system appears to be the basis for photoperiodic time measurement. In insects this is still controversial: while some data indicate that the circadian system is causally involved in photoperiodism, others suggest that it may have a marginal or indirect role. Resonance experiments in the parasitic wasp Nasonia vitripennis have revealed a circadian component in photoperiodic time measurement compatible with a mechanism of internal coincidence where a two components oscillator system obtains information from dawn and dusk, respectively. The identity of this oscillator (or oscillators) is still unclear but possible candidates are the oscillating molecules of the auto-regulatory feedback loops in the heart of the circadian system. Here, we show for the first time the circadian oscillation of period and cryptochrome mRNAs in the heads of Nasonia females kept under short and long photoperiods. Period and cryptochrome mRNA levels display a synchronous oscillation in all conditions tested and persist, albeit with reduced amplitude, during the first day in constant light as well as constant darkness. More importantly, the signal for the period and cryptochrome oscillations is set by the light-on signal. These results, together with phylogenetic analyses, indicate that Nasonia's period and cryptochrome display characteristics of homologous genes in other hymenopteran species.





Small non-coding RNA [miRNA (microRNA)] found in the circulation have been used successfully as biomarkers and mechanistic targets for chronic and acute disease. The present study investigated the impact of age and sex on miRNA expression following ischaemic stroke in an animal model. Adult (6 month) and middle-aged (11-12 months) female and male rats were subject to MCAo (middle cerebral artery occlusion) using ET-1 (endothelin-1). Circulating miRNAs were analysed in blood samples at 2 and 5days post-stroke, and brain miRNAs were analysed at 5days post-stroke. Although stroke-associated infarction was observed in all groups, infarct volume and sensory-motor deficits were significantly reduced in adult females compared with middle-aged females, adult males or middle-aged males. At 2days post-stroke, 21 circulating miRNAs were differentially regulated and PCA (principal component analysis) confirmed that most of the variance was due to age. At 5days post-stroke, 78 circulating miRNAs exhibited significantly different regulation, and most of the variance was associated with sex. A small cohort (five) of miRNAs, miR-15a, miR-19b, miR-32 miR-136 and miR-199a-3p, were found to be highly expressed exclusively in adult females compared with middle-aged females, adult males and middle-aged males. Predicted gene targets for these five miRNAs analysed for KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) pathways revealed that the top ten KEGG pathways were related to growth factor signalling, cell structure and PI3K (phosphoinositide 3-kinase)/Akt and mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) signalling. Overall, the pattern of circulating miRNA expression suggests an early influence of age in stroke pathology, with a later emergence of sex as a factor for stroke severity.
Formal models of decision-making have traditionally focused on simple, two-choice perceptual decisions. To date, one of the most influential account of this process is Ratcliff's drift diffusion model (DDM). However, the extension of the model to more complex decisions is not straightforward. In particular, conflicting situations, such as the Eriksen, Stroop, or Simon tasks, require control mechanisms that shield the cognitive system against distracting information. We adopted a novel strategy to constrain response time (RT) models by concurrently investigating two well-known empirical laws in conflict tasks, both at experimental and modeling levels. The two laws, predicted by the DDM, describe the relationship between mean RT and (i) target intensity (Piron's law), (ii) standard deviation of RT (Wagenmakers-Brown's law). Pioneering work has shown that Piron's law holds in the Stroop task, and has highlighted an additive relationship between target intensity and compatibility. We found similar results in both Eriksen and Simon tasks. Compatibility also violated Wagenmakers-Brown's law in a very similar and particular fashion in the two tasks, suggesting a common model framework. To investigate the nature of this commonality, predictions of two recent extensions of the DDM that incorporate selective attention mechanisms were simulated and compared to the experimental results. Both models predict Piron's law and the violation of Wagenmakers-Brown's law by compatibility. Fits of the models to the RT distributions and accuracy data allowed us to further reveal their relative strengths and deficiencies. Combining experimental and computational results, this study sets the groundwork for a unified model of decision-making in conflicting environments.
Humans map number onto space. However, the origins of this association, and particularly the degree to which it depends upon cultural experience, are not fully understood. Here we provide the first demonstration of a number-space mapping in a non-human primate. We trained four adult male rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) to select the fourth position from the bottom of a five-element vertical array. Monkeys maintained a preference to choose the fourth position through changes in the appearance, location, and spacing of the vertical array. We next asked whether monkeys show a spatially-oriented number mapping by testing their responses to the same five-element stimulus array rotated ninety degrees into a horizontal line. In these horizontal probe trials, monkeys preferentially selected the fourth position from the left, but not the fourth position from the right. Our results indicate that rhesus macaques map number onto space, suggesting that the association between number and space in human cognition is not purely a result of cultural experience and instead has deep evolutionary roots.


Cluster headache attacks are characterized by extreme unilateral pain mostly in the first trigeminal branch and an ipsilateral activation of the cranial parasympathetic system, pointing to a relevant role of the cranial parasympathetic system in the pathophysiology, and therapy of cluster headache. Based on animal experiments and several interventions of the sphenopalatine ganglion (such as an aesthetic or alcoholic blocks and radiofrequency ablation) in cluster headache patients, stimulation of the sphenopalatine ganglion (SPGS) as the major efferent peripheral parasympathetic structure was established with an encouraging abortive effect on acute attacks and a frequency reduction over time. In this review, the clinical data and potentially underlying pathophysiological concepts of SPGS are discussed in detail, which in brief point to a relevant role of the parasympathetic system both in the induction and termination of attacks.
Over the past two decades, the field of eating disorders has made remarkable strides in identifying, evaluating, and disseminating successful prevention programs. The current review identifies and discusses nine distinct eating disorders prevention programs that reduce existing eating disorder pathology or prevent the onset of future pathology. Each program was evaluated in one or more controlled trial with a follow-up period of at least six months. We review the evidence base for these nine successful programs and discuss their common and unique features. Based on authors' descriptions of their programs in published trials, we found that all programs were theory-driven, targeted one or more eating disorder risk factor (e.g., body dissatisfaction), were delivered across multiple group sessions, and included at least some interactive content. Most programs included content related to healthy eating/nutrition, media literacy/sociocultural pressures, and body acceptance/body satisfaction. Notably, there was wide variation in some participant features (e.g., participant age, sex, risk status) and intervention features (e.g., setting and format, length and dose, providers), suggesting that a variety of programs are beneficial in impacting eating disorder pathology. Implications and directions for future research are discussed, including an increased focus on universal and indicated prevention programs, expanding programs to a wider age range and a broader spectrum of weight-related problems, and rigorous evaluation of programs through efficacy, effectiveness, and implementation research.

Intermittent MDMA pretreatment blocked the reductions in serotonin transporter (SERT) binding induced by an MDMA binge in a prior study in adolescent male rats. The objective of this investigation was to determine if the physiological, behavioral, and neurochemical responses to MDMA are sexually dimorphic. Female Sprague-Dawley rats received MDMA (10mg/kg2) or Saline on every fifth day from postnatal day (PD) 35-60 and an MDMA binge (5mg/kg4) on PD 67. The MDMA binge induced a pronounced temperature dysregulation in MDMA-nave, but not MDMA-pretreated, groups. Similarly, MDMA-pretreated animals were resistant to the binge-induced SERT reductions, especially in the hippocampus. Motor activity at PD 68 was not reduced by the binge, unlike the responses found in males. These results show that female rats differ from males in their responses to an MDMA binge but are similar with respect to preconditioning from prior MDMA exposure.  2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Dev Psychobiol 56: 924-934, 2014.
Following a variety of stressors, prepubertal animals display significantly longer hormonal stress responses than adults. Although the mechanisms that mediate this pubertal-related difference in stress reactivity are unclear, previous studies have shown that social interactions are differentially affected by stress in animals before and after puberty. Given the influence of social factors on stress reactivity, we hypothesize the protracted stress-induced hormonal response in prepubertal animals may be in part mediated by aspects of their poststress social environment. We explored this hypothesis by measuring plasma ACTH and corticosterone in prepubertal male rats 15, 30, and 45min after a 30min session of restraint stress exposed to one of three social conditions: recovering in the presence of a stressed cage mate; recovering in the presence of a nonstressed cage mate; and recovering in the absence of a cage mate. We report here that although prepubertal and adult animals display different hormonal responses following restraint, the presence or absence of stressed cage mates has little impact on the poststress hormonal response in prepubertal males. We do, however, show that social factors can alter HPA reactivity in prepubertal animals, in that significant hormonal responses are evoked in nonstressed animals exposed to a stressed cage mate, an effect not found in adults. Collectively, these data indicate that although the poststress social environment does not play a role in mediating the protracted hormonal response in prepubertal animals, the social context can significantly influence HPA activation in otherwise unstressed animals prior to puberty.  2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Dev Psychobiol 56: 1061-1069, 2014.
Juvenile play experiences promote behavioral flexibility in rats. If other early positive experiences, such as tactile stimulation, are given prior to exposure to psychostimulants, the behavioral response to the drug is attenuated. The objective of the present study was to determine if the experience of juvenile play behavior would attenuate the response to nicotine. Two experiments were conducted: (1) behavioral sensitization to nicotine exposure, and (2) voluntary consumption of nicotine. For both experiments, rats were reared either with three same-sex peers (play group) or one adult (no play group) during their juvenile period. Then, as adults, half of each group was exposed to repeated injections of nicotine and the other half to saline. Prior play experience had no effect on behavioral sensitization or on voluntary consumption of nicotine. It remains to be determined whether juvenile experience with play influences the rewarding properties of nicotine in social contexts as adults.  2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Dev Psychobiol 56: 1052-1060, 2014.
We have shown that adults exposed to ethanol during adolescence exhibit a deficit in the retention of context fear, reminiscent of that normally seen in preweanling rats. However, preweanlings have been reported to exhibit a potentiation of context fear when they are conditioned in the presence of a tone. Therefore, this study examined context retention 24hr after tone or context conditioning in male Sprague-Dawley rats exposed intragastrically to 4g/kg ethanol or water every 48hr (total of 11 exposures) during adolescence [Postnatal day (P) 28-48] or adulthood (P70-90). Approximately 3 weeks following exposure, retention of fear to the context in animals exposed to ethanol during adolescence was attenuated after context conditioning, but enhanced after tone conditioning. Comparable adult ethanol exposure groups showed typical overshadowing of context fear retention after tone conditioning. These data suggest that adolescent ethanol exposure may induce an immature pattern of cognitive processing.  2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Dev Psychobiol 56: 1150-1155, 2014.
It has been estimated that 20% of pregnant women are facing perinatal stress and depression. Perinatal maternal stress has been shown to increase pain sensitivity in offspring. For the treatment of their depressive symptoms, pregnant women are frequently prescribed selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Since the descending pain inhibitory circuit matures perinatally, perinatal SSRI exposure has been shown to affect pain sensitivity in offspring. In the present review, we summarize experimental and clinical evidence for the effect of perinatal maternal stress and SSRI exposure on pain sensitivity in offspring. Both experimental and clinical studies show the effect of perinatal maternal stress on regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) system and the serotonin pain inhibitory system. Alterations in these two systems likely underlie long-term alterations in the development of pain sensitivity. This review sheds light on the effect of perinatal maternal stress and treatment with SSRIs on offspring pain sensitivity, in relation to the developing HPA system and 5-HT signaling.  2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Dev Psychobiol 56: 885-896, 2014.
Features of the early postnatal environment profoundly shape later physical and behavioral phenotypes. The amount of licking/grooming that rat dams direct towards their offspring has durable consequences, including behavioral and physiological dimensions of stress reactivity, cognition, and reproductive behavior. We examined how natural variation in maternal care alters social behavior in adult offspring and how this relates to anxiety behavior and oxytocin receptor density. Male and female offspring of mothers who received high levels of licking spent significantly more time in social contact with unfamiliar individuals than did offspring whose dams provided less grooming. Reduced anxiety behavior was associated with greater social interaction. No differences in oxytocin receptor binding assessed by (125) I-OVTA autoradiography were detected between groups. The present investigation characterizes a novel impact of maternal care on adult social interaction behavior, replicates anxiety behavior differences, and illustrates connections between social behavior and anxiety in adulthood across maternal treatment groups.  2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Dev Psychobiol 56: 1017-1026, 2014.
In recent years, it has become increasingly clear that early life stress experiences persistently impact subsequent physiological, cognitive, and emotional responses. In cases of trauma, these early experiences can result in anxiety disorders such as phobias and posttraumatic stress disorder. In the present paper, we examined the effects of infant footshock stress exposure at postnatal day (PND) 17 on subsequent contextual fear conditioning at postnatal days 18 (Experiment 1), 24 (Experiment 2), or 90 (Experiment 3). In each experiment, PND17 footshock stress exposure enhanced later fear conditioning, indicating that the stress enhancement of fear learning (SEFL) persists throughout development. Memory for the original stress exposure context was gradually forgotten, with significant fear expression evident at PND20, and a complete lack of fear expression in that same context at PND90. These data suggest that the stress-enhancing component of infant fear learning is dissociable from the infant contextual fear memory per se. In other words, early life stress produces persistent effects on subsequent cognition that are independent of the memory for that early life event.  2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Dev Psychobiol 56: 1008-1016, 2014.
Previous studies investigating cerebral metabolic changes associated with continuous spike-waves during sleep (CSWS) compared the metabolism of children with CSWS with that of healthy adults, precluding any assessment in brain areas showing physiologic age-related metabolic changes. Here, we investigated the metabolic and connectivity changes characterizing the acute phase of CSWS activity by comparing awake brain metabolism of children with CSWS with that of pediatric pseudo-controls. Positron emission tomography using [18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG-PET) was performed in 17 awake children with cryptogenic CSWS (5 girls, age: 5-11 years). Voxel-based analyses identified significant metabolic changes in CSWS patients compared with 18 pediatric pseudo-controls (12 girls, age: 6-11 years, non-CSWS focal cryptogenic epilepsy with normal FDG-PET). CSWS-induced changes in the contribution of brain areas displaying metabolic changes to the level of metabolic activity in other brain areas were investigated using pathophysiological interaction. Hypermetabolism in perisylvian regions bilaterally and hypometabolism in lateral and mesial prefrontal cortex, precuneus, posterior cingulate cortex and parahippocampal gyri characterized the acute phase of CSWS (p&lt;0.05 FWE). No change in thalamic metabolism was disclosed. Altered functional connectivity was found between hyper- and hypometabolic regions in CSWS patients compared with pediatric pseudo-controls. This study demonstrates hypometabolism in key nodes of the default mode network (DMN) in awake patients with CSWS, in relation with a possible phenomenon of sustained remote inhibition from the epileptic foci. This hypometabolism might account for some of the acquired cognitive or behavioral features of CSWS epileptic encephalopathies. This study failed to find any evidence of thalamic metabolic changes, which supports the primary involvement of the cortex in CSWS genesis.



Deep neck infections (DNI) spread along fascial planes and involve neck spaces. Very few studies have investigated potentially prognostic factors using multivariate statistical models. Our aim was to analyze 282 consecutive cases of DNI using multivariate (logistic) statistical models to identify independent significant factors influencing prognosis in terms of complications and long-term hospitalization (&gt;6days). In our series, only involvement of more than one neck space was independently significant in prognosticating complications of DNI (odds ratio [OR] 2.46). The presence of comorbidities (OR 2.13), non-odontogenic sites of origin (OR 1.88), leukocyte counts above 11.0 cells10(9)/L at presentation (OR 3.57), and the need for both medical and surgical treatments (OR 4.66) was significantly and independently prognostic of long hospital stays. Multivariate analysis can distinguish between risk factors and their relative contribution to outcome. The few published studies using multivariate models to analyze DNI prognosis considered quite large cohorts, but no clinical variables persistently revealed an independent significant prognostic role. This evidence seems to underscore the complex interdependence of several clinical variables in contributing to DNI prognosis, and the heterogeneity of the diagnostic/therapeutic approaches adopted.



Obesity, diabetes and their associated diseases are some of the greatest challenges that the world health care systems already face and with prospects of overburdening their capacities and funding. Due to decreased energetic expenditure and increased caloric intake, particularly in saturated fats, the number of people afflicted by said conditions is increasing by the day. Due to the failure, to this day, to effectively and ubiquity prevent and revert these diseases, the research into new compounds and therapeutic strategies is vital. In this review, we explain the most common dietary models of obesity and diabetes and the novel avenues of research we believe will be taken in the next few years in obesity and diabetes research. We primarily focus on the role of mitochondria and how the modulation of mitochondrial function and number as well as several promising therapeutic strategies involving metabolic regulators can positively affect the obese and diabetic status.
Astrogliosis is a prominent feature of many, if not all, pathologies of the brain and spinal cord, yet a detailed understanding of the underlying molecular pathways involved in the transformation from quiescent to reactive astrocyte remains elusive. We investigated the contribution of voltage-gated sodium channels to astrogliosis in an in vitro model of mechanical injury to astrocytes. Previous studies have shown that a scratch injury to astrocytes invokes dual mechanisms of migration and proliferation in these cells. Our results demonstrate that wound closure after mechanical injury, involving both migration and proliferation, is attenuated by pharmacological treatment with tetrodotoxin (TTX) and KB-R7943, at a dose that blocks reverse mode of the Na(+) /Ca(2+) exchanger (NCX), and by knockdown of Nav 1.5 mRNA. We also show that astrocytes display a robust [Ca(2+) ]i transient after mechanical injury and demonstrate that this [Ca(2+) ]i response is also attenuated by TTX, KB-R7943, and Nav 1.5 mRNA knockdown. Our results suggest that Nav 1.5 and NCX are potential targets for modulation of astrogliosis after injury via their effect on [Ca(2+) ]i . GLIA 2014;62:1162-1175.
Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is a pleiotropic cytokine with a key role in the control of inflammatory/immune responses. In the central nervous system (CNS), an increase in IL-6 occurs in a wide range of pathological conditions such as excitotoxicity and traumatic brain injury. We evaluated the effects of astrocyte-targeted production of IL-6 in the CNS in the sterile-nerve injury model of facial nerve axotomy. To accomplish this, facial nerve transection was performed in transgenic mice (glial fibrillary acidic protein [GFAP]-IL6Tg) with IL-6 production under the GFAP promoter. Neuronal death, glial activation, lymphocyte recruitment, and integrin expression were evaluated by immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry from 3 to 28 days postinjury. Our findings revealed an increase in motor neuron cell death in GFAP-IL6Tg mice correlating with changes in the microglial activation pattern, characterized principally by less attachment to neurons and reduced expression of both CD11b and CD18. We also found a higher CD4(+) T-lymphocyte recruitment in GFAP-IL6Tg mice. In addition, changes in the expression pattern of different integrins and their receptors were observed in transgenic animals. Specifically, alterations in osteopontin expression in motor neurons and its receptors CD44 and CD49e in lymphocytes and microglia, respectively, which may account for the variations related to glial reactivity and lymphocyte infiltration. In conclusion, our results indicated that forced local production of IL-6 has a direct impact on the outcome of nerve injury in the CNS inducing an increase in neurodegeneration, changes in glial response, and lymphocyte recruitment as well as in the expression of different integrins and their receptors. GLIA 2014;62:1142-1161.

Voltage-gated sodium channels are essential for the initiation and propagation of the action potential in neurons and other excitable cells. Because of their critical roles in electrical signaling, sodium channels are targets of a variety of naturally occurring and synthetic neurotoxins, including several classes of insecticides. This review is intended to provide an update on the molecular biology of insect sodium channels and the molecular mechanism of pyrethroid resistance. Although mammalian and insect sodium channels share fundamental topological and functional properties, most insect species carry only one sodium channel gene, compared to multiple sodium channel genes found in each mammalian species. Recent studies showed that two posttranscriptional mechanisms, alternative splicing and RNA editing, are involved in generating functional diversity of sodium channels in insects. More than 50 sodium channel mutations have been identified to be responsible for or associated with knockdown resistance (kdr) to pyrethroids in various arthropod pests and disease vectors. Elucidation of molecular mechanism of kdr led to the identification of dual receptor sites of pyrethroids on insect sodium channels. Many of the kdr mutations appear to be located within or close to the two receptor sites. The accumulating knowledge of insect sodium channels and their interactions with insecticides provides a foundation for understanding the neurophysiology of sodium channels invivo and the development of new and safer insecticides for effective control of arthropod pests and human disease vectors.
The objective of this study was to investigate the prevalence of acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (AChEI) and memantine use, duration of treatment, concomitant use of these drugs, and factors associated with the discontinuation of AChEI therapy during 2006-2009. We utilized data from a nationwide sample of community-dwelling individuals with a clinically verified Alzheimer's disease diagnosed during the year 2005 (n=6858) as a part of the MEDALZ-2005 study. During the 4-year follow-up, 84% used AChEI and 47% used memantine. Altogether, 22% of the sample used both drugs concomitantly. The median duration of the first AChEI use period was 860 (interquartile range 295-1458) days and 1103 (interquartile range 489-1487) days for the total duration of AChEI use. Although 20% of the AChEI users discontinued the use during the first year, over half of them restarted later. The risk of discontinuation was higher for rivastigmine [hazard ratio 1.34 (confidence interval 1.22-1.48)] and galantamine users [hazard ratio 1.23 (confidence interval 1.15-1.37)] compared with donepezil users in the adjusted model. In conclusion, median time for AChEI use was over 3 years and every fifth Alzheimer's disease patient used AChEI and memantine concomitantly during the follow-up. The low rate of discontinuation is consistent with the Finnish Care Guideline but in contrast to the results reported from many other countries.
Major depression is a heterogeneous disorder, both in terms of symptoms, ranging from anhedonia to cognitive impairment, and in terms of pathogenesis, with many interacting genetic, epigenetic, developmental and environmental causes. Accordingly, it seems unlikely that depressive states could be fully controlled by a drug possessing one discrete mechanism of action and, in the wake of disappointing results with several classes of highly selective agent, multi-modal treatment concepts are attracting attention. As concerns pharmacotherapy, there are essentially two core strategies. First, multi-target antidepressants that act via two or more complementary mechanisms and, second, polypharmacy, which refers to co-administration of two distinct drugs, usually in separate pills. Both multi-target agents and polypharmacy ideally couple a therapeutically unexploited action to a clinically established mechanism in order to enhance efficacy, moderate side-effects, accelerate onset of action and treat a broader range of symptoms. The melatonin MT1/MT2 agonist and 5-HT2C antagonist, agomelatine, which is effective in the short- and long-term treatment of depression, exemplifies the former approach, while evidence-based polypharmacy is illustrated by the adjunctive use of second-generation antipsychotics with serotonin reuptake inhibitors for treatment of resistant depression. Histone acetylation and methylation, ghrelin signalling, inflammatory modulators, metabotropic glutamate-7 receptors and trace amine-associated-1 receptors comprise attractive substrates for new multi-target and polypharmaceutical strategies. The present article outlines the rationale underpinning multi-modal approaches for treating depression, and critically compares and contrasts the pros and cons of established and potentially novel multi-target vs. polypharmaceutical treatments. On balance, the former appear the most promising for the elaboration, development and clinical implementation of innovative concepts for the more effective management of depression.
ABSTRACT Background: Lacunar stroke is a small (&lt;2 cm) infarction that accounts for approximately 20% of all strokes. While a third of all stroke patients experience depressive symptoms, the prevalence of depression in the lacunar stroke patient population is unclear. This meta-analysis aimed to synthesize the evidence on the effect of lacunar stroke and deep white matter disease on depressive symptoms. Methods: A systematic search of electronic databases was conducted, resulting in the inclusion of 12 studies. Analyses were performed on the effects of lacunar stroke, volume and location of lacunes on depression prevalence, and the effect on depression severity. The effects estimates were calculated in random-effects models. Results: None of the analyses produced statistically significant results. Lacunar stroke patients had a non-significantly higher prevalence of depression compared to patients with non-lacunar cerebrovascular diseases (OR = 1.46, 95% CI: 0.88-2.43, p = 0.15). Neither thalamic (OR = 1.37 (0.85-2.20), p = 0.19), deep white matter (RR = 1.16 (0.85-1.57), p = 0.35), multiple lacunes (OR = 1.34 (0.81-2.22), p = 0.25), or the volume of lacunes (MD = -4.71 (-351.59-342.18), p = 0.98) had an effect on depression prevalence. Lastly, lacunar stroke did not influence depressive symptom severity (MD = 0.96 (-1.57-3.48), p = 0.46). Conclusions: The pooled group of patients with lacunar stroke and deep white matter disease appear to have a similar prevalence of depression compared to those with other types of cerebrovascular diseases. However, the small number of studies, heterogeneous comparison groups, and high statistical heterogeneity between studies posed an obstacle to the meta-analysis. To determine appropriate screening and treatment approaches, future research will need to separate lacunar stroke and deep white matter disease patients, and include larger sample sizes and healthy control groups to determine their distinct contributions to depression.
Background: The seladin-1 (selective Alzheimer disease indicator-1), also known as DHCR24, is a gene found to be down-regulated in brain region affected by Alzheimer disease (AD). Whereas, hair follicle stem cells (HFSC), which are affected in with neurogenic potential, it might to hypothesize that this multipotent cell compartment is the predominant source of seladin-1. Our aim was to evaluate seladin-1 gene expression in hair follicle stem cells. Methods: In this study, bulge area of male Wistar rat HFSC were cultured and then characterized with Seladin-1 immunocytochemistry and flow cytometry on days 8 to 14. Next, 9-11-day cells were evaluated for seladin-1 gene expression by real-time PCR. Results: Our results indicated that expression of the seladin-1 gene (DHCR24) on days 9, 10, and 11 may contribute to the development of HFSC. However, the expression of this gene on day 11 was more than day 10 and on 10th day was more than day 9. Also, we assessed HFSC on day 14 and demonstrated these cells were positive for - tubulin, and seladin-1 was not expressed in this day. Conclusion: HFSC express seladin-1 and this result demonstrates that these cells might be used to cell therapy for AD in future.



Upper limb amyotrophy may occur as an indirect consequence of various spinal disorders, including ventral longitudinal intraspinal fluid collection, Hirayama disease and high cervical cord compression. We present patients who suffer from each of these and review the literature on the three conditions with emphasis on the pathogenesis of amyotrophy. We propose that pathology some distance from the lower cervical spinal cord may affect normal venous drainage, resulting in venous congestion and reduced perfusion pressure which, in turn, could result in anterior horn cell dysfunction in all three disorders.
To increase the percentage of acute stroke patients benefiting from thrombolysis, the utility of expanding the time window of treatment beyond 4.5hours after stroke onset needs to be investigated. We aimed to identify the target population and the challenges of recruitment of patients for the time window beyond 4.5hours. Extending the time for Thrombolysis in Emergency Neurological Deficits (EXTEND), a multicentre randomised controlled trial testing the efficacy of thrombolytic therapy in patients with clinically significant ischaemic penumbra between 4.5 to 9hours after stroke onset, was used as a model to evaluate inclusion and exclusion criteria for late thrombolysis trials. Data from all stroke patients admitted to Austin Health over a 1year period were retrospectively analysed. Case notes were examined to determine potential trial eligibility. Of 556 patients assessed, 95 (17%) presented during the EXTEND time window. Sixty-seven of these (70.5%) were wake-up strokes (WUS) and 28 (29.5%) arrived between 4.5 and 9hours after symptoms onset. At least one exclusion criterion was found for 78 (82%) of them. Hence, 17 (3%) patients arrived within an appropriate time frame for the study without any exclusion criteria. Most of these (13) arrived outside routine MRI hours. The number of patients recruited would have increased more than three-fold if imaging had been available 24hours, 7days a week. A significant proportion (17%) of ischaemic stroke patients presented between 4.5 and 9hours after stroke onset. The majority of these were WUS. The major challenge identified for patient recruitment was imaging availability.
VITOM-90 (Karl Storz Endoscopy, Tuttlingen, Germany) is a new technology that can be used as an alternative to the operating microscope. We have found that this device substantially improves surgeon comfort during infra-tentorial supracerebellar approaches to pineal region masses, and now report our experiences. The VITOM-90 is a specially designed scope that is attached to a high definition (HD) digital camera and displayed on a HD video monitor. This system was utilized in five patients undergoing infratentorial supracerebellar approaches for pineal region lesions. Surgical outcomes and pathologies are described. The device was used by three surgeons during five procedures. Three patients underwent surgery in the sitting position and two in the modified prone (Concorde) position. Pathologies included pineocytoma, lipoma, and germinoma. Total resection was achieved in three patients and subtotal in two patients. Surgeon assessment was positive; surgeons indicated that surgery with the VITOM-90 was more comfortable than with the operating microscope. Lack of stereopsis was considered a minor drawback. The VITOM-90 permitted a natural head and neck position. Operating room personnel and residents reported improved visualization of the anatomy. Using the VITOM-90 benefited surgeons during pineal region surgery by reducing strain and allowing the surgeon to operate from a comfortable position without increased operative time or complications. The improved comfort levels may translate into safer, more accurate surgeries in this complex area.
We report a series of patients with a clinical syndrome characterised by the explosive onset in adulthood of recurrent focal seizures of frontotemporal onset and features suggestive of autoimmune encephalitis. We propose that this presentation of &quot;autoimmune adult onset focal epilepsy and encephalitis&quot; is a recognisable clinical syndrome, and provide evidence it may be associated with heterogeneous immunological targets. Between 2008 and 2011 we encountered six patients with new-onset epilepsy in whom we suspected an autoimmune aetiology. We first characterised the clinical, electroencephalographic, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), imaging, and pathological findings of this syndrome. We subsequently tested them for antibodies against both intracellular and neuronal cell surface antigens. All patients presented with recurrent seizures with focal frontotemporal onset, refractory to multiple anticonvulsants. Four had focal T2-weighted hyperintensities on MRI. CSF mononuclear cells were variably elevated with positive oligoclonal bands in four. Brain biopsy in one patient demonstrated perivascular lymphocytic infiltration. Two were treated with immunosuppression and went on to achieve complete seizure control and return to baseline cognition. Three of four patients who received only pulsed steroids or no treatment had ongoing frequent seizures, with two dying of sudden unexpected death in epilepsy. Subsequently, three had antibodies identified against neuronal cell surface antigens including N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor and leucine-rich glioma inactivated 1. We suggest that patients with such a presentation should be carefully evaluated for a suspected autoimmune aetiology targeting cell surface antigens and have a therapeutic trial of immunosuppression as this may improve their long-term outcome.
Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a multisystem genetic disorder, with heterogeneous manifestations that pose major diagnostic and management challenges and incur considerable chronic disease burden on patients, their caregivers and healthcare systems. This survey of clinical practice in the Asia-Pacific region highlights priorities for improving TSC management in the region. The prevalence of TSC in non-Caucasians is uncertain and more data are needed to assess its impact and health-economic burden. There are unmet needs for access to genetic testing and earlier diagnosis and intervention. TSC management is multidisciplinary and largely based on experience, backed by international guidelines; however, physicians in the Asia-Pacific region feel isolated and lack local or regional guidance and support structures to implement best-practice. Raising awareness of TSC and increasing trans-regional collaboration are particular priorities. Understanding of TSC pathophysiology has enabled the development of targeted therapies. Encouraging data indicate that mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors can ameliorate TSC-related lesions and may potentially change the treatment paradigm. Ultimately, improving outcomes for TSC patients in the region requires greater collaboration and a holistic, patient-focused, continuum of care that is maintained through the transition from pediatric to adult care.
Neural information combination problems are ubiquitous in cognitive neuroscience. Two important disciplines, although conceptually similar, take radically different approaches to these problems. Sensory binding theory is largely grounded in synchronization of neurons responding to different aspects of a stimulus, resulting in a coherent percept. Sensory integration focuses more on the influences of the senses on each other and is largely grounded in the study of neurons that respond to more than one sense. It would be desirable to bridge these disciplines, so that insights gleaned from either could be harnessed by the other. To link these two fields, we used a binding-like oscillatory synchronization mechanism to simulate neurons in rattlesnake that are driven by one sense but modulated by another. Mutual excitatory coupling produces synchronized trains of action potentials with enhanced firing rates. The same neural synchronization mechanism models the behavior of a population of cells in cat visual cortex that are modulated by auditory activation. The coupling strength of the synchronizing neurons is crucial to the outcome; a criterion of strong coupling (kept weak enough to avoid seriously distorting action potential amplitude) results in intensity-dependent sensory enhancement-the principle of inverse effectiveness-a key property of sensory integration.
The vertebrate hindbrain develops as a series of well-defined neuroepithelial segments or rhombomeres. While rhombomeres are visible in all vertebrate embryos, generally there is not any visible segmental anatomy in the brains of adults. Teleost fish are exceptional in retaining a rhombomeric pattern of reticulospinal neurons through embryonic, larval, and adult periods. We use this feature to map more precisely the segmental imprint in the reticular and motor basal hindbrain of adult goldfish. Analysis of serial sections cut in three planes and computer reconstructions of retrogradely labeled reticulospinal neurons yielded a segmental framework compatible with previous reports and more amenable to correlation with surrounding neuronal features. Cranial nerve motoneurons and octavolateral efferent neurons were aligned to the reticulospinal scaffold by mapping neurons immunopositive for choline acetyltransferase or retrogradely labeled from cranial nerve roots. The mapping corresponded well with the known ontogeny of these neurons and helps confirm the segmental territories defined by reticulospinal anatomy. Because both the reticulospinal and the motoneuronal segmental patterns persist in the hindbrain of adult goldfish, we hypothesize that a permanent &quot;hindbrain framework&quot; may be a general property that is retained in adult vertebrates. The establishment of a relationship between individual segments and neuronal phenotypes provides a convenient method for future studies that combine form, physiology, and function in adult vertebrates.
The pallid bat (Antrozous pallidus) listens to prey-generated noise to localize and hunt terrestrial prey while reserving echolocation to avoid obstacles. The thalamocortical connections in the pallid bat are organized as parallel pathways that may serve echolocation and prey localization behaviors. Thalamic inputs to the cortical echolocation call- and noise-selective regions originate primarily in the suprageniculate nucleus (SG) and ventral division of medial geniculate body (MGBv), respectively. Here we examined the distribution of parvalbumin (PV) and calbindin (CB) expression in cortical regions and thalamic nuclei of these pathways. Electrophysiology was used to identify cortical regions selective for echolocation calls and noise. Immunohistochemistry was used to stain for PV and CB in the auditory cortex and MGB. A higher percentage (relative to Nissl-stained cells) of PV(+) cells compared with CB(+) cells was found in both echolocation call- and noise-selective regions. This was due to differences in cortical layers V-VI, but not layers I-IV. In the MGB, CB(+) cells were present across all divisions of the MGB, with a higher percentage in the MGBv than the SG. Perhaps the most surprising result was the virtual absence of PV staining in the MGBv. PV staining was present only in the SG. Even in the SG, the staining was mostly diffuse in the neuropil. These data support the notion that calcium binding proteins are differentially distributed in different processing streams. Our comparative data, however, do not support a general mammalian pattern of PV/CB staining that distinguishes lemniscal and nonlemniscal pathways.
The target disconnection theory of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) pathogenesis suggests that disease onset is initiated by a peripheral pathological event resulting in neuromuscular junction loss and motoneuron (MN) degeneration. Presymptomatic mSOD1(G93A) mouse facial MN (FMN) are more susceptible to axotomy-induced cell death than wild-type (WT) FMN, which suggests additional CNS pathology. We have previously determined that the mSOD1 molecular response to facial nerve axotomy is phenotypically regenerative and indistinguishable from WT, whereas the surrounding microenvironment shows significant dysregulation in the mSOD1 facial nucleus. To elucidate the mechanisms underlying the enhanced mSOD1 FMN loss after axotomy, we superimposed the facial nerve axotomy model on presymptomatic mSOD1 mice and investigated gene expression for death receptor pathways after target disconnection by axotomy vs. disease progression. We determined that the TNFR1 death receptor pathway is involved in axotomy-induced FMN death in WT and is partially responsible for the mSOD1 FMN death. In contrast, an inherent mSOD1 CNS pathology resulted in a suppressed glial reaction and an upregulation in the Fas death pathway after target disconnection. We propose that the dysregulated mSOD1 glia fail to provide support the injured MN, leading to Fas-induced FMN death. Finally, we demonstrate that, during disease progression, the mSOD1 facial nucleus displays target disconnection-induced gene expression changes that mirror those induced by axotomy. This validates the use of axotomy as an investigative tool in understanding the role of peripheral target disconnection in the pathogenesis of ALS.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex and slowly progressing dementing disorder that results in neuronal and synaptic loss, deposition in brain of aberrantly folded proteins, and impairment of spatial and episodic memory. Most studies of mouse models of AD have employed analyses of cognitive status and assessment of amyloid burden, gliosis, and molecular pathology during disease progression. Here we sought to understand the behavioral, cellular, ultrastructural, and molecular changes that occur at a pathological stage equivalent to the early stages of human AD. We studied the TgCRND8 mouse, a model of aggressive AD amyloidosis, at an early stage of plaque pathology (3 months of age) in comparison to their wildtype littermates and assessed changes in cognition, neuron and spine structure, and expression of synaptic glutamate receptor proteins. We found that, at this age, TgCRND8 mice display substantial plaque deposition in the neocortex and hippocampus and impairment on cued and contextual memory tasks. Of particular interest, we also observed a significant decrease in the number of neurons in the hippocampus. Furthermore, analysis of CA1 neurons revealed significant changes in apical and basal dendritic spine types, as well as altered expression of GluN1 and GluA2 receptors. This change in molecular architecture within the hippocampus may reflect a rising representation of inherently less stable thin spine populations, which can cause cognitive decline. These changes, taken together with toxic insults from amyloid- protein, may underlie the observed neuronal loss.
As the first neural element in the auditory pathway, neurons in the spiral ganglion shape the initial coding of sound stimuli for subsequent processing. Within the ganglion, type I and type II neurons form divergent and convergent innervation patterns, respectively, with their hair cell sensory receptors, indicating that very different information is gathered and conveyed. Layered onto these basic innervation patterns are structural and electrophysiological features that provide additional levels of processing multifaceted sound stimuli. To understand the nature of this additional complexity of signal coding, we characterized the distribution of calretinin and calbindin, two regulators of intracellular calcium that serve as markers for neuronal subpopulations. We showed in acute preparations and in vitro that calretinin and calbindin staining levels were heterogeneous. Immunocytochemical analysis of colocalization further showed that high levels of staining for the two molecules rarely overlapped. Although varied amounts of calbindin and calretinin were found within each tonotopic location and neuronal type, some distinct subdistributions were noted. For example, calretinin levels were highest in neurons innervating the midcochlea region, whereas calbindin levels were similar across the entire ganglion. Furthermore, we noted that apical type II neurons, identified by antiperipherin labeling, had significantly lower levels of calretinin and higher levels of calbindin. We also established that the endogenous firing feature of onset tau of the subthreshold response showed a pattern related to quantified calretinin and calbindin staining levels. Taken together, our results suggest an additional dimension of complexity within the spiral ganglion beyond that currently categorized.
In the current investigation we examined the number and proportion of neuronal and non-neuronal cells in the primary sensory areas of the neocortex of a South American marsupial, the short-tailed opossum (Monodelphis domestica). The primary somatosensory (S1), auditory (A1), and visual (V1) areas were dissected from the cortical sheet and compared with each other and the remaining neocortex using the isotropic fractionator technique. We found that although the overall sizes of V1, S1, A1, and the remaining cortical regions differed from each other, these divisions of the neocortex contained the same number of neurons, but the remaining cortex contained significantly more non-neurons than the primary sensory regions. In addition, the percent of neurons was higher in A1 than in the remaining cortex and the cortex as a whole. These results are similar to those seen in non-human primates. Furthermore, these results indicate that in some respects, such as number of neurons, the neocortex is homogenous across its extent, whereas in other aspects of organization, such as non-neuronal number and percentage of neurons, there is non-uniformity. Whereas the overall pattern of neuronal distribution is similar between short-tailed opossums and eutherian mammals, short-tailed opossum have a much lower cellular and neuronal density than other eutherian mammals. This suggests that the high neuronal density cortices of mammals such as rodents and primates may be a more recently evolved characteristic that is restricted to eutherians, and likely contributes to the complex behaviors we see in modern mammals.
Our goal was to identify individual difference predictors of children's memory and suggestibility for distressing personally experienced events. Specifically, we examined children's and parents' attachment orientations and children's observable levels of distress, as well as other individual difference factors, as predictors of children's memory and suggestibility. Children (N=91) aged 3 to 6years were interviewed about inoculations received at medical clinics. For children whose parents scored as more avoidant, higher distress levels during the inoculations predicted less accuracy, whereas for children whose parents scored as less avoidant, higher distress levels predicted greater accuracy. Children with more rather than less positive representations of parents and older rather than younger children answered memory questions more accurately. Two children provided false reports of child sexual abuse. Implications for theory, research, and practice are discussed.
Over the years numerous models of [Formula: see text] (susceptible [Formula: see text] infected [Formula: see text] susceptible) disease dynamics unfolding on networks have been proposed. Here, we discuss the links between many of these models and how they can be viewed as more general motif-based models. We illustrate how the different models can be derived from one another and, where this is not possible, discuss extensions to established models that enables this derivation. We also derive a general result for the exact differential equations for the expected number of an arbitrary motif directly from the Kolmogorov/master equations and conclude with a comparison of the performance of the different closed systems of equations on networks of varying structure.
KCNQ1 encodes the  subunit of the voltage-gated channel that mediates the cardiac slow delayed rectifier K(+) current (IKs). Here, we report a KCNQ1 allele encoding an A590T mutation [KCNQ1(A590T)] found in a 39-year-old female with a mild QT prolongation. A590 is located in the C-terminal  helical region of KCNQ1 that mediates subunit tetramerization, membrane trafficking, and interaction with Yotiao. This interaction is known to be required for the proper modulation of IKs by cAMP. Since previous studies reported that mutations in the vicinity of A590 impair IKs channel surface expression and function, we examined whether and how the A590T mutation affects the IKs channel. Electrophysiological measurements in HEK-293T cells showed that the A590T mutation caused a reduction in IKs density and a right-shift of the current-voltage relation of channel activation. Immunocytochemical and immunoblot analyses showed the reduced cell surface expression of KCNQ1(A590T) subunit and its rescue by coexpression of the wild-type KCNQ1 [KCNQ1(WT)] subunit. Moreover, KCNQ1(A590T) subunit interacted with Yotiao and had a cAMP-responsiveness comparable to that of KCNQ1(WT) subunit. These findings indicate that the A590 of KCNQ1 subunit plays important roles in the maintenance of channel surface expression and function via a novel mechanism independent of interaction with Yotiao.
Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) are involved in the regulation of cardiac hypertrophy and myocyte survival. Extracellular signal regulated protein kinase 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) are key components in the MAPK signaling pathways. Dysfunction of ERK1/2 in congenital heart diseases (Noonan syndrome and LEOPARD syndrome) leads to cardiac hypertrophy. ERK2 contributes 70% of protein content to total ERK1/2 content in myocardium; however, the specific role of ERK2 in regulating cardiac hypertrophy is yet to be further defined. To investigate the specific role of ERK2 played in the cardiomyocytes, we generated and examined mice with cardiomyocyte-specific deletion of the erk2 gene (ERK2(cko) mice). Following short-term pathological hypertrophic stresses, the mutant mice showed attenuated hypertrophic remodeling characterized by a blunted increase in the cross-sectional area of individual myocytes, downregulation of hypertrophic foetal gene markers (ANP and BNP), and less interstitial fibrosis. However, increased cardiomyocyte apoptosis was observed. Upon prolonged stimulation, ERK2(cko) mice developed deterioration in cardiac function. However, absence of ERK2 did not affect physiological hypertrophy induced by 4weeks of swimming exercise. These results revealed an essential role for ERK2 in cardiomyocytes in the development of pathological hypertrophic remodeling and resistance to cell death.

Voltage-sensitive dye imaging (VSDi) enables visualization of information processing in different areas of the brain with reasonable spatial and temporal resolution. VSDi employs different chemical compounds to transduce neural activity directly into the changes in intrinsic optical signal. Physically, voltage-sensitive dyes (VSDs) are chemical probes that reside in the neural membrane and change their fluorescence or absorbance in response to membrane potential changes. Based on these features, VSDs can be divided into two groups-absorbance and fluorescence. The spatial and temporal resolution of the VSDi is limited mainly by the technical characteristics of the optical imaging setup (e.g., computer and light-sensitive device-charge-coupled device (CCD) camera or photodiode array). In this article, we briefly review the development of the VSD, technique of VSDi and applications in functional brain imaging.

Valproic acid (VPA) is commonly used to treat bipolar disorder (BD), but its therapeutic role has not been clearly elucidated. To gain insights into VPA's mechanism of action, proteomic analysis was used to identify differentially expressed proteins in the rat prefrontal cortex (PFC), a region particularly affected in BD, after 6 weeks of VPA treatment. Proteins from PFCs of control and VPA-treated rats were separated by 2D-DIGE and identified by mass spectrometry. Among the 2,826 protein spots resolved, the abundance of 19 proteins was found to be significantly altered in the VPA-treated group (with the levels of three proteins increasing and 16 decreasing). Seven proteins whose levels were significantly altered after chronic VPA exposure were quantified by Western blot analysis. The 19 identified proteins represent potential new targets for VPA action and should aid in our understanding of the role of VPA in BD.  2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Early warning scores calculated by registered nurses (RNs) are used in hospitals to enhance the recognition of and communication about patient deterioration. This study evaluated workflow variables surrounding calculation and documentation of one pediatric hospital's use of an early warning score. Results indicated that there were significant delays in documentation of early warning scores by RNs and inconsistencies between the early warning scores and vital signs collected and documented by non-RN personnel. These findings reflected information obtained from the RNs about how they prioritize tasks and use work-arounds to specific systems issues regarding assessment and documentation in the electronic medical record.
A rapid and reliable analytical method has been developed to quantify the melatonergic antidepressant agomelatine in three matrices, and namely saliva, plasma and dried blood spots. The method is based on the use of liquid chromatography with fluorimetric detection exploiting the native fluorescence of agomelatine. For saliva and plasma samples an original microextraction by packed sorbent procedure was implemented obtaining satisfactory extraction yield of the analyte (always higher than 89%) and a good clean-up of the matrices. On the contrary, agomelatine was extracted from dried blood spots by suitable solvent microwave-assisted extraction and injected into chromatographic system. Satisfactory results in terms of sensitivity, linearity, precision, selectivity and accuracy were obtained. Thus, the developed method seems to be suitable for therapeutic drug monitoring of depressed patients under agomelatine therapy.
Ractopamine (RAC) is fed to an estimated 80% of all beef, swine, and turkey raised in the United States. It promotes muscle mass development, limits fat deposition, and reduces feed consumption. However, it has several undesirable behavioral side effects in livestock, especially pigs, including restlessness, agitation, excessive oral-facial movements, and aggressive behavior. Numerous in vitro and in vivo studies suggest RAC's physiological actions begin with its stimulation of 1- and 2-adrenergic receptor-mediated signaling in skeletal muscle and adipose tissue; however, the molecular pharmacology of RAC's psychoactive effects is poorly understood. Using human cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (hCFTR) chloride channels as a sensor for intracellular cAMP, we found that RAC and p-tyramine (TYR) produced concentration-dependent increases in chloride conductance in oocytes coexpressing hCFTR and mouse trace amine-associated receptor 1 (mTAAR1), which was completely reversed by the trace amine-associated receptor 1 (TAAR1)-selective antagonist EPPTB [N-(3-ethoxyphenyl)-4-pyrrolidin-1-yl-3-trifluoromethylbenzamide]. Oocytes coexpressing hCFTR and the human 2-adrenergic receptor showed no response to RAC or TYR. These studies demonstrate that, contrary to expectations, RAC is not an agonist of the human 2-adrenergic receptor but rather a full agonist for mTAAR1. Since TAAR1-mediated signaling can influence cardiovascular tone and behavior in several animal models, our finding that RAC is a full mTAAR1 agonist supports the idea that this novel mechanism of action influences the physiology and behavior of pigs and other species. These findings should stimulate future studies to characterize the pharmacological, physiological, and behavioral actions of RAC in humans and other species exposed to this drug.
Atomoxetine is a non-stimulant medication with sustained benefit throughout the day, and is a useful pharmacologic treatment option for young adults with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). It is difficult to determine, however, those patients for whom atomoxetine will be both effective and advantageous. Patients may need to take the medication for several weeks before therapeutic benefit is apparent, so a biomarker that could predict atomoxetine effectiveness early in the course of treatment could be clinically useful. There has been increased interest in the study of thalamocortical oscillatory activity using quantitative electroencephalography (qEEG) as a biomarker in ADHD. In this study, we investigated qEEG absolute power, relative power, and cordance, which have been shown to predict response to reuptake inhibitor antidepressants in Major Depressive Disorder (MDD), as potential predictors of response to atomoxetine. Forty-four young adults with ADHD (ages 18-30) enrolled in a multi-site, double-blind placebo-controlled study of the effectiveness of atomoxetine and underwent serial qEEG recordings at pretreatment baseline and one week after the start of medication. qEEG measures were calculated from a subset of the sample (N=29) that provided useable qEEG recordings. Left temporoparietal cordance in the theta frequency band after one week of treatment was associated with ADHD symptom improvement and quality of life measured at 12 weeks in atomoxetine-treated subjects, but not in those treated with placebo. Neither absolute nor relative power measures selectively predicted improvement in medication-treated subjects. Measuring theta cordance after one week of treatment could be useful in predicting atomoxetine treatment response in adult ADHD.




This prospective analysis tested whether frequency of voucher redemptions during a contingency management (CM) substance use intervention was significantly associated with participants' ongoing substance use. Homeless, substance-dependent men who have sex with men (N=131) were randomized into either a &quot;full&quot; or &quot;lite&quot; voucher-based CM intervention. All participants earned vouchers for attendance and participation; participants in the CM-full condition also received vouchers for substance abstinence and enactment of prosocial and/or health-promoting behaviors. Multivariate longitudinal negative binomial regression analyses (n=118) assessed the association between substance use during the intervention and frequency of voucher redemptions. Participants who used methamphetamine (IRR=0.66; 95% CI=0.44-0.99) and/or opiates (IRR=0.60; 95% CI=0.40-0.99) during the intervention exhibited less time between voucher redemptions than individuals who achieved abstinence from these substances. Voucher redemption logs can be cost-effective and unobtrusive tools for measuring study participants' tendency to delay gratification.
Attentional bias modification (ABM) to avoid smoking-related cues is a potentially new intervention in addition to existing therapy to stop smoking. We examined immediate and long-term changes in attentional bias and treatment outcomes from multiple ABM sessions in 67 smokers trying to quit. After assessing attentional bias baseline, participants were randomly allocated to one of three training groups: three sessions of ABM (avoid 3); two sessions of placebo-ABM and one session of ABM (avoid 1); and three sessions of placebo-ABM (avoid 0). At baseline, all groups had similar positive attentional bias, which became negative at 24h post-training. After 1 month, avoid 1 and avoid 3 still exhibited negative attentional biases. Only avoid 3 maintained this effect at 6-month, but not at 12-month assessments. ABM produced a long-lasting automatic and maintained avoidance to smoking-related cues which depended on number of sessions; however its effects on treatment outcomes are uncertain.
With the current review, we explore the hypothesis that individual differences in neurocognitive aspects of impulsivity (i.e., cognitive and motor disinhibition, delay discounting and impulsive decision-making) among individuals with a substance use disorder are linked to unfavorable addiction treatment outcomes, including high drop-out rates and difficulties in achieving and maintaining abstinence. A systematic review of the literature was carried out using PubMed, PsycINFO and Web of Knowledge searches. Twenty-five unique empirical papers were identified and findings were considered in relation to the different impulsivity dimensions. Although conceptual/methodological heterogeneity and lack of replication are key limitations of studies in this area, findings speak for a prominent role of cognitive disinhibition, delay discounting and impulsive decision-making in the ability to successfully achieve and maintain abstinence during and following addiction treatment. In contrast, indices of motor disinhibition appear to be unrelated to abstinence levels. Whereas the relationship between impulsivity and treatment retention needs to be examined more extensively, preliminary evidence suggests that impulsive/risky decision-making is unrelated to premature treatment drop-out among individuals with a substance use disorder. The reviewed findings are discussed in terms of their clinical implications.

Phantom measurements allow for investigating the overall quality characteristics of an MRI scanner. Especially within multicenter studies, these characteristics ensure the comparability of the results across different sites, in addition to the performance stability of a single scanner over time. This comparability requires consistent phantoms, sequence protocols, and quality assurance criteria. Within the scope of this work, a software library was implemented for fully-automated determination of important quality characteristics (comprising signal-to-noise ratio, image uniformity, ghosting artifacts, chemical shift and spatial resolution and linearity) including methods for data preparation, automated pre- and postprocessing as well as visualization and interpretation. All methods were evaluated using both synthetic images with predefined distortions and a set of 44 real phantom measurements involving eight sites and three manufacturers. Using the synthetic phantom images, predefined levels of distortion that were incorporated artificially were correctly detected by the automated routines with no more than 2.6% of relative error. In addition, the methods were applied to real phantom measurements - all data sets could be evaluated automatically considering all quality parameters as long as the acquisition protocols are followed. Shortcomings of the processability only occurred in the ghosting artifacts (39/44 evaluable) and the spatial linearity (43/44 evaluable) analysis due to gross misalignments of the phantom during image acquisition. Based on evaluation results, the accuracy of the evaluation appears to be robust to misalignments, artifacts, and distortions affecting the images, allowing for objective fully-automated evaluation and interpretation of large data set numbers.

Tinnitus, the phantom perception of sound with no external source, affects an estimated 10-15% of the adult population. Current treatments for this oftentimes distressing condition are of limited effectiveness. The &quot;central gain&quot; model proposes that tinnitus arises from an increase in the responsiveness, or gain, of neurons in central auditory pathways, triggered by damage to the auditory periphery. It has been suggested that tinnitus might be treated by compensating for the peripheral damage, thereby restoring normal levels of input to the central pathways, and hence reducing central gain. Unfortunately, when tinnitus originates with permanent damage to the auditory periphery, it may be impossible to compensate for this damage directly. However, we hypothesize that tinnitus may be treated by tricking the brain into believing that it temporarily receives normal levels of input at frequencies where peripheral damage has occurred. We identify an auditory illusion that seems capable, in principle, of achieving this objective. If effective, this approach would offer a safe, accessible, and non-invasive treatment for tinnitus.
CD69 is involved in immune cell homeostasis, regulating the T cell-mediated immune response through the control of Th17 cell differentiation. However, natural ligands for CD69 have not yet been described. Using recombinant fusion proteins containing the extracellular domain of CD69, we have detected the presence of a ligand(s) for CD69 on human dendritic cells (DCs). Pulldown followed by mass spectrometry analyses of CD69-binding moieties on DCs identified galectin-1 as a CD69 counterreceptor. Surface plasmon resonance and anti-CD69 blocking analyses demonstrated a direct and specific interaction between CD69 and galectin-1 that was carbohydrate dependent. Functional assays with both human and mouse T cells demonstrated the role of CD69 in the negative effect of galectin-1 on Th17 differentiation. Our findings identify CD69 and galectin-1 to be a novel regulatory receptor-ligand pair that modulates Th17 effector cell differentiation and function.
In this study, we characterized a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) potentiator, LY2119620 (3-amino-5-chloro-N-cyclopropyl-4-methyl-6-[2-(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)-2-oxoethoxy]thieno[2,3-b]pyridine-2-carboxamide) as a novel probe of the human M2 and M4 allosteric binding sites. Since the discovery of allosteric binding sites on G protein-coupled receptors, compounds targeting these novel sites have been starting to emerge. For example, LY2033298 (3-amino-5-chloro-6-methoxy-4-methyl-thieno(2,3-b)pyridine-2-carboxylic acid cyclopropylamid) and a derivative of this chemical scaffold, VU152100 (3-amino-N-(4-methoxybenzyl)-4,6-dimethylthieno[2,3-b]pyridine carboxamide), bind to the human M4 mAChR allosteric pocket. In the current study, we characterized LY2119620, a compound similar in structure to LY2033298 and binds to the same allosteric site on the human M4 mAChRs. However, LY2119620 also binds to an allosteric site on the human M2 subtype. [(3)H]NMS ([(3)H]N-methylscopolamine) binding experiments confirm that LY2119620 does not compete for the orthosteric binding pocket at any of the five muscarinic receptor subtypes. Dissociation kinetic studies using [(3)H]NMS further support that LY2119620 binds allosterically to the M2 and M4 mAChRs and was positively cooperative with muscarinic orthosteric agonists. To probe directly the allosteric sites on M2 and M4, we radiolabeled LY2119620. Cooperativity binding of [(3)H]LY2119620 with mAChR orthosteric agonists detects significant changes in Bmax values with little change in Kd, suggesting a G protein-dependent process. Furthermore, [(3)H]LY2119620 was displaced by compounds of similar chemical structure but not by previously described mAChR allosteric compounds such as gallamine or WIN 62,577 (17--hydroxy-17--ethynyl--4-androstano[3,2-b]pyrimido[1,2-a]benzimidazole). Our results therefore demonstrate the development of a radioligand, [(3)H]LY2119620 to probe specifically the human M2 and M4 muscarinic receptor allosteric binding sites.
Nasu-Hakola disease (NHD) is a rare autosomal recessive disease that is characterized by cyst-like bone lesions and pathologic fractures combined with an early-onset frontal type of dementia. Mutations in DNAX-activation protein 12 (DAP12) and triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) are the known genetic causes of NHD. However, the role of both these genes in the neurodegenerative process is still partly unclear, and the input of other modifying factors has been postulated. Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is a neuropathologically and genetically heterogeneous neurodegenerative disease. A hexanucleotide repeat expansion in the chromosome 9-associated open reading frame 72 (C9ORF72) gene is the most common cause of familial FTLD in Finland. Here, we describe a family with 3 siblings with a clinical diagnosis of NHD. All patients had an equivalent age of onset of the behavioral/cognitive symptoms, and brain imaging revealed a similar pattern of brain atrophy and calcification in putamen and caudate nucleus. Case II-3 had the most severe phenotype with epilepsy and a rapid cognitive decline. Genetic analyses were performed in 2 patients (cases II-2 and II-3), and both had a homozygous DAP12 deletion. Because the role of DAP12 and TREM2 in neurodegeneration in NHD is partly unclear, our aim was to evaluate the role of other genetic variations as modifiers. The C9ORF72 expansion was found in case II-2. Exome sequencing did not reveal any other mutations that could be involved in FTLD. Case II-3 had a novel predictably deleterious mutation in the progressive myoclonic epilepsy type 2 (EPM2), which may have influenced his epilepsy as the EPM2 has been implicated in Lafora progressive myoclonic epilepsy. We conclude that the C9ORF72 expansion is probably an incidental finding because it did not have any apparent influence on the phenotype. Exome sequencing identified several rare missense variants and indels. Additional analyses in other NHD patients will be needed to elucidate their clinical relevance.
Recent studies have reported that a rare nonsynonymous variant rs75932628-T in the TREM2 gene is associated with increased risk of Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease (PD) in European-descended populations. However, the association between rare TREM2 mutations and PD risk remains unknown in Chinese population. We directly sequenced exon2 of TREM2 in a cohort of 476 PD patients and 432 healthy controls from a Han Chinese population. Rs75932628-T (p.R47H) was found in 0.2% of PD cases (1/476) but in none of the controls (0/432, p = 1.000), with a minor allele frequency of 0.06% among the 908 subjects. Our findings suggest that variants in exon2 of TREM2 are extremely rare, and it is not a genetic risk factor for PD in the southern Han Chinese population.
White matter is frequently involved in ischemic stroke, and progressive ischemic white matter injuries are associated with various neurologic dysfunctions in the elderly population. Demyelination and oligodendrocyte (OL) loss are prominent features of ischemic white matter injury. Endothelin-1 injection into the internal capsule resulted in a localized demyelinating lesion in mice, where loss of OL lineage cells and inflammatory cell infiltration were observed accompanied by upregulation of toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2). Intriguingly, the extent of demyelinating pathology was markedly larger in TLR2 deficient mice than that of wild-type (WT) mice. TLR2 deficient mice showed enhanced OL death and decreased phosphorylation of ERK1/2 compared with WT animals. Cultured OLs from TLR2 deficient mice were more vulnerable to oxygen-glucose deprivation than WT OLs. Applying TLR2 agonists Pam3CSK4 or Zymosan after oxygen-glucose deprivation substantially rescued WT OL death with augmentation of ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Treatment with Pam3CSK4 also reduced the extent of endothelin-1 induced ischemic demyelination in vivo. Our data indicate TLR2 may provide endogenous protective effects on ischemic demyelination and OL degeneration.

Alterations to brain homeostasis during development are reflected in the neurochemical profile determined noninvasively by (1)H magnetic resonance spectroscopy. We determined longitudinal biochemical modifications in the cortex, hippocampus, and striatum of C57BL/6 mice aged between 3 and 24 months . The regional neurochemical profile evolution indicated that aging induces general modifications of neurotransmission processes (reduced GABA and glutamate), primary energy metabolism (altered glucose, alanine, and lactate) and turnover of lipid membranes (modification of choline-containing compounds and phosphorylethanolamine), which are all probably involved in the frequently observed age-related cognitive decline. Interestingly, the neurochemical profile was different in male and female mice, particularly in the levels of taurine that may be under the control of estrogen receptors. These neurochemical profiles constitute the basal concentrations in cortex, hippocampus, and striatum of healthy aging male and female mice.
Exposure to chronic stress during the neonatal period is known to induce permanent long-term changes in the central nervous system and hipothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis reactivity that are associated with increased levels of depression, anxiety, and cognitive impairments. In rodents, a validated model of early life stress is the maternal separation (MS) paradigm, which has been shown to have long-term consequences for the pups that span to adulthood. We hypothesized that the early life stress-associated effects could be exacerbated with aging, because it is often accompanied by cognitive decline. Using a MS model in which rat pups were separated from their mothers for 3 hours daily, during postnatal days 2-14, we evaluated the long-term functional consequences to aged animals (70-week-old), by measuring synaptic plasticity and cognitive performance. The baseline behavioral deficits of aged control rats were further exacerbated in MS animals, indicating that early-life stress induces sustained changes in anxiety-like behavior and hippocampal-dependent memory that are maintained much later in life. We then investigated whether these differences are linked to impaired function of hippocampal neurons by recording hippocampal long-term potentiation from Schaffer collaterals/CA1 synapses. The magnitude of the hippocampal long-term potentiation induced by high-frequency stimulation was significantly lower in aged MS animals than in age-matched controls. These results substantiate the hypothesis that the neuronal and endocrine alterations induced by early-life stress are long lasting, and are able to exacerbate the mild age-associated deficits.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia. To date, several genes have been identified as the cause of AD, including PSEN1, PSEN2, and APP. The association between APOE and late-onset AD has also been reported. We here used a bench top next-generation sequencer, which uses an integrated semiconductor device, detects hydrogen ions, and operates at a high-speed using nonoptical technology. We examined 45 Japanese AD patients with positive family histories, and 29 sporadic patients with early onset (&lt;60-year-old). Causative mutations were detected in 5 patients in the familial group (11%). Three patients had a known heterozygous missense mutation in the PSEN1 gene (p.H163R). Two patients from 1 family had a novel heterozygous missense mutation in the PSEN1 gene (p.F386L). In the early onset group, 1 patient carrying homozygous APOE4 had a novel heterozygous missense mutation in the PSEN2 gene (p.T421M). Approximately 43% patients were APOE4 positive in our study. This new sequencing technology is useful for detecting genetic variations in familial AD.
An intronic G(4)C(2) hexanucleotide repeat expansion in C9ORF72 is a major cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal lobar degeneration. Several mechanisms including RNA toxicity, repeat-associated non-AUG translation mediated dipeptide protein aggregates, and haploinsufficiency of C9orf72 have been implicated in the molecular pathogenesis of this disorder. The aims of this study were to compare the use of two different Southern blot probes for detection of repeat expansions in an amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal lobar degeneration pathological cohort and to determine the levels of C9orf72 transcript variants and protein isoforms in patients versus control subjects. Our Southern blot studies identified smaller repeat expansions (250-1800 bp) that were only detectable with the flanking probe highlighting the potential for divergent results using different Southern blotting protocols that could complicate genotype-phenotype correlation studies. Further, we characterize a new C9orf72 antibody and show for the first time decreased C9orf72 protein levels in the frontal cortex from patients with a pathological hexanucleotide repeat expansion. These data suggest that a reduction in C9orf72 protein may be a consequence of the disease.
We evaluated the contributions of various polyglutamine (polyQ) disease genes to Parkinson's disease (PD). We compared the distributions of polyQ repeat lengths in 8 common genes (ATXN1, ATXN2, ATXN3, CACNA1A, ATXN7, TBP, ATN1, and HTT) in 299 unrelated patients with autosomal dominant PD (ADPD) and 329 normal controls. We also analyzed the possibility of genetic interactions between ATXN1 and ATXN2, ATXN2 and ATXN3, and ATXN2 and CACNA1A. Intermediate-length polyQ expansions (&gt;24 Qs) of ATXN2 were found in 7 ADPD patients and no controls (7/299 = 2.34% and 0/329 = 0%, respectively; p = 0.0053 &lt; 0.05/8 after Bonferroni correction). These patients showed typical L-DOPA-responsive PD phenotypes. Conversely, no significant differences in polyQ repeat lengths were found between the ADPD patients and the controls for the other 7 genes. Our results may support the hypothesis that ATXN2 polyQ expansion is a specific predisposing factor for multiple neurodegenerative diseases.
Sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (sALS) is a severe neurodegenerative disease that causes progressive motor neuron death. Although the etiology of sALS remains unknown, genetic variants are thought to predispose individuals to the disease. Several recent genome-wide association studies have identified a number of loci that increase sALS susceptibility, but these only explain a small proportion of the disease. To extend the current genetic evidence and to identify novel candidates of sALS, we performed a pooling genome-wide association study by 859,311 autosomal single-nucleotide polymorphisms of IlluminaHumanOmniZhongHua-8 combining pathway analysis in 250 typical sALS cases precluding age, clinical course, and phenotype interference and 250 control subjects from Chinese Han populations (CHP). The results revealed that 8 novel loci of 1p34.3, 3p21.1, 3p22.2, 10p15.2, 22q12.1, 3q13.11, 11q25, 12q24.33, and 5 previously reported loci of CNTN4 (kgp11325216), ATXN1 (kgp8327591), C9orf72 (kgp6016770), ITPR2 (kgp3041552), and SOD1 (kgp10760302) were associated with sALS from CHP. Furthermore, the pathway analysis based on the Gene Set Analysis Toolkit V2 showed that 10 top pathways were strongly associated with sALS from CHP, and among them, the 7 most potentially candidate pathways were phosphatidylinositol signaling system, Wnt signaling pathway, axon guidance, MAPK signaling pathway, neurotrophin signaling pathway, arachidonic acid metabolism, and T-cell receptor signaling pathway, a total of 39 significantly associate genes in 7 candidate pathways was suggested to involve in the pathogenesis of sALS from CHP. In conclusion, our results revealed several new loci and pathways related to sALS from CHP and extend the association evidence for partial loci, genes, and pathways, which were previously identified in other populations. Thus, our data provided new clues for exploring the pathogenesis of sALS.
Impaired growth factor function is thought to drive many of the alterations observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. Endogenous regenerative technology, PRGF (plasma rich in growth factor)-Endoret, is designed for the delivery of a complex pool of patient's own active morphogens that may stimulate tissue regeneration. We obtained and characterized PRGF-Endoret preparations from human blood. We used, as experimental approach in vivo, APP/PS1 mice, characterized by age-dependent brain amyloid- (A) accumulation. Intranasal administration of PRGF-Endoret to APP/PS1 mice resulted in an important decrease in brain A deposition and tau phosphorylation. PRGF-Endoret-treated APP/PS1 mice also showed decreased astrocyte reactivity, and prevented protein synaptic loss. In vitro approaches demonstrated that PRGF-Endoret treatment modulated astrocyte activation, reducing inflammatory responses, and promoted A degradation. Furthermore, PRGF-Endoret stimulated global improvements in anxiety, learning, and memory behaviors. Our findings show that PRGF-Endoret exerts multifunctional and complementary effects that result in the reversal of the broad range of cognitive deficits in AD, suggesting that PRGF-Endoret may hold promise as an innovative therapy in AD.
Advances in treatment have transformed human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection from an inexorable march to severe morbidity and premature death to a manageable chronic condition, often marked by good health. Thus, infected individuals are living long enough that there is a potential for interaction with normal senescence effects on various organ systems, including the brain. To examine this interaction, the brains of 51 individuals with HIV infection and 65 uninfected controls were studied using 351 magnetic resonance imaging and a battery of neuropsychological tests collected 2 or more times over follow-up periods ranging from 6 months to 8 years. Brain tissue regions of interest showed expected age-related decrease in volume; cerebrospinal fluid-filled spaces showed increase in volume for both groups. Although HIV-infected individuals were in good general health, and free of clinically-detectable dementia, several brain regions supporting higher-order cognition and integration of functions showed acceleration of the normal aging trajectory, including neocortex, which extended from the frontal and temporal poles to the parietal lobe, and the thalamus. Beyond an anticipated increase in lateral ventricle and Sylvian fissure volumes and decrease in tissue volumes (specifically, the frontal and sensorimotor neocortices, thalamus, and hippocampus) with longer duration of illness, most regions also showed accelerated disease progression. This accelerated loss of cortical tissue may represent a risk factor for premature cognitive and motor compromise if not dementia. On a more promising note, HIV-infected patients with increasing CD4 counts exhibited slower expansion of Sylvian fissure volume and slower declines of frontal and temporoparietal cortices, insula, and hippocampus tissue volumes. Thus, attenuated shrinkage of these brain regions, likely with adequate pharmacologic treatment and control of further infection, has the potential of abating decline in associated higher-order functions, notably, explicit memory, executive functions, self-regulation, and visuospatial abilities.
Frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17) is a neurodegenerative tauopathy caused by mutations in the tau gene (MAPT). Individuals with FTDP-17 have deficits in learning, memory, and language, in addition to personality and behavioral changes that are often characterized by a lack of social inhibition. Several transgenic mouse models expressing tau mutations have been tested extensively for memory or motor impairments, though reports of amygdala-dependent behaviors are lacking. To this end, we tested the rTg4510 mouse model on a behavioral battery that included amygdala-dependent tasks of exploration. As expected, rTg4510 mice exhibit profound impairments in hippocampal-dependent learning and memory tests, including contextual fear conditioning. However, rTg4510 mice also display an abnormal hyperexploratory phenotype in the open-field assay, elevated plus maze, light-dark exploration, and cued fear conditioning, indicative of amygdala dysfunction. Furthermore, significant tau burden is detected in the amygdala of both rTg4510 mice and human FTDP-17 patients, suggesting that the rTg4510 mouse model recapitulates the behavioral disturbances and neurodegeneration of the amygdala characteristic of FTDP-17.
Numerous clinical and epidemiological reports indicate that patients with history of vascular illness such as stroke are more likely to develop dementia as the clinical manifestation of Alzheimer's disease. However, there are little data regarding the pathologic mechanisms that link vascular risk factors to the factors associated with dementia onset. We provide evidence that suggests intriguing detrimental interactions between stroke and -amyloid (A) toxicity in the hippocampus. Stroke was induced by unilateral striatal injection of endothelin-1, the potent vasoconstrictor. A toxicity was modeled by bilateral intracerebroventricular injections of the toxic fragment A. Gross morphologic changes in comorbid A and stroke rats were enlargement of the lateral ventricles with concomitant shrinkage of the hippocampus. The hippocampus displayed a series of synergistic biochemical alterations, including microgliosis, deposition of A precursor protein fragments, and cellular degeneration. In addition, there was bilateral induction of connexin43, reduced neuronal survival, and impaired dendritic development of adult-born immature neurons in the dentate gyrus of these rats compared with either rats alone. Behaviorally, there was impairment in the hippocampal-based discriminative fear-conditioning to context task indicating learning and memory deficit. These results suggest an insight into the relationship between hippocampal atrophy, pathology, and functional impairment. Our work not only highlights the exacerbated pathology that emerges when A toxicity and stroke occur comorbidly but also demonstrates that this comorbid rat model exhibits physiopathology that is highly characteristic of the human condition.

Recent evidence suggests that dystonia, a movement disorder characterized by sustained involuntary muscle contractions, can be associated with cerebellar abnormalities. The basis for how functional changes in the cerebellum can cause dystonia is poorly understood. Here we identify alterations in physiology in Atcay(ji-hes) mice which in addition to ataxia, have an abnormal gait with hind limb extension and toe walking, reminiscent of human dystonic gait. No morphological abnormalities in the brain accompany the dystonia, but partial cerebellectomy causes resolution of the stiff-legged gait, suggesting that cerebellar dysfunction contributes to the dystonic gait of Atcay(ji-hes) mice. Recordings from Purkinje and deep cerebellar nuclear (DCN) neurons in acute brain slices were used to determine the physiological correlates of dystonia in the Atcay(ji-hes) mice. Approximately 50% of cerebellar Purkinje neurons fail to display the normal repetitive firing characteristic of these cells. In addition, DCN neurons exhibit increased intrinsic firing frequencies with a subset of neurons displaying bursts of action potentials. This increased intrinsic excitability of DCN neurons is accompanied by a reduction in after-hyperpolarization currents mediated by small-conductance calcium-activated potassium (SK) channels. An activator of SK channels reduces DCN neuron firing frequency in acute cerebellar slices and improves the dystonic gait of Atcay(ji-hes) mice. These results suggest that a combination of reduced Purkinje neuron activity and increased DCN intrinsic excitability can result in a combination of ataxia and a dystonia-like gait in mice.
In excitatory neurons, SCN2A (NaV1.2) and SCN8A (NaV1.6) sodium channels are enriched at the axon initial segment. NaV1.6 is implicated in several mouse models of absence epilepsy, including a missense mutation identified in a chemical mutagenesis screen (Scn8a(V929F)). Here, we confirmed the prior suggestion that Scn8a(V929F) exhibits a striking genetic background-dependent difference in phenotypic severity, observing that spike-wave discharge (SWD) incidence and severity are significantly diminished when Scn8a(V929F) is fully placed onto the C57BL/6J strain compared with C3H. Examination of sequence differences in NaV subunits between these two inbred strains suggested NaV1.2(V752F) as a potential source of this modifier effect. Recognising that the spatial co-localisation of the NaV channels at the axon initial segment (AIS) provides a plausible mechanism for functional interaction, we tested this idea by undertaking biophysical characterisation of the variant NaV channels and by computer modelling. NaV1.2(V752F) functional analysis revealed an overall gain-of-function and for NaV1.6(V929F) revealed an overall loss-of-function. A biophysically realistic computer model was used to test the idea that interaction between these variant channels at the AIS contributes to the strain background effect. Surprisingly this modelling showed that neuronal excitability is dominated by the properties of NaV1.2(V752F) due to &quot;functional silencing&quot; of NaV1.6(V929F) suggesting that these variants do not directly interact. Consequent genetic mapping of the major strain modifier to Chr 7, and not Chr 2 where Scn2a maps, supported this biophysical prediction. While a NaV1.6(V929F) loss of function clearly underlies absence seizures in this mouse model, the strain background effect is apparently not due to an otherwise tempting Scn2a variant, highlighting the value of combining physiology and genetics to inform and direct each other when interrogating genetic complex traits such as absence epilepsy.
All tauopathies result in various forms of cognitive decline and neuronal loss. Although in some diseases, tau mutations appear to cause neurodegeneration, the toxic &quot;form&quot; of tau remains elusive. Tau is the major protein found within neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) and therefore it seemed rational to assume that aggregation of tau monomers into NFTs was causal to the disease process. However, the appearance of oligomers rather than NFTs coincides much better with the voluminous neuronal loss in many of these diseases. In this study, we utilized the bigenic mouse line (rTg4510) which conditionally expresses P301L human tau. A novel tau antibody, termed Tau Oligomer Complex 1 (TOC1) was employed to probe mouse brains and assess disease progression. TOC1 selectively recognizes dimers/oligomers and appears to constitute an early stage marker of tau pathology. Its peak reactivity is coincident with other well-known early stage pathological markers such as MC1 and the early-stage phospho-marker CP13. TOC1's reactivity depends on the conformation of the tau species since it does not react with monomer under native conditions, although it does react with monomers under SDS-denaturation. This indicates a conformational change must occur within the tau aggregate to expose its epitope. Tau oligomers preferentially form under oxidizing conditions and within this mouse model, we observe tau oligomers forming at an increased rate and persisting much longer, most likely due to the aggressive P301L mutation. With the help of other novel antibodies, the use of this antibody will aid in providing a better understanding of tau toxicity within Alzheimer's disease and other tauopathies.
We used electroencephalography (EEG) together with psychopharmacological stimulation to investigate the role of dopamine in neural oscillations during working memory (WM). Following a within-subjects design, healthy humans either received the dopamine precursor l-Dopa (150mg) or a placebo before they performed a Sternberg WM paradigm. Here, sequences of sample images had to be memorized for a delay of 5s in three different load conditions (two, four or six items). On the next day, long-term memory (LTM) for the images was tested. Behaviorally, l-Dopa improved WM and LTM performance as a function of WM load. More precisely, there was a specific drug effect in the four-load condition with faster reaction times to the probe in the WM task and higher corrected hit-rates in the LTM task. During the maintenance period, there was a linear and quadratic effect of WM load on power in the high theta (5-8Hz) and alpha (9-14Hz) frequency range at frontal sensors. Importantly, a drug by load interaction - mimicking the behavioral results - was found only in low theta power (2-4Hz). As such, our results indicate a specific link between prefrontal low theta oscillations, dopaminergic neuromodulation during WM and subsequent LTM performance.
Variation in the CACNA1C gene has consistently been associated with psychosis in genome wide association studies. We have previously shown in a sample of n=110 healthy subjects that carriers of the CACNA1C rs1006737 risk variant exhibit hippocampal and perigenual anterior cingulate dysfunction (pgACC) during episodic memory recall. Here, we aimed to replicate our results, by testing for the effects of the rs1006737 risk variant in a new large cohort of healthy controls. We furthermore sought to refine these results by identifying the impact of a CACNA1C specific, gene-wide risk score in the absence of clinical pathology. An independent sample of 179 healthy subjects genotyped for rs1006737 underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while performing an associative episodic memory task and underwent psychological testing similar to the discovery sample. The effect of gene-wide risk scores was analyzed in the combined sample of 289 subjects. We replicated our discovery findings of hippocampal and pgACC dysfunction in carriers of the rs1006737 risk variant. Additionally, we observed diminished activation of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, in the replication sample. Our replicated results as well as this new effect were also observable in the combined sample. Moreover, the same system-level phenotypes were significantly associated with the individual gene-based genetic risk score. Our findings suggest that altered hippocampal and frontolimbic function is associated with variants in the CACNA1C gene. Since CACNA1C variants have been associated repeatedly with psychosis at a genome-wide level, and preclinical data provide convergent evidence for the relevance of the CACNA1C gene for hippocampal and frontolimbic plasticity and adaptive regulation of stress, our data suggest a potential pathophysiological mechanism conferred by CACNA1C variants that may mediate risk for symptom dimensions shared among bipolar disorder, major depression, and schizophrenia.
Walking while simultaneously performing cognitively demanding tasks such as talking or texting are typical complex behaviors in our daily routines. Little is known about neural mechanisms underlying cortical resource allocation during such mobile actions, largely due to portability limitations of conventional neuroimaging technologies. We applied an EEG-based Mobile Brain-Body Imaging (MOBI) system that integrates high-density event-related potential (ERP) recordings with simultaneously acquired foot-force sensor data to monitor gait patterns and brain activity. We compared behavioral and ERP measures associated with performing a Go/NoGo response-inhibition task under conditions where participants (N=18) sat in a stationary way, walked deliberately or walked briskly. This allowed for assessment of effects of increasing dual-task load (i.e. walking speed) on neural indices of inhibitory control. Stride time and variability were also measured during inhibitory task performance and compared to stride parameters without task performance, thereby assessing reciprocal dual-task effects on gait parameters. There were no task performance differences between sitting and either walking condition, indicating that participants could perform both tasks simultaneously without suffering dual-task costs. However, participants took longer strides under dual-task load, likely indicating an adaptive mechanism to reduce inter-task competition for cortical resources. We found robust differences in amplitude, latency and topography of ERP components (N2 and P3) associated with inhibitory control between the sitting and walking conditions. Considering that participants showed no dual-task performance costs, we suggest that observed neural alterations under increasing task-load represent adaptive recalibration of the inhibitory network towards a more controlled and effortful processing mode, thereby optimizing performance under dual-task situations.
Episodic memory critically depends on the hippocampus to bind the features of an experience into memory. Episodic memory develops in childhood and adolescence, and hippocampal changes during this period may contribute to this development. Little is known, however, about how the hippocampus contributes to episodic memory development. The hippocampus is comprised of several cytoarchitectural subfields with functional significance for episodic memory. However, hippocampal subfields have not been assessed in vivo during child development, nor has their relation with episodic memory been assessed during this period. In the present study, high-resolution T2-weighted images of the hippocampus were acquired in 39 children and adolescents aged 8 to 14years (M=11.30, SD=2.38), and hippocampal subfields were segmented using a protocol previously validated in adult populations. We first validated the method in children and adolescents and examined age-related differences in hippocampal subfields and correlations between subfield volumes and episodic memory. Significant age-related increases in the subfield volume were observed into early adolescence in the right CA3/DG and CA1. The right CA3/DG subfield volumes were positively correlated with accurate episodic memory for item-color relations, and the right CA3/DG and subiculum were negatively correlated with item false alarm rates. Subfield development appears to follow a protracted developmental trajectory, and likely plays a pivotal role in episodic memory development.
Although cross-modal recruitment of early sensory areas in deafness and blindness is well established, the constraints and limits of these plastic changes remain to be understood. In the case of human deafness, for instance, it is known that visual, tactile or visuo-tactile stimuli can elicit a response within the auditory cortices. Nonetheless, both the timing of these evoked responses and the functional contribution of cross-modally recruited areas remain to be ascertained. In the present study, we examined to what extent auditory cortices of deaf humans participate in high-order visual processes, such as visual change detection. By measuring visual ERPs, in particular the visual MisMatch Negativity (vMMN), and performing source localization, we show that individuals with early deafness (N=12) recruit the auditory cortices when a change in motion direction during shape deformation occurs in a continuous visual motion stream. Remarkably this &quot;auditory&quot; response for visual events emerged with the same timing as the visual MMN in hearing controls (N=12), between 150 and 300ms after the visual change. Furthermore, the recruitment of auditory cortices for visual change detection in early deaf was paired with a reduction of response within the visual system, indicating a shift from visual to auditory cortices of part of the computational process. The present study suggests that the deafened auditory cortices participate at extracting and storing the visual information and at comparing on-line the upcoming visual events, thus indicating that cross-modally recruited auditory cortices can reach this level of computation.
In the current study we aimed to empirically test previously proposed accounts of a division of labour between the left and right posterior parietal cortices during visuospatial mental imagery. The representation of mental images in the brain has been a topic of debate for several decades. Although the posterior parietal cortex is involved bilaterally, previous studies have postulated that hemispheric specialisation might result in a division of labour between the left and right parietal cortices. In the current fMRI study, we used an elaborated version of a behaviourally-controlled spatial imagery paradigm, the mental clock task, which involves mental image generation and a subsequent spatial comparison between two angles. By systematically varying the difference between the two angles that are mentally compared, we induced a symbolic distance effect: smaller differences between the two angles result in higher task difficulty. We employed parametrically weighed brain imaging to reveal brain areas showing a graded activation pattern in accordance with the induced distance effect. The parametric difficulty manipulation influenced behavioural data and brain activation patterns in a similar matter. Moreover, since this difficulty manipulation only starts to play a role from the angle comparison phase onwards, it allows for a top-down dissociation between the initial mental image formation, and the subsequent angle comparison phase of the spatial imagery task. Employing parametrically weighed fMRI analysis enabled us to top-down disentangle brain activation related to mental image formation, and activation reflecting spatial angle comparison. The results provide first empirical evidence for the repeatedly proposed division of labour between the left and right posterior parietal cortices during spatial imagery.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a powerful and broadly used means of non-invasively mapping human brain activity. However fMRI is an indirect measure that rests upon a mapping from neuronal activity to the blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) signal via hemodynamic effects. The quality of estimated neuronal activity hinges on the validity of the hemodynamic model employed. Recent work has demonstrated that the hemodynamic response has non-separable spatiotemporal dynamics, a key property that is not implemented in existing fMRI analysis frameworks. Here both simulated and empirical data are used to demonstrate that using a physiologically based model of the spatiotemporal hemodynamic response function (stHRF) results in a quantitative improvement of the estimated neuronal response relative to unphysical space-time separable forms. To achieve this, an integrated spatial and temporal deconvolution is established using a recently developed stHRF. Simulated data allows the variation of key parameters such as noise and the spatial complexity of the neuronal drive, while knowing the neuronal input. The results demonstrate that the use of a spatiotemporally integrated HRF can avoid &quot;ghost&quot; neuronal responses that can otherwise be falsely inferred. Applying the spatiotemporal deconvolution to high resolution fMRI data allows the recovery of neuronal responses that are consistent with independent electrophysiological measures.
Successful social interactions rely upon the abilities of two or more people to mutually exchange information in real-time, while simultaneously adapting to one another. The neural basis of social cognition has mostly been investigated in isolated individuals, and more recently using two-person paradigms to quantify the neuronal dynamics underlying social interaction. While several studies have shown the relevance of understanding complementary and mutually adaptive processes, the neural mechanisms underlying such coordinative behavioral patterns during joint action remain largely unknown. Here, we employed a synchronized finger-tapping task while measuring dual-EEG from pairs of human participants who either mutually adjusted to each other in an interactive task or followed a computer metronome. Neurophysiologically, the interactive condition was characterized by a stronger suppression of alpha and low-beta oscillations over motor and frontal areas in contrast to the non-interactive computer condition. A multivariate analysis of two-brain activity to classify interactive versus non-interactive trials revealed asymmetric patterns of the frontal alpha-suppression in each pair, during both task anticipation and execution, such that only one member showed the frontal component. Analysis of the behavioral data showed that this distinction coincided with the leader-follower relationship in 8/9 pairs, with the leaders characterized by the stronger frontal alpha-suppression. This suggests that leaders invest more resources in prospective planning and control. Hence our results show that the spontaneous emergence of leader-follower relationships in dyadic interactions can be predicted from EEG recordings of brain activity prior to and during interaction. Furthermore, this emphasizes the importance of investigating complementarity in joint action.
Functional magnetic resonance (fMRI) in mice has become an attractive tool for mechanistic studies, for characterizing models of human disease, and for evaluation of novel therapies. Yet, controlling the physiological state of mice is challenging, but nevertheless important as changes in cardiovascular parameters might affect the hemodynamic readout which constitutes the basics of the fMRI signal. In contrast to rats, fMRI studies in mice report less robust brain activation of rather widespread character to innocuous sensory stimulation. Anesthesia is known to influence the characteristics of the fMRI signal. To evaluate modulatory effects imposed by the anesthesia on stimulus-evoked fMRI responses, we compared blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) and cerebral blood volume (CBV) signal changes to electrical hindpaw stimulation using the four commonly used anesthetics isoflurane, medetomidine, propofol and urethane. fMRI measurements were complemented by assessing systemic physiological parameters throughout the experiment. Unilateral stimulation of the hindpaw elicited widespread fMRI responses in the mouse brain displaying a bilateral pattern irrespective of the anesthetic used. Analysis of magnitude and temporal profile of BOLD and CBV signals indicated anesthesia-specific modulation of cerebral hemodynamic responses and differences observed for the four anesthetics could be largely explained by their known effects on animal physiology. Strikingly, independent of the anesthetic used our results reveal that fMRI responses are influenced by stimulus-induced cardiovascular changes, which indicate an arousal response, even to innocuous stimulation. This may mask specific fMRI signal associated to the stimulus. Hence, studying the processing of peripheral input in mice using fMRI techniques constitutes a major challenge and adapted paradigms and/or alternative fMRI readouts should also be considered when studying sensory processing in mice.
Inhibitory response control has been extensively investigated in both electrophysiological (ERP) and hemodynamic (fMRI) studies. However, very few multimodal results address the coupling of these inhibition markers. In fMRI, response inhibition has been most consistently linked to activation of the anterior insula and inferior frontal cortex (IFC), often also the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC). ERP work has established increased N2 and P3 amplitudes during NoGo compared to Go conditions in most studies. Previous simultaneous EEG-fMRI imaging reported association of the N2/P3 complex with activation of areas like the anterior midcingulate cortex (aMCC) and anterior insula. In this study we investigated inhibitory control in 23 healthy young adults (mean age=24.7, n=17 for EEG during fMRI) using a combined Flanker/NoGo task during simultaneous EEG and fMRI recording. Separate fMRI and ERP analysis yielded higher activation in the anterior insula, IFG and ACC as well as increased N2 and P3 amplitudes during NoGo trials in accordance with the literature. Combined analysis modelling sequential N2 and P3 effects through joint parametric modulation revealed correlation of higher N2 amplitude with deactivation in parts of the default mode network (DMN) and the cingulate motor area (CMA) as well as correlation of higher central P3 amplitude with activation of the left anterior insula, IFG and posterior cingulate. The EEG-fMRI results resolve the localizations of these sequential activations. They suggest a general role for allocation of attentional resources and motor inhibition for N2 and link memory recollection and internal reflection to P3 amplitude, in addition to previously described response inhibition as reflected by the anterior insula.
Ever since the introduction of the concept of fiber tractography, methods to generate better and more plausible tractograms have become available. Many modern methods can handle complex fiber architecture and take on a probabilistic approach to account for different sources of uncertainty. The resulting tractogram from any such method typically represents a finite random sample from a complex distribution of possible tracks. Generating a higher amount of tracks allows for a more accurate depiction of the underlying distribution. The recently proposed method of track-density imaging (TDI) allows to capture the spatial distribution of a tractogram. In this work, we propose an extension of TDI towards the 5D spatio-angular domain, which we name track orientation density imaging (TODI). The proposed method aims to capture the full track orientation distribution (TOD). Just as the TDI map, the TOD is amenable to spatial super-resolution (or even sub-resolution), but in addition also to angular super-resolution. Through experiments on in vivo human subject data, an in silico numerical phantom and a challenging tractography phantom, we found that the TOD presents an increased amount of regional spatio-angular consistency, as compared to the fiber orientation distribution (FOD) from constrained spherical deconvolution (CSD). Furthermore, we explain how the amplitude of the TOD of a short-tracks distribution (i.e. where the track length is limited) can be interpreted as a measure of track-like local support (TLS). This in turn motivated us to explore the idea of TOD-based fiber tractography. In such a setting, the short-tracks TOD is able to guide a track along directions that are more likely to correspond to continuous structure over a longer distance. This powerful concept is shown to greatly robustify targeted as well as whole-brain tractography. We conclude that the TOD is a versatile tool that can be cast in many different roles and scenarios in the expanding domain of fiber tractography based methods and their applications.
This technical note introduces a dynamic causal model (DCM) for resting state fMRI time series based upon observed functional connectivity-as measured by the cross spectra among different brain regions. This DCM is based upon a deterministic model that generates predicted crossed spectra from a biophysically plausible model of coupled neuronal fluctuations in a distributed neuronal network or graph. Effectively, the resulting scheme finds the best effective connectivity among hidden neuronal states that explains the observed functional connectivity among haemodynamic responses. This is because the cross spectra contain all the information about (second order) statistical dependencies among regional dynamics. In this note, we focus on describing the model, its relationship to existing measures of directed and undirected functional connectivity and establishing its face validity using simulations. In subsequent papers, we will evaluate its construct validity in relation to stochastic DCM and its predictive validity in Parkinson's and Huntington's disease.
The ability of drugs of abuse to increase mesolimbic levels of dopamine is a characteristic associated with their rewarding effects. Exactly how these effects are produced by different substances is not as well characterised. Our previous work in rats has demonstrated that accumbal glycine receptors (GlyRs) are involved in mediating the dopamine-activating effects of ethanol, and in modulating ethanol intake. In this study the investigation of GlyR involvement was extended to include several different drugs of abuse. By using microdialysis and electrophysiology we compared effects of addictive drugs, with and without the GlyR antagonist strychnine, on dopamine levels and neurotransmission in nucleus accumbens. The dopamine-increasing effect of systemic ethanol and the drug-induced change in neurotransmission invitro, as measured by microdialysis and field potential recordings, were dependent on GlyRs in nAc. Accumbal GlyRs were also involved in the actions of tetrahydrocannabinol and nicotine, but not in those of cocaine or morphine. These data indicate that accumbal GlyRs play a key role in ethanol-induced dopamine activation and contribute also to that of cannabinoids and nicotine.
Kynurenic acid (KYNA) is a tryptophan metabolite that acts in the brain as an endogenous antagonist at multiple receptors, including glutamate and 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. Increased levels of KYNA have been demonstrated in the brain of patients with a range of neurocognitive disorders, including schizophrenia, and are hypothesized to contribute to cognitive symptoms. Reducing KYNA levels by administering inhibitors of enzymes of the kynurenine pathway, particularly kynurenine aminotransferase II (KAT II), has been proposed as a treatment for such cognitive impairments. Here we report that administration of a systemically available KAT II inhibitor, PF-04859989, restores glutamate release events (&quot;transients&quot;) evoked by pressure ejections of nicotine into the prefrontal cortex of rats exhibiting elevated KYNA levels. Nicotine-evoked glutamatergic transients can be reliably evoked and recorded after repeated pressure ejections of nicotine over 4-5 h. Systemic administration of l-kynurenine (100 mg/kg; i.p.) significantly increased frontal cortical KYNA levels and greatly attenuated the amplitude of nicotine-evoked glutamatergic transients. Systemic administration of PF-04859989 30 min prior to administration of l-kynurenine, but not when administered 30 min after l-kynurenine, restored glutamatergic transients recorded up to 75 min after the administration of the KAT II inhibitor. Furthermore, the KAT II inhibitor significantly reversed l-kynurenine-induced elevations of brain KYNA levels. The KAT II inhibitor did not affect nicotine-evoked glutamatergic transients in rats not pre-treated with l-kynurenine. Because PF-04859989 restores evoked glutamate signaling it therefore is a promising therapeutic compound for benefiting the cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia and other disorders associated with elevated brain KYNA levels.
The tryptophan metabolite kynurenic acid (KYNA) is an endogenous antagonist of the 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (7nAChR) and, at higher concentrations, inhibits ionotropic glutamate receptors. Increases in KYNA levels are seen in brain and cerebrospinal fluid in individuals with schizophrenia (SZ) and may be causally related to cognitive deficits in SZ and other psychiatric diseases. As dysfunction of circuits involving GABAergic neurons in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) likely plays a role in the cognitive impairments seen in these disorders, we examined the effects of KYNA on extracellular GABA in this brain area. Applied to awake rats for 2h by reverse dialysis, KYNA concentration-dependently and reversibly reduced extracellular GABA levels, with 300nM KYNA causing a nadir of 45% of baseline concentrations. This effect was not duplicated by reverse dialysis of the selective glycineB receptor antagonist 7-Cl-KYNA (100nM) or the AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist CNQX (100M), and was prevented by co-application of galantamine (5M), a positive allosteric modulator of the 7nAChR. Conversely, inhibition of endogenous KYNA formation by reverse dialysis of (S)-4-(ethylsulfonyl)benzoylalanine (ESBA; 5mM) reversibly increased GABA levels in the PFC, reaching a peak of 160% of baseline concentrations. Co-infusion of 30nM KYNA neutralized this effect. Taken together, these results demonstrate a role for endogenous KYNA in the bi-directional control of GABAergic neurotransmission in the PFC. Pharmacological manipulation of KYNA may therefore be useful in the treatment of GABAergic impairments in SZ and other brain disorders involving the PFC.
Response inhibition deficits are well-documented in drug users, and are related to the impulsive tendencies characteristic of the addictive phenotype. Addicts also show significant motivational issues that may accentuate these inhibitory deficits. We investigated the extent to which these inhibitory deficits are present in abstinence. Salience of the task stimuli was also manipulated on the premise that emotionally-valenced inputs might impact inhibitory efficacy by overcoming the blunted responses to everyday environmental inputs characteristic of this population. Participants performed response inhibition tasks consisting of both neutral and emotionally valenced stimuli while high-density event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded. Electrophysiological responses (N2/P3 components) to successful inhibitions in abstinent abusers (N=20) and non-using participants (N=21) were compared. In contrast to previous work in current users, our abstinent cohort showed no detectable behavioral or electrophysiological differences in their inhibitory responses, and no differences on self-reports of impulsivity, despite their long histories of chronic use (mean=10.3 years). The current findings are consistent with a recovery of inhibitory control processes as a function of abstinence. Abstinent former users, however, did show a reduced modulation, relative to controls, of their ERPs to valenced input while performing successful inhibitions, although contrary to our hypothesis, the use of valenced inputs had no impact on inhibitory performance. Reduced ERP modulation to emotionally valenced inputs may have implications for relapse in emotional contexts outside the treatment center.
Neuroimaging studies in current cocaine dependent (CD) individuals consistently reveal cortical hypoactivity across regions of the response inhibition circuit (RIC). Dysregulation of this critical executive network is hypothesized to account for the lack of inhibitory control that is a hallmark of the addictive phenotype, and chronic abuse is believed to compound the issue. A crucial question is whether deficits in this circuit persist after drug cessation, and whether recovery of this system will be seen after extended periods of abstinence, a question with implications for treatment course and outcome. Utilizing functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we examined activation in nodes of the RIC in abstinent CD individuals (n=27) and non-using controls (n=45) while they performed a motor response inhibition task. In contrast to current users, these abstinent individuals, despite extended histories of chronic cocaine-abuse (average duration of use=8.2 years), performed the task just as efficiently as non-users. In line with these behavioral findings, no evidence for between-group differences in activation of the RIC was found and instead, robust activations were apparent in both groups within the well-characterized nodes of the RIC. Similarly, our complementary Electroencephalography (EEG) investigation also showed an absence of behavioral and electrophysiological deficits in abstinent drug abusers. These results are consistent with an amelioration of neurobiological deficits in inhibitory circuitry following drug cessation, and could help explain how long-term abstinence is maintained. Finally, regression analyses revealed a significant association between level of activation in the right insula with inhibition success and increased abstinence duration in the CD cohort suggesting that this region may be integral to successful recovery from cocaine addiction.



It has been shown that the sesquiterpene lactone parthenolide lowers the viability of MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells, in correlation with oxidative stress. The present report examined the different radical species produced during parthenolide treatment and their possible role in the toxicity caused by the drug. Time course experiments showed that in the first phase of treatment (0-8h), and in particular in the first 3h, parthenolide induced dichlorofluorescein (DCF) signal in a large percentage of cells, while dihydroethidium (DHE) signal was not stimulated. Since the effect on DCF signal was suppressed by apocynin and diphenyleneiodonium (DPI), two inhibitors of NADPH oxidase (NOX), we suggest that parthenolide rapidly stimulated NOX activity with production of superoxide anion (O2-), which was converted by superoxide dismutase1 (SOD1) into hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). In the second phase of treatment (8-16h), parthenolide increased the number of positive cells to DHE signal. Since this event was not prevented by apocynin and DPI and was associated with positivity of cells to MitoSox Red, a fluorochrome used to detect mitochondrial production of O2-, we suggest that parthenolide induced production of O2- at the mitochondrial level independently by NOX activity in the second phase of treatment. Finally, in this phase, most cells became positive to hydroxyphenyl fluorescein (HPF) signal, a fluorescent probe to detect highly reactive oxygen species (hROS), such as hydroxyl radical and peroxynitrite. Therefore, parthenolide between 8-16 h of treatment induced generation of O2- and hROS, in close correlation with a marked reduction in cell viability.
Recently, the survival rate of medulloblastoma patients has greatly improved; yet, patients undergoing current treatment regimes suffer from serious therapy-related side-effects. The aim of the present study was to investigate the anticancer effects of curcumin on medulloblastoma cells by testing its capacity to suppress proliferation and regulate the Wnt/-catenin pathway. In the present study, cell proliferation was determined by MTT assay. Cell cycle was observed by flow cytometry. The changes in the Wnt/-catenin pathway were analyzed by immunofluorescence, western blot analysis and RT-PCR. Curcumin treatment resulted in a dose- and time-dependent inhibition of proliferation in the medulloblastoma cell line. Curcumin treatment arrested the cell-cycle at the G2/M phase. Furthermore, curcumin treatment led to activation of GSK-3, reduced expression of -catenin and its downstream target cyclinD1. The attenuation of the Wnt/catenin pathway was due to the loss of nuclear -catenin. In conclusion, curcumin can inhibit cell growth by suppressing the Wnt/-catenin signaling pathway, and it has the potential to be developed as a therapeutic agent for medulloblastoma.

Sirenomelia, a developmental defect involving the caudal region of the body, is associated with several internal visceral anomalies. We report a detailed spectrum of anomalies in an autopsy study of four fetuses with sirenomelia (gestational ages - 20, 21, 22.4, and 22.5 weeks). Three of the fetuses had single umbilical artery, with genitourinary and gastrointestinal anomalies. Central nervous system anomalies were evident in two of the fetuses, with alobar holoprosencephaly in one and lumbar meningomyelocele in another. The most common gastrointestinal anomaly was blind ended gut (imperforate anus), while esophageal atresia and omphalocele were noted in one case each. Renal hypoplasia was seen in two fetuses, renal agenesis in one and cystic renal dysplasia was noted in one case. Literature regarding pathogenesis of this condition is briefly discussed.

AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a promising therapeutic target for cancer, type II diabetes, and other illnesses characterized by abnormal energy utilization. During the last decade, numerous labs have published a range of methods for identifying novel AMPK modulators. The current understanding of AMPK structure and regulation, however, has propelled a paradigm shift in which many researchers now consider ADP to be an additional regulatory nucleotide of AMPK. How can the AMPK community apply this new understanding of AMPK signaling to translational research? Recent insights into AMPK structure, regulation, and holoenzyme-sensitive signaling may provide the hindsight needed to clearly evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of past AMPK drug discovery efforts. Improving future strategies for AMPK drug discovery will require pairing the current understanding of AMPK signaling with improved experimental designs.
Despite intensive research over many years, the treatment of schizophrenia remains a major health issue. Current and emerging treatments for schizophrenia are based upon the classical dopamine and glutamate hypotheses of disease. Existing first and second generation antipsychotic drugs based upon the dopamine hypothesis are limited by their inability to treat all symptom domains and their undesirable side effect profiles. Third generation drugs based upon the glutamate hypothesis of disease are currently under evaluation but are more likely to be used as add on treatments. Hence there is a large unmet clinical need. A major challenge in neuropsychiatric disease research is the relatively limited knowledge of disease mechanisms. However, as our understanding of the genetic causes of the disease evolves, novel strategies for the development of improved therapeutic agents will become apparent. In this review we consider the current status of knowledge of the genetic basis of schizophrenia, including methods for identifying genetic variants associated with the disorder and how they impact on gene function. Although the genetic architecture of schizophrenia is complex, some targets amenable to pharmacological intervention can be discerned. We conclude that many challenges lie ahead but the stratification of patients according to biobehavioural constructs that cross existing disease classifications but with common genetic and neurobiological bases, offer opportunities for new approaches to effective drug discovery.

Stress disorders are among the most commonly occurring of all mental disorders. In this context, the question arises whether the stress inevitably unfolding around us has the potential to &quot;contaminate&quot; and compromise us. In the current multi-center study, we investigate the existence of such empathic stress (defined as a full-blown physiological stress response that arises solely by observing a target undergo a stressful situation), and whether empathic stress permeates to the core of the stress system, the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Additionally, we investigate whether empathic stress responses may be modulated by the familiarity between observer and target (partners vs. strangers), the modality of observation (real-life vs. virtual) and observer sex (female vs. male). Participants were tested in dyads, paired with a loved one or a stranger of the opposite sex. While the target of the dyad (n=151) was exposed to a psychosocial stressor, the observer (n=211) watched through a one-way mirror or via live video transmission. Overall, 26% of the observers displayed physiologically significant cortisol increases. This empathic stress was more pronounced in intimate observer-target dyads (40%) and during the real-life representation of the stressor (30%). Empathic stress was further modulated by interindividual differences in empathy measures. Despite the higher prevalence of empathic stress in the partner and real-life observation conditions, significant cortisol responses also emerged in strangers (10%) and the virtual observation modality (24%). The occurrence of empathic stress down to the level of HPA-axis activation, in some cases even in total strangers and when only virtually witnessing another's distress, may have important implications for the development of stress-related diseases.

Postmenopausal women may be more vulnerable to cognitive loss and Alzheimer's disease (AD) than premenopausal women because of their deficiency in estrogens, in addition to their usually older age. Aerobic physical exercise has been proposed as a therapeutic approach for maintaining health and well-being in postmenopausal women, and for improving brain health and plasticity in populations at high risk for AD. To study the neuroprotective mechanisms of physical exercise in a postmenopausal animal model, we submitted previously ovariectomized, six-month old non-transgenic and 3xTg-AD mice to three months of voluntary exercise in a running wheel. At nine months of age, we observed lower grip strength and some exacerbation of the behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD)-like involving active exploratory activities. A similar major cognitive impairment was observed of ovariectomized 3xTg-AD mice in comparison with sham-operated 3xTg-AD mice. A reduction of bodily fitness and lack of retention of memory were observed in the ovariectomized non-transgenic mice. Physical exercise protected against all deleterious behaviors and normalized learning and memory. It also protected against body frailty, as expected. Analyses of hippocampal key markers of antioxidant and neuroplasticity signaling pathways, showed that ovariectomy impairs the activation of CREB through physical exercise. Furthermore, molecular and behavioral correlates suggested a central role of BDNF in the neuroprotection mediated by physical exercise therapy against apathy and memory loss induced by ovariectomy and the AD-genotype.
Stress activates the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, leading to adrenocortical secretion of glucocorticoids. The magnitude and duration of the HPA axis response is mediated in large part by the glucocorticoid receptor (GR). The nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) abundantly expresses the GR and is a key brain region for processing autonomic and endocrine stress responses. This study tests the hypothesis that GR within the NTS plays an important role in inhibiting stress-induced endocrine and behavioral responses. Cohorts of rats received bilateral micropellet (30g) implantations of crystalline corticosterone, mifepristone (a GR antagonist) or cholesterol (control) directed into the region of the NTS, and were subsequently subjected to either acute psychogenic (restraint) stress or chronic variable stress (CVS). We found that NTS GR antagonism increased acute stress-induced corticosterone levels, whereas GR activation within the NTS attenuated this response. Following CVS, basal and 15min post-restraint plasma corticosterone levels were increased by NTS GR antagonism, which was associated with an increase in Fos immunoreactivity within the PVN. Using the elevated plus maze (EPM) and forced swim test (FST), we assessed the effect of NTS GR inhibition on anxiety- and depression-like behaviors, respectively. GR inhibition within the NTS decreased open arm exploratory behavior in the EPM and increased immobility in the FST relative to controls. Together, the findings reveal a novel role of NTS GR signaling for inhibiting both endocrine and behavioral responses to stress.
The rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta) is an important primate model for social cognition, and recent studies have begun to explore the impact of oxytocin on social cognition and behavior. Macaques have great potential for elucidating the neural mechanisms by which oxytocin modulates social cognition, which has implications for oxytocin-based pharmacotherapies for psychiatric disorders such as autism and schizophrenia. Previous attempts to localize oxytocin receptors (OXTR) in the rhesus macaque brain have failed due to reduced selectivity of radioligands, which in primates bind to both OXTR and the structurally similar vasopressin 1a receptor (AVPR1A). We have developed a pharmacologically-informed competitive binding autoradiography protocol that selectively reveals OXTR and AVPR1A binding sites in primate brain sections. Using this protocol, we describe the neuroanatomical distribution of OXTR in the macaque. Finally, we use in situ hybridization to localize OXTR mRNA. Our results demonstrate that OXTR expression in the macaque brain is much more restricted than AVPR1A. OXTR is largely limited to the nucleus basalis of Meynert, pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, the superficial gray layer of the superior colliculus, the trapezoid body, and the ventromedial hypothalamus. These regions are involved in a variety of functions relevant to social cognition, including modulating visual attention, processing auditory and multimodal sensory stimuli, and controlling orienting responses to visual stimuli. These results provide insights into the neural mechanisms by which oxytocin modulates social cognition and behavior in this species, which, like humans, uses vision and audition as the primary modalities for social communication.
Stress or negative effect often increases preference for, and intake of, palatable snack foods and this may be influenced by cognitive and genetic factors related to stress and 5-HT vulnerability. The short (S) compared to the long (L) allele of the 5-HT transporter linked polymorphic region (5-HTTLPR) has been associated (i) with decreased 5-HT transporter function and availability and hence, with 5-HT vulnerability, and (ii) with greater stress-responsiveness. Stress-proneness is furthermore promoted by cognitive stress-vulnerability, a key feature of trait neuroticism. Brain 5-HT function can be manipulated by dietary administration of its amino acid precursor tryptophan (Trp), and the beneficial effects of dietary Trp on stress experience and emotional eating may be greatest following repeated administration in both stress- and 5-HT-vulnerable subjects. The aim was to examine the influence of repeated Trp administration on stress responsiveness and emotional eating in homozygous 5-HTTLPR S-allele (N=60) and L-allele (N=58) carriers with high and low neuroticism. Following seven days of Trp or PLC intake, mood, cortisol and appetite were assessed before and after exposure to acute stress and snack intake and preference were measured post-stress. It was hypothesized that Trp would reduce stress experience and emotional eating particularly in S-allele carriers with high neuroticism. Results revealed Trp treatment caused a clear reduction in stress-induced cortisol levels in S/S-allele carriers exclusively, and prevented a stress-induced increase in appetite only in S/S-allele carriers with high trait neuroticism. The findings reveal an advantageous effect of sub chronic Trp treatment on stress experience and appetite depending on stress and (genetic) serotonergic vulnerability.
Intranasal (IN) administration is a widely used method for examining the effect of oxytocin (OT) on social behavior and cognition in healthy subjects and psychiatric populations. IN-OT in humans enhances trust, emotional perception, and empathetic behavior and is under investigation as a potential pharmacotherapy to enhance social functioning in a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders, including autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Nonhuman primates (NHP) are an important model for understanding the effect of OT on social cognition, its neural mechanisms, and the development of IN-OT as a pharmacotherapy for treating social deficits in humans. However, NHP and even some human populations, such as very young infants and children, cannot easily follow the detailed self-administration protocol used in the majority of human IN-OT studies. Therefore, we evaluated the efficacy of several OT-administration routes for elevating central OT concentrations in rhesus macaques. First, we examined the effect of IN and intravenous (IV) routes of OT administration on concentrations of OT and vasopressin (AVP) in plasma and lumbar CSF. Second, we examined these same measures in monkeys after an aerosolized (AE) OT delivery route. All three administration routes significantly increased plasma OT concentrations, but only the AE-OT route significantly increased concentrations of CSF OT. No route affected concentrations of AVP in plasma or CSF. This study confirms that the AE route is the most effective method for increasing central OT concentrations in monkeys, and may also be an effective route, alternative to IN, for administering OT to some human populations.
The neuropeptide oxytocin (OT) is anxiolytic in rodents and humans. However, the specific brain regions where OT acts to regulate anxiety requires further investigation. The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) has been shown to play a role in the modulation of anxiety-related behavior. In addition, the mPFC contains OT-sensitive neurons, expresses OT receptors, and receives long range axonal projections from OT-producing neurons in the hypothalamus, suggesting that the mPFC may be a target where OT acts to diminish anxiety. To investigate this possibility, female rats were administered OT bilaterally into the prelimbic (PL) region of the mPFC and anxiety-like behavior assessed. In addition, to determine if the effects of OT on anxiety-like behavior are sex dependent and to evaluate the specificity of OT, male and female anxiety-like behavior was tested following delivery of either OT or the closely related neuropeptide arginine vasopressin (AVP) into the PL mPFC. Finally, the importance of endogenous OT in the regulation of anxiety-like behavior was examined in male and female rats that received PL infusions of an OT receptor antagonist (OTR-A). Overall, even though males and females showed some differences in their baseline levels of anxiety-like behavior, OT in the PL region of the mPFC decreased anxiety regardless of sex. In contrast, neither AVP nor an OTR-A affected anxiety-like behavior in males or females. Together, these findings suggest that although endogenous OT in the PL region of the mPFC does not influence anxiety, the PL mPFC is a site where exogenous OT may act to attenuate anxiety-related behavior independent of sex.
Stress affects memory beyond hippocampus-dependent spatial or episodic memory processes. In particular, stress may influence also striatum-dependent stimulus-response (S-R) memory processes. Rodent studies point to an important role of glucocorticoids in the modulation of S-R memory. However, whether glucocorticoids influence S-R memory processes in humans is still unknown. Therefore, we examined in the current experiment the impact of glucocorticoids on the formation of S-R memories in humans. For this purpose, healthy men and women received either hydrocortisone or a placebo 45min before completing an S-R association learning task and an S-R navigation task. In addition, participants performed also a virtual spatial navigation task and a spatial navigation task in a real environment. Memory of all four learning tasks was tested one week later. Our data showed that hydrocortisone before learning enhanced memory of the S-R association learning task. Moreover, hydrocortisone enhanced the memory of the virtual spatial navigation task, mainly in women. Memory performance in the other tasks remained unaffected by hydrocortisone. These findings provide first evidence that glucocorticoids may facilitate S-R memory formation processes in humans.
The purpose of this study was to compare the prevalence of overweight and obesity in typically developing (TD) children, children with developmental coordination disorder (DCD) and balance problems (DCD-BP), and children with DCD without balance problems (DCD-NBP). Two thousand and fifty-seven children (1095 boys, 962 girls) ages 9-12 years were recruited from 18 elementary schools in Taiwan. The Movement Assessment Battery for Children was used to assess motor coordination ability. International cut-off points for body mass index were used to classify participants into the following groups: normal-weight, overweight or obese. Compared with TD children, children in the DCD-BP group were more than twice as likely to be obese (OR=2.28; 95% CI=1.41-3.68). DCD-BP children were also more likely to be obese compared to DCD-NBP children (OR=1.79; 95% CI=1.02-3.16). Boys in the DCD-BP group were more likely to be obese when compared to DCD-BP girls (OR=3.12; 95% CI=1.28-7.57). Similarly, DCD-NBP boys were more likely to be obese when compared to DCD-NBP girls (OR=2.67; 95% CI=1.21-5.89). Children with both DCD and BP were significantly more likely to be obese when compared to TD and DCD-NBP children. From an intervention perspective, the inclusion of regular physical activity, including activities that encourage development of both balance and energy expenditure, may be required to prevent obesity in this population.
This study aimed to investigate gait characteristics reflecting balance and progression in children and adolescents with cerebral palsy (CP) compared with typically developing (TD) children. Gait characteristics variables representing aspects of balance were trunk acceleration, interstride regularity and asymmetry of accelerations while gait characteristics representing progression were gait speed, cadence, step time and step length. Children in the age range 5-18 years (mean age 11.1 years) with spastic CP (n=41) and a gross motor function corresponding to GMFCS I-III and children with TD (n=29) were included. The children walked back and forth along a 5m pathway with a tri-axial accelerometer worn on the lower back to allow assessment of their gait characteristics. Data were recorded along the anterioposterior (AP), mediolateral (ML), and vertical (V) axes. To assess the magnitude of potential differences in gait characteristics, standard deviation scores were calculated, using TD children as reference. Gait parameters related to balance, such as AP, ML, and V accelerations, were higher in the children with CP (z-scores between 0.4 and 0.7) and increased with increasing GMFCS levels. The differences in accelerations in the AP and V directions increased between children with CP and TD children with increasing speed. Also asymmetry in trunk accelerations differed significantly between the two groups in all three directions (z-scores between 0.8 and 1.8 higher in the CP group), while interstride regularity differed only slightly between children with CP and TD children, and only in the AP direction. Gait characteristics also differed between children with the spastic subtypes unilateral and bilateral CP, for accelerations and asymmetry in the AP and ML directions. Our results showed significant differences in gait characteristics between children with CP and TD children. The differences may be more related to balance than progression, and these problems seem to rise with increasing gross motor impairment and speed.
Exposure to both drugs of abuse and environmental enrichment (EE) are widely studied experiences that induce large changes in dendritic morphology and synaptic connectivity. As there is an abundance of literature using EE as a treatment strategy for drug addiction, we sought to determine whether EE could remediate the effects of prenatal nicotine (PN) exposure. Using Golgi-Cox staining, we examined eighteen neuroanatomical parameters in four brain regions [medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), orbital frontal cortex (OFC), nucleus accumben, and Par1] of Long-Evans rats. EE in adolescence dramatically altered structural plasticity in the male and female brain, modifying 60% of parameters investigated. EE normalized three parameters (OFC spine density and dendritic branching and mPFC dendritic branching) in male offspring exposed to nicotine prenatally but did not remediate any measures in female offspring. PN exposure interfered with adolescent EE-induced changes in five neuroanatomical measurements (Par1 spine density and dendritic branching in both male and female offspring, and mPFC spine density in male offspring). And in four neuroanatomical parameters examined, PN exposure and EE combined to produce additive effects [OFC spine density in females and mPFC dendritic length (apical and basilar) and branching in males]. Despite demonstrated efficacy in reversing drug addiction, EE was not able to reverse many of the PN-induced changes in neuronal morphology, indicating that modifications in neural circuitry generated in the prenatal period may be more resistant to change than those generated in the adult brain. Synapse 68:293-305, 2014.  2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD) remains a life-threatening complication of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) therefore limiting its application. To optimize the management of aGVHD and reduce therapy-related toxicity, early specific markers are needed. The main objective of this study was to uncover diagnostic biomarkers by comparing plasma protein profiles of patients at the time of acute GVHD diagnosis with those of patients undergoing HSCT without aGVHD. Additional analysis of samples taken 15 days before aGVHD diagnosis was also performed to evaluate the potential of our newly discovered biomarkers for early diagnosis. To get complementary information from plasma samples, we used three different proteomic approaches, namely 2D-DIGE, SELDI-TOF-MS and 2D-LC-MS(E). We identified and confirmed by the means of independent techniques, the differential expression of several proteins indicating significantly increased inflammation response and disturbance in the coagulation cascade. The variation of these proteins was already observed 15 days before GVHD diagnosis, suggesting the potential early detection of the disease before symptoms appearance. Finally, logistic regression analysis determined a composite biomarker panel comprising fibrinogen, fragment of fibrinogen beta chain, SAA, prothrombin fragments, apolipoprotein A1 and hepcidin that optimally discriminated patients with and without GVHD. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve distinguishing these 2 groups was 0.95.
Transition metal ion complexation with proteins is ubiquitous across such diverse fields as neurodegenerative and cardiovascular diseases and cancer. In this study, the structures of divalent copper ion centers including three histidine and one oxygen-ligated amino acid residues and the relative binding affinities of the oxygen-ligated amino acid residues with these metal ion centers, which are debated in the literature, are presented. Furthermore, new force field parameters, which are currently lacking for the full-length metal-ligand moieties, are developed for metalloproteins that have these centers. These new force field parameters enable investigations of metalloproteins possessing these binding sites using molecular simulations. In addition, the impact of using the atom equivalence and inequivalence atomic partial charge calculation procedures on the simulated structures of these metallopeptides, including hydration properties, is described.  2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Research indicates that religiosity plays a complex role in mental illness. Despite this link, little work has been done to clarify the role of religiosity in persons exhibiting non-clinical psychosis (NCP, individuals experiencing fleeting psychotic-like symptoms in the absence of a formal psychotic disorder). Further, there are no NCP investigations into whether abnormalities exist in brain structures that are associated with religiosity. Understanding these relationships in NCP is important to clarify the role of religiosity and brain structural anomalies in psychosis. Twenty individuals experiencing NCP and twenty controls were assessed for intrinsic religiosity (IR; motivation/commitment to religious beliefs and/or practices) using a well-validated self-report scale. Structural magnetic resonance imaging was used to determine volumes of the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), a critical region that has been associated with increased religiosity. Results indicate that IR is elevated in the NCP group, and that these individuals exhibit bilateral volume reduction in both the lateral and medial OFC. Sample-wide correlations are non-significant, but show notable relationships between smaller OFC regions and increased IR. Significant negative relationships were found between OFC volume and depressive and negative symptoms. Overall, results suggest that brain abnormalities associated with NCP may also confer a heightened susceptibility for religiosity.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a debilitating psychiatric illness with no available objective laboratory-based diagnostic test. In this study, matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS)-based peptidomics was applied to identify potential urinary diagnostic biomarkers for MDD. A training set of 42 first-episode drug-naive MDD patients and 28 age- and gender-matched healthy controls (HC) was used to develop a peptide diagnostic pattern. Then, the diagnostic efficacy of this pattern was assessed in an independent blinded test set consisting of 24 MDD patients and 13 age- and gender-matched HC. A combination of five potential biomarkers was identified, yielding a sensitivity of 91.7% and specificity of 84.6% in the test set. Moreover, the protein precursors of four of the five peptides were identified by tandem mass spectrometric analysis: serum albumin, apolipoprotein A-I, protein AMBP, and basement membrane-specific heparan sulfate proteoglycan core protein. Taken together, the peptide pattern may be valuable for establishing an objective laboratory-based diagnostic test for MDD.
Cognitive remediation is the best available tool to treat cognitive deficits in schizophrenia and has evidence of biological validity; however results are still heterogeneous and significant predictors are lacking. Previous studies showed that cognitive remediation is able to induce changes in PFC function and dopaminergic transmission and thus the study of possible sources of variability at these levels (i.e. antipsychotic treatments and genetic variability) might help to gain a deeper understanding of neurobiological correlates and translate into optimization and personalization of interventions. In the present study, we analyzed the interaction between pharmacological treatment (clozapine vs typical/atypical D2 blockers) and COMT rs4680 polymorphism on cognitive changes after cognitive remediation therapy, in a sample of 98 clinically stabilized patients with schizophrenia. The General Linear Model showed a significant interaction of pharmacological treatment and COMT polymorphism on the improvement in &quot;Symbol Coding&quot; subtest, a global measure of speed of processing. Post-hoc analysis revealed a significant difference between COMT genotypes, when treated with D2 blockers, with worse results among Val/Val patients. These preliminary results suggest that genetic variability, influencing prefrontal dopamine, might affect individual capacity to improve with different patterns, depending on antipsychotic treatment.
Impulsivity and aggressiveness are trait dispositions associated with the vulnerability to suicidal behavior across diagnoses. They are associated with structural and functional abnormalities in brain networks involved in regulation of mood, impulse and behavior. They are also core characteristics of borderline personality disorder (BPD), a disorder defined, in part, by recurrent suicidal behavior. We assessed the relationships between personality traits, brain structure and lethality of suicide attempts in 51 BPD attempters using multiple regression analyses on structural MRI data. BPD was diagnosed by the Diagnostic Interview for Borderline Patients-revised, impulsivity by the Barratt Impulsiveness Scale (BIS), aggression by the Brown-Goodwin Lifetime History of Aggression (LHA), and high lethality by a score of 4 or more on the Lethality Rating Scale (LRS). Sixteen High Lethality attempters were compared to 35 Low Lethality attempters, with no significant differences noted in gender, co-morbidity, childhood abuse, BIS or LHA scores. Degree of medical lethality (LRS) was negatively related to gray matter volumes across multiple fronto-temporal-limbic regions. Effects of impulsivity and aggression on gray matter volumes discriminated High from Low Lethality attempters and differed markedly within lethality groups. Lethality of suicide attempts in BPD may be related to the mediation of these personality traits by specific neural networks.
The role of side populations (SP) or cancer stem-like cells (CSC) in promoting the resistance phenotype presents a viable anticancer target. Human-derived H1650 SP cells over-express annexin A2 (AnxA2) and SOX2, and are resistant to conventional cytotoxic chemotherapeutics. AnxA2 and SOX2 bind to proto-oncogenes, c-Myc and c-Src, and AnxA2 forms a functional heterotetramer with S100A10 to promote tumor motility. However, the combined role of AnxA2, S100A10 and SOX2 in promoting the resistant phenotype of SP cells has not been investigated. In the current studies, we examined for the first time a possible role of AnxA2 in regulating SA100A10 and SOX2 in promoting a resistant phenotype of lung tumors derived from H1650 SP cells. The resistance of H1650 SP cells to chemotherapy compared to H1650 MP cells was investigated by cell viability studies. A short hairpin RNA targeting AnxA2 (shAnxA2) was formulated in a liposomal (cationic ligand-guided, CLG) carrier and characterized for size, charge and entrapment and loading efficiencies; CLG carrier uptake by H1650 SP cells was demonstrated by fluorescence microscopy, and knockdown of AnxA2 confirmed by qRT-PCR and Western blot. Targeting of xenograft and orthotopic lung tumors was demonstrated with fluorescent (DiR) CLG carriers in mice. The therapeutic efficacy of CLG-AnxA2, compared to that of placebo, was investigated after 2weeks of treatment in terms of tumor weights and tumor burden in vivo. Compared to mixed population cells, H1650 SP cells showed exponential resistance to docetaxel (15-fold), cisplatin (13-fold), 5-fluorouracil (31-fold), camptothecin (7-fold), and gemcitabine (16-fold). CLG carriers were nanoparticulate (199nm) with a slight positive charge (21.82mV); CLG-shAnx2 was of similar size (217nm) with decreased charge (12.11mV), and entrapment and loading efficiencies of 97% and 6.13% respectively. Fluorescence microscopy showed high uptake of CLG-shAnxA2 in H1650 SP cells after 2h resulting in a 6-fold reduction in AnxA2 mRNA expression and 92% decreased protein expression. Fluorescence imaging confirmed targeting of tumors and lungs by DiR-CLG carriers with sustained localization up to 4h in mice. CLG-shAnxA2 treatment of mice significantly reduced the weights of lung tumors derived from H1650 SP cells and tumor burden was reduced to only 19% of controls. The loss in tumor weights in response to CLG-shAnxA2 was associated with a significant loss in the relative levels of AnxA2, SOX2, total -catenin and S100A10, both at the RNA and protein levels. These results suggest the intriguing possibility that AnxA2 may directly or indirectly regulate relative levels of -catenin, S100A10 and SOX2, and that the combination of these factors may contribute to the resistant phenotype of H1650 SP cells. Thus down-regulating AnxA2 using RNAi methods may provide a useful method for targeting cancer stem cells and help advance therapeutic efficacy against lung cancers.
Cartilage and chondrocytes experience loading that causes alterations in chondrocyte biological activity. In vivo chondrocytes are surrounded by a pericellular matrix with a stiffness of ~25-200kPa. Understanding the mechanical loading environment of the chondrocyte is of substantial interest for understanding chondrocyte mechanotransduction. The first objective of this study was to analyze the spatial variability of applied mechanical deformations in physiologically stiff agarose on cellular and sub-cellular length scales. Fluorescent microspheres were embedded in physiologically stiff agarose hydrogels. Microsphere positions were measured via confocal microscopy and used to calculate displacement and strain fields as a function of spatial position. The second objective was to assess the feasibility of encapsulating primary human chondrocytes in physiologically stiff agarose. The third objective was to determine if primary human chondrocytes could deform in high-stiffness agarose gels. Primary human chondrocyte viability was assessed using live-dead imaging following 24 and 72h in tissue culture. Chondrocyte shape was measured before and after application of 10% compression. These data indicate that (1) displacement and strain precision are ~1% and 6.5% respectively, (2) high-stiffness agarose gels can maintain primary human chondrocyte viability of &gt;95%, and (3) compression of chondrocytes in 4.5% agarose can induce shape changes indicative of cellular compression. Overall, these results demonstrate the feasibility of using high-concentration agarose for applying in vitro compression to chondrocytes as a model for understanding how chondrocytes respond to in vivo loading.
The present study sought novel changes to the hamster testicular transcriptome during modulation of fertility by well-characterized photoperiodic stimuli. Transition from long days (LD, 14h light/day) to short days (SD, 10h light/day) triggered testicular regression (61% reduction of testis weight, relative to LD) in SD-sensitive (SD-S) hamsters within 16weeks. After 22weeks of SD exposure, a third cohort of hamsters became SD-refractory (SD-R), and exhibited testicular recrudescence (137% testis weight gain, relative to SD-S). Partial interrogation of the testicular transcriptome by annealing-control-primer-modified differential display PCR provided several candidates for regulation of testicular functions. Multiple linear regression modeling indicated the best correlation for aquaporin 11 (Aqp11) with changes in testis weight. Correlations were also strongest for Aqp11 with expression levels of reference cDNAs that control spermatogenesis (Hspa2 and Tnp2), steroidogenesis (Cox2, 3Hsd, and Srebp2), sperm motility (Catsper1, Pgk2, and Tnp2), inflammation (Cox2), and apoptosis (Bax and Bcl2). Moreover, siRNA-mediated knockdown of testicular Aqp11 mRNA and protein reduced Hspa2 and Tnp2 mRNA levels, and it increased 3Hsd mRNA levels. It also reduced mRNA levels for Sept12, which is a testis-specific inducer of spermatogenesis. These results suggest a central role for testicular Aqp11 signaling in the coordinate regulation of crucial components of fertility.
Postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) is a common geriatric complication, although its exact neuropathogenesis remains elusive. Blockers of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) ameliorate cognitive deficits in inflammatory brain disorders, with its effects on POCD not yet fully elucidated. The aim of the present study was to investigate regulation of the brain RAS and the effect of angiotensin II receptor type 1 (AT1) inhibition on surgery-induced cognitive impairment in a well-established rat POCD model. We observed upregulation of angiotensin II protein expression and AT1 subtype B transcript levels in the hippocampus after laparotomy, suggesting surgical stress activates the hippocampal RAS in aged rats. Chronic pretreatment with 0.1mg/kg/day candesartan, an AT1 antagonist, significantly attenuated surgery-induced cognitive deficits in the Morris water maze task without altering blood pressure. Candesartan also decreased hippocampal blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability. Concomitant with these functional benefits, we observed significant inhibition of hippocampal neuroinflammation, evidenced by decreased glial reactivity and phosphorylation of the NF-B p65 subunit, as well as marked reductions in interleukin-1, tumor necrosis factor-, and cyclooxygenase-2. Our results are the first to show that activation of the brain RAS after surgery contributes to POCD in aged rats. Chronic treatment with low doses of candesartan may elicit blood pressure-independent neuroprotective effects in POCD by improving BBB function and promoting resolution of neuroinflammation.
Brain ischemic tolerance is an endogenous protective mechanism activated by a preconditioning stimulus that is closely related to N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR). Glycine transporter type 1 (GlyT-1) inhibitors potentiate NMDAR and suggest an alternative strategy for brain preconditioning. The aim of this work was to evaluate the effects of brain preconditioning induced by sarcosine, a GlyT-1 inhibitor, against global cerebral ischemia and its relation to NMDAR. Sarcosine was administered over 7days (300 or 500mg/kg/day, ip) before the induction of a global cerebral ischemia model in Wistar rats (male, 8-week-old). It was observed that sarcosine preconditioning reduced cell death in rat hippocampi submitted to cerebral ischemia. Hippocampal levels of glycine were decreased in sarcosine-treated animals, which was associated with a reduction of [(3)H] glycine uptake and a decrease in glycine transporter expression (GlyT-1 and GlyT-2). The expression of glycine receptors and the NR1 and NR2A subunits of NMDAR were not affected by sarcosine preconditioning. However, sarcosine preconditioning reduced the expression of the NR2B subunits of NMDAR. In conclusion, these data demonstrate that sarcosine preconditioning induces ischemic tolerance against global cerebral ischemia and this neuroprotective state is associated with changes in glycine transport and reduction of NR2B-containing NMDAR expression.
Chronic pain reflects not only sensitization of the ascending nociceptive pathways, but also changes in descending modulation. The rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) is a key structure in a well-studied descending pathway, and contains two classes of modulatory neurons, the ON-cells and the OFF-cells. Disinhibition of OFF-cells depresses nociception; increased ON-cell activity facilitates nociception. Multiple lines of evidence show that sensitization of ON-cells contributes to chronic pain, and reversing or blocking this sensitization is of interest as a treatment of persistent pain. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) acting via the Y1 receptor has been shown to attenuate hypersensitivity in nerve-injured animals without affecting normal nociception when microinjected into the RVM, but the neural basis for this effect was unknown. We hypothesized that behavioral anti-hyperalgesia was due to selective inhibition of ON-cells by NPY at the Y1 receptor. To explore the possibility of Y1 selectivity on ON-cells, we stained for the NPY-Y1 receptor in the RVM, and found it broadly expressed on both serotonergic and non-serotonergic neurons. In subsequent behavioral experiments, NPY microinjected into the RVM in lightly anesthetized animals reversed signs of mechanical hyperalgesia following either nerve injury or chronic hindpaw inflammation. Unexpectedly, rather than decreasing ON-cell activity, NPY increased spontaneous activity of both ON- and OFF-cells without altering noxious-evoked changes in firing. Based on these results, we conclude that the anti-hyperalgesic effects of NPY in the RVM are not explained by selective inhibition of ON-cells, but rather by increased spontaneous activity of OFF-cells. Although ON-cells undoubtedly facilitate nociception and contribute to hypersensitivity, the present results highlight the importance of parallel OFF-cell-mediated descending inhibition in limiting the expression of chronic pain.
Mental and neurological illnesses affect one in four people. While genetic linkage analyses have shown an association of nuclear distribution factor E (NDE1, or NudE) and its ohnolog NDE-like 1 (NDEL1, or Nudel) with mental disorders, the cellular mechanisms remain unclear. In the present study, we have demonstrated that Nde1 and Ndel1 are differentially localised in the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the forebrain and the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the hippocampus, two regions where neurogenesis actively occurs in the adult brain. Nde1, but not Ndel1, is localized to putative SVZ stem cells, and to actively dividing progenitors of the SGZ. The influence of these proteins on neural stem cell differentiation was investigated by overexpression in a hippocampal neural stem cell line, HCN-A94. Increasing Nde1 expression in this neural stem cell line led to increased neuronal differentiation while decreasing levels of astroglial differentiation. In primary cultured neurons and astrocytes, Nde1 and Ndel1 were found to have different but comparable subcellular localizations. In addition, we have shown for the first time that Nde1 is heterogeneously distributed in cortical astrocytes of human brains. Our data indicate that Nde1 and Ndel1 have distinct but overlapping distribution patterns in mouse brain and cultured nerve cells. They may function differently and therefore their dosage changes may contribute to some aspects of mental disorders.
Perinatal asphyxia and hypoxia are common causes of morbidity in neonates. Prenatal birth associated with hypoxemia often results in several disorders because of the lack of oxygen in the brain. Survival rates from perinatal hypoxia have improved, but appropriate treatments for recovery are still limited, with great impact on patients, their families, society in general and health systems. The aim of this work is to contribute to a better understanding of the cellular mechanisms underlying the brainstem responses to hypoxia. For this purpose, distributions of two proteins, hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF-1) and microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP-2) were analyzed in brainstems of 11 children, four of them showing neuropathological evidence of brain hypoxia. They were included in control or hypoxic groups, and then in several subgroups according to their age. Immunohistochemical labeling for these proteins revealed only cell bodies containing HIF-1, and both cell bodies and fibers positive for MAP-2 in the children's brainstems. The distribution of HIF-1 was more restricted than that of MAP-2, and it can be suggested that the expression of HIF-1 increased with age. The distribution pattern of MAP-2 in the medulla oblongata could be more due to age-related changes than to a response to hypoxic damage, whereas in the pons several regions, such as the nucleus ambiguus or the solitary nucleus, showed different immunolabeling patterns in controls and hypoxic cases. The distribution patterns of these two proteins suggest that some brainstem regions, such as the reticular formation or the central gray, could be less affected by conditions of hypoxia.

Changes in extracellular pH have a modulatory effect on GABAA receptor function. It has been reported that pH sensitivity of the GABA receptor is dependent on subunit composition and GABA concentration. Most of previous investigations focused on GABA-evoked currents, which only reflect the postsynaptic receptors. The physiological relevance of pH modulation of GABAergic neurotransmission is not fully elucidated. In the present studies, we examined the influence of extracellular pH on the GABAA receptor-mediated inhibitory neurotransmission in rat hypothalamic neurons. The inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs), tonic currents, and the GABA-evoked currents were recorded with whole-cell patch techniques on the hypothalamic slices from Sprague-Dawley rats at 15-26 postnatal days. The amplitude and frequency of spontaneous GABA IPSCs were significantly increased while the external pH was changed from 7.3 to 8.4. In the acidic pH (6.4), the spontaneous GABA IPSCs were reduced in amplitude and frequency. The pH induced changes in miniature GABA IPSCs (mIPSCs) similar to that in spontaneous IPSCs. The pH effect on the postsynaptic GABA receptors was assessed with exogenously applied varying concentrations of GABA. The tonic currents and the currents evoked by sub-saturating concentration of GABA ([GABA]) (10M) were inhibited by acidic pH and potentiated by alkaline pH. In contrast, the currents evoked by saturating [GABA] (1mM) were not affected by pH changes. We also investigated the influence of pH buffers and buffering capacity on pH sensitivity of GABAA receptors on human recombinant 122 GABAA receptors stably expressed in HEK 293 cells. The pH influence on GABAA receptors was similar in HEPES- and MES-buffered media, and not dependent on protonated buffers, suggesting that the observed pH effect on GABA response is a specific consequence of changes in extracellular protons. Our data suggest that the hydrogen ions suppress the GABAergic neurotransmission, which is mediated by both presynaptic and postsynaptic mechanisms.
The present study was aimed at analyzing the effects of physical exercise on mitochondrial physiology, anxio-depressive-like behaviors and neuroplasticity in mice. Adult C57BL/6J male mice were isolated in home cages equipped or not with free-running wheels. After 6weeks of exercise, mice were tested in various behavioral paradigms to evaluate anxiety- and depressive-like behaviors. The hippocampi were dissected for neurochemical assays, including mitochondrial activity, monoamines content and the expression of genes involved in energy metabolism and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) regulation. Exercise decreased anxiety-like behaviors in the open field and elevated plus maze, and exerted antidepressant-like effects in the tail suspension test. Exercise stimulated brain mitochondrial activity and increased resistance against rotenone, an inhibitor of complex I activity. Furthermore, mRNA expression of Bdnf, Gdnf, Tfam (mitochondrial transcription factor A), and Ndufa6 (mitochondrial I subunit) genes, as well as the phosphorylation of cAMP response element-binding protein were increased after exercise. In summary, exercise appears to engage mitochondrial pathways and to potentiate neuroplasticity and might be associated to mood improvement.
Efficient sensory processing of the environment is a critical function for any organism to survive and is accomplished by having neurons adapt their responses to stimuli based on behavioral context in part through neuromodulators such as serotonin (5-HT). We have recently shown that one critical function of the serotonergic system in weakly electric fish is to enhance sensory pyramidal neuron responses within the electrosensory lateral line lobe (ELL) to stimuli caused by same sex conspecifics, thereby enhancing their perception. This enhancement is accomplished by making pyramidal neurons more excitable through downregulation of potassium channels. However, the nature of the 5-HT receptors that mediate this effect is not known. Here we show that the 5-HT2 receptor antagonist ketanserin (ket) can effectively block the effects of 5-HT on pyramidal neuron excitability in vitro. Indeed, 5-HT application subsequent to ket application did not cause any significant changes in neuron excitability and responses to current injection. We further show that ket applied in vivo can block the effects of 5-HT on behavioral responses. Thus, our results strongly suggest that the previously observed effects of 5-HT on sensory processing within ELL and their consequences for behavior are mediated by 5-HT2 receptors.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor  coactivator 1 (PGC-1) is a transcriptional coactivator known to regulate gene programs in a cell-specific manner in energy-demanding tissues, and its dysfunction has been implicated in numerous neurological and psychiatric disorders. Previous work from the Cowell laboratory indicates that PGC-1 is concentrated in inhibitory interneurons and is required for the expression of the calcium buffer parvalbumin (PV) in the cortex; however, the impact of PGC-1 deficiency on inhibitory neurotransmission in the motor cortex is not known. Here, we show that mice lacking PGC-1 exhibit increased amplitudes and decreased frequency of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents in layer V pyramidal neurons. Upon repetitive train stimulation at the gamma frequency, decreased GABA release is observed. Furthermore, PV-positive interneurons in PGC-1 -/- mice display reductions in intrinsic excitability and excitatory input without changes in gross interneuron morphology. Taken together, these data show that PGC-1 is required for normal inhibitory neurotransmission and cortical PV-positive interneuron function. Given the pronounced motor dysfunction in PGC-1 -/- mice and the essential role of PV-positive interneurons in maintenance of cortical excitatory:inhibitory balance, it is possible that deficiencies in PGC-1 expression could contribute to cortical hyperexcitability and motor abnormalities in multiple neurological disorders.
Many behavioral, physiological, and anatomical studies utilize animal models to investigate human striatal pathologies. Although commonly used, rodent striatum may not present the optimal animal model for certain studies due to a lesser morphological complexity than that of non-human primates, which are increasingly restricted in research. As an alternative, the tree shrew could provide a beneficial animal model for studies of the striatum. The gross morphology of the tree shrew striatum resembles that of primates, with separation of the caudate and putamen by the internal capsule. The neurochemical anatomy of the ventral striatum, specifically the nucleus accumbens, has never been examined. This major region of the limbic system plays a role in normal physiological functioning and is also an area of interest for human striatal disorders. The current study uses immunohistochemistry of calbindin and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) to determine the ultrastructural organization of the nucleus accumbens core and shell of the tree shrew (Tupaia glis belangeri). Stereology was used to quantify the ultrastructural localization of TH, which displays weaker immunoreactivity in the core and denser immunoreactivity in the shell. In both regions, synapses with TH-immunoreactive axon terminals were primarily symmetric and showed no preference for targeting dendrites versus dendritic spines. The results were compared to previous ultrastructural studies of TH and dopamine in rat and monkey nucleus accumbens. Tree shrews and monkeys show no preference for the postsynaptic target in the shell, in contrast to rats which show a preference for synapsing with dendrites. Tree shrews have a ratio of asymmetric to symmetric synapses formed by TH-immunoreactive terminals that is intermediate between rats and monkeys. The findings from this study support the tree shrew as an alternative model for studies of human striatal pathologies.
The primary limitation of thrombolytic treatment of ischemic stroke with tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) is the hemorrhagic risk. We tested AcSDKP (N-acetyl-seryl-aspartyl-lysyl-proline), as an auxiliary therapeutic agent, to reduce blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption in a combination tPA thrombolytic treatment of stroke. Wistar rats subjected to embolic stroke were randomly assigned to either the tPA monotherapy group (n=9) or combination of tPA and AcSDKP treatment group (n=9) initiated at 4h after ischemia. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measurements were performed before and after the treatments. Immunohistochemical staining and measurements were performed to confirm MRI findings. Longitudinal MRI permeability measurements with gadolinium-diethylenetriamine penta-acetic acid (Gd-DTPA) demonstrated that combination treatment of acute embolic stroke with AcSDKP and tPA significantly reduced BBB leakage, compared to tPA monotherapy, at 3 and 6days (18.39.8mm(3) vs 65.021.0mm(3), p&lt;0.001) after the onset of stroke, although BBB leakage was comparable between the two groups prior to the treatments (6.84.4mm(3) vs 4.33.3mm(3), p&gt;0.18). The substantial reduction of BBB leakage observed in the combination treatment group was closely associated with reduced ischemic lesions measured by T2 maps (113.624.9mm(3) vs 188.160.8mm(3), p&lt;0.04 at 6days). Histopathological analysis of the same population of rats showed that the combination treatment significantly reduced parenchymal fibrin deposition (0.0630.059mm(2) vs 0.1720.103mm(2), p&lt;0.03) and infarct volume (146.735.9mm(3) vs 199.360.4mm(3), p&lt;0.05) compared to the tPA monotherapy at 6days after stroke. MRI provides biological insight into the therapeutic benefit of combination treatment of stroke with tPA and AcSDKP 4h after onset, and demonstrates significantly improved cerebrovascular integrity with neuroprotective effects compared with tPA monotherapy.
Eugenol and carvacrol from clove and oregano, respectively, are agonists of the warmth-sensitive transient receptor potential channel TRPV3 and the irritant-sensitive transient receptor potential ankyrin (TRPA)-1. Eugenol and carvacrol induce oral irritation that rapidly desensitizes, accompanied by brief enhancement of innocuous warmth and heat pain in humans. We presently investigated if eugenol and carvacrol activate nociceptive primary afferent and higher order trigeminal neurons and enhance their heat-evoked responses, using calcium imaging of cultured trigeminal ganglion (TG) and dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, and in vivo single-unit recordings in trigeminal subnucleus caudalis (Vc) of rats. Eugenol and carvacrol activated 20-30% of TG and 7-20% of DRG cells, the majority of which additionally responded to menthol, mustard oil and/or capsaicin. TG cell responses to innocuous (39) and noxious (42C) heating were enhanced by eugenol and carvacrol. We identified dorsomedial Vc neurons responsive to noxious heating of the tongue in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats. Eugenol and carvacrol dose-dependently elicited desensitizing responses in 55% and 73% of heat-sensitive units, respectively. Responses to noxious heat were briefly enhanced by eugenol and carvacrol. Many eugenol- and carvacrol-responsive units also responded to menthol, cinnamaldehyde and capsaicin. These data support a peripheral site for eugenol and carvacrol to enhance warmth- and noxious heat-evoked responses of trigeminal neurons, and are consistent with the observation that these agonists briefly enhance warmth and heat pain on the human tongue.
Necker cube is one of the ambiguous figures that is physically a static image but can be alternately perceived in two different perspectives. A great deal of debate exists regarding ambiguous figures that induce spontaneous switching between rival percepts. To investigate the time course of neural processes underlying such perceptual rivalry, we recorded electroencephalograms associated with participants' perceptions of a Necker cube under ambiguous and unambiguous conditions, using a modified discontinuous-presentation method. Each condition consisted of two stimuli presented consecutively, starting with an unambiguous stimulus in both conditions. The second stimulus was either ambiguous (ambiguous condition) or unambiguous (control condition). We compared endogenous reversal activity of ambiguous stimuli with exogenous reversals. As a result, we found that the right-occipital beta-band activity (16-26Hz) increased 100-150ms and 350-450ms after the onset of the ambiguous stimulus only when the perception of the ambiguous stimulus differed from that of the first stimulus. These results indicate that activity in the right-occipital total beta band reflects endogenous switching between rivaling percepts.
The N2 subcomponents of event-related potentials are known to reflect early attentional processes. The anterior N2 may reflect conflict monitoring, whereas the posterior N2 may be involved in target detection. The aim of this study was to identify the brain areas involved in the generation of the N2 subcomponents, in order to define the spatiotemporal dynamics of these attentional processes. We recorded 128-channel electroencephalograms in 15 healthy controls performing a three-stimulus visual oddball task and identified standard-, distracter- and target-elicited N2 components. Individual N2 sources were localized using standardized-weighted-low-resolution-electromagnetic-tomography (swLORETA). Comparative analyses were performed with a non-parametric permutation technique. Common N2 generators were observed in the Brodmann area (BA) 24 of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC). The posterior cingulate cortex and the central precuneus were more involved in distracter processing, whereas the anterior precuneus and BA 32 of the ACC were target-specific. In accordance with previous demonstration of the frontoparietal cortex's critical role in attentional processes, these new data shed light on the ACC's role in conflict monitoring and its interaction with other median and frontoparietal structures in early attentional processes.
Cross-cultural differences in Easterners and Westerners have been observed in different cognitive domains. Differential sensitivity to the relationship between objects and contexts might be an underlying cognitive mechanism for these differences. Twenty-one Chinese and 22 Germans participated in a three-stimulus event-related potential oddball task. They were instructed to monitor geometrical forms filled in black (targets) that were presented among a series of blank geometrical forms (standards). Novel stimuli were colored images of common objects. Robust novelty P3 and target P3 over the entire scalp were observed in both groups. As compared with the German group, Chinese participants showed larger amplitudes of novelty P3 and target P3 over frontal regions and earlier peak latency for target P3. This indicates a higher sensitivity to the relationship between contexts and objects in the Chinese as compared with the German group, which might be an underlying mechanism for cross-cultural differences reported in many cognitive domains.
Loss of upper arm strength after stroke is a leading cause of disability. Strategies that can enhance the benefits of rehabilitative training could improve motor function after stroke. Recent studies in a rat model of ischemic stroke have demonstrated that vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) paired with rehabilitative training substantially improves recovery of forelimb strength compared with extensive rehabilitative training without VNS. Here we report that the timing and amount of stimulation affect the degree of forelimb strength recovery. Similar amounts of Delayed VNS delivered 2 h after daily rehabilitative training sessions resulted in significantly less improvement compared with that on delivery of VNS that is paired with identical rehabilitative training. Significantly less recovery also occurred when several-fold more VNS was delivered during rehabilitative training. Both delayed and additional VNS confer moderately improved recovery compared with extensive rehabilitative training without VNS, but fail to enhance recovery to the same degree as VNS that is timed to occur with successful movements. These findings confirm that VNS paired with rehabilitative training holds promise for restoring forelimb strength poststroke and indicate that both the timing and the amount of VNS should be optimized to maximize therapeutic benefits.
The hypothalamus is an integrated energy sensing system interfacing with higher motivational structures of the mesocorticolimbic dopamine (DA) system. This interconnectivity is strictly regulated by a number of orexigenic hypothalamic neuropeptides, including especially ghrelin, orexins and neuropeptide Y (NPY), enabling the latter to modulate salient events of natural and chemical reinforcers. In this review we aim to analyse the current knowledge on these three orexigenic neuropeptide systems that are involved in the DAergic regulation of psychostimulant behaviours. We will first review the co-existing interactions between ghrelin, orexins and NPY in hypothalamic nuclei. We will next outline whether these neuropeptides can affect DAergic neurotransmission by either regulating the firing rate of DA neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) or by presynaptically interacting on the DAergic nerve terminals. Finally, we will underscore the main studies that outlined the involvement of ghrelin, orexins and NPY with rewarding, reinforcing and incentive properties of natural reinforcers and drugs of abuse. The reciprocal hypothalamic interaction of ghrelin, orexins and NPY might represent a new central view on neuronal mechanisms regulating the behavioural phenomenology of addiction maintained by the DA system.
A qualitative study is presented on how proteins from a complex biological sample are distributed in a microdialysis sample system. A comparison between proteins identified in the human ventricular cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) sample, the collected dialysate and the proteins adsorbed onto the membrane was conducted. The microdialysis experiment was performed in vitro at 37C for the duration of 24h. Thereafter, the membranes were removed from the catheter and the adsorbed proteins were tryptically digested using the on-surface enzymatic digestion (oSED) protocol. The CSF samples and the dialysates were digested using a standard in-solution trypsin digestion protocol. In the final phase, the samples were analysed using nano-liquid chromatography in combination with tandem mass spectrometry. In the four sample compartments analysed (CSF start, Membrane, Dialysate, CSF end) a total of 134 different proteins were found. However, most of the identified proteins (n=87) were uniquely found in one sample compartment only. Common CSF proteins such as albumin, apolipoproteins and cystatin C together with plasma proteins such as hemoglobin and fibrinogen were among the 11 proteins that were found in all samples. These proteins are present in high concentrations in CSF, which means that they effectively block out the detection signal of less abundant proteins. Therefore, only 25% of the proteins adsorbed onto the membrane were detected in the CSF compared with the dialysate that shared 44% of its proteins with the CSF. The proteins adsorbed onto the membrane were significantly more hydrophobic, had a lower instability index and more thermostable compared to the proteins in the CSF and the dialysate. The results suggest that proteins adsorbed onto the microdialysis membranes may escape detection because they are prevented from passing the membrane into the dialysate. Thus, the membrane needs to be examined after sample collection in order to better verify the protein content in the original sample. This is particularly important when searching for new protein biomarkers for neurodegenerative diseases.
Human brain chemistry is incompletely understood and better methodologies are needed. Traumatic brain injury (TBI) causes metabolic perturbations, one result of which includes increased brain lactate levels. Attention has largely focussed on glycolysis, whereby glucose is converted to pyruvate and lactate, and is proposed to act as an energy source by feeding into neurons' tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, generating ATP. Also reportedly upregulated by TBI is the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) that does not generate ATP but produces various molecules that are putatively neuroprotective, antioxidant and reparative, in addition to lactate among the end products. We have developed a novel combination of (13)C-labelled cerebral microdialysis both to deliver (13)C-labelled substrates into brains of TBI patients and recover the (13)C-labelled metabolites, with high-resolution (13)C NMR analysis of the microdialysates. This methodology has enabled us to achieve the first direct demonstration in humans that the brain can utilise lactate via the TCA cycle. We are currently using this methodology to make the first direct comparison of glycolysis and the PPP in human brain. In this article, we consider the application of (13)C-labelled cerebral microdialysis for studying brain energy metabolism in patients. We set this methodology within the context of metabolic pathways in the brain, and (13)C research modalities addressing them.
Diminished skeletal muscle performance with aging, disuse, and disease may be partially attributed to the loss of myofilament proteins. Several laboratories have found a disproportionate loss of myosin protein content relative to other myofilament proteins, but due to methodological limitations, the structural manifestation of this protein loss is unknown. To investigate how variations in myosin content affect ensemble cross-bridge behavior and force production we simulated muscle contraction in the half-sarcomere as myosin was removed either (i) uniformly, from the Z-line end of thick-filaments, or (ii) randomly, along the length of thick-filaments. Uniform myosin removal decreased force production, showing a slightly steeper force-to-myosin content relationship than the 1:1 relationship that would be expected from the loss of cross-bridges. Random myosin removal also decreased force production, but this decrease was less than observed with uniform myosin loss, largely due to increased myosin attachment time (ton) and fractional cross-bridge binding with random myosin loss. These findings support our prior observations that prolonged ton may augment force production in single fibers with randomly reduced myosin content from chronic heart failure patients. These simulations also illustrate that the pattern of myosin loss along thick-filaments influences ensemble cross-bridge behavior and maintenance of force throughout the sarcomere.
Activation of T-type Ca(2+) channels contributes to nociceptive signaling by facilitating action potential bursting and modulation of membrane potentials during periods of neuronal hyperexcitability. The role of T-type Ca(2+) channels in chronic pain is supported by gene knockdown studies showing that decreased Cav3.2 channel expression results in the loss of low voltage-activated (LVA) currents in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and attenuation of neuropathic pain in the chronic constriction injury (CCI) model. ABT-639 is a novel, peripherally acting, selective T-type Ca(2+) channel blocker. ABT-639 blocks recombinant human T-type (Cav3.2) Ca(2+) channels in a voltage-dependent fashion (IC50=2M) and attenuates LVA currents in rat DRG neurons (IC50=8M). ABT-639 was significantly less active at other Ca(2+) channels (e.g. Cav1.2 and Cav2.2) (IC50&gt;30M). ABT-639 has high oral bioavailability (%F=73), low protein binding (88.9%) and a low brain:plasma ratio (0.05:1) in rodents. Following oral administration ABT-639 produced dose-dependent antinociception in a rat model of knee joint pain (ED50=2mg/kg, p.o.). ABT-639 (10-100mg/kg, p.o.) also increased tactile allodynia thresholds in multiple models of neuropathic pain (e.g. spinal nerve ligation, CCI, and vincristine-induced, and capsaicin secondary hypersensitivity). ABT-639 did not attenuate hyperalgesia in inflammatory pain models induced by complete Freund's adjuvant or carrageenan. At higher doses (e.g. 100 - 300mg/kg) ABT-639 did not significantly alter hemodynamic or psychomotor function. The antinociceptive profile of ABT-639 provides novel insights into the role of peripheral T-type (Cav3.2) channels in chronic pain states.






Elevated plasma homocysteine (Hcy) levels are an independent risk factor for the onset and progression of Alzheimer's disease. Reduction of Hcy to normal levels therefore presents a new approach for disease modification. Hcy is produced by the cytosolic enzyme S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase (AHCY), which converts S-adenosylhomocysteine (SAH) to Hcy and adenosine. Herein we describe the design and characterization of novel, substrate-based S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase inhibitors with low nanomolar potency in vitro and robust activity in vivo.
Herein we report the design and synthesis of a series of substituted pyrazolo[1,5-a]quinazolin-5(4H)-ones as negative allosteric modulators of metabotropic glutamate receptors 2 and 3 (mGlu2 and mGlu3, respectively). Development of this series was initiated by reports that pyrazolo[1,5-a]quinazoline-derived scaffolds can yield compounds with activity at group II mGlu receptors which are prone to molecular switching following small structural changes. Several potent analogues, including 4-methyl-2-phenyl-8-(pyrimidin-5-yl)pyrazolo[1,5-a]quinazolin-5(4H)-one (10b), were discovered with potent in vitro activity as dual mGlu2/mGlu3 NAMs, with excellent selectivity versus the other mGluRs.
An oxidation product (5) formed during the synthesis of BIBN-4096BS (1) was found to be a potent CGRP antagonist (IC50=0.11nM). While 5 was found to be ten-fold less potent than 1, another analog 8 with lower molecular weight containing the oxidized fragment demonstrated twenty-fold higher activity than its parent 7. Alternative conditions which preclude the formation of the oxidation product are described. The activities of 1, 5, 7 and 8 in functional cAMP assay are also discussed.
Several aryl pyrazoles characterized by a different molecular structure (flexible vs constrained), but chemically related to rimonabant and AM251, were tested for their ability to modulate the function of recombinant 122L GABAA receptors expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. The effects of 6Bio-R, 14Bio-R, NESS 0327, GP1a and GP2a (0.3-30M) were evaluated using a two-electrode voltage-clamp technique. 6Bio-R and 14Bio-R potentiated GABA-evoked Cl(-) currents. NESS 0327, GP1a and GP2a did not affect the GABAA receptor function, but they acted as antagonists of 6Bio-R. Moreover, NESS 0327 inhibited the potentiation of the GABAA receptor function induced by rimonabant. The benzodiazepine site seems to participate in the action of these compounds. In fact, flumazenil antagonized the potentiation of the GABAA receptor induced by 6Bio-R, and NESS 0327 reduced the action of lorazepam and zolpidem. On the contrary, NESS 0327 did not antagonize the action of &quot;classic&quot; GABAergic modulators (propanol, anesthetics, barbiturates or steroids). In 12 receptors 6Bio-R potentiated the GABAergic function, but flumazenil was still able to antagonize the potentiation induced by 6Bio-R. Aryl pyrazole derivatives activity at the GABAA receptor depends on their molecular structure. These compounds bind to both an  binding site, and to an  site which do not require the  subunit and that may provide structural leads for drugs with potential anticonvulsant effects.
Identifying rare, highly penetrant risk mutations may be an important step in dissecting the molecular etiology of schizophrenia. We conducted a gene-based analysis of large (&gt;100 kb), rare copy-number variants (CNVs) in the Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium 2 (WTCCC2) schizophrenia sample of 1564 cases and 1748 controls all from Ireland, and further extended the analysis to include an additional 5196 UK controls. We found association with duplications at chr20p12.2 (P = 0.007) and evidence of replication in large independent European schizophrenia (P = 0.052) and UK bipolar disorder case-control cohorts (P = 0.047). A combined analysis of Irish/UK subjects including additional psychosis cases (schizophrenia and bipolar disorder) identified 22 carriers in 11 707 cases and 10 carriers in 21 204 controls [meta-analysis Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel P-value = 2  10(-4); odds ratio (OR) = 11.3, 95% CI = 3.7, ]. Nineteen of the 22 cases and 8 of the 10 controls carried duplications starting at 9.68 Mb with similar breakpoints across samples. By haplotype analysis and sequencing, we identified a tandem 149 kb duplication overlapping the gene p21 Protein-Activated Kinase 7 (PAK7, also called PAK5) which was in linkage disequilibrium with local haplotypes (P = 2.5  10(-21)), indicative of a single ancestral duplication event. We confirmed the breakpoints in 8/8 carriers tested and found co-segregation of the duplication with illness in two additional family members of one of the affected probands. We demonstrate that PAK7 is developmentally co-expressed with another known psychosis risk gene (DISC1) suggesting a potential molecular mechanism involving aberrant synapse development and plasticity.
microRNAs (miRNAs) are regulators of differentiation and development of inner ear cells. Mutations in miRNAs lead to deafness in humans and mice. Among inner ear pathologies, inflammation may lead to structural and neuronal defects and eventually to hearing loss and vestibular dysfunction. While the genetic factors of these pathways have not been defined, autoimmunity participates in these processes. We report that inflammatory stimuli in the inner ear induce activation of the innate immune system via miR-224 and pentraxin 3 (Ptx3). miR-224 is a transcriptional target of nuclear factor B, a key mediator of innate immunity. Ptx3 is a regulator of the immune response. It is released in response to inflammation and regulated by nuclear factor B. We show that miR-224 and Ptx3 are expressed in the inner ear and we demonstrate that miR-224 targets Ptx3. As a model of the innate immune response, we injected lipopolysaccharide into the scala tympani of mouse inner ears. This resulted in changes in the levels of miR-224 and Ptx3, in addition to activation of the complement system, as measured by immune cell infiltration and activated C3. This suggests that while miR-224 regulates Ptx3 under normal conditions, upon inflammation, both are recruited to offer a front line of defense in acting as responders to inflammation in the inner ear. miR-224 diminishes the innate immune response by down-regulating Ptx3 expression, while Ptx3 stimulates the innate immune response. An understanding of the molecular components of the inflammatory pathway may help develop therapeutics for reducing inflammation associated with inner ear injury.
PTEN Hamartoma Tumor Syndrome (PHTS) is an autosomal-dominant genetic condition underlying a subset of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) with macrocephaly. Caused by germline mutations in PTEN, PHTS also causes increased risks of multiple cancers via dysregulation of the PI3K and MAPK signaling pathways. Conditional knockout models have shown that neural Pten regulates social behavior, proliferation and cell size. Although much is known about how the intracellular localization of PTEN regulates signaling in cancer cell lines, we know little of how PTEN localization influences normal brain physiology and behavior. To address this, we generated a germline knock-in mouse model of cytoplasm-predominant Pten and characterized its behavioral and cellular phenotypes. The homozygous Pten(m3m4) mice have decreased total Pten levels including a specific drop in nuclear Pten and exhibit region-specific increases in brain weight. The Pten(m3m4) model displays sex-specific increases in social motivation, poor balance and normal recognition memory-a profile reminiscent of some individuals with high functioning ASD. The cytoplasm-predominant protein caused cellular hypertrophy limited to the soma and led to increased NG2 cell proliferation and accumulation of glia. The animals also exhibit significant astrogliosis and microglial activation, indicating a neuroinflammatory phenotype. At the signaling level, Pten(m3m4) mice show brain region-specific differences in Akt activation. These results demonstrate that differing alterations to the same autism-linked gene can cause distinct behavioral profiles. The Pten(m3m4) model is the first murine model of inappropriately elevated social motivation in the context of normal cognition and may expand the range of autism-related behaviors replicated in animal models.
In severe early-onset epilepsy, precise clinical and molecular genetic diagnosis is complex, as many metabolic and electro-physiological processes have been implicated in disease causation. The clinical phenotypes share many features such as complex seizure types and developmental delay. Molecular diagnosis has historically been confined to sequential testing of candidate genes known to be associated with specific sub-phenotypes, but the diagnostic yield of this approach can be low. We conducted whole-genome sequencing (WGS) on six patients with severe early-onset epilepsy who had previously been refractory to molecular diagnosis, and their parents. Four of these patients had a clinical diagnosis of Ohtahara Syndrome (OS) and two patients had severe non-syndromic early-onset epilepsy (NSEOE). In two OS cases, we found de novo non-synonymous mutations in the genes KCNQ2 and SCN2A. In a third OS case, WGS revealed paternal isodisomy for chromosome 9, leading to identification of the causal homozygous missense variant in KCNT1, which produced a substantial increase in potassium channel current. The fourth OS patient had a recessive mutation in PIGQ that led to exon skipping and defective glycophosphatidyl inositol biosynthesis. The two patients with NSEOE had likely pathogenic de novo mutations in CBL and CSNK1G1, respectively. Mutations in these genes were not found among 500 additional individuals with epilepsy. This work reveals two novel genes for OS, KCNT1 and PIGQ. It also uncovers unexpected genetic mechanisms and emphasizes the power of WGS as a clinical tool for making molecular diagnoses, particularly for highly heterogeneous disorders.
Mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are common causes of familial Parkinson's disease (PD). LRRK2 has been shown to bind peroxiredoxin-3 (PRDX3), the most important scavenger of hydrogen peroxide in the mitochondria, in vitro. Here, we examined the interactions of LRRK2 and PRDX3 in Drosophila models by crossing transgenic LRRK2 and PRDX3 flies. As proof of principle experiments, we subsequently challenged LRRK2 and LRRK2/PRDX3 flies with a peroxidase mimic, Ebselen. We demonstrated that co-expression of PRDX3 with the LRRK2 kinase mutant G2019S in bigenic Drosophila ameliorated the G2019S mutant-induced reduction in peroxidase capacity, loss of dopaminergic neurons, shortened lifespan and mitochondrial defects of flight muscles in monogenic flies expressing the G2019S alone. Challenges with Ebselen recapitulated similar rescue of these phenotypic features in mutant-expressing Drosophila. The peroxidase mimic preserved neuronal and mitochondrial and neuronal integrity and improved mobility and survival in mutant-expressing Drosophila. Taken together, our study provides the first in vivo evidence to suggest that phosphoinhibition of endogenous peroxidases could be a mechanism in LRRK2-induced oxidant-mediated neurotoxicity. Our therapeutic experiments also highlight the potential of thiol peroxidases as neuroprotective agents in PD patients carrying LRRK2 mutations.
Development of novel therapeutics requires good animal models of disease. Disorders for which good animal models do not exist have very few drugs in development or clinical trial. Even where there are accepted, albeit imperfect models, the leap from promising preclinical drug results to positive clinical trials commonly fails, including in disorders of skeletal muscle. The main alternative model for early drug development, tissue culture, lacks both the architecture and, usually, the metabolic fidelity of the normal tissue in vivo. Herein, we demonstrate the feasibility and validity of human to mouse xenografts as a preclinical model of myopathy. Human skeletal muscle biopsies transplanted into the anterior tibial compartment of the hindlimbs of NOD-Rag1(null) IL2r(null) immunodeficient host mice regenerate new vascularized and innervated myofibers from human myogenic precursor cells. The grafts exhibit contractile and calcium release behavior, characteristic of functional muscle tissue. The validity of the human graft as a model of facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy is demonstrated in disease biomarker studies, showing that gene expression profiles of xenografts mirror those of the fresh donor biopsies. These findings illustrate the value of a new experimental model of muscle disease, the human muscle xenograft in mice, as a feasible and valid preclinical tool to better investigate the pathogenesis of human genetic myopathies and to more accurately predict their response to novel therapeutics.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder which is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. HD is caused by a trinucleotide CAG repeat expansion that encodes a polyglutamine stretch in the huntingtin (HTT) protein. Mutant HTT expression leads to a myriad of cellular dysfunctions culminating in neuronal loss and consequent motor, cognitive and psychiatric disturbances in HD patients. The length of the CAG repeat is inversely correlated with age of onset (AO) in HD patients, while environmental and genetic factors can further modulate this parameter. Here, we explored whether the recently described copy-number variation (CNV) of the gene SLC2A3-which encodes the neuronal glucose transporter GLUT3-could modulate AO in HD. Strikingly, we found that increased dosage of SLC2A3 delayed AO in an HD cohort of 987 individuals, and that this correlated with increased levels of GLUT3 in HD patient cells. To our knowledge this is the first time that CNV of a candidate gene has been found to modulate HD pathogenesis. Furthermore, we found that increasing dosage of Glut1-the Drosophila melanogaster homologue of this glucose transporter-ameliorated HD-relevant phenotypes in fruit flies, including neurodegeneration and life expectancy. As alterations in glucose metabolism have been implicated in HD pathogenesis, this study may have important therapeutic relevance for HD.
Lafora disease is a fatal neurodegenerative condition characterized by the accumulation of abnormal glycogen inclusions known as Lafora bodies. It is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in either the laforin or malin gene. To study whether glycogen is primarily responsible for the neurodegeneration in Lafora disease, we generated malin knockout mice with impaired (totally or partially) glycogen synthesis. These animals did not show the increase in markers of neurodegeneration, the impairments in electrophysiological properties of hippocampal synapses, nor the susceptibility to kainate-induced epilepsy seen in the malin knockout model. Interestingly, the autophagy impairment that has been described in malin knockout animals was also rescued in this double knockout model. Conversely, two other mouse models in which glycogen is over-accumulated in the brain independently of the lack of malin showed impairment in autophagy. Our findings reveal that glycogen accumulation accounts for the neurodegeneration and functional consequences seen in the malin knockout model, as well as the impaired autophagy. These results identify the regulation of glycogen synthesis as a key target for the treatment of Lafora disease.

Changes in head position and posture are detected by the vestibular system and are normally followed by rapid modifications in blood pressure. These compensatory adjustments, which allow humans to stand up without fainting, are mediated by integration of vestibular system pathways with blood pressure control centers in the ventrolateral medulla. Orthostatic hypotension can reflect altered activity of this neural circuitry. Vestibular sensory input to the vestibulo-sympathetic pathway terminates on cells in the vestibular nuclear complex, which in turn project to brainstem sites involved in the regulation of cardiovascular activity, including the rostral and caudal ventrolateral medullary regions (RVLM and CVLM, respectively). In the present study, sinusoidal galvanic vestibular stimulation was used to activate this pathway, and activated neurons were identified through detection of c-Fos protein. The retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold was injected into the RVLM or CVLM of these animals, and immunofluorescence studies of vestibular neurons were conducted to visualize c-Fos protein and Fluoro-Gold concomitantly. We observed activated projection neurons of the vestibulo-sympathetic reflex pathway in the caudal half of the spinal, medial, and parvocellular medial vestibular nuclei. Approximately two-thirds of the cells were ipsilateral to Fluoro-Gold injection sites in both the RVLM and CVLM, and the remainder were contralateral. As a group, cells projecting to the RVLM were located slightly rostral to those with terminals in the CVLM. Individual activated projection neurons were multipolar, globular, or fusiform in shape. This study provides the first direct demonstration of the central vestibular neurons that mediate the vestibulo-sympathetic reflex.
The density of dendritic spines is sexually dimorphic and variable throughout the female estrous cycle in the rat posterodorsal medial amygdala (MePD), a relevant area for the modulation of reproductive behavior in rats. The local synaptic activity differs between hemispheres in prepubertal animals. Here we used serial section transmission electron microscopy to produce 3D reconstructions of dendritic shafts and spines to characterize synaptic contacts on MePD neurons of both hemispheres in adult males and in females along the estrous cycle. Pleomorphic spines and nonsynaptic filopodia occur in the MePD. On average, 8.6% of dendritic spines received inputs from symmetric gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-immunoreactive terminals, whereas 3.6% received two synaptic contacts on the spine head, neck, or base. Presynaptic terminals in female right MePD had a higher density of synaptic vesicles and docked vesicles than the left MePD, suggesting a higher rate of synaptic vesicle release in the right MePD of female rats. In contrast, males did not show laterality in any of those parameters. The proportion of putative inhibitory synapses on dendritic shafts in the right MePD of females in proestrus was higher than in the left MePD, and higher than in the right MePD in males, or in females in diestrus or estrus. This work shows synaptic laterality depending on sex and estrous cycle phase in mature MePD neurons. Most likely, sexual hormone effects are lateralized in this brain region, leading to higher synaptic activity in the right than in the left hemisphere of females, mediating timely neuroendocrine and social/reproductive behavior.
Immunotherapy-responsive autoimmune CNS syndromes linked to antibodies targeting surface neuronal antigens lack reliable biomarkers of disease activity. We report serial cerebral (18)FDG PET studies in a woman with AMPA receptor (AMPA-R) autoimmune limbic encephalitis. During her follow-up, despite an aggressive immunotherapy, she displayed a persistent, predominantly left hippocampal FDG hypermetabolism, in the absence of CNS inflammatory signs. Brain metabolism abnormalities regressed after increasing antiepileptic treatment, correlating with a moderate clinical improvement. Brain (18)F-FDG PET could thus represent a useful complementary tool to orient the clinical follow-up.
It is unclear to what extent neuropathological changes contribute to brain inflammation observed in temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Here, we compared cytokine levels between histopathologically-confirmed sclerotic hippocampi and histopathologically-confirmed normal hippocampi from TLE patients. We analyzed a similar cytokine panel in the hippocampi of amygdala-kindled rats and we evaluated neuropathological changes by immunohistochemistry. In TLE patients, cytokine levels were not significantly different between sclerotic and non-sclerotic hippocampi. Though kindling resulted in increased astrocyte activation, cytokine levels and microglia activation were unchanged. These results suggest that the chronic epileptic state in TLE can also occur in the absence of intracerebral inflammation. Highlights.
Calcitonin Gene-Related Peptide (CGRP) inhibits microglia inflammatory activation in vitro. We here analyzed the involvement of CGRP and Receptor Component Protein (RCP) in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Alpha-CGRP deficiency increased EAE scores which followed the scale alpha-CGRP null&gt;heterozygote&gt;wild type. In wild type mice, CGRP delivery into the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 1) reduced chronic EAE (C-EAE) signs, 2) inhibited microglia activation (revealed by quantitative shape analysis), and 3) did not alter GFAP expression, cell density, lymphocyte infiltration, and peripheral lymphocyte production of IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, IL-17, IL-2, and IL-4. RCP (probe for receptor involvement) was expressed in white matter microglia, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and vascular-endothelial cells: in EAE, also in infiltrating lymphocytes. In relapsing-remitting EAE (R-EAE) RCP increased during relapse, without correlation with lymphocyte density. RCP nuclear localization (stimulated by CGRP in vitro) was I) increased in microglia and decreased in astrocytes (R-EAE), and II) increased in microglia by CGRP CSF delivery (C-EAE). Calcitonin like receptor was rarely localized in nuclei of control and relapse mice. CGRP increased in motoneurons. In conclusion, CGRP can inhibit microglia activation in vivo in EAE. CGRP and its receptor may represent novel protective factors in EAE, apparently acting through the differential cell-specific intracellular translocation of RCP.
Autoimmune encephalitis associated with antibodies to leucine-rich glioma inactivated 1 (LGI1) is recently described and there is a lack of detailed reports on the treatment of relapsing or refractory cases and long-term outcomes. Two case reports are presented. Both cases had faciobrachial dystonic seizures (FBDS) and received rituximab after relapsing or refractory disease. Both cases achieved sustained clinical remission of up to 15 and 56months respectively. Rituximab use allowed withdrawal of corticosteroids and was well tolerated. Randomized clinical trials are needed in LGI1 encephalitis and other autoimmune encephalitides.

Spontaneous or traumatic bleeding is a common complication of systemic thrombolysis in patients with acute ischemic stroke. We report the case of an 83y.o. woman with right facio-brachio-crural hemiparesis, left deviation of the head and aphasia who developed, after thrombolytic therapy, a spontaneous sternocleidomastoid muscle hematoma that regressed few days later. To our knowledge, this is the first case reported in the literature of asymptomatic and spontaneous skeletal muscle hematoma following thrombolysis for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke. The occurrence of lateral cervical tuberculosis lymphadenitis ipsilateral to sternocleidomastoid muscle hematoma may suggest a causal relationship between local chronic inflammation of active mycobacterial infection and thrombolysis-related extravasation. This case should suggest caution in thrombolytic treatment in patients with chronic immune dysregulation and vascular inflammation such as extra-pulmonary tuberculosis.

The transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) is a cation channel that serves as a polymodal detector of noxious stimuli such as capsaicin. Therefore, capsaicin treatment has been used to investigate the physiological function of TRPV1. Here, we report physiological changes induced by treating neonatal rats with capsaicin. Capsaicin (50mg/kg) (cap-treated) or vehicle (vehicle-treated) was systemically administered to newborn SD rat pups within 48h after birth. TRPV1 expression, intake volume of capsaicin water, and noxious heat sensation were measured 6weeks after capsaicin treatment. Circadian body temperature and locomotion were recorded by biotelemetry. Expression of Per1, Per2, Bmal1 and Hsf1 (clock genes) was also investigated. Neonatal capsaicin treatment not only decreased TRPV1 expression but also induced desensitization to noxious heat stimuli. Circadian body temperature of cap-treated rats increased significantly compared with that of vehicle-treated rats. Additionally, the amplitude of the circadian body temperature was reversed in cap-treated rats. Expression of the hypothalamic Hsf1 and liver Per2 clock genes followed a similar trend. Therefore, we suggest that these findings will be useful in studying various physiological mechanisms related to TRPV1.





Axon degeneration has been identified as a major contributor to non-remitting neurological deficits in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), which has elicited substantial interest in the development of neuroprotective therapies. Sodium channel blockers, including phenytoin, carbamazepine, flecainide and lamotrigine, have been shown to protect axons from degeneration, attenuate immune cell infiltrates and slow the acquisition of neurological deficits in mice with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a model of MS. However, the sudden withdrawal of sodium channel blockers, phenytoin and carbamazepine, is associated with severe exacerbation of EAE characterized by massive inflammatory infiltrates and high mortality. In the present study, we asked whether a slow, tapered withdrawal of phenytoin treatment from mice with EAE produced sudden worsening similar to that of sudden withdrawal. Our results demonstrate that gradual withdrawal of phenytoin treatment from mice with EAE is associated with worsening of clinical scores which approach non-treated levels, but was not associated with increased immune cell infiltrates or deaths as have been observed with abrupt withdrawal. These observations support sodium channel blockers as a potential therapeutic agent in the treatment of MS, but indicate caution if treatment is ceased.







Nitric oxide (NO) is a biomarker of nitrosative stress, which is involved in the pathogenesis of idiopathic interstitial pneumonias (IIP). This study evaluates exhaled NO levels in IIP patients and relates alveolar concentrations of NO (CalvNO) to pulmonary function test (PFT) and 6-minute walking test (6MWT) parameters. We measured fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO), CalvNO and maximum conducting airway wall flux (J'awNO) in 30 healthy subjects and 30 patients with IIP (22 idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and 8 idiopathic non-specific interstitial pneumonias). IIP patients had higher FeNO at flow rates of 50-100-150ml/s and higher CalvNO levels than healthy controls (p&lt;0.0001). CalvNO was significantly correlated with 6-minute walking distance (p&lt;0.0001), recovery time (p&lt;0.0005), TLC (p&lt;0.001), FVC (p=0.01) and TLCO (p&lt;0.01). IIP patients showed abnormal nitric oxide production, probably due to lung fibrosis and oxidative-mediated lung injury. CalvNO was correlated with PFT and 6MWT parameters and is proposed as a potential biomarker of lung fibrosis and exercise tolerance.
Many veterans of the 1991 Gulf War (GW) returned from that conflict with a widespread chronic pain affecting deep tissues. Recently, we have shown that a 60day exposure to the insecticides permethrin, chlorpyrifos, and pyridostigmine bromide (NTPB) had little influence on nociceptor action potential forming Nav1.8, but increased Kv7 mediated inhibitory currents 8weeks after treatment. Using the same exposure regimen, we used whole cell patch methods to examine whether the influences of NTPB could be observed on Nav1.9 expressed in muscle and vascular nociceptors. During a 60day exposure to NTPB, rats exhibited lowered muscle pain thresholds and increased rest periods, but these measures subsequently returned to normal levels. Eight and 12weeks after treatments ceased, DRG neurons were excised from the sensory ganglia. Whole cell patch studies revealed little change in voltage dependent activation and deactivation of Nav1.9, but significant increases in the amplitude of Nav1.9 were observed 8weeks after exposure. Cellular studies, at the 8week delay, revealed that NTPB also significantly prolonged action potential duration and afterhyperpolarization (22C). Acute application of permethrin (10M) also increased the amplitude of Nav1.9 in skin, muscle and vascular nociceptors. In conclusion, chronic exposure to Gulf War agents produced long term changes in the amplitude of Nav1.9 expressed in muscle and vascular nociceptors. The reported increases in Kv7 amplitude may have been an adaptive response to increased Nav1.9, and effectively suppressed behavioral pain measures in the post treatment period. Factors that alter the balance between Nav1.9 and Kv7 could release spontaneous discharge and produce chronic deep tissue pain.
Here, for the first time, we report an NMR spectroscopy study of l-Glutamine (Gln) conversion by Glutaminase (Glnase), which shows that the reaction involves two distinct steps. In the first step, Glnase rapidly hydrolyzes Gln to Glutamate (Glu) (16.87mol of Gln/min/mg of Glnase) and in the second step, Glu generated in the first step is decarboxylated into gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA) with a much slower rate (0.185mol/min/mg). When Glnase was added to the sample containing l-Glu alone, it was also converted to GABA, at a similar rate as in the second step mentioned above. The rate of Glu decarboxylation into GABA by Glnase is about an order of magnitude lower than that by commonly known enzyme, Glutamate decarboxylase. Potential impact of these findings, on the mechanistic aspects of Gln-Glu shuttle in neuroscience and glutaminolysis in tumors, is discussed.

Previous studies on the neural basis of insight reflected weak consistency except for the anterior cingulate cortex. The present work adopted the semantic and homophonic punny riddle to explore the uniformity and nonuniformity of neural activities correlated to different insight problem solving. Results showed that in the early period of insight solving, the semantic and homophonic punny riddles induced a common N350-500 over the central scalp. However, during -400 to 0ms before the riddles were solved, the semantic punny riddles induced a positive event-related potential (ERP) deflection over the temporal cortex for retrieving the extensive semantic information, while the homophonic punny riddles induced a positive ERP deflection over the temporal cortex and a negative one in the left frontal cortex which might reflect the semantic and phonological information processing respectively. Our study indicated that different insight problem solving should have the same cognitive process of detecting cognitive conflicts, but have different ways to solve the conflicts.
Lateral hypothalamic (LH) stimulation produces antinociception in female rats in acute, nociceptive pain. Whether this effect occurs in neuropathic pain or whether male-female sex differences exist is unknown. We examined the effect of LH stimulation in male and female rats using conditions of nociceptive and neuropathic pain. Neuropathic groups received chronic constriction injury (CCI) to induce thermal hyperalgesia, a sign of neuropathic pain. Nociceptive rats were naive for CCI, but received the same thermal stimulus following LH stimulation. To demonstrate that CCI ligation produced thermal hyperalgesia, males and females received either ligation or sham surgery for control. Both males and females demonstrated significant thermal hyperalgesia following CCI ligation (p&lt;0.05), but male sham surgery rats also showed a significant left-right difference not present in female sham rats. In the second experiment, rats randomly assigned to CCI or nociceptive groups were given one of three doses of the cholinergic agonist carbachol (125, 250, or 500nmol) or normal saline for control, microinjected into the left LH. Paw withdrawal from a thermal stimulus (paw withdrawal latency; PWL) was measured every 5min for 45min. Linear mixed models analysis showed that males and females in both pain conditions demonstrated significant antinociception, with the 500-nmol dose producing the greatest effect across groups compared with controls for the left paw (p&lt;0.05). Female CCI rats showed equivalent responses to the three doses, while male CCI rats showed more variability for dose. However, nociceptive females responded only to the 500-nmol dose, while nociceptive males responded to all doses (p&lt;0.05). For right PWL, only nociceptive males showed a significant carbachol dose response. These findings are suggestive that LH stimulation produces antinociception in male and female rats in both nociceptive and neuropathic pain, but dose response differences exist based on sex and pain condition.
Deep-brain stimulation at high frequencies (HFS) directed to the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is used increasingly to treat patients with Parkinson's disease. However, the mechanism of action by which HFS of the STN achieves its therapeutic effects remains unresolved. Insofar as lesions of the STN have similar therapeutic benefit, a favored hypothesis is that HFS acts by suppressing neural activity in the STN. The purpose of the present study was to exploit prior observations that exposure to ether anesthesia in a rodent model evokes c-fos expression (a marker of neural activation) in the STN and its efferent structures, the globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus and substantia nigra. We showed first that exposure to ether induced a profound oscillatory pattern of neural activity in the STN and SNr, which could explain the marked induction of c-fos immunoreactivity in these structures. Secondly, inhibition of the STN by local injections of the GABA agonist, muscimol, suppressed ether-evoked c-fos expression in all target structures. This showed that excitation of target structures in the ether model originated, at least in part, from the STN. Thirdly, and contrary to expectation, HFS of the STN increased further the expression of c-fos in the STN target structures of animals treated with ether. Finally, we demonstrated, in the absence of ether treatment, that HFS and chemical stimulation of the STN with local injections of kainic acid both induced c-fos expression in the globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus and substantia nigra. Together these results suggest that the principal action of STN stimulation at high frequencies is to excite rather than inhibit its efferent targets. Given that Parkinsonism has been associated with increased levels of inhibitory output activity from the basal ganglia, it is unlikely that excitation of output structures revealed in this study provides a basis for deep-brain stimulation's therapeutic action.
Major aspects of neuronal function are regulated by Ca(2+) including neurotransmitter release, excitability, developmental plasticity, and gene expression. We reported previously that sensory neurons isolated from a mouse model with a heterozygous mutation of the Nf1 gene (Nf1+/-) exhibited both greater excitability and evoked release of neuropeptides compared to wildtype mice. Furthermore, augmented voltage-dependent sodium currents but not potassium currents contribute to the enhanced excitability. To determine the mechanisms giving rise to the enhanced release of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide in the Nf1+/- sensory neurons, the potential differences in the total voltage-dependent calcium current (ICa) as well as the contributions of individual Ca(2+) channel subtypes were assessed. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from small-diameter capsaicin-sensitive sensory neurons demonstrated that the average peak ICa densities were not different between the two genotypes. However, by using selective blockers of channel subtypes, the current density of N-type (Cav2.2) ICa was significantly larger in Nf1+/- neurons compared to wildtype neurons. In contrast, there were no significant differences in L-, P/Q- and R-type currents between the two genotypes. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction measurements made from the isolated but intact dorsal root ganglia indicated that N-type (Cav2.2) and P/Q-type (Cav2.1) Ca(2+) channels exhibited the highest mRNA expression levels although there were no significant differences in the levels of mRNA expression between the genotypes. These results suggest that the augmented N-type (Cav2.2) ICa observed in the Nf1+/- sensory neurons does not result from genomic differences but may reflect post-translational or some other non-genomic modifications. Thus, our results demonstrate that sensory neurons from Nf1+/- mice, exhibit increased N-type ICa and likely account for the increased release of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide that occurs in Nf1+/- sensory neurons.
Pyrroloquinoline quinone (PQQ), a redox cofactor in the mitochondrial respiratory chain, has been shown to protect neurons against glutamate-induced damage both in vitro and in vivo. In this study, specific inhibitors to each of the mitochondrial complexes were used to find out which reactive oxygen species (ROS)-generating sites could be affected by PQQ. Then we established an in vitro model of Parkinson's disease (PD) by exposing cultured SH-SY5Y dopaminergic cells to rotenone, a complex I inhibitor. The neuroprotective effects of PQQ were observed by pretreatment of SH-SY5Y cells with PQQ before rotenone injury, and the possible involvement of certain signaling pathways were investigated. PQQ pretreatment prevented SH-SY5Y cells from rotenone-induced apoptosis in a concentration-dependent manner. PQQ neuroprotection was associated with inhibition of intracellular ROS production, modulation of the expression of apoptosis-related Bcl-2 and Bax, and regulation of the level of superoxide dismutase, glutathione, and malondialdehyde. Meanwhile, PQQ up-regulated the gene expression of Ndufs 1, 2, and 4 (complex I subunits), and increased mitochondrial viability and mitochondrial DNA content. Furthermore, PQQ pretreatment activated ERK1/2 phosphorylation in rotenone-injured SH-SY5Y cells, while ERK1/2 inhibition suppressed PQQ neuroprotection. All the results suggested that PQQ could protect SH-SY5Y cells against rotenone injury by reducing ROS production and maintaining mitochondrial functions through activation of ERK1/2 pathway.
Neuroglobin (NGB), a protein highly expressed in the retina, has been shown to be up-regulated to protect neurons from hypoxic and ischemic injuries. It exhibits neuroprotective functions and plays an important role in the survival of neurons. Recent studies show that light-emitting diode (LED) white light emitted significant amounts of blue light (short-wavelength), which may be harmful to retinal cells, but the studies about biomarkers for evaluating the damage from LED white light are still insufficient. In our study, we found that NGB levels in the retina showed a twofold increase and peaked at 1h after a 1-h exposure to blue light (453nm) which did not cause damage to the retina. However, retinal damage was observed after 2h of blue-light irradiation, which induced an approximate sevenfold increase of NGB levels as confirmed by Western blot and RT-PCR analysis. Immunofluorescence study demonstrated that NGB was predominantly up-regulated in the ganglion cell layer (GCL), plexiform layer (PL) and photoreceptor layer (PRL). We also examined Ngb mRNA and protein expression in the damaged retina induced by light of other wavelengths given equal photon fluxes. The LED red light (625nm), green light (527nm) and blue light (453nm) increased the expression of NGB and caused TdT-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling-positive cells, especially in the blue-light group. In addition, a negative correlation between NGB and rhodopsin was observed. These findings suggested that there was a correlation between NGB expression and the severity of the retinal damage, indicating NGB's potential function as a biological marker of retinal damage induced by LED light.
We have shown that intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) contains anti-A autoantibodies and IVIG could induce beta amyloid (A) efflux from cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) to blood in both Multiple Sclerosis (MS) and Alzheimer disease (AD) patients. However, the molecular mechanism underlying IVIG-induced A efflux remains unclear. In this study, we used amyloid precursor protein (APP) transgenic mice to investigate if the IVIG could induce efflux of A from the brain and whether low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein-1 (LRP1), a hypothetic A transporter in blood-CSF barrier (BCB); could mediate this clearance process. We currently provide strong evidence to demonstrate that IVIG could reduce brain A levels by pulling A into the blood system in APP transgenic mice. In the mechanistic study, IVIG could induce A efflux through the in vitro BCB membrane formed by cultured BCB epithelial cells. Both receptor-associated protein (RAP; a functional inhibitor of LRP1), and LRP1 siRNA were able to significantly inhibit the A efflux. Should A prove to be the underlying cause of AD, our results strongly suggest that IVIG could be beneficial in the therapy for AD by inducing efflux of A from the brain through the LRP1 in the BCB.
Prenatal glucocorticoids (GCs) are routinely used for pregnant women in preterm labor to prevent respiratory distress syndrome and intraventricular hemorrhage in premature infants. However, the effect of antenatal GCs on neurogenesis in preterm neonates remains elusive. Herein, we hypothesized that prenatal GCs might suppress both glutamatergic and GABAergic neurogenesis in preterm rabbits and that this treatment would induce distinct changes in the expression of transcription factors regulating these developmental events. To test our hypotheses, we treated pregnant rabbits with betamethasone at E27 and E28, delivered the pups at E29 (term=32d), and assessed neurogenesis at birth and postnatal day 3. We quantified radial glia (Sox2(+)) and intermediate progenitor cells (Tbr2(+)) in the dorsal cortical subventricular zone to assess glutamatergic neuronal progenitors, and counted Nkx2.1(+) and Dlx2(+) cells in the ganglionic eminence to evaluate GABAergic neurogenesis. In addition, we assayed transcription factors regulating neurogenesis. We found that prenatal GCs did not affect the densities of radial glia and intermediate progenitors of glutamatergic or GABAergic neurons. The number of GABA(+) interneurons in the ganglionic eminence was similar between the prenatal GC-treated pups compared to untreated controls. Moreover, the mRNA expression of transcription factors, including Pax6, Ngn1/2, Emx1/2, Insm1, Dlx1, Nkx2.1, and Gsh2, were comparable between the two groups. However, there was a transient elevation in Mash1 protein in betamethasone-treated pups relative to controls at birth. These data suggest that prenatal GC treatment does not significantly impact the balance of glutamatergic and GABAergic neurogenesis in premature infants.
The goal of this study was to compare insulin resistance in aging and aging-related neurodegenerative diseases, and to determine the relationship between insulin resistance and gray matter volume (GMV) in each cohort using an unbiased, voxel-based approach. Insulin resistance was estimated in apparently healthy elderly control (HC, n=21) and neurodegenerative disease (Alzheimer's disease (AD), n=20; Parkinson's disease (PD), n=22) groups using Homeostasis Model Assessment of Insulin Resistance 2 (HOMA2) and intravenous glucose tolerance test (IVGTT). HOMA2 and GMV were assessed within groups through General Linear Model multiple regression. We found that HOMA2 was increased in both AD and PD compared to the HC group (HC vs. AD, p=0.002, HC vs. PD, p=0.003), although only AD subjects exhibited increased fasting glucose (p=0.005). Furthermore, our voxel-based morphometry analysis revealed that HOMA2 was related to GMV in all cohorts in a region-specific manner (p&lt;0.001, uncorrected). Significant relationships were observed in the medial prefrontal cortex (HC), medial temporal regions (AD), and parietal regions (PD). Finally, the directionality of the relationship between HOMA2 and GMV was disease-specific. Both HC and AD subjects exhibited negative relationships between HOMA2 and brain volume (increased HOMA2 associated with decreased brain volume), while a positive relationship was observed in PD. This cross-sectional study suggests that insulin resistance is increased in neurodegenerative disease, and that individuals with AD appear to have more severe metabolic dysfunction than individuals with PD or PD dementia.
The chromogranin A-derived peptide catestatin (CST) exerts sympathoexcitatory and hypertensive effects when microinjected into the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM: excitatory output); it exhibits sympathoinhibitory and antihypertensive effects when microinjected into the caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVLM: inhibitory output) of vagotomized normotensive rats. Here, continuous infusion of CST into the central amygdalar nucleus (CeA) of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) for 15days resulted in a marked decrease of blood pressure (BP) in 6-month- (by 37mmHg) and 9-month- (by 65mmHg)old rats. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings on pyramidal CeA neurons revealed that CST increased both spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic current (sIPSC) amplitude plus frequency, along with reductions of sIPSC rise time and decay time. Inhibition of GABAA receptors (GABAARs) by bicuculline completely abolished CST-induced sIPSC, corroborating that CST signals occur through this major neuroreceptor complex. Hypertension is a major risk factor for cerebrovascular diseases, leading to vascular dementia and neurodegeneration. We found a marked neurodegeneration in the amygdala and brainstem of 9-month-old SHRs, while CST and the GABAAR agonist Muscimol provided significant neuroprotection. Enhanced phosphorylation of Akt and ERK accounted for these neuroprotective effects through anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic activities. Overall our results point to CST exerting potent antihypertensive and neuroprotective effects plausibly via a GABAergic output, which constitute a novel therapeutic measure to correct defects in blood flow control in disorders such as stroke and Alzheimer's disease.
Caffeine is the psychostimulant most consumed worldwide but concerns arise about the growing intake of caffeine-containing drinks by adolescents since the effects of caffeine on cognitive functions and neurochemical aspects of late brain maturation during adolescence are poorly known. We now studied the behavioral impact in adolescent male rats of regular caffeine intake at low (0.1mg/mL), moderate (0.3mg/mL) and moderate/high (1.0mg/mL) doses only during their active period (from 7:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M.). All tested doses of caffeine were devoid of effects on locomotor activity, but triggered anxiogenic effects. Caffeine (0.3 and 1mg/mL) improved the performance in the object recognition task, but the higher dose of caffeine (1.0mg/mL) decreased the habituation to an open-field arena, suggesting impaired non-associative memory. All tested doses of caffeine decreased the density of glial fibrillary acidic protein and synaptosomal-associated protein-25, but failed to modify neuron-specific nuclear protein immunoreactivity in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex. Caffeine (0.3-1mg/mL) increased the density of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and proBDNF density as well as adenosine A1 receptor density in the hippocampus, whereas the higher dose of caffeine (1mg/mL) increased the density of proBDNF and BDNF and decreased A1 receptor density in the cerebral cortex. These findings document an impact of caffeine consumption in adolescent rats with a dual impact on anxiety and recognition memory, associated with changes in BDNF levels and decreases of astrocytic and nerve terminal markers without overt neuronal damage in hippocampal and cortical regions.
Rapid remodeling of neurons provides the brain with flexibility to adjust to environmental fluctuations. In Siberian hamsters, hippocampal dendritic morphology fluctuates across the day. To reveal the regulatory mechanism of diurnal remodeling of hippocampal neurons, we investigated the effects of light signals applied under different photoperiodic conditions on dendritic morphology. A 4-h dark pulse during the morning of long days (LD) increased basilar dendritic length, as well as complexity of basilar dendrites of neurons in the CA1. A light pulse during the late night in short days (SD) reduced basilar dendrite branching and increased primary apical dendrites of CA1 neurons. Spine density of dentate gyrus (DG) dendrites was increased by a dark pulse in LD and spine density of CA1 basilar dendrites was decreased by a light pulse in SD. These results indicate that light signals induce rapid remodeling of dendritic morphology in a hippocampal subregion-specific manner. A light pulse in SD decreased hippocampal expression of fetal liver kinase 1 (Flk1), a receptor for vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), raising the possibility that VEGF-FLK1 signaling might be involved in the rapid decrease of branching or spine density of CA1 basilar dendrites by light.
In this transcranial magnetic stimulation study, we assessed motor cortex excitability in the resting hemisphere while the homologous side was active during a voluntary unimanual task. Data acquired from left- and right-handers showed that cortical excitability varied as a function of isometric task demands and hand dominance. In particular, facilitation of the motor-evoked potentials was observed across task requirements in left-handers, independent of which hemisphere was active. In right-handers, facilitation was present when the right hemisphere was active whereas this effect was largely reduced when the left hemisphere was active, suggesting pronounced inhibitory interactions from the left (dominant) to the right (non-dominant) hemisphere. The distinct scaling of motor cortex excitability indicates the importance of the left hemisphere in guiding manual control in right-handers whereas both hemispheres are functionally relevant in left-handers. Overall, the results underline the asymmetrical organization of the motor system in right-handers with an important role of the dominant hemisphere whereas symmetrical functional abilities of both hemispheres characterize left-handers.
Although intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) increases the level of glutamate in the perihematomal area and cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) in the ICH acute phase, it is unclear whether elevated glutamate activates neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) in the ICH brain and whether nNOS is an important target for ICH treatment. Here, we assessed the role of the nNOS inhibitor S-methyl-l-thiocitrulline (SMTC) in the activity of NADPH-d and ICH-induced brain injuries. An autologous blood intracerebral infusion model in male rats was used. All of the rats were sacrificed 24h after ICH. ICH increased NADPH-d activity in the striatum. Administering SMTC 3h after ICH decreased the activity of NADH-d (p&lt;0.05 vs. the ICH group). The activation of gelatinolytic enzymes in the perihematomal region of the striatum was reduced by SMTC treatment (p&lt;0.01, vs. the ICH group). The loss of laminin- and occludin-stained vessels was significant in perihematomal regions after 24h of ICH and was significantly attenuated by the administration of SMTC (p&lt;0.01 for laminin, p&lt;0.05 for occluding, compared with the ICH group). Neuronal death and neurological deficits after ICH were also decreased in SMTC treatment rats (p&lt;0.01, vs. the ICH group). The results suggest that the administration of the nNOS inhibitor SMTC after ICH protects against ICH-induced brain injuries and improves neurological function.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) exerts neuroprotective and neurorestorative effects on neurons and GDNF plays a significant role in maintenance of the dopamine neurons utilizing grafting to create a nigrostriatal microcircuit of Gdnf knockout (Gdnf(-/-)) tissue. To further evaluate the role of GDNF on organization of the nigrostriatal system, single or double grafts of ventral mesencephalon (VM) and lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE) with mismatches in Gdnf genotypes were performed. The survival of single grafts was monitored utilizing magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and cell survival and graft organization were evaluated with immunohistochemistry. The results revealed that the size of VM single grafts did not change over time independent of genotype, while the size of the LGE transplants was significantly reduced already at 2weeks postgrafting when lacking GDNF. Lack of GDNF did not significantly affect the survival of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons in single VM grafts. However, the survival of TH-positive neurons was significantly reduced in VM derived from Gdnf(+/+) when co-grafted with LGE from the Gdnf(-/-) tissue. In contrast, lack of GDNF in the VM portion of co-grafts had no effect on the survival of TH-positive neurons when co-grafted with LGE from Gdnf(+/+) mice. The TH-positive innervation of co-grafts was sparse when the striatal co-grafts were derived from the Gdnf(-/-) tissue while dense and patchy when innervating LGE producing GDNF. The TH-positive innervation overlapped with the organization of dopamine and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein-relative molecular mass 32,000 (DARPP-32)-positive neurons, that was disorganized in LGE lacking GDNF production. In conclusion, GDNF is important for a proper striatal organization and for survival of TH-positive neurons in the presence of the striatal tissue.
High-density, event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were recorded to explore differences in spatiotemporal dynamics between modus ponens (MP) and modus tollens (MT) in the Wason selection task. Results showed that MP elicits a more positive P3b-like component than MT from 400 to 800ms. MP appeared to occur earlier than MT in various stages of proposition testing, such as stimulus processing and response selection. ERP results showed that MT has a longer duration and more negative later negative component (LNC) than MP at 2000ms. This result suggests that MT occupies more cognitive resources than MP in the final stages of proposition testing. The short and small left frontal LNC obtained by MP implies examination of the expectable conclusion, whereas the long and large left frontal LNC elicited by MT may be involved in the retention operation of the card in working memory from the monitoring and inspecting putative conclusion in the later stages of proposition testing.
We tested the hypothesis that the angiotensinergic neurotransmission, specifically in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), is involved in the cardiovascular modulation during acute restraint stress (RS) in rats. The intravenous pretreatment with the angiotensin AT1 receptor antagonist losartan (5mg/kg) inhibited the pressor response to RS, but did not affect the concomitant RS-evoked tachycardiac response. Because similar effects were observed after the PVN pretreatment with CoCl2, and considering the high density of angiotensin receptors reported in the PVN, we studied the effect of the pretreatment of the PVN with either losartan or the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor lisinopril on the RS-evoked cardiovascular response. The bilateral microinjection of losartan (0.5nmol/100nL) or lisinopril (0.5nmol/100nL) into the PVN inhibited the RS-related pressor response without affecting the tachycardiac response, suggesting that the PVN angiotensinergic neurotransmission modulates the vascular component of the stress response. Finally, to exclude the possibility that centrally injected drugs could be leaking to the circulation and acting on peripheral vascular receptors, we tested the effect of the intravenous pretreatment with either losartan (0.5nmol/animal) or lisinopril (0.5nmol/animal), assuming the hypothesis of a total spread of drugs from the CNS to the peripheral circulation. When animals were pretreated with such doses of either losartan or lisinopril, the cardiovascular RS-evoked response was not affected, thus indicating that even if there were a complete leakage of the drug to the periphery, it would not affect the cardiovascular response to RS. This observation favors the idea that the effect of the intravenous injection of 5mg/kg of losartan on the RS-related cardiovascular response would be explained by an action across the blood-brain barrier, possibly in the PVN. In conclusion, the results suggest that an angiotensinergic neurotransmission in the PVN acting on AT1-receptors modulates the vascular component of the RS-evoked cardiovascular response.
Environmental enrichment can modulate mild and chronic stress, responses to anxiogenic stimuli as well as drug vulnerability in a number of animal models. The current study was designed to examine the impact of postnatal environmental enrichment on selectively bred 4th generation high- (HAn) and low-anxiety (LAn) male rats. After weaning, animals were placed in isolated (IE), social (SE) and enriched environments (EE) (e.g., toys, wheels, ropes, changed weekly). We measured anxiety-like behavior (ALB) on the elevated plus maze (EPM; trial 1 at postnatal day (PND) 46, trial 2 at PND 63), amphetamine (AMPH) (0.5mg/kg, IP)-induced locomotor behavior, basal and post anxiogenic stimuli changes in (1) plasma corticosterone, (2) blood pressure and (3) core body temperature. Initially, animals showed consistent trait differences on EPM with HAn showing more ALB but after 40days in select housing, HAn rats reared in an EE showed less ALB and diminished AMPH-induced activity compared to HAn animals housed in IE and SE. In the physiological tests, animals housed in EE showed elevated adrenocortical responses to forced novel object exposure but decreased body temperature and blood pressure changes after an air puff stressor. All animals reared in EE and SE had elevated brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-positive cells in the central amygdala (CeA), CA1 and CA2 hippocampal regions and the caudate putamen, but these differences were most pronounced in HAn rats for CeA, CA1 and CA2. Overall, these findings suggest that environmental enrichment offers benefits for trait anxiety rats including a reduction in behavioral and physiological responses to anxiogenic stimuli and AMPH sensitivity, and these responses correlate with changes in BDNF expression in the central amygdala, hippocampus and the caudate putamen.

Tyrosine-hydroxylase-positive (TH(+)) amacrine cells release dopamine in a paracrine manner and also form GABA-ergic contact sites with inner retinal neurons. The best known sites are formed by TH(+) fibrous rings and AII amacrine cell somata in stratum 1 of the inner plexiform layer (IPL). An AII amacrine cell is a highly compartmentalized neuron with relatively large soma, a stout dendritic stalk and two sets of processes, one showing lobular appearance and extending horizontally in stratum 1 and a second transversally elongated group of fibers in strata 4 and 5. Although, all of these compartments have been reported as tic sites, it is uncertain if TH(+) amacrine cell inputs are homogeneously distributed or they rather target specific AII cell compartments. In this study we investigated the TH(+)/AII cell system by immunohistochemistry to map the potential synaptic contacts in the rabbit retina. We found numerous intimate contacts between the two amacrine cell populations throughout the IPL. However, TH(+) fibers favored the soma/main stalk region of AII amacrine cells and only contacted lobular appendages and transversal processes sporadically. In addition to the well-studied contacts between AII cell somata and TH(+) rings in stratum 1 we found that the main stalk region in stratum 3 serves as a secondary major target for TH(+) axons. These data thus clearly show that TH(+) contacts to AII amacrine cells are highly compartment specific.
We tested the hypothesis that decreasing the control level of O2 from 95% to 40% reduces tissue partial pressure of oxygen (pO2), decreases extracellular nitric oxide (NO) and decreases intracellular superoxide (O2(-)) while maintaining viability in caudal solitary complex (cSC) neurons in slices (300-400m; neonatal rat P2-22; 34-37C). We also tested the hypothesis that normobaric hyperoxia is a general stimulant of cSC neurons, including CO2-excited neurons. Whole-cell recordings of cSC neurons maintained in 40% O2 were comparable to recordings made in 95% O2 in duration and quality. In 40% O2, cSC neurons had a significantly lower spontaneous firing rate but similar membrane potentials and input resistances as cSC neurons maintained in 95% O2. Tissue pO2 was threefold lower in 40% O2 versus 95% O2. Likewise, extracellular NO and intracellular O2(-) were lower in 40% versus 95% O2. 67% of neurons maintained in 40% O2 control were stimulated by hyperoxia (95% O2) compared to 81% of neurons maintained in 95% O2 that were stimulated during hyperoxic reoxygenation following acute exposure to 0-40% O2. cSC slices maintained in 40% O2 exhibited CO2-chemosensitive neurons, including CO2-excited (31.5%) and a higher incidence of CO2-inhibited (31.5%) neurons than previously reported. Likewise, a higher incidence of CO2-inhibited and lower incidence of CO2-excited neurons were observed in 85-95% O2. 82% of O2-excited neurons were also CO2-chemosensitive; CO2-excited (86%) and CO2-inhibited neurons (84%) were equally stimulated by hyperoxia. Our findings demonstrate that chronic (hours) and acute (minutes) exposure to hyperoxia stimulates firing rate in the majority of cSC neurons, most of which are also CO2 chemosensitive. Our findings support the hypothesis that recurring exposures to acute hyperoxia and hyperoxic reoxygenation-a repeating surge in tissue pO2-activate redox and nitrosative signaling mechanisms in CO2-chemosensitive neurons that alter expression of CO2 chemosensitivity (e.g., increased expression of CO2-inhibition) compared to sustained hyperoxia (85-95% O2).
Ibuprofen is a widely used nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug that reportedly reduces the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) development. The anti-inflammatory effect of ibuprofen occurred via inhibition of cyclooxygenases and anti-amyloidogenesis through modulation of -secretase. Presenilin 1 and 2 conditional double-knockout (cDKO) mice exhibited age-dependent memory impairment and forebrain degeneration without elevation of amyloid  deposition. Therefore, cDKO mice can be an ideal animal model on which to independently test the effects of ibuprofen anti-inflammatory properties on the prevention of AD. Three- and six-month-old cDKO mice were fed diet containing 375ppm ibuprofen for six months. After multiple, well-validated behavioral tests, treatment with ibuprofen improved cognition-related behavioral performance, and drug efficacy was correlated with the timing of administration. Ibuprofen was more effective on six-month-old than on three-month-old cDKO mice. Biochemical analysis demonstrated that the effects of ibuprofen on glial fibrillary acidic protein and CD68 expression levels were uneven in different brain regions of cDKO mice and that age also influenced such effects. Tau hyperphosphorylation and the cleavage of caspase-3 decreased after ibuprofen treatment, and this effect was more significant in the older than the younger group of mice, which was consistent with the results of behavioral tests.

There is a great interest in targeting and selective ablation of populations of circulating cells for research or therapeutic purposes. Red blood cells (RBCs) are readily available and fully biocompatible long-circulating intravascular carriers (natural life is 120days) that are amenable to chemical modifications, drug loading and reinjection. Here we demonstrate that using our previously described lipophilic ligand painting strategy, red blood cells (RBCs) could be in one step converted into targeted entities that selectively seek and bind various cells in vitro and in vivo. In vitro, RBCs modified with lipophilic anti-EpCAM or anti-CD45 antibodies efficiently bound to cancer cells and leukocytes, forming characteristic rosettes. In vivo, intravenously injected RBCs painted with anti-CD45 antibody immediately associated with CD45 positive cells in blood, forming RBC-leukocyte rosettes. Moreover, anti-CD45-modified RBCs, but not the same amount of anti-CD45 antibody or anti-CD45-lipid conjugate (1-2g/mouse), depleted over 50% of CD45+ leukocytes from circulation, with main clearance organs of leukocytes being liver and spleen with no visible deposition in kidneys and lungs. Anti-CD20 (Rituximab)-painted RBCs efficiently (over 90%) depleted CD19+/CD20+/CD45+ human lymphoma cells in mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) JeKo-1 model, while the same amount of rituximab-lipid (2g/mouse) was much less efficient in lymphoma cell depletion. Treatment of MCL mice with rituximab-modified RBCs carrying only 2g of the antibody resulted in a significant prolongation of survival as compared to the same amount of antibody-lipid control. Lipophilic ligand-painted RBCs is a novel tool that can be utilized for targeting blood borne cells for experimental immunology and drug delivery applications.
Monoamine deficit and mitochondrial dysfunction may underlie depression. Serotoninergic neurons from raphe nuclei project widely and may be involved in depression. This study used chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) in rats as a model of depression to assess the effects of CUS, exercise and fluoxetine on mitochondrial function and serotonin levels in the raphe nuclei. Rats were divided into 4 groups (6 per group): control (C); depression (D), CUS for 28days; depression+exercise (DE), treadmill exercises from days 11-28 of CUS; depression+fluoxetine (DF), fluoxetine (5mg/kg/d i.g.) from days 11 to 28 of CUS. Behavioral changes were assessed using body weight, sucrose consumption tests (anhedonia) and open field tests (locomotor/exploratory behavior). Raphe nucleus mitochondrial function was determined using the respiratory control ratio, ATP synthesis rate, and activities of superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase. Serotonin levels were measured in the raphe nuclei and hippocampus. On day 28 of CUS, body weight was higher in group C than in groups D, DE and DF (P&lt;0.001), and higher in group DE than in group D or DF (P&lt;0.05). Sucrose consumption was higher in group C than in groups D, DE and DF (P&lt;0.001), higher in group DE than in groups D (P&lt;0.001) or DF (P&lt;0.05), and higher in group DF than in group D (P&lt;0.05). All measures of mitochondrial function were increased in group D compared with the other groups (P&lt;0.01). Hippocampal serotonin was lower in group D than in the other groups (P&lt;0.01); levels in the raphe nuclei were elevated in group DE compared with the remaining groups (P&lt;0.001). CUS in rats may cause overactivation of the mitochondria in the raphe nuclei, and exercise training may suppress these changes.
Previous findings on normal sexual dimorphism in hippocampal volume have not always been consistent. This study investigated gender differences in hippocampal volume using different head-size correction strategies. T1-weighted MR images were collected in 99 healthy, Caucasian, university students (66 female subjects; mean age: 23.12.3, range: 19-31 years). Sexual dimorphism in hippocampus was investigated by automated MRI volumetry and voxel-based morphometry (VBM) using both general linear model (GLM) and proportion head-size correction strategies. Absolute hippocampal volumes were larger in men than women. After adjusting for head-size, the proportion method indicated larger hippocampi in women than men, while no gender differences were found using the GLM approach. Investigating absolute hippocampal volumes in 15 head-size matched pairs of males and females indicated no gender differences. We suggest that there is no sexual dimorphism in hippocampal size and the apparent gender differences found by the proportion method may have more to do with head-size than with sex. The GLM and proportion head-size correction strategies are not interchangeable and may yield different results. The importance of the present findings is mostly related to scientific reproducibility across MRI volumetry or VBM studies.
We consider the influence of extracellular signalling on neurite elongation in a model of neurite growth mediated by building proteins (e.g., tubulin). The tubulin production dynamics were supplied by a function describing the influence of extracellular signalling, which can promote or depress neurite elongation. We found that this extracellular feedback could generate neurite length oscillations consisting of a periodic sequence of elongations and retractions. The oscillations prevent further outgrowth of the neurite, which becomes trapped in the non-uniform extracellular field. We analysed the characteristics of the elongation process for different distributions of attracting and repelling sources of the extracellular signalling molecules. The model predicts three different scenarios of neurite development in the extracellular field, including monotonic and oscillatory outgrowth, localised limit cycle oscillations and complete growth depression.

Hibernation is a physiological state that by putting vital biological processes at rest enables mammals to protect all organs, especially the brain against ischemic insults and reperfusion injuries. Earlier studies have highlighted the role of hypothalamic (HTH) sites like the periventricular nucleus (Pe) toward sleep-wake and cardiovascular activities of hibernators. In the present work, infusions of Pe with the orexigenic neuropeptide orexin-A (ORX-A) or the novel anti-obesity sympathoinhibitory neuroactive peptide catestatin (CST) have been correlated to differing feeding and motor behaviors in the facultative hibernating hamster Mesocricetus auratus. Behavioral observations showed that treatment with CST provided an anti-obesity activity via the reduction of food intake and body weight for all hibernating states, while ORX-A promoted orexigenic events during mainly the entrance phase. Moreover, hamsters treated with this neuropeptide during the entrance and the arousal hypertensive phases also featured elevated ORX 2 receptor (ORX2R) levels in the third layer of the parietal cortex and lateral HTH (LH), areas involved with feeding, motor plus sleep-wake rhythms. Conversely, ORX-A down-regulated ORX2Rs in the ventromedial (VMH) and supraoptic (SO) HTH nuclei that are associated with anorexigenic effects. Even CST induced mixed ORX2R expression patterns in mostly HTH areas like the evident down-regulation in LH along with the up-regulation in VMH and SO. Overall treatments, especially ORX-A+CST led to reduced neurodegenerative phenomena in HTH supporting their importance together with ORX2Rs in preserving hemodynamic activities, feeding and sleep-wake rhythms of this diencephalic station, which may supply useful therapeutic indications for treating cardiovascular disturbances linked with brain dysfunctions.
Proper development of the auditory cortex depends on early acoustic experience that modulates the balance between excitatory and inhibitory (E/I) circuits. In the present social and occupational environment exposure to chronic loud sound in the form of occupational or recreational noise, is becoming inevitable. This could especially disrupt the functional auditory cortex development leading to altered processing of complex sound and hearing impairment. Here we report the effects of prenatal chronic loud sound (110-dB sound pressure level (SPL)) exposure (rhythmic [music] and arrhythmic [noise] forms) on the molecular components involved in regulation of the E/I balance in the developing auditory cortex analog/Field L (AuL) in domestic chicks. Noise exposure at 110-dB SPL significantly enhanced the E/I ratio (increased expression of AMPA receptor GluR2 subunit and glutamate with decreased expression of GABA(A) receptor gamma 2 subunit and GABA), whereas loud music exposure maintained the E/I ratio. Expressions of markers of synaptogenesis, synaptic stability and plasticity i.e., synaptophysin, PSD-95 and gephyrin were reduced with noise but increased with music exposure. Thus our results showed differential effects of prenatal chronic loud noise and music exposures on the E/I balance and synaptic function and stability in the developing auditory cortex. Loud music exposure showed an overall enrichment effect whereas loud noise-induced significant alterations in E/I balance could later impact the auditory function and associated cognitive behavior.
Increased reactive oxygen species generation and mitochondrial dysfunction occur during ethanol hangover. The aim of this work was to study the effect of melatonin pretreatment on motor performance and mitochondrial function during ethanol hangover. Male mice received melatonin solution or its vehicle in drinking water during 7days and i.p. injection with EtOH (3.8g/kg BW) or saline at the eighth day. Motor performance and mitochondrial function were evaluated at the onset of hangover (6h after injection). Melatonin improved motor coordination in ethanol hangover mice. Malate-glutamate-dependent oxygen uptake was decreased by ethanol hangover treatment and partially prevented by melatonin pretreatment. Melatonin alone induced a decrease of 30% in state 4 succinate-dependent respiratory rate. Also, the activity of the respiratory complexes was decreased in melatonin-pretreated ethanol hangover group. Melatonin pretreatment before the hangover prevented mitochondrial membrane potential collapse and induced a 79% decrement of hydrogen peroxide production as compared with ethanol hangover group. Ethanol hangover induced a 25% decrease in NO production. Melatonin alone and as a pretreatment before ethanol hangover significantly increased NO production by nNOS and iNOS as compared with control groups. No differences were observed in nNOS protein expression, while iNOS expression was increased in the melatonin group. Increased NO production by melatonin could be involved in the decrease of succinate-dependent oxygen consumption and the inhibition of complex IV observed in our study. Melatonin seems to act as an antioxidant agent in the ethanol hangover condition but also exhibited some dual effects related to NO metabolism.
Auditory information plays an important role in fine motor control such as speech and musical performance. The purpose of this study was to assess expertise-dependent differences in the role of temporal information of auditory feedback in the production of sequential movements. Differences in motor responses to the transient delay of tone production during musical performance between expert pianists and non-musicians were evaluated. Compared to expert pianists, non-musicians showed more pronounced movement disruptions following the delayed auditory feedback. For example, in response to a perturbation the inter-keystroke interval was prolonged and the key-press was longer in non-musicians, while the expert pianist marginally shortened both measures. These distinct differences between groups suggest that extensive musical training influences feedback control in sequential finger movements. Furthermore, there was a significant positive correlation between the age at which the expert pianists commenced their musical training and the amount of disruption. Overall, these findings suggest that expert pianists have a higher level of robustness against perturbations and depend less on auditory feedback during the performance of sequential movements.
Wistar of the National Institute of Nutrition obese (WNIN/Ob) is a unique rat strain isolated and established at NIN, Hyderabad, India, in 1996, from its existing stock of Wistar rat colony (WNIN). This animal model exhibits all traits of metabolic syndrome and has a remarkably reduced lifespan (1.5years as compared to 3years in parental WNIN rats), albeit, the factors associated with premature aging are not well understood. Considering that oxidative stress and DNA damage are crucial players associated with senescence, we analyzed oxidative stress markers like lipid peroxidation and protein oxidation; DNA damage in terms of both single-stranded and double-stranded breaks and the activity of antioxidant enzymes: superoxide dismutase and catalase in brain regions of these animals. Our study revealed that the magnitude of oxidative stress and DNA damage in the neocortex and hippocampus of 3-month-old WNIN/Ob obese rats is as high as that seen in 15-month-old parental WNIN control rats. Concurrently, the antioxidant enzyme activity was significantly decreased. From these results, it can be concluded that increased oxidative stress-induced damage of macromolecules, probably due to reduced activity of antioxidant enzymes, is associated with premature aging in WNIN/Ob obese rats.
The gray short-tailed opossum (Monodelphis domestica) is a nocturnal South American marsupial that has been gaining popularity as a laboratory animal. However, compared to traditional laboratory animals like rats, very little is known about its behavior, either in the wild or in a laboratory setting. Here we investigated the photic preference of the short-tailed opossum. Opossums were placed in a circular testing arena and allowed to move freely between dark (0lux) and light (1.4, 40, or 400lux) sides of the arena. In each of these conditions opossums spent significantly more time in the dark than in the illuminated side and a greater proportion of time in the dark than would be expected by chance. In the high-contrast (400lux) illumination condition, the mean bout length (i.e., duration of one trip on the light or dark side) was significantly longer on the dark side than on the light side. When we examined the number of bouts greater than 30 and 60s in duration, we found a significant difference between the light and dark sides in all light contrast conditions. These data indicate that the short-tailed opossum prefers the dark to the light, and can also detect very slight differences in light intensity. We conclude that although rats and opossums share many similar characteristics, including ecological niche, their divergent evolutionary heritage results in vastly different behavioral capabilities. Only by observing the behavioral capabilities and preferences of opossums will we be able to manipulate the experimental environment to best elicit and elucidate their behavior and alterations in behavior that can arise from experimental manipulations.

The interaction between excitatory and inhibitory inputs is critical to neuronal signal processing. However, little is known about this fundamental property, largely due to the inability to clearly isolate the respective inputs. Here we took advantage of the characteristic stereotypical architecture of synaptic connections in the main olfactory bulb, which enabled us to entirely separate excitatory and inhibitory inputs. Using paired stimulation of two glomeruli located apart at different intensities, we separately elicited excitatory and inhibitory inputs and mimicked stimulation of competing mitral cells (MCs) with different odorants. We performed dual whole-cell patch recording of evoked excitatory postsynaptic responses (EPSPs) and inhibitory postsynaptic responses (IPSPs) in current-clamp mode from two competitive MCs that are connected to the two stimulated glomeruli in slices of the main olfactory bulb in 2-3-week-old rats. We deliberately held the recorded cells at a relative hyperpolarized potential. This manipulation not only suppressed action potential generation but also excluded the possible contamination of inhibitory components in excitatory inputs. We found that in weakly activated MCs repetitive EPSP-IPSP interactions (5Hz, 180 times) induced long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) in convergent excitatory and inhibitory inputs, respectively. Unexpectedly, these forms of plasticity depend on activity of somatic (mainly non-synaptic) NMDA receptors (NMDARs). In contrast, the same repetitive stimulation induced the LTP of excitatory inputs in strongly activated MCs (MC2) that require activity of synaptic NMDARs. These distinct forms of plasticity in the developing olfactory circuit may represent a novel rule of modification in convergent inputs that leads to decorrelation of inputs and facilitates odor discrimination.
Intramuscular injection of nerve growth factor (NGF) in healthy humans mimics some of the symptoms of myofascial temporomandibular disorders (M-TMD). We hypothesized that NGF induces a prolonged myofascial mechanical sensitization by increasing peripheral N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor expression, leading to an enhanced response of muscle nociceptors to endogenous glutamate. Behavioral experiments with an injection of NGF (25g/ml, 10l) into the masseter muscle reduced the mechanical withdrawal threshold for 1day in male rats and 5days in female rats. These results mirror the sex-related differences found in NGF-induced mechanical sensitization in humans. Intramuscular injection with the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist dl-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV, 0.020g/ml, 10l) reversed the mechanical sensitization in male but not in female rats. NGF increased the number of NMDA receptor subtype 2B (NR2B)-expressing rat trigeminal masseter ganglion neurons in both sexes, which peaked at 3days post injection. There was an association between the levels of NR2B expression and NGF-induced mechanical sensitization. The average soma size of NR2B-expressing neurons increased significantly. Increased expression of neuropeptides (CGRP and SP) was observed in NR2B-expressing masseter ganglion neurons in female but not in male rats. In healthy men and women, comparable basal expression levels of NR2B and SP were found in peripheral fibers from masseter muscle microbiopsies. This study suggests that NGF-induced sensitization of masseter nociceptors is mediated, in part, by enhanced peripheral NMDA receptor expression. Measurement of peripheral NMDA receptor expression may be useful as a biomarker for M-TMD pain.
As a consequence of an ischemic episode, energy production is disturbed, leading to neuronal cell death. Despite intensive research, the quest for promising neuroprotective drugs has largely failed, not only because of ineffectiveness, but also because of serious side-effects and dosing difficulties. Acetyl-l-carnitine (ALC) is an essential nutrient which plays a key role in energy metabolism by transporting fatty acids into mitochondria for -oxidation. It is an endogenous compound and can be used at high dose without toxicity in research into ischemia. Its neuroprotective properties have been reported in many studies, but its potential action on long-term potentiation (LTP) and dendritic spine density has not been described to date. The aim of the present study was an evaluation of the possible protective effect of ALC after ischemic insults inflicted on hippocampal synaptic plasticity in a 2-vessel occlusion (2VO) model in rats. For electrophysiological measurements, LTP was tested on hippocampal slices. The Golgi-Cox staining technique was used to determine spine density. 2VO resulted in a decreased, unstable LTP and a significant loss of dendritic spines. ALC administered after 2VO was not protective, but as pretreatment prior to 2VO it restored LTP nearly to the control level. This finding paralleled the histological analysis: ALC pretreatment resulted in the reappearance of dendritic spines on the CA1 pyramidal cells. Our data demonstrate that ALC administration can restore hippocampal function and spine density. ALC probably acts by enhancing the aerobic metabolic pathway, which is inhibited during and following ischemic attacks.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive brain disorder that causes gradual and irreversible loss of higher brain functions and is the most common cause of dementia in the elderly, as assessed by autopsy and clinical series. Furthermore, it has an annual incidence of approximately 3% in the 65-74-year-old age group. This incidence rate doubles with every increment of 5years above the age of 65. In Morocco, AD affects almost 30,000 individuals and this number will possibly increase to 75,000 by 2020 (projections of the World Health Organization (WHO)). Genetically, AD is caused by a mutation in one of at least 3 genes: presenilin 1 (PS1), presenilin 2 (PS2) and the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Most cases are late onset and apparently sporadic, most likely as a result of a combination of environmental and non-dominant genetic factors. In Morocco, the genes predisposing individuals to AD and predicting disease incidence remain elusive. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the genetic contribution of mutations in PS1 and PS2 genes to familial early-onset AD cases and sporadic late-onset AD cases. Seventeen sporadic late-onset AD cases and eight familial early-onset AD cases were seen at the memory clinic of the University of Casablanca Neurology Department. These patients underwent standard somatic neurological examination, cognitive function assessment, brain imaging and laboratory tests. Direct sequencing of each exon in PS1 and PS2 genes was performed on genomic DNA of AD patients. Further, we identified 1 novel frameshift mutation in the PS1 gene and 2 novel frameshift mutations in the PS2 gene. Our mutational analysis reports a correlation between clinical symptoms and genetic factors in our cases of Early-Onset Alzheimer's Disease (EOAD). These putative mutations cosegregate with affected family members suggesting a direct mutagenic effect.
Toll-like receptor 11 (TLR11) is a specific receptor for Toxoplasma gondii and uropathogenic Escherichia coli and has recently been identified in the mouse brain. In the present study, TLR11 gene expression was measured in the mouse brain by Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Furthermore, the TLR11 protein expression profile was evaluated in neuroglia and neurons throughout the encephalitic period (10, 20, and 30days after inoculation) in mice with experimentally induced T. gondii infection. In the brains of experimental (n=21) and control (n=7) mice, TLR11, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), cd11b, NeuN, TLR11/GFAP+, TLR11/cd11b+, and TLR11/NeuN+ cells were investigated using either indirect single- or double-labeling immunoperoxidase staining. The results indicated that TLR11 gene expression increased during chronic toxoplasmic encephalitis, and there was a variable degree of TLR11 immunopositivity among cd11b+, GFAP+, and NeuN+ cells in the brain. On the tenth day of infection, there was a significant increase in TLR11 protein and gene expression, which remained stable during the later stages of infection. In this experimental model, TLR11 expression was induced in astrocytes, neurons, and microglia/macrophages during the immune response to T. gondii infection.
Mild cognitive impairments have been described in one-third of patients with Duchenne muscle dystrophy (DMD). DMD is characterized by progressive and irreversible muscle degeneration caused by mutations in the dystrophin gene and lack of the protein expression. Previously, we have reported altered concentrations of 7- and 2-containing nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in hippocampal membranes of dystrophic (mdx) mice. This suggests that alterations in the central cholinergic synapses are associated with dystrophin deficiency. In this study, we examined the release of acetylcholine (ACh) and the level of the vesicular ACh transporter (VAChT) using synaptosomes isolated from brain regions that normally have a high density of dystrophin (cortex, hippocampus and cerebellum), in control and mdx mice at 4 and 12months of age. ACh release evoked by nicotinic stimulation or K(+) depolarization was measured as the tritium outflow from superfused synaptosomes preloaded with [(3)H]-choline. The results showed that the evoked tritium release was Ca(2+)-dependent and mostly formed by [(3)H]-ACh. 2-containing nAChRs were involved in agonist-evoked [(3)H]-ACh release in control and mdx preparations. In hippocampal synaptosomes from 12-month-old mdx mice, nAChR-evoked [(3)H]-ACh release increased by 57% compared to age-matched controls. Moreover, there was a 98% increase in [(3)H]-ACh release compared to 4-month-old mdx mice. [(3)H]-ACh release evoked by K(+) depolarization was not altered, while the VAChT protein level was decreased (19%) compared to that of age-matched controls. In cortical and cerebellar preparations, there was no difference in nAChR-evoked [(3)H]-ACh release and VAChT levels between mdx and age-matched control groups. Our previous findings and the presynaptic alterations observed in the hippocampi of 12-month-old mdx mice indicate possible dysfunction of nicotinic cholinergic synapses associated with dystrophin deficiency. These changes may contribute to the cognitive and behavioral abnormalities described in dystrophic mice and patients with DMD.

Cerebral ischemia can be exacerbated by post-ischemic hyperglycemia, which may involve the cerebral sodium-glucose transporter (SGLT). However, the contribution of each SGLT isoform in cerebral ischemia is still unclear. SGLT-1, -3, -4, and -6 have been reported to be expressed in various brain regions. Among these isoforms, only SGLT-3 does not transport glucose, but depolarizes the plasma membrane when glucose is bound, suggesting that SGLT-3 is a glucose sensor. Therefore, in this study, we investigated the involvement of cerebral SGLT-3 in the development of ischemia. The mouse model of focal ischemia was generated by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Neuronal damage was assessed by histological and behavioral analyses. Fasting blood glucose levels on day 1 after MCAO were not affected in SGLT-3 siRNA-mediated knockdown of SGLT-3. The development of infarct volume and behavioral abnormalities on day 1 after MCAO were exacerbated in SGLT-3 knockdown mice (control group: n=7, 94.221.8mm(3), 2 (1.6-2.4), SGLT-3 knockdown group: n=6, 1414.8492.4mm(3), 6 (5.8-6.3), P&lt;0.05). Moreover, SGLT-3 expression levels were significantly decreased in the striatum (65.08.1%, P&lt;0.05) on day 1, and in the hippocampus (67.67.2%, P&lt;0.05) and hypothalamus (47.55.1%, P&lt;0.01) on day 3 after MCAO (n=12-13). These effects were significantly inhibited by donepezil (DPZ) treatment (SGLT-3 knockdown group: n=6, 1419.0181.5mm(3), 3.6 (3.4-3.7), SGLT-3 knockdown and 3mg/kg DPZ-treated group: n=5, 611.3205.3mm(3), 1.5 (1.4-1.8), P&lt;0.05). Immunofluorescence revealed that SGLT-3 and choline acetyltransferase were co-localized in the cortex. Our results indicated that cerebral SGLT-3 suppressed neuronal damage by the activation of cholinergic neurons, which are neuroprotective. In contrast, other cerebral SGLT isoforms may be involved in the development of ischemia.
Chronic exposure to n-hexane induces peripheral-central axonopathy, mediated by its metabolite 2,5-hexanedione (2,5-HD), in occupational workers and experimental animals, but the underlying mechanism is still unclear. In the current study, we investigated the effects of 2,5-HD on middle-molecular-weight neurofilament (NF-M) axonal transport using live-cell imaging technique in cultured rat dorsal root ganglia (DRG) cells. PA-GFP-NF-M plasmid was transfected into DRG neurons and live-cell imaging was performed to observe the slow axonal transport of NF-M. The levels of cytoskeleton and motor proteins in DRG cells were detected by Western-blot and the concentration of ATP was determined using an ATP Assay Kit. The results showed that 2,5-HD administration resulted in a decrease of NF-M axonal transport and a reduction of three neurofilament subunits levels in DRG cells. Furthermore, 2,5-HD exposure significantly decreased ATP contents and the protein levels of kinesin heavy chain (KHC). These findings indicated that 2,5-HD reduced slow axonal transport, neurofilaments cargoes, motor proteins and ATP energy in rat DRG cells, which may contribute to 2,5-HD-induced neurotoxicity.
Sensitization and activation of trigeminal nociceptors is implicated in prevalent and debilitating orofacial pain conditions including temporomandibular joint (TMJ) disorders. Orexins are excitatory neuropeptides that function to regulate many physiological processes and are reported to modulate nociception. To determine the role of orexins in an inflammatory model of trigeminal activation, the effects of a dual orexin receptor antagonist (DORA-12) on levels of proteins that promote peripheral and central sensitization and changes in nocifensive responses were investigated. In adult male Sprague-Dawley rats, mRNA for orexin receptor 1 (OX1R) and receptor 2 (OX2R) were detected in trigeminal ganglia and spinal trigeminal nucleus (STN). OX1R immunoreactivity was localized primarily in neuronal cell bodies in the V3 region of the ganglion and in laminas I-II of the STN. Animals injected bilaterally with complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) in the TMJ capsule exhibited increased expression of P-p38, P-ERK, and lba1 in trigeminal ganglia and P-ERK and lba1 in the STN at 2days post injection. However, levels of each of these proteins in rats receiving daily oral DORA-12 were inhibited to near basal levels. Similarly, administration of DORA-12 on days 3 and 4 post CFA injection in the TMJ effectively inhibited the prolonged stimulated expression of protein kinase A, NFkB, and Iba1 in the STN on day 5 post injection. While injection of CFA mediated a nocifensive response to mechanical stimulation of the orofacial region at 2h and 3 and 5days post injection, treatment with DORA-12 suppressed the nocifensive response on day 5. Somewhat surprisingly, nocifensive responses were again observed on day 10 post CFA stimulation in the absence of daily DORA-12 administration. Our results provide evidence that DORA-12 can inhibit CFA-induced stimulation of trigeminal sensory neurons by inhibiting expression of proteins associated with sensitization of peripheral and central neurons and nociception.
Acute intermittent hypoxia (AIH) induces phrenic long-term facilitation (pLTF) by a mechanism that requires spinal serotonin (5-HT) receptor activation and NADPH oxidase (NOX) activity. Here, we investigated whether: (1) spinal nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity is necessary for AIH-induced pLTF; (2) episodic exogenous nitric oxide (NO) is sufficient to elicit phrenic motor facilitation (pMF) without AIH (i.e. pharmacologically); and (3) NO-induced pMF requires spinal 5-HT2B receptor and NOX activation. In anesthetized, mechanically ventilated adult male rats, AIH (35-min episodes; 10% O2; 5min) elicited a progressive increase in the amplitude of integrated phrenic nerve bursts (i.e. pLTF), which lasted 60min post-AIH (45.18.6% baseline). Pre-treatment with intrathecal (i.t.) injections of a neuronal NOS inhibitor (nNOS-inhibitor-1) near the phrenic motor nucleus attenuated pLTF (14.72.5%), whereas an inducible NOS (iNOS) inhibitor (1400W) had no effect (56.38.0%). Episodic i.t. injections (35l volume; 5min) of a NO donor (sodium nitroprusside; SNP) elicited pMF similar in time-course and magnitude (40.46.0%, 60min post-injection) to AIH-induced pLTF. SNP-induced pMF was blocked by a 5-HT2B receptor antagonist (SB206553), a superoxide dismutase mimetic (MnTMPyP), and two NOX inhibitors (apocynin and DPI). Neither pLTF nor pMF was affected by pre-treatment with a protein kinase G (PKG) inhibitor (KT-5823). Thus, spinal nNOS activity is necessary for AIH-induced pLTF, and episodic spinal NO is sufficient to elicit pMF by a mechanism that requires 5-HT2B receptor activation and NOX-derived ROS formation, which indicates AIH (and NO) elicits spinal respiratory plasticity by a nitrergic-serotonergic mechanism.
The correlation between temporal changes of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and the severity of transient ischemic stroke in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) was investigated using T2-, diffusion- and perfusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging at six different time points: before and during 1h of unilateral middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), 1h after reperfusion, and 1day, 4days and 7days after MCAO. rCBF values were measured in both hemispheres, and the perfusion-deficient lesion (PDL) was defined as the area of the brain with a 57% or more reduction in basal CBF. Within the PDL, regions were further refined as ischemic core (rCBF=0-6mL/100g/min), ischemic penumbra (rCBF=6-15mL/100g/min) and benign oligemia (rCBF&gt;15mL/100g/min). SHR and WKY had identical initial volume of the PDLs (WKY: 32.524.08% vs. SHR: 33.953.68%; P&gt;0.05) and the maximum rCBF measured within those lesions (WKY: 38.203.57mL/100g/min vs. SHR: 38.466.22mL/100g/min; P&gt;0.05) during MCAO. However, in SHR virtually all of the PDL progressed to become the final ischemic lesion (33.025.41%, P&gt;0.05), while the final ischemic lesion volume of WKY (12.629.19%) was significantly smaller than their original PDL (P&lt;0.01) and similar to the ischemic core (13.132.96%, P&gt;0.05). The region with the lowest range of rCBF was positively correlated with the final ischemic lesion volume (r=0.716, P&lt;0.01). Both during ischemia and after reperfusion, rCBF in either ipsilesional and contralesional brain hemispheres of SHR could not be restored to pre-ischemic levels, and remained lower than in WKY until up to 4days after MCAO. The data suggest that impaired CBF regulation and relatively high CBF threshold for ischemia are strong contributors to the increased susceptibility of SHR to ischemic stroke.
In rodents, many social behaviors are driven by the sense of smell. The vomeronasal organ (VNO), part of the accessory olfactory system mediates many of these chemically driven behaviors. The VNO is heavily vascularized, and is readily accessible to circulating peptide or steroid hormones. Potentially, this allows circulating hormones to alter behavior through modulating the output of the primary sensory neurons in the VNO, the vomeronasal sensory neurons (VSNs). Based on this, we hypothesized that steroid hormones, in particular 17-estradiol, would modulate activity of VSNs. In this paper, we show that the estrogen receptors, GPR30 and ER, were present in VSNs and that estradiol may be synthesized locally in the VNO. Our results also showed that 17-estradiol decreased responses of isolated VSNs to dilute urine, a potent natural stimulus, with respect to current amplitudes and depolarization. Further, 17-estradiol increased the latency of the first action potential (AP) and the AP amplitude. Additionally, calcium responses to sulfated steroids (present in the low molecular weight fraction of urine) that act as ligands for apical vomeronasal receptors were decreased by 17-estradiol. In conclusion, we show that estradiol modulates odorant responses mediated by VSNs and hence paves the way for future studies to better understand the mechanisms by which odorant mediated behavior is altered by endocrine status of the animal.
During chronic pain states, peripheral nociceptive stimulation can induce long-term potentiation (LTP) in the spinal dorsal horn, but it is not clear how quickly spinal LTP develops after peripheral noxious stimulation. Furthermore, transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) receptors are abundant in spinal cord dorsal horn, especially in the superficial layers, and are thought to be involved in synaptic plasticity. In this study, we investigated the time frame of LTP induction after inflammatory insult and electrical stimulation and the involvement of TRPV1 receptors. By using extracellular recordings of C-fiber-evoked field potentials in the superficial spinal dorsal horn and teased fiber recording in vivo, we found that subcutaneous injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) or 5% formalin induced low-frequency, irregular discharges of C-fibers and LTP of the C-fiber-evoked field potentials in the spinal dorsal horn within 3h. Topical application of the TRPV1 receptor antagonist capsazepine onto the spinal cord inhibited the induction of spinal LTP by CFA or formalin. Furthermore, capsazepine and another TRPV1 antagonist, (E)-3-(4-t-butylphenyl)-N-(2,3-dihydrobenzo[b][1,4]dioxin-6-yl)acrylamide, partially or completely blocked the LTP induced by conditioning stimulation with high- and low-frequency electrical stimulation. These results suggest that acute peripheral inflammatory stimulation by CFA or 5% formalin can induce spinal LTP very early after stimulation onset and that TRPV1 receptors in the spinal dorsal horn might contribute to this LTP induction.
The mesolimbic/mesocortical dopaminergic pathway plays a pivotal role in the reward system. During the neonatal period the mother is the main source of rewarding stimuli. We have developed an experimental model in which rat pups learn a T-maze during the neonatal period (postnatal day (PND) 10-13) using contact with the mother as the reward. One group of animals is allowed contact with the mother (receipt of expected reward, RER) while the other was denied (denial of expected reward, DER). We determined the effects of these two early experiences in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and the nucleus accumbens (nAc), the levels of dopamine (DA) and its metabolites [3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA)] by high-performance liquid chromatography and those of D1 and D2 receptors by autoradiographic in vitro binding both on PND 13 and in adulthood. On PND13, 2h after the end of training, the RER experience resulted in higher DA, HVA and D1 receptor levels in the nAc, while the DER in lower DA and its metabolites (DOPAC and HVA) in the PFC. These results could be related to the reward the RER pups received through the contact with their mother. The RER and DER early experience had long-term sex-dependent effects: The RER-induced activation of the dopaminergic system in the nAc was also evident in adult female rats. In contrast, adult DER males, similar to PND13 animals, had reduced dopamine in the PFC. Our results document that early experiences, a key determinant of adult brain function, affect the dopaminergic system which is disturbed in many psychiatric diseases.
The present study aims to identify transcription factors (TFs) contributing to angiogenesis, a mechanism involved in giving plasticity to the brain, as potential therapeutic targets after cerebral ischemia. The promoter sequences from candidate genes involved in angiogenesis were submitted to a comparative analysis by bioinformatics software. High-mobility group I-Y protein (HMGIY) TF characterization in a rat permanent focal cerebral ischemia model was performed by quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction and Western blot for the TF expression profile study. The TF functional study was carried out using a TF-TF interaction array and gene silencing by siRNA in rat brain microvascular endothelial cells. The results showed that the promoters shared a common TF binding site for HMGIY. The expression profile analysis in ischemic rat brain showed an increase in HMGIY mRNA in the acute phase and a progressive overexpression of protein over time post-ischemia. The interaction array analysis revealed that ischemia promotes the interaction of HMGIY with TFs involved in different cerebral plasticity processes. In vitro knockdown studies showed that angiopoietin 1 and vascular endothelial growth factor expression is controlled by HMGIY and that this TF is involved in cell survival in brain endothelial cells. These findings suggest that HMGIY is a potential therapeutic target that could promote brain repair functions after stroke.
This study investigated a possible role for a toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)-mediated PTEN/PI3K/AKT/NF-B signaling pathway in neuroinflammation in rat hippocampal neurons. Cultured neurons were treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a TLR4 ligand, or pre-treated with TLR4 antibodies to block TLR4 signaling. Neurons were also treated with dipotassium bisperoxo (pyridine-2-carboxyl) oxovanadate [bpV(pic)] and pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC), selective inhibitors of PTEN and NF-B, respectively, in the presence of LPS. The levels of PTEN, AKT, and their phosphorylated forms were evaluated, along with the nuclear localization of NF-B, to assess pathway activation. The induction of a neuroinflammatory response was determined by measuring TNF- and IL-1 mRNA and protein levels. The results indicated that while LPS stimulation had no effect on PTEN and AKT expression, the levels of phosphorylated PTEN (pPTEN) decreased, while phosphorylated AKT (pAKT) levels increased. Moreover, LPS treatment induced the nuclear translocation of NF-B, and increased the expression and secretion of TNF- and IL-1. Blocking TLR4 increased the levels of pPTEN and decreased the levels of pAKT, while pre-treatment with bpV(pic) led to a reduction in levels of pPTEN and pAKT. Furthermore, treatment with TLR4 antibody, bpV(pic), and PDTC decreased LPS-induced nuclear translocation of NF-B, and resulted in a downregulation of TNF- and IL-1 expression. Taken together, these results provide evidence for a TLR4-mediated PTEN/PI3K/AKT/NF-B signaling pathway in rat hippocampal neurons, which is associated with the activation of a neuroinflammatory response.
Traumatic spinal cord injury induces a long-standing inflammatory response in the spinal cord tissue, leading to a progressive apoptotic death of spinal cord neurons and glial cells. We have recently demonstrated that immediate treatment with the antioxidants N-acetyl-cysteine (NAC) and acetyl-l-carnitine (ALC) attenuates neuroinflammation, induces axonal sprouting, and reduces the death of motoneurons in the vicinity of the trauma zone 4weeks after initial trauma. The objective of the current study was to investigate the effects of long-term antioxidant treatment on the survival of descending rubrospinal neurons after spinal cord injury in rats. It also examines the short- and long-term effects of treatment on apoptosis, inflammation, and regeneration in the spinal cord trauma zone. Spinal cord hemisection performed at the level C3 induced a significant loss of rubrospinal neurons 8weeks after injury. At 2weeks, an increase in the expression of the apoptosis-associated markers BCL-2-associated X protein (BAX) and caspase 3, as well as the microglial cell markers OX42 and ectodermal dysplasia 1 (ED1), was seen in the trauma zone. After 8weeks, an increase in immunostaining for OX42 and the serotonin marker 5HT was detected in the same area. Antioxidant therapy reduced the loss of rubrospinal neurons by approximately 50%. Treatment also decreased the expression of BAX, caspase 3, OX42 and ED1 after 2weeks. After 8weeks, treatment decreased immunoreactivity for OX42, whereas it was increased for 5HT. In conclusion, this study provides further insight in the effects of treatment with NAC and ALC on descending pathways, as well as short- and long-term effects on the spinal cord trauma zone.
The rapid release of prepared movements by a loud acoustic stimulus capable of eliciting a startle response has been termed the StartReact effect (Valls-Sol et al., 1999), and premotor reaction times (PMTs) of &lt;70ms are often observed. Two explanations have been given for these short latency responses. The subcortical storage and triggering hypothesis suggests movements that can be prepared in advance of a &quot;go&quot; signal are stored and triggered from subcortical areas by a startling acoustic stimulus (SAS) without cortical involvement. Alternatively, it has been hypothesized that the SAS can trigger movements from cortical areas through a faster pathway ascending from subcortical structures. Two experiments were designed to examine the possible role of the primary motor cortex in the StartReact effect. In Experiment 1, we used suprathreshold transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) during the reaction time (RT) interval to induce a cortical silent period in the contralateral primary motor cortex (M1). Thirteen participants performed 20 wrist extension movements as fast as possible in response to either a control stimulus (82dB) or SAS (124dB). PMTs for startle trials were faster than for control trials, while TMS significantly delayed movement onset compared to No TMS or Sham TMS conditions. In Experiment 2, we examined the StartReact effect in a highly cortically represented action involving speech of a consonant-vowel (CV) syllable. Similar to previous work examining limb movements, a robust StartReact effect was found. Collectively, these experiments provide evidence for cortical (M1) involvement in the StartReact effect.
The islet-antigens IA-2 and IA-2 are major autoantigens in type-1 diabetes and transmembrane proteins in dense core vesicles (DCV). Recently we showed that deletion of both IA-2 and IA-2 alters the secretion of hormones and neurotransmitters and impairs behavior and learning. The present study was designed to evaluate the contribution to learning of each of these genes by using single knockout (SKO) and double knockout (DKO) mice in an active avoidance test. After 5days of training, wild-type (WT) mice showed 60-70% active avoidance responses, whereas the DKO mice showed only 10-15% active avoidance responses. The degree of active avoidance responses in the IA-2 SKO mice was similar to that of the DKO mice, but in contrast, the IA-2 SKO mice behaved like WT mice showing 60-70% active avoidance responses. Molecular studies revealed a marked decrease in the phosphorylation of the cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) and Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CAMKII) in the striatum and hippocampus of the IA-2 SKO and DKO mice, but not in the IA-2 SKO mice. To evaluate the role of CREB and CAMKII in the SKO and DKO mice, GBR-12909, which selectively blocks the dopamine uptake transporter and increases CREB and CAMKII phosphorylation, was administered. GBR-12909 restored the phosphorylation of CREB and CAMKII and increased active avoidance learning in the DKO and IA-2 SKO to near the normal levels found in the WT and IA-2 SKO mice. We conclude that in the absence of the DCV protein IA-2, active avoidance learning is impaired.
Blast-induced tinnitus, along with associated auditory impairment and traumatic brain injury, is a primary concern facing military service members. To search for treatment, we investigated the therapeutic effects of sildenafil, a phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor, given its vasodilatory effects and evidence suggesting its beneficial effects on noise-induced hearing loss. Rats were subjected to three consecutive blast exposures at 22psi and were monitored for tinnitus using a gap-detection acoustic startle reflex paradigm. Hearing thresholds and detection were tested using auditory brainstem responses and prepulse inhibition, respectively. Blasted rats were either treated with sildenafil or tap water following blast exposure, while age-matched sham control rats were treated with sildenafil and no blast exposure. Our results showed that sildenafil did not effectively prevent acute tinnitus onset and hearing impairment. Instead, sildenafil significantly suppressed high-frequency tinnitus from 3 to 6weeks after blast exposure and reduced hearing impairment during the first week after blast exposure. Complex results were observed in the startle force data, where sildenafil-treated rats displayed significantly reduced startle force compared to the untreated blasted group, suggesting possible mitigation of traumatic brain injury and suppression of hyperacusis-like percepts. Taken together, sildenafil showed a therapeutic effect on blast-induced tinnitus and audiological impairment in a time-dependent manner. Other regimens such as higher dosage prior to blast exposure and combination with other treatments deserve further investigation to optimize the therapeutic effects.

The interleukin (IL)-6 pathway plays an important role in recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI). The anti-IL-6 receptor antibody MR16-1 has been shown to suppress inflammation after SCI and promote recovery of motor function. The purpose of this study was to analyze the effects of MR16-1 on the expression patterns of phospholipids in the spinal cord in a mouse model of SCI. Eight-week-old C57BL/6JJmsSlc mice were used in this study. Laminectomy was performed at the ninth and tenth thoracic levels (T9-T10), and contusion injury of the spinal cord was induced at level T10. Immediately after SCI, mice were intraperitoneally injected with a single dose of MR16-1 (MR16-1 group) or a single dose of phosphate-buffered saline of the same volume (control group). Imaging mass spectrometry was performed to visualize phosphatidylcholine (PC) expression in the spinal cord 7days after SCI. We found that MR16-1 treatment suppressed the infiltration of immune cells after SCI, and was able to increase the locomotor function post-injury. Phospholipid imaging revealed that the MR16-1 was able to prevent the reduction of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA)-containing PC in comparison with the control group. We also observed high levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) at the site of DHA-containing PC expression in the MR16-1 group. These results suggest that MR16-1 treatment influences the DHA-containing PC composition of GFAP-positive cells at the injury site as early as 7days post-SCI.
Neuro-glucostasis is required for normal expression of the steroid positive-feedback-induced preovulatory pituitary luteinizing hormone (LH) surge, a critical element of female reproduction. Glucoprivic signals from the caudal hindbrain restrain this surge, but the cellular source of this stimulus is unclear. Norepinephrine (NE) exerts well-defined stimulatory effects on the reproductive neuroendocrine axis. Our studies show that medullary A2 noradrenergic neurons are both estrogen- and glucoprivic-sensitive. Here, we investigated the premise that the LH surge is inhibited by A2 cell reactivity to hindbrain glucopenia and diminished preoptic NE neurotransmission. Estradiol- and progesterone-primed ovariectomized (OVX) female rats were injected into the caudal fourth ventricle (CV4) with the glucose anti-metabolite, 5-thioglucose (5TG) or saline (SAL) prior to onset of the LH surge. Pretreatment by intra-CV4 delivery of the selective catecholamine neurotoxin, 6-OHDA, attenuated LH output, but prevented inhibition by 5TG. 5TG modified patterns of steroid feedback-associated Fos staining of A2, but not other medullary catecholamine cell groups. Intra-preoptic administration of the alpha1-adrenergic receptor agonist, methoxamine, elicited site-specific reversal of hindbrain glucoprivic suppression of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neuron Fos labeling and LH release. Western blotting of laser-microdissected A2 neurons revealed glucoprivic stimulation of Fos, but inhibition of the catecholamine synthetic enzyme, dopamine--hydroxylase; 5TG also diminished A2 estrogen receptor (ER)- and progesterone receptor profiles, but augmented ER- protein. Intriguingly, A2 AMPK activity was decreased in 5TG-treated rats, despite down-regulation of GLUT3 and no change in MCT2 protein expression. Rostral preoptic GnRH neurons also exhibited decreased AMPK activation simultaneous with apparent reduction of neuropeptide signaling to the pituitary. The present studies demonstrate that hindbrain glucoprivation inhibits the LH surge, in part, by reducing preoptic noradrenergic input, and furthermore implicate A2 neurons as a source of this altered signal. Results also suggest that AMPK sensor deactivation does not supersede the impact of pharmacological inhibition of glucose catabolism on A2 cell function nor afferent signaling of hindbrain glucopenia on GnRH neurons. Further studies are needed to determine if decreased AMPK activation in these cell populations reflect compensatory gain in positive energy balance and/or direct effects of estrogen on AMPK.






A novel class of drugs - potassium (K(+)) channel openers or activators - has recently been shown to cause anticonvulsive and neuroprotective effects by activating hyperpolarizing K(+) currents, and therefore, may show efficacy for treating tinnitus. This study presents measurements of the modulatory effects of four K(+) channel openers on the spontaneous activity and action potential waveforms of neuronal networks. The networks were derived from mouse embryonic auditory cortices and grown on microelectrode arrays. Pentylenetetrazol was used to create hyperactivity states in the neuronal networks as a first approximation for mimicking tinnitus or tinnitus-like activity. We then compared the pharmacodynamics of the four channel activators, retigabine and flupirtine (voltage-gated K(+) channel KV7 activators), NS1619 and isopimaric acid (&quot;big potassium&quot; BK channel activators). The EC50 of retigabine, flupirtine, NS1619, and isopimaric acid were 8.0, 4.0, 5.8, and 7.8M, respectively. The reduction of hyperactivity compared to the reference activity was significant. The present results highlight the notion of re-purposing the K(+) channel activators for reducing hyperactivity of spontaneously active auditory networks, serving as a platform for these drugs to show efficacy toward target identification, prevention, as well as treatment of tinnitus.
Alzheimers disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder with a progressive cognitive decline and memory loss. Multiple pathogenetic factors including aggregated -amyloid (A), neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), cholinergic dysfunction and oxidative stress are involved in AD. A, a major constituent of the senile plaques, is a potent neurotoxic peptide and has a pivotal role in cognitive deficit and reduced synaptic plasticity in AD. In the present study we examined the protective effect of troxerutin, as a multipotent bioflavonoid, on A (1-42)-induced impairment of evoked field potential in hippocampal DG neurons. Male Wistar rats were divided into four groups including A (42-1), A (1-42), A (1-42) plus troxerutin and A (42-1) plus troxerutin groups. A was injected intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) into right lateral ventricle and after two weeks the evoked field potential recorded from perforant path-DG synapses to assess paired pulse paradigm and long term potentiation (LTP). Administration of A (1-42) drastically attenuated the LTP of DG neurons, while there was no significant difference in evoked field potentials between A (1-42) plus troxerutin group with respect to A (42-1) group. This study revealed that troxerutin improves the synaptic failure induced by A peptide and can be introduced as a promising multi-potent pharmacological agent in prevention or treatment of AD in the future.
Agmatine is a cationic amine formed by decarboxylation of l-arginine by the mitochondrial enzyme arginine decarboxylase and widely distributed in mammalian brain. Although the precise function of endogenous agmatine has been largely remained unclear, its exogenous administration demonstrated beneficial effects in several neurological and psychiatric disorders. This study was planned to examine the role of imidazoline binding sites in the anticompulsive-like effect of agmatine on marble-burying behavior. Agmatine (20 and 40mg/kg, ip), mixed imidazoline I1/2 agonists clonidine (60g/kg, ip) and moxonidine (0.25mg/kg, ip), and imidazoline I2 agonist 2- BFI (10mg/kg, ip) showed significant inhibition of marble burying behavior in mice. In combination studies, the anticompulsive-like effect of agmatine (10mg/kg, ip) was significantly potentiated by prior administration of moxonidine (0.25mg/kg, ip) or clonidine (30g/kg,) or 2-BFI (5mg/kg, ip). Conversely, efaroxan (1mg/kg, ip), an I1 antagonist and idazoxan (0.25mg/kg, ip), an I2 antagonist completely blocked the anticompulsive-like effect of agmatine (10mg/kg, ip). These drugs at doses used here did not influence the basal locomotor activity in experimental animals. These results clearly indicated the involvement of imidazoline binding sites in anti-compulsive-like effect of agmatine. Thus, imidazoline binding sites can be explored further as novel therapeutic target for treatment of anxiety and obsessive compulsive disorders.


MicroRNA (miRNA) deregulation plays a critical role in tumorigenesis. miR-23b and miR-130b are induced by thyrotropin in thyroid cells in a cAMP-dependent manner. The aim of our work has been to investigate the possible role of miR-23b and miR-130b in pituitary tumorigenesis. We have analyzed their expression in a panel of pituitary adenomas (PAs) including GH and NFPA adenomas. We report that miR-23b and miR-130b are drastically reduced in GH, gonadotroph and NFPA adenomas in comparison with normal pituitary gland. Interestingly, the overexpression of miR-23b and miR-130b inhibits cell proliferation arresting the cells in the G1 and G2 phase of the cell cycle, respectively. Moreover, we demonstrate that miR-23b and miR-130b target HMGA2 and cyclin A2 (CCNA2) genes, respectively. Finally, downregulation of miR-23b and miR-130b expression is associated with increased levels of their respective targets in human PAs. These findings suggest that miR-23b and miR-130b downregulation may contribute to pituitary tumorigenesis.
To date the exact neuronal implementation of decision confidence has been subject to little research. Here we explore electroencephalographic correlates of human choice certainty in a visual motion discrimination task for either spatial attention or motor effector cue instructions. We demonstrate electrophysiological correlates of choice certainty that evolve as early as 300ms after stimulus onset and resemble the primary visual motion representations in early visual cortex. These correlates do not emerge unless or until the subject unambiguously knows which of the competing visual stimuli is actually relevant to behaviour. They extend beyond stimulus presentation up to the motor response but are independent of the motor effector. Our findings suggest that perceptual confidence evolves in parallel with representations of stimulus properties and is dedicated to one specific aspect of the visual world. Its electroencephalographic correlates can be disentangled from representations of sensory evidence, objective discrimination performance and overt motor behaviour.
Performing actions with auditory consequences modulates the response in auditory cortex to otherwise identical stimuli passively heard. Such modulation has been suggested to occur through a corollary discharge sent from the motor cortex during voluntary actions. However, the relationship between the effector used to generate the sound, type of modulation and changes in perceptual sensitivity are unclear. Here we use functional magnetic resonance imaging on healthy subjects and demonstrate bilateral enhancement in the auditory cortex to self-generated versus externally generated sounds. Furthermore, we find that this enhancement is stronger when the sound-producing hand is contralateral to the auditory cortex. At the behavioural level, binaural hearing thresholds are lower for self-generated sounds and monaural thresholds are lower for sounds triggered by the hand ipsilateral to the stimulated ear. Together with functional connectivity analysis, our results suggest that a corollary discharge sent from active motor cortex enhances activity in the auditory cortex and increases perceptual sensitivity in a lateralized manner.
Planar neural networks and interfaces serve as versatile in vitro models of central nervous system physiology, but adaptations of related methods to three dimensions (3D) have met with limited success. Here, we demonstrate for the first time volumetric functional imaging in a bioengineered neural tissue growing in a transparent hydrogel with cortical cellular and synaptic densities, by introducing complementary new developments in nonlinear microscopy and neural tissue engineering. Our system uses a novel hybrid multiphoton microscope design combining a 3D scanning-line temporal-focusing subsystem and a conventional laser-scanning multiphoton microscope to provide functional and structural volumetric imaging capabilities: dense microscopic 3D sampling at tens of volumes per second of structures with mm-scale dimensions containing a network of over 1,000 developing cells with complex spontaneous activity patterns. These developments open new opportunities for large-scale neuronal interfacing and for applications of 3D engineered networks ranging from basic neuroscience to the screening of neuroactive substances.

The origins of neural systems remain unresolved. In contrast to other basal metazoans, ctenophores (comb jellies) have both complex nervous and mesoderm-derived muscular systems. These holoplanktonic predators also have sophisticated ciliated locomotion, behaviour and distinct development. Here we present the draft genome of Pleurobrachia bachei, Pacific sea gooseberry, together with ten other ctenophore transcriptomes, and show that they are remarkably distinct from other animal genomes in their content of neurogenic, immune and developmental genes. Our integrative analyses place Ctenophora as the earliest lineage within Metazoa. This hypothesis is supported by comparative analysis of multiple gene families, including the apparent absence of HOX genes, canonical microRNA machinery, and reduced immune complement in ctenophores. Although two distinct nervous systems are well recognized in ctenophores, many bilaterian neuron-specific genes and genes of 'classical' neurotransmitter pathways either are absent or, if present, are not expressed in neurons. Our metabolomic and physiological data are consistent with the hypothesis that ctenophore neural systems, and possibly muscle specification, evolved independently from those in other animals.
Accumulating evidence points to cortical oscillations as a mechanism for mediating interactions among functionally specialized neurons in distributed brain circuits. A brain function that may use such interactions is declarative memory--that is, memory that can be consciously recalled, such as episodes and facts. Declarative memory is enabled by circuits in the entorhinal cortex that interface the hippocampus with the neocortex. During encoding and retrieval of declarative memories, entorhinal and hippocampal circuits are thought to interact via theta and gamma oscillations, which in awake rodents predominate frequency spectra in both regions. In favour of this idea, theta-gamma coupling has been observed between entorhinal cortex and hippocampus under steady-state conditions in well-trained rats; however, the relationship between interregional coupling and memory formation remains poorly understood. Here we show, by multisite recording at successive stages of associative learning, that the coherence of firing patterns in directly connected entorhinal-hippocampus circuits evolves as rats learn to use an odour cue to guide navigational behaviour, and that such coherence is invariably linked to the development of ensemble representations for unique trial outcomes in each area. Entorhinal-hippocampal coupling was observed specifically in the 20-40-hertz frequency band and specifically between the distal part of hippocampal area CA1 and the lateral part of entorhinal cortex, the subfields that receive the predominant olfactory input to the hippocampal region. Collectively, the results identify 20-40-hertz oscillations as a mechanism for synchronizing evolving representations in dispersed neural circuits during encoding and retrieval of olfactory-spatial associative memory.








Parkinson's disease (PD) genes PINK1 and parkin act in a common pathway that regulates mitochondrial integrity and quality. Identifying new suppressors of the pathway is important for finding new therapeutic strategies. In this study, we show that MUL1 suppresses PINK1 or parkin mutant phenotypes in Drosophila. The suppression is achieved through the ubiquitin-dependent degradation of Mitofusin, which itself causes PINK1/parkin mutant-like toxicity when overexpressed. We further show that removing MUL1 in PINK1 or parkin loss-of-function mutant aggravates phenotypes caused by loss of either gene alone, leading to lethality in flies and degeneration in mouse cortical neurons. Together, these observations show that MUL1 acts in parallel to the PINK1/parkin pathway on a shared target mitofusin to maintain mitochondrial integrity. The MUL1 pathway compensates for loss of PINK1/parkin in both Drosophila and mammals and is a promising therapeutic target for PD.DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.01958.001.



















Mutations in the metallo-protein Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) cause amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in humans and an expression level-dependent phenotype in transgenic rodents. We show that oral treatment with the therapeutic agent diacetyl-bis(4-methylthiosemicarbazonato)copper(II) [Cu(II)(atsm)] increased the concentration of mutant SOD1 (SOD1G37R) in ALS model mice, but paradoxically improved locomotor function and survival of the mice. To determine why the mice with increased levels of mutant SOD1 had an improved phenotype, we analyzed tissues by mass spectrometry. These analyses revealed most SOD1 in the spinal cord tissue of the SOD1G37R mice was Cu deficient. Treating with Cu(II)(atsm) decreased the pool of Cu-deficient SOD1 and increased the pool of fully metallated (holo) SOD1. Tracking isotopically enriched (65)Cu(II)(atsm) confirmed the increase in holo-SOD1 involved transfer of Cu from Cu(II)(atsm) to SOD1, suggesting the improved locomotor function and survival of the Cu(II)(atsm)-treated SOD1G37R mice involved, at least in part, the ability of the compound to improve the Cu content of the mutant SOD1. This was supported by improved survival of SOD1G37R mice that expressed the human gene for the Cu uptake protein CTR1. Improving the metal content of mutant SOD1 in vivo with Cu(II)(atsm) did not decrease levels of misfolded SOD1. These outcomes indicate the metal content of SOD1 may be a greater determinant of the toxicity of the protein in mutant SOD1-associated forms of ALS than the mutations themselves. Improving the metal content of SOD1 therefore represents a valid therapeutic strategy for treating ALS caused by SOD1.
Previous studies have linked partial memory activation with impaired subsequent memory retrieval (e.g., Detre et al., 2013) but have not provided an account of this phenomenon at the level of memory representations: How does partial activation change the neural pattern subsequently elicited when the memory is cued? To address this question, we conducted a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiment in which participants studied word-scene paired associates. Later, we weakly reactivated some memories by briefly presenting the cue word during a rapid serial visual presentation (RSVP) task; other memories were more strongly reactivated or not reactivated at all. We tested participants' memory for the paired associates before and after RSVP. Cues that were briefly presented during RSVP triggered reduced levels of scene activity on the post-RSVP memory test, relative to the other conditions. We used pattern similarity analysis to assess how representations changed as a function of the RSVP manipulation. For briefly cued pairs, we found that neural patterns elicited by the same cue on the pre- and post-RSVP tests (preA-postA; preB-postB) were less similar than neural patterns elicited by different cues (preA-postB; preB-postA). These similarity reductions were predicted by neural measures of memory activation during RSVP. Through simulation, we show that our pattern similarity results are consistent with a model in which partial memory activation triggers selective weakening of the strongest parts of the memory.
Dendritic arbors are complex neuronal structures that receive and process synaptic inputs. One mechanism regulating dendrite differentiation is Semaphorin/Plexin signaling, specifically through binding of soluble Sema3A to Neuropilin/PlexinA coreceptors. Here we show that the protein Farp1 [FERM, RhoGEF (ARHGEF), and pleckstrin domain protein 1], a Rac1 activator previously identified as a synaptogenic signaling protein, contributes to establishing dendrite tip number and total dendritic branch length in maturing rat neurons and is sufficient to promote dendrite complexity. Aiming to define its upstream partners, our results support that Farp1 interacts with the Neuropilin-1/PlexinA1 complex and colocalizes with PlexinA1 along dendritic shafts. Functionally, Farp1 is required by Sema3A to promote dendritic arborization of hippocampal neurons, and Sema3A regulates dendritic F-actin distribution via Farp1. Unexpectedly, Sema3A also requires neuronal activity to promote dendritic complexity, presumably because silencing neurons leads to a proteasome-dependent reduction of PlexinA1 in dendrites. These results provide new insights into how activity and soluble cues cooperate to refine dendritic morphology through intracellular signaling pathways.
How does the brain decide where to look? Neuronal networks within the superior colliculus (SC) encode locations of intended eye movements. When faced with multiple targets, the relative activities of neuronal populations compete for the selection of a saccade. However, the computational principles underlying saccadic choices remain poorly understood. We used voltage imaging of slices of rat SC to record circuit dynamics of population responses to single- and dual-site electrical stimulation to begin to reveal some of the principles of how populations of neurons interact. Stimulation of two distant sites simultaneously within the SC produced two distinct peaks of activity, whereas stimulation of two nearby sites simultaneously exhibited a single, merged peak centered between the two sites. The distances required to produce merged peaks of activity corresponded to target separations that evoked averaging saccades in humans performing a corresponding dual target task. The merged activity was well accounted for by a linear weighed summation and a divisive normalization of the responses evoked by the single-site stimulations. Interestingly, the merging of activity occurred within the superficial SC, suggesting a novel pathway for saccadic eye movement choice.
Short-term memory (STM), the brief maintenance of information in the absence of external stimulation, is central to higher-level cognition. Behavioral and neural data indicate that information maintained in STM can be represented in qualitatively distinct states. These states include a single chunk held in the focus of attention available for immediate processing (the &quot;focus&quot;), a capacity-limited set of additional actively maintained items that the focus can access (the &quot;active state&quot;), and passively maintained items (the &quot;passive state&quot;). Little is known about how information is shifted among these states. Here, we used fMRI in humans to examine the neural correlates of shifting information among representational states of STM. We used a paradigm that has demonstrated dissociable performance costs associated with shifting the focus among active items and switching sets of items between active and passive states. Behavioral results confirmed distinct behavioral costs associated with different representational states. Neural results indicated that the caudal superior frontal sulcus (cSFS), in the vicinity of the frontal eye fields, was associated with shifting the focus, consistent with the role of this region in internal and external attention. By contrast, the ventral premotor cortex (PMv) was associated with shifting between active and passive states. Increased cSFS-medial temporal lobe (MTL) connectivity was associated with shifting the focus, while cSFS-MTL connectivity was disrupted when the active state was changed. By contrast, PMv-MTL connectivity increased when the active state was switched. These data indicate that dissociable frontal-MTL interactions mediate shifts of information among different representational states in STM.
Novelty modulates sensory and reward processes, but it remains unknown how these effects interact, i.e., how the visual effects of novelty are related to its motivational effects. A widespread hypothesis, based on findings that novelty activates reward-related structures, is that all the effects of novelty are explained in terms of reward. According to this idea, a novel stimulus is by default assigned high reward value and hence high salience, but this salience rapidly decreases if the stimulus signals a negative outcome. Here we show that, contrary to this idea, novelty affects visual salience in the monkey lateral intraparietal area (LIP) in ways that are independent of expected reward. Monkeys viewed peripheral visual cues that were novel or familiar (received few or many exposures) and predicted whether the trial will have a positive or a negative outcome-i.e., end in a reward or a lack of reward. We used a saccade-based assay to detect whether the cues automatically attracted or repelled attention from their visual field location. We show that salience-measured in saccades and LIP responses-was enhanced by both novelty and positive reward associations, but these factors were dissociable and habituated on different timescales. The monkeys rapidly recognized that a novel stimulus signaled a negative outcome (and withheld anticipatory licking within the first few presentations), but the salience of that stimulus remained high for multiple subsequent presentations. Therefore, novelty can provide an intrinsic bonus for attention that extends beyond the first presentation and is independent of physical rewards.
The complex network dynamics that arise from the interaction of the brain's structural and functional architectures give rise to mental function. Theoretical models demonstrate that the structure-function relation is maximal when the global network dynamics operate at a critical point of state transition. In the present work, we used a dynamic mean-field neural model to fit empirical structural connectivity (SC) and functional connectivity (FC) data acquired in humans and macaques and developed a new iterative-fitting algorithm to optimize the SC matrix based on the FC matrix. A dramatic improvement of the fitting of the matrices was obtained with the addition of a small number of anatomical links, particularly cross-hemispheric connections, and reweighting of existing connections. We suggest that the notion of a critical working point, where the structure-function interplay is maximal, may provide a new way to link behavior and cognition, and a new perspective to understand recovery of function in clinical conditions.
Drug administration to avoid unpleasant drug withdrawal symptoms has been hypothesized to be a crucial factor that leads to compulsive drug-taking behavior. However, the neural relationship between the aversive motivational state produced by drug withdrawal and the development of the drug-dependent state still remains elusive. It has been observed that chronic exposure to drugs of abuse increases brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels in ventral tegmental area (VTA) neurons. In particular, BDNF expression is dramatically increased during drug withdrawal, which would suggest a direct connection between the aversive state of withdrawal and BDNF-induced neuronal plasticity. Using lentivirus-mediated gene transfer to locally knock down the expression of the BDNF receptor tropomyosin-receptor-kinase type B in rats and mice, we observed that chronic opiate administration activates BDNF-related neuronal plasticity in the VTA that is necessary for both the establishment of an opiate-dependent state and aversive withdrawal motivation. Our findings highlight the importance of a bivalent, plastic mechanism that drives the negative reinforcement underlying addiction.
The spontaneous activity of the brain shows different features at different scales. On one hand, neuroimaging studies show that long-range correlations are highly structured in spatiotemporal patterns, known as resting-state networks, on the other hand, neurophysiological reports show that short-range correlations between neighboring neurons are low, despite a large amount of shared presynaptic inputs. Different dynamical mechanisms of local decorrelation have been proposed, among which is feedback inhibition. Here, we investigated the effect of locally regulating the feedback inhibition on the global dynamics of a large-scale brain model, in which the long-range connections are given by diffusion imaging data of human subjects. We used simulations and analytical methods to show that locally constraining the feedback inhibition to compensate for the excess of long-range excitatory connectivity, to preserve the asynchronous state, crucially changes the characteristics of the emergent resting and evoked activity. First, it significantly improves the model's prediction of the empirical human functional connectivity. Second, relaxing this constraint leads to an unrealistic network evoked activity, with systematic coactivation of cortical areas which are components of the default-mode network, whereas regulation of feedback inhibition prevents this. Finally, information theoretic analysis shows that regulation of the local feedback inhibition increases both the entropy and the Fisher information of the network evoked responses. Hence, it enhances the information capacity and the discrimination accuracy of the global network. In conclusion, the local excitation-inhibition ratio impacts the structure of the spontaneous activity and the information transmission at the large-scale brain level.
An unresolved debate in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is whether amyloid plaques are pathogenic, causing overt physical disruption of neural circuits, or protective, sequestering soluble forms of amyloid- (A) that initiate synaptic damage and cognitive decline. Few animal models of AD have been capable of isolating the relative contribution made by soluble and insoluble forms of A to the behavioral symptoms and biochemical consequences of the disease. Here we use a controllable transgenic mouse model expressing a mutant form of amyloid precursor protein (APP) to distinguish the impact of soluble A from that of deposited amyloid on cognitive function and synaptic structure. Rapid inhibition of transgenic APP modulated the production of A without affecting pre-existing amyloid deposits and restored cognitive performance to the level of healthy controls in Morris water maze, radial arm water maze, and fear conditioning. Selective reduction of A with a -secretase inhibitor provided similar improvement, suggesting that transgene suppression restored cognition, at least in part by lowering A. Cognitive improvement coincided with reduced levels of synaptotoxic A oligomers, greater synaptic density surrounding amyloid plaques, and increased expression of presynaptic and postsynaptic markers. Together these findings indicate that transient A species underlie much of the cognitive and synaptic deficits observed in this model and demonstrate that significant functional and structural recovery can be attained without removing deposited amyloid.
Obtaining lower gains than rejected alternatives during decision making evokes feelings of regret, whereas higher gains elicit gratification. Although decision-related emotions produce lingering effects on mental state, neuroscience research has generally focused on transient brain responses to positive or negative events, but ignored more sustained consequences of emotional episodes on subsequent brain states. We investigated how spontaneous brain activity and functional connectivity at rest are modulated by postdecision regret and gratification in 18 healthy human subjects using a gambling task in fMRI. Differences between obtained and unobtained outcomes were manipulated parametrically to evoke different levels of regret or gratification. We investigated how individual personality traits related to depression and rumination affected these responses. Medial and ventral prefrontal areas differentially responded to favorable and unfavorable outcomes during the gambling period. More critically, during subsequent rest, rostral anterior and posterior cingulate cortex, ventral striatum, and insula showed parametric response to the gratification level of preceding outcomes. Functional coupling of posterior cingulate with striatum and amygdala was also enhanced during rest after high gratification. Regret produced distinct changes in connectivity of subgenual cingulate with orbitofrontal cortex and thalamus. Interestingly, individual differences in depressive traits and ruminations correlated with activity of the striatum after gratification and orbitofrontal cortex after regret, respectively. By revealing lingering effects of decision-related emotions on key nodes of resting state networks, our findings illuminate how such emotions may influence self-reflective processing and subsequent behavioral adjustment, but also highlight the malleability of resting networks in emotional contexts.
Abnormal cytoplasmic accumulation of Fused in Sarcoma (FUS) in neurons defines subtypes of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD). FUS is a member of the FET protein family that includes Ewing's sarcoma (EWS) and TATA-binding protein-associated factor 2N (TAF15). FET proteins are predominantly localized to the nucleus, where they bind RNA and DNA to modulate transcription, mRNA splicing, and DNA repair. In ALS cases with FUS inclusions (ALS-FUS), mutations in the FUS gene cause disease, whereas FTLD cases with FUS inclusions (FTLD-FUS) do not harbor FUS mutations. Notably, in FTLD-FUS, all FET proteins accumulate with their nuclear import receptor Transportin 1 (TRN1), in contrast ALS-FUS inclusions are exclusively positive for FUS. In the present study, we show that induction of DNA damage replicates several pathologic hallmarks of FTLD-FUS in immortalized human cells and primary human neurons and astrocytes. Treatment with the antibiotic calicheamicin 1, which causes DNA double-strand breaks, leads to the cytoplasmic accumulation of FUS, TAF15, EWS, and TRN1. Moreover, cytoplasmic translocation of FUS is mediated by phosphorylation of its N terminus by the DNA-dependent protein kinase. Finally, we observed elevated levels of phospho-H2AX in FTLD-FUS brains, indicating that DNA damage occurs in patients. Together, our data reveal a novel regulatory mechanism for FUS localization in cells and suggest that DNA damage may contribute to the accumulation of FET proteins observed in human FTLD-FUS cases, but not in ALS-FUS.
Proper assembly of cortical circuitry relies on the correct migration of cortical interneurons from their place of birth in the ganglionic eminences to their place of terminal differentiation in the cerebral cortex. Although molecular mechanisms mediating cortical interneuron migration have been well studied, intracellular signals directing their migration are largely unknown. Here we illustrate a novel and essential role for c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) signaling in guiding the pioneering population of cortical interneurons into the mouse cerebral cortex. Migrating cortical interneurons express Jnk proteins at the entrance to the cortical rudiment and have enriched expression of Jnk1 relative to noninterneuronal cortical cells. Pharmacological blockade of JNK signaling in ex vivo slice cultures resulted in dose-dependent and highly specific disruption of interneuron migration into the nascent cortex. Time-lapse imaging revealed that JNK-inhibited cortical interneurons advanced slowly and assumed aberrant migratory trajectories while traversing the cortical entry zone. In vivo analyses of JNK-deficient embryos supported our ex vivo pharmacological data. Deficits in interneuron migration were observed in Jnk1 but not Jnk2 single nulls, and those migratory deficits were further exacerbated when homozygous loss of Jnk1 was combined with heterozygous reduction of Jnk2. Finally, genetic ablation of Jnk1 and Jnk2 from cortical interneurons significantly perturbed migration in vivo, but not in vitro, suggesting JNK activity functions to direct their guidance rather than enhance their motility. These data suggest JNK signaling, predominantly mediated by interneuron expressed Jnk1, is required for guiding migration of cortical interneurons into and within the developing cerebral cortex.
Spiking correlations between neocortical neurons provide insight into the underlying synaptic connectivity that defines cortical microcircuitry. Here, using two-photon calcium fluorescence imaging, we observed the simultaneous dynamics of hundreds of neurons in slices of mouse primary visual cortex (V1). Consistent with a balance of excitation and inhibition, V1 dynamics were characterized by a linear scaling between firing rate and circuit size. Using lagged firing correlations between neurons, we generated functional wiring diagrams to evaluate the topological features of V1 microcircuitry. We found that circuit connectivity exhibited both cyclic graph motifs, indicating recurrent wiring, and acyclic graph motifs, indicating feedforward wiring. After overlaying the functional wiring diagrams onto the imaged field of view, we found properties consistent with Rentian scaling: wiring diagrams were topologically efficient because they minimized wiring with a modular architecture. Within single imaged fields of view, V1 contained multiple discrete circuits that were overlapping and highly interdigitated but were still distinct from one another. The majority of neurons that were shared between circuits displayed peri-event spiking activity whose timing was specific to the active circuit, whereas spike times for a smaller percentage of neurons were invariant to circuit identity. These data provide evidence that V1 microcircuitry exhibits balanced dynamics, is efficiently arranged in anatomical space, and is capable of supporting a diversity of multineuron spike firing patterns from overlapping sets of neurons.



The best way to respond flexibly to changes in the environment is to anticipate them. Such anticipation often benefits us if we can infer that a change has occurred, before we have actually experienced the effects of that change. Here we test for neural correlates of this process by recording single-unit activity in the orbitofrontal cortex in rats performing a choice task in which the available rewards changed across blocks of trials. Consistent with the proposal that orbitofrontal cortex signals inferred information, firing changes at the start of each new block as if predicting the not-yet-experienced reward. This change occurs whether the new reward is different in number of drops, requiring signalling of a new value, or in flavour, requiring signalling of a new sensory feature. These results show that orbitofrontal neurons provide a behaviourally relevant signal that reflects inferences about both value-relevant and value-neutral information about impending outcomes.
Postsynaptic long-term potentiation of inhibition (iLTP) can rely on increased GABAA receptors (GABAARs) at synapses by promoted exocytosis. However, the molecular mechanisms that enhance the clustering of postsynaptic GABAARs during iLTP remain obscure. Here we demonstrate that during chemically induced iLTP (chem-iLTP), GABAARs are immobilized and confined at synapses, as revealed by single-particle tracking of individual GABAARs in cultured hippocampal neurons. Chem-iLTP expression requires synaptic recruitment of the scaffold protein gephyrin from extrasynaptic areas, which in turn is promoted by CaMKII-dependent phosphorylation of GABAAR-3-Ser(383). Impairment of gephyrin assembly prevents chem-iLTP and, in parallel, blocks the accumulation and immobilization of GABAARs at synapses. Importantly, an increase of gephyrin and GABAAR similar to those observed during chem-iLTP in cultures were found in the rat visual cortex following an experience-dependent plasticity protocol that potentiates inhibitory transmission in vivo. Thus, phospho-GABAAR-3-dependent accumulation of gephyrin at synapses and receptor immobilization are crucial for iLTP expression and are likely to modulate network excitability.
Accumulation of amyloid- peptide (A) in the brain underlies the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). A is produced by - and -secretase-mediated sequential proteolysis of amyloid- precursor protein (APP). Here we identify a secretory protein named interleukin-like epithelial-mesenchymal transition inducer (ILEI, also known as FAM3 superfamily member C) as a negative regulator of A production. ILEI destabilizes the -secretase-cleaved APP carboxy-terminal fragment, the penultimate precursor of A, by binding to the -secretase complex and interfering with its chaperone properties. Notch signalling and -secretase activity are not affected by ILEI. We also show neuronal expression of ILEI and its induction by transforming growth factor- signalling. The level of secreted ILEI is markedly decreased in the brains of AD patients. Transgenic (Tg) overexpression of ILEI significantly reduces the brain A burden and ameliorates the memory deficit in AD model mice. ILEI may be a plausible target for the development of disease-modifying therapies.






I am a specialist intensive care nurse, a specialist neurological trauma nurse and I have just completed my MSc in advanced practice neuroscience care.











Although alterations of the limbic system have been linked to tinnitus persistence, the neural networks underlying such alteration are unclear. The present study investigated the effect of tinnitus on emotional processing in middle-aged adults using functional magnetic resonance imaging and stimuli from the International Affective Digital Sounds database. There were three groups of participants: bilateral hearing loss with tinnitus (TIN), age- and gender-matched controls with bilateral hearing loss without tinnitus (HL) and matched normal hearing controls without tinnitus (NH). In the scanner, subjects rated sounds as pleasant, unpleasant, or neutral. The TIN and NH groups, but not the HL group, responded faster to affective sounds compared to neutral sounds. The TIN group had elevated response in bilateral parahippocampus and right insula compared to the NH group, and left parahippocampus compared to HL controls for pleasant relative to neutral sounds. A region-of-interest analysis detected increased activation for NH controls in the right amygdala when responding to affective stimuli, but failed to find a similar heightened response in the TIN and HL groups. All three groups showed increased response in auditory cortices for the affective relative to neutral sounds comparisons. Our results suggest that the emotional processing network is altered in tinnitus to rely on the parahippocampus and insula, rather than the amygdala, and this alteration may maintain a select advantage for the rapid processing of affective stimuli despite the hearing loss. The complex interaction of tinnitus and the limbic system should be accounted for in development of new tinnitus management strategies.
The human hippocampus is critical for learning and memory. In rodents, hippocampal pyramidal neurons fire in a location-specific manner and form relational representations of environmental cues. The important roles of dopaminergic D1 receptors in learning and in hippocampal neural synaptic plasticity in novel environments have been previously shown. However, the roles of D2 receptors in hippocampal neural plasticity in response to novel and familiar spatial stimuli remain unclear. In order to clarify this issue, we recorded from hippocampal neurons in dopamine D2 receptor-knockout (D2R-KO) mice and their wild-type (WT) littermates during manipulations of distinct spatial cues in familiar and novel environments. Here, we report that D2R-KO mice showed substantial deficits in place-cell properties (number of place cells, intra-field firing rates, spatial tuning, and spatial coherence). Furthermore, although place cells in D2R-KO mice responded to manipulations of distal and proximal cues in both familiar and novel environments in a manner that was similar to place cells in WT mice, place fields were less stable in the D . The axes represent the differences between the peak and the valley of each waveform of EL2 and EL3.2R-KO mice in the familiar environment, but not in the novel environment. The present results suggested that D2 receptors in the hippocampus are important for place response stability. The place-cell properties of D2R-KO mice were similar to aged animals, suggesting that the alterations of place-cell properties in aged animals might be ascribed partly to alterations in the D2R in the HF of aged animals.




A genetic approach has been used to map the neural circuits that control and coordinate the tongue and jaw muscles.




Extra-ocular tendons (EOTs) transmit the oculorotary force of the muscles to the eyeball to generate dynamic eye movements and align the eyes, yet the mechanical properties of the EOTs remain undefined. The EOTs are known to be composed of parallel bundles of small fibers whose mechanical properties must be determined in order to characterize the overall behavior of EOTs. The current study aimed to investigate the transverse Youngs modulus of EOT fiber bundles using atomic force microscopy (AFM). Fresh bovine EOT fiber bundle specimens were maintained under temperature and humidity control, and indented 100nm by the inverted pyramid tip of an AFM (Veeco Digital Instruments, NY). Ten indentations were conducted for each of 3 different locations of 10 different specimens from each of 6 EOTs, comprising a total of 1800 indentations. Youngs modulus for each EOT was determined using a Hertzian contact model. Youngs moduli for fiber bundles from all six EOTs were determined. Mean Youngs moduli for fiber bundles were similar for the six anatomical EOTs: lateral rectus 60.122.69 (SD)MPa, inferior rectus 59.695.34MPa, medial rectus 56.921.91MPa, superior rectus 59.662.64MPa, inferior oblique 57.71.36MPa, and superior oblique 59.152.03. Variation in Youngs moduli among the six EOTs was not significant (P&gt;0.25). The Youngs modulus of bovine EOT fibers is highly uniform among the six extraocular muscles, suggesting that each EOT is assembled from fiber bundles representing the same biomechanical elements. This uniformity will simplify overall modeling.


AN OBJECT'S SHAPE IS A STRONG CUE FOR VISUAL RECOGNITION MOST MODELS OF SHAPE CODING EMPHASIZE THE ROLE OF ORIENTED LINES AND CURVES FOR CODING AN OBJECT'S SHAPE YET INFLECTION POINTS, WHICH OCCUR AT THE JUNCTION OF TWO OPPOSITELY SIGNED CURVES, ARE UBIQUITOUS FEATURES IN NATURAL SCENES AND CARRY IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE SHAPE OF AN OBJECT USING A VISUAL AFTEREFFECT IN WHICH THE PERCEIVED SHAPE OF A CONTOUR IS CHANGED FOLLOWING PROLONGED VIEWING OF A SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT-SHAPED CONTOUR, WE DEMONSTRATE A SPECIFIC AFTEREFFECT FOR A CONTOUR INFLECTION CONTROL CONDITIONS SHOW THAT THIS AFTEREFFECT CANNOT BE EXPLAINED BY ADAPTATION TO EITHER THE COMPONENT CURVES OR TO THE LOCAL ORIENTATION AT THE POINT OF INFLECTION FURTHER, WE SHOW THAT THE AFTEREFFECT TRANSFERS WEAKLY TO A COMPOUND CURVE WITHOUT AN INFLECTION, RULING OUT A GENERAL COMPOUND CURVATURE DETECTOR AS AN EXPLANATION OF OUR FINDINGS WE ASSUME HOWEVER THAT THERE ARE ADAPTABLE MECHANISMS FOR CODING OTHER SPECIFIC FORMS OF COMPOUND CURVES TAKEN TOGETHER, OUR FINDINGS PROVIDE EVIDENCE THAT THE HUMAN VISUAL SYSTEM CONTAINS SPECIFIC MECHANISMS FOR CODING CONTOUR INFLECTIONS, FURTHER HIGHLIGHTING THEIR ROLE IN SHAPE AND OBJECT CODING:





Mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) form tight structural associations and these facilitate a number of cellular functions. However, the mechanisms by which regions of the ER become tethered to mitochondria are not properly known. Understanding these mechanisms is not just important for comprehending fundamental physiological processes but also for understanding pathogenic processes in some disease states. In particular, disruption to ER-mitochondria associations is linked to some neurodegenerative diseases. Here we show that the ER-resident protein VAPB interacts with the mitochondrial protein tyrosine phosphatase-interacting protein-51 (PTPIP51) to regulate ER-mitochondria associations. Moreover, we demonstrate that TDP-43, a protein pathologically linked to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and fronto-temporal dementia perturbs ER-mitochondria interactions and that this is associated with disruption to the VAPB-PTPIP51 interaction and cellular Ca(2+) homeostasis. Finally, we show that overexpression of TDP-43 leads to activation of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) and that GSK-3 regulates the VAPB-PTPIP51 interaction. Our results describe a new pathogenic mechanism for TDP-43.











Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is the most effective treatment of depression. During the last decades repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), an alternative method using electric stimulation of the brain, has revealed possible alternative to ECT in the treatment of depression. There are some clinical trials comparing their efficacies and safeties but without clear conclusions, mainly due to their small sample sizes. In the present study, a meta-analysis had been carried out to gain statistical power. Outcomes were response, remission, acceptability and cognitive effects in depression. Following a comprehensive literature search that included both English and Chinese language databases, we identified all randomized controlled trials that directly compared rTMS and ECT for major depression. 10 articles (9 trials) with a total of 425 patients were identified. Methodological quality, heterogeneity, sensitivity and publication bias were systematically evaluated. ECT was superior to high frequency rTMS in terms of response (64.4% vs. 48.7%, RR = 1.41, p = 0.03), remission (52.9% vs. 33.6%, RR = 1.38, p = 0.006) while discontinuation was not significantly different between the two treatments (8.3% vs. 9.4%, RR = 1.11, p = 0.80). According to the subgroup analysis, the superiority of ECT was more apparent in those with psychotic depression, while high frequency rTMS was as effective as ECT in those with non-psychotic depression. The same results were obtained in the comparison of ECT with low frequency rTMS. ECT had a non-significant advantage over high frequency rTMS on the overall improvement in HAMD scores (p = 0.11). There was insufficient data on medium or long term efficacy. Both rTMS and ECT were well tolerated with only minor side effects reported. Results based on 3 studies suggested that specific cognitive domains such as visual memory and verbal fluency were more impaired in patients receiving ECT. In conclusion, ECT seemed more effective than and at least as acceptable as rTMS in the short term, especially in the presence of psychotic depression. This review identified the lack of good quality trials comparing the long-term outcome and cognitive effects of rTMS and ECT, especially using approaches to optimize stimulus delivery and reduce clinical heterogeneity.
Excessive weight gain has been identified as a serious metabolic side-effect of second-generation antipsychotics (SGAs), including olanzapine. While hyperphagia has been suggested to be the main contributor for this side-effect in the short term, reduced energy expenditure, in particular thermogenesis and locomotor activity, has been considered to contribute to the maintenance of heavy weight under long-term SGA treatments. Recent studies have identified metabolically active brown adipose tissues (BAT) in adult humans, suggesting potential clinical significance for the involvement of BAT thermogenesis in SGA-induced weight gain. However, to date there has been little research elucidating the central neuronal pathways affecting BAT thermogenesis or the morphological changes of the BAT. The present study aimed to investigate the role of BAT thermogenesis and locomotor activity in olanzapine-induced weight gain during the prolonged time courses of olanzapine treatment in an established female rat model. Although short- to mid-term olanzapine treatment had no effect on BAT temperature, we observed that long-term olanzapine treatment (from day 18 to 34) induced a significant reduction in BAT temperature, with an acute effect being observed between 45 and 150 min post-treatment in the long-term cohort. Additionally, in the long-term olanzapine group, the reduced BAT temperature was accompanied by decreased UCP1 and PGC-1 expressions in the BAT. Moreover, TH mRNA expressions in both hypothalamus and brainstem were also downregulated after mid- to long-term olanzapine treatment. Further, olanzapine led to reduced percentage of brown adipocytes in BAT during mid- to long-term treatments. Finally, locomotor activity was reduced throughout the three treatment cohorts. In summary, our results suggest that the reduction of BAT thermogenesis plays an important role during the long-term of olanzapine-induced weight gain, which was accompanied by an earlier onset of BAT adipocyte morphological changes and biochemical changes in the hypothalamus and the brainstem, while locomotor activity contributes to the entire olanzapine treatment courses.
Current views on the pathogenesis of psychiatric disorders focus on the interplay between genetic and environmental factors, with individual variation in vulnerability and resilience to hazards being part of the multifactorial development of illness. The aim of the study is to investigate the effect of glutamate transporter polymorphism SLC1A2-181A&gt;C and exposure to Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACE) on hippocampal gray matter volume of patients with bipolar disorder (BD). Patients exposed to higher levels of ACE reported lower gray matter volume. The effect of SLC1A2-181A&gt;C revealed itself only among patients exposed to lower levels of ACE, with T/T homozygotes showing the lowest, and G/G the highest, gray matter volume. The greatest difference between high and low exposures to ACE was observed in carriers of the G allele. Since the mutant G allele has been associated with a reduced transcriptional activity and expression of the transporter protein, we could hypothesize that after exposure to highest levels of ACE G/G homozygotes are more vulnerable to stress reporting the highest brain damage as a consequence of an excess of free glutamate.
Genetic and gender differences are among the factors that have a role in the etiology of panic disorder (PD). It is thought that PD is related to neurotransmitter pathways, such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), both of which are involved in the regulation of the monoamine mechanism. We examined the interactions of BDNF, COMT and gender differences in terms of personality characteristics in PD. The subjects were 470 patients (178 men, 292 women) with a DSM-IV diagnosis of PD, and 458 healthy controls (195 men, 263 women). The subjects were further clinically characterized using the Revised NEO Personality Inventory (NEO-PI-R) and State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI). COMT Val158Met polymorphisms (rs4680) and BDNF Val66Met (rs6265) polymorphisms were genotyped using allelic discrimination by a real-time PCR assay. A multivariate analysis of covariance (MANCOVA) was performed with STAI and NEO-PI-R scores as the dependent factor, gender and genotyping groups (BDNF and COMT) as fixed factors, and the covariate of age in the PD and healthy control groups. Post hoc MANCOVA tests were conducted to evaluate COMT  BDNF interactions. An interaction of BDNF  COMT  gender was confirmed in the PD group by MANCOVA on STAI scores and NEO-PI-R Neuroticism and Extraversion scores, whereas no association of such interactions was observed in the healthy controls. The anxiety sensitivity of the COMT Met+BDNF Val/Val carriers was higher than that of the COMT Val/Val+BDNF Val/Val carriers by post hoc MANCOVA. A significant BDNF  COMT  gender interaction was observed in the PD patients but not in the controls. Our findings partly demonstrated the involvement of a gene  gene  gender interaction in the pathogenesis of PD.
Dopamine (DA) and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) contribute in the neural processes underlying drug-driven behaviors. DA is a potent modulator of NMDAR, but few studies have investigated the functional interaction between DA and NMDAR in the context of substance abuse. We combined the rat model of cocaine self-administration with brain slice electrophysiology to study DA modulation of NMDA currents in the oval bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (ovBNST), a dense DA terminal field involved in maintenance of cocaine self-administration amongst other drug related behaviors. Long-Evans rats self-administered intravenous cocaine (0.75 mg/kg/injection) on a progressive ratio (PR) schedule of reinforcement for 15 days and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were done on the 16th day. DA reduced NMDA currents in brain-slices from cocaine self-administering rats, but not in those of drug-nave and sucrose self-administering, or when cocaine exposure was passive (yoked), revealing a mechanism unique to voluntary cocaine intake. DA reduced NMDA currents by activating G-protein-coupled D1- and D2-like receptors that converged on phospholipase C and protein phosphatases. Accordingly, our study reveals a mechanism that may contribute to dysfunctional synaptic plasticity associated with drug-driven behaviors during acute withdrawal.

Rosmarinic acid (RA) is an important component of Chinese herbal medicine treatments and has been demonstrated to exert therapeutic effects in mood disorders. The present study was designed to assess the effects of RA on post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)-like symptoms, hippocampal cell proliferation and phosphorylation extracellular regulated protein kinases (pERK1/2) expression. We found that administration of RA (10mg/kg) alleviated PTSD-like symptoms in rats exposed to an enhanced single prolonged stress (ESPS) paradigm and restored hippocampal proliferation and pERK1/2 expression. Interestingly, the effects of RA were inhibited by the blockage of the ERK signaling. These data support the use of RA for treating PTSD and indicate that the ERK1/2 signaling cascade may play a critical role in the therapeutic efficacy of RA in treating such conditions.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is the major inhibitory amino acid neurotransmitter in the brain and is primarily responsible for modulating excitatory tone. Clinical neuroimaging studies show decreased GABA levels in the anterior cingulate of patients with mood disorders, including major depressive disorder. Chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) is an animal model thought to mimic the stressful events that may precipitate clinical depression in humans. In this study male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to a modified CUS paradigm that used a random pattern of unpredictable stressors twice daily for 10 days to explore the early developmental stages of depression-like endophenotypes. Control rats were handled daily for 10 days. Some rats from each treatment group received an injection of ketamine (40 mg/kg) after the final stressor. One day following the final stressor rats were tested for behavioral effects in the forced swim test and then euthanized to collect trunk blood and anterior cingulate brain samples. GABA levels were measured in anterior cingulate samples ex vivo using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H-MRS) at 11.7 T. Animals subjected to CUS had lower body weights, higher levels of blood corticosterone, and increased immobility in the forced swim test; all of which suggest that the stress paradigm induced a depression-like phenotype. GABA levels in the anterior cingulate were significantly increased in the stressed animals compared to controls. Administration of ketamine on the last day of treatment blunted the depression-like behavior and increased GABA levels in the anterior cingulate following CUS. These data indicate that stress disrupts GABAergic signaling, which may over time lead to symptoms of depression and ultimately lower basal levels of cortical (1)H-MRS GABA that are seen in humans with depression. Furthermore, the data suggests that ketamine modulates cortical GABA levels as a mechanism of its antidepressant activity.





Preclinical and clinical data have identified ketamine, a non-selective NMDAR (N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor) antagonist, as a promising medication for patients who do not respond to treatment with monoamine-based antidepressants. Moreover, unlike the current monoamine-based antidepressants, ketamine has a long-lasting effect already after a single dose. The mechanisms of ketamine action remain to be fully understood. Using a recently developed microelectrode array (MEA), which allows sub-second measurements of fluctuating glutamate concentrations, we studied here the effects of in vivo local application of the ketamine and of the N2B subunit-specific antagonist Ro25-6981 upon evoked glutamate release. Both ligands inhibit glutamate release in subregions of the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. Likewise, acute systemic ketamine treatment, at an antidepressant dose, caused a reduction in evoked glutamate release in the subiculum. We suggest that the effects of ketamine and Ro25-6981 in the subiculum could involve blockade of presynaptic NMDA receptors containing N2B subunits.
SuffrutinesA (1) and B (2), a pair of novel photochemical Z/E isomeric indolizidine alkaloids, with a unique and highly conjugated C20 skeleton, were isolated from the roots of Flueggea suffruticosa. The structures were elucidated by extensive analysis of NMR spectra and single-crystal X-ray diffraction. The light-induced isomerization and hypothetical biogenetic pathway to 1 and 2, as well as their activity for regulating the morphology of Neuro-2a cells are also discussed.





Correctly localising sensory stimuli in space is a formidable challenge for the newborn brain. A new study provides a first glimpse into how human brain mechanisms for sensory remapping develop in the first year of life.
Circadian rhythms are responsive to external and internal cues, light and metabolism being among the most important. In mammals, the light signal is sensed by the retina and transmitted to the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) master clock [1], where it is integrated into the molecular oscillator via regulation of clock gene transcription. The SCN synchronizes peripheral oscillators, an effect that can be overruled by incoming metabolic signals [2]. As a consequence, peripheral oscillators can be uncoupled from the master clock when light and metabolic signals are not in phase. The signaling pathways responsible for coupling metabolic cues to the molecular clock are being rapidly uncovered [3-5]. Here we show that insulin-phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-Forkhead box class O3 (FOXO3) signaling is required for circadian rhythmicity in the liver via regulation of Clock. Knockdown of FoxO3 dampens circadian amplitude, an effect that is rescued by overexpression of Clock. Subsequently, we show binding of FOXO3 to two Daf-binding elements (DBEs) located in the Clock promoter area, implicating Clock as a transcriptional target of FOXO3. Transcriptional oscillation of both core clock and output genes inthe liver of FOXO3-deficient mice is affected, indicating adisrupted hepatic circadian rhythmicity. Finally, we show that insulin, a major regulator of FOXO activity [6-9], regulates Clock levels in a PI3K- and FOXO3-dependent manner. Our data point to a key role of the insulin-FOXO3-Clock signaling pathway in the modulation of circadian rhythms.
Human early visual cortex was traditionally thought to process simple visual features such as orientation, contrast, and spatial frequency via feedforward input from the lateral geniculate nucleus (e.g., [1]). However, the role of nonretinal influence on early visual cortex is so far insufficiently investigated despite much evidence that feedback connections greatly outnumber feedforward connections [2-5]. Here, we explored in five fMRI experiments how information originating from audition and imagery affects the brain activity patterns in early visual cortex in the absence of any feedforward visual stimulation. We show that category-specific information from both complex natural sounds and imagery can be read out from early visual cortex activity in blindfolded participants. The coding of nonretinal information in the activity patterns of early visual cortex is common across actual auditory perception and imagery and may be mediated by higher-level multisensory areas. Furthermore, this coding is robust to mild manipulations of attention and working memory but affected by orthogonal, cognitively demanding visuospatial processing. Crucially, the information fed down to early visual cortex is category specific and generalizes to sound exemplars of the same category, providing evidence for abstract information feedback rather than precise pictorial feedback. Our results suggest that early visual cortex receives nonretinal input from other brain areas when it is generated by auditory perception and/or imagery, and this input carries common abstract information. Our findings are compatible with feedback of predictive information to the earliest visual input level (e.g., [6]), in line with predictive coding models [7-10].









Highly localized Ca(2+) release events have been characterized in several neuronal preparations. In mouse neurohypophysial terminals (NHTs), such events, called Ca(2+) syntillas, appear to emanate from a ryanodine-sensitive intracellular Ca(2+) pool. Traditional sources of intracellular Ca(2+) appear to be lacking in NHTs. Thus, we have tested the hypothesis that large dense core vesicles (LDCVs), which contain a substantial amount of calcium, represent the source of these syntillas. Here, using fluorescence immunolabeling and immunogold-labeled electron micrographs of NHTs, we show that type 2 ryanodine receptors (RyRs) are localized specifically to LDCVs. Furthermore, a large conductance nonspecific cation channel, which was identified previously in the vesicle membrane and has biophysical properties similar to that of an RyR, is pharmacologically affected in a manner characteristic of an RyR: it is activated in the presence of the RyR agonist ryanodine (at low concentrations) and blocked by the RyR antagonist ruthenium red. Additionally, neuropeptide release experiments show that these same RyR agonists and antagonists modulate Ca(2+)-elicited neuropeptide release from permeabilized NHTs. Furthermore, amperometric recording of spontaneous release events from artificial transmitter-loaded terminals corroborated these ryanodine effects. Collectively, our findings suggest that RyR-dependent syntillas could represent mobilization of Ca(2+) from vesicular stores. Such localized vesicular Ca(2+) release events at the precise location of exocytosis could provide a Ca(2+) amplification mechanism capable of modulating neuropeptide release physiologically.















Conducting polymers, especially poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene) (PEDOT) based materials, are important for developing highly sensitive and microscale neural probes. In the present work, we show that the conductivity and stability of PEDOT can be significantly increased by switching the widely used counter anion poly(styrenesulfonate) (PSS) to the smaller tetrafluoroborate (TFB) anion during the electrodeposition of the polymer. Time-dependent impedance measurements of polymer modified implantable microwires were conducted in physiological buffer solutions under accelerated aging conditions and the relative stability of PEDOT:PSS and PEDOT:TFB modified microwires was compared over time. This study was also extended to carbon nanotube (CNT) incorporated PEDOT:PSS which, according to some reports, is claimed to enhance the stability and electrical performance of the polymer. However, no noticeable difference was observed between PEDOT:PSS and CNT:PEDOT:PSS in our measurements. At the biologically relevant frequency of 1kHz, PEDOT:TFB modified microwires exhibit approximately one order of magnitude higher conductivity and demonstrate enhanced stability over both PEDOT:PSS and CNT:PEDOT:PSS modified microwires. In addition, PEDOT:TFB is not neurotoxic and we show the proof-of-concept for both in vitro and in vivo neuronal recordings using PEDOT:TFB modified microelectrode arrays and chronic electrodes, respectively. Our findings suggest that PEDOT:TFB is a promising conductive polymer coating for the recording of neural activities.
The aim of this study was to assess the effects of single oral bolus of 300,000IU Vitamin D3 on serum levels and on bone and metabolic parameters in diabetic patients. This study is a Phase IV, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, monocenter clinical trial. Thirty patients, 60years or older, with type 2 diabetes mellitus, and diabetic foot complications, were enrolled and monitored for 24weeks: 14 were treated with Vitamin D3 and 16 with placebo. Parameters including glucose, adiponectin, leptin, osteoprotegerin (OPG), 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D], beta-CrossLaps, osteocalcin, bone-specific isoenzyme of alkaline phosphatase, tumor necrosis factor- and parathyroid hormone were measured at screening and baseline and 12 and 24weeks after treatment. Analysis of covariance was used to compare treatment groups. Analysis of the data detected a significant increase in 25(OH)D serum levels both at 12 and 24weeks with respect to baseline values only in the treated patients. Significant variations with respect to baseline values were noted in OPG (P=0.0085) and in leptin (P=0.0442) levels: these were lower in the placebo group at week 24 but higher in the treated group. Vitamin D3 supplementation significantly increased serum leptin and OPG levels. Further, large-scale clinical trials are warranted to confirm these results.



Reducing amyloid- peptide (A) burden at the pre-symptomatic stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is currently the advocated clinical strategy for treating this disease. The most developed method for targeting A is the use of monoclonal antibodies including bapineuzumab, solanezumab and crenezumab. We have synthesized these antibodies and used surface plasmon resonance (SPR) and mass spectrometry to characterize and compare the ability of these antibodies to target A in transgenic mouse tissue as well as human AD tissue. SPR analysis showed that the antibodies were able to bind A with high affinity. All of the antibodies were able to bind A in mouse tissue. However, significant differences were observed in human brain tissue. While bapineuzumab was able to capture a variety ofN-terminally truncated A species, the A detected using solanezumab was barely above detection limits while crenezumab did not detect any A. None of the antibodies were able to detect any A species in human blood. Immunoprecipitation experiments using plasma from AD subjects showed that both solanezumab and crenezumab have extensive cross-reactivity with non-A related proteins. Bapineuzumab demonstrated target engagement with brain A, consistent with published clinical data. Solanezumab and crenezumab did not, most likely as a result of a lack of specificity due to cross-reactivity with other proteins containing epitope overlap. This lack of target engagement raises questions as to whether solanezumab and crenezumab are suitable drug candidates for the preventative clinical trials for AD.


Purpose: To determine the effect of pseudoexfoliation (PEX) on the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in a population in which PEX is a common finding. The relationship between open-angle glaucoma (OAG) and AD was also studied. Methods: Predictors of incident AD, including mixed and unspecified dementia, were analysed in a cohort of 679 residents 65-74years of age, examined in a population survey in the municipality of Tierp, Sweden, 1984-1986. To expand the cohort, participants in other studies in Tierp were enrolled. In this way, the cohort embraced 1123 people, representing more than 15700 person-years at risk. Medical records were reviewed to identify subjects diagnosed with dementia. Those with a follow-up time shorter than 2years were excluded from the study. Results: By the conclusion of the study, in December 2011, 174 new cases of AD, including mixed and unspecified dementia, had been detected, 41 of whom were affected by PEX at baseline. Higher age and female gender were the only predictors identified. No association between PEX and AD was found (hazard ratio 0.98; 95% confidence interval 0.69-1.40). Newly diagnosed OAG at baseline did not increase the risk (hazard ratio 1.09; 95% confidence interval 0.69-1.74). Conclusion: Pseudoexfoliation is not a predictor of AD. No association was found between OAG and AD.
Purpose: The primary aim was to analyse regional incidences of retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) and frequencies of treatment and their relation to perinatal risk factors during a 3-year period. A secondary aim was to study adherence to the study screening protocol in the different regions. Methods: A population-based study of neonatal morbidity in extremely preterm infants in Sweden (EXPRESS) was performed during 2004-2007. Screening for ROP was to start at postnatal age 5weeks and to continue weekly until the retina was completely vascularized or until regression of ROP. Logistic regression analyses were used for evaluation of differences in incidence of Any ROP, ROP 3 or more and ROP Type 1 between the seven regions of the country. Results: The regional incidence of ROP varied between 54% and 92% for Any ROP, between 25% and 43% for ROP stage 3 or more and between 8% and 23% of infants with ROP Type 1, all of whom were treated. There was no significant difference between the regions regarding ROP Type 1, even when adjusting for known risk factors for ROP. Conclusion: The heterogeneity between the regions regarding the incidence of ROP was reduced with increasing severity of ROP, and there was no heterogeneity regarding frequency of treatment for ROP, which is the most important issue for the children. We cannot exclude observer bias regarding mild ROP and ROP stage 3 in this study.





Variations in both pitch and time are important in conveying meaning through speech and music, however, research is scant on perceptual interactions between these two domains. Using an ordinal comparison procedure, we explored how different pitch levels of flanker tones influenced the perceived duration of empty interstimulus intervals (ISIs). Participants heard monotonic, isochronous tone sequences (ISIs of 300, 600, or 1200ms) composed of either one or five standard ISIs flanked by 500Hz tones, followed by a final interval (FI) flanked by tones of either the same (500Hz), higher (625Hz), or lower (400Hz) pitch. The FI varied in duration around the standard ISI duration. Participants were asked to determine if the FI was longer or shorter in duration than the preceding intervals. We found that an increase in FI flanker tone pitch level led to the underestimation of FI durations while a decrease in FI flanker tone pitch led to the overestimation of FI durations. The magnitude of these pitch-level effects decreased as the duration of the standard interval was increased, suggesting that the effect was driven by differences in mode-switch latencies to start/stop timing. Temporal context (One vs. Five Standard ISIs) did not have a consistent effect on performance. We propose that the interaction between pitch and time may have important consequences in understanding the ways in which meaning and emotion are communicated.
The processing dynamics underlying temporal decisions and the response times they generate have received little attention in the study of interval timing. In contrast, models of other simple forms of decision making have been extensively investigated using response times, leading to a substantial disconnect between temporal and non-temporal decision theories. An overarching decision-theoretic framework that encompasses existing, non-temporal decision models may, however, account both for interval timing itself and for time-based decision-making. We sought evidence for this framework in the temporal discrimination performance of humans tested on the temporal bisection task. In this task, participants retrospectively categorized experienced stimulus durations as short or long based on their perceived similarity to two, remembered reference durations and were rewarded only for correct categorization of these references. Our analysis of choice proportions and response times suggests that a two-stage, sequential diffusion process, parameterized to maximize earned rewards, can account for salient patterns of bisection performance. The first diffusion stage times intervals by accumulating an endogenously noisy clock signal; the second stage makes decisions about the first-stage temporal representation by accumulating first-stage evidence corrupted by endogenous noise. Reward-maximization requires that the second-stage accumulation rate and starting point be based on the state of the first-stage timer at the end of the stimulus duration, and that estimates of non-decision-related delays should decrease as a function of stimulus duration. Results are in accord with these predictions and thus support an extension of the drift-diffusion model of static decision making to the domain of interval timing and temporal decisions.
When people listen to music, they hear beat and a metrical structure in the rhythm; these perceived patterns enable coordination with the music. A clear correspondence between the tempo of actual movement (e.g., walking) and that of music has been demonstrated, but whether similar coordination occurs during motor imagery is unknown. Twenty participants walked naturally for 8m, either physically or mentally, while listening to slow and fast music, or not listening to anything at all (control condition). Executed and imagined walking times were recorded to assess the temporal congruence between physical practice (PP) and motor imagery (MI). Results showed a difference when comparing slow and fast time conditions, but each of these durations did not differ from soundless condition times, hence showing that body movement may not necessarily change in order to synchronize with music. However, the main finding revealed that the ability to achieve temporal congruence between PP and MI times was altered when listening to either slow or fast music. These data suggest that when physical movement is modulated with respect to the musical tempo, the MI efficacy of the corresponding movement may be affected by the rhythm of the music. Practical applications in sport are discussed as athletes frequently listen to music before competing while they mentally practice their movements to be performed.
There is large evidence that infants are able to exploit statistical cues to discover the words of their language. However, how they proceed to do so is the object of enduring debates. The prevalent position is that words are extracted from the prior computation of statistics, in particular the transitional probabilities between syllables. As an alternative, chunk-based models posit that the sensitivity to statistics results from other processes, whereby many potential chunks are considered as candidate words, then selected as a function of their relevance. These two classes of models have proven to be difficult to dissociate. We propose here a procedure, which leads to contrasted predictions regarding the influence of a first language, L1, on the segmentation of a second language, L2. Simulations run with PARSER (Perruchet &amp; Vinter, 1998), a chunk-based model, predict that when the words of L1 become word-external transitions of L2, learning of L2 should be depleted until reaching below chance level, at least before extensive exposure to L2 reverses the effect. In the same condition, a transitional-probability based model predicts above-chance performance whatever the duration of exposure to L2. PARSER's predictions were confirmed by experimental data: Performance on a two-alternative forced choice test between words and part-words from L2 was significantly below chance even though part-words were less cohesive in terms of transitional probabilities than words.

The current research explored the impact of cortical frontal asymmetry (left-lateralization effect) and Behavioral Activation System (BAS) on Substance Use Disorder (SUD) in decisional processes using the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT). Forty SUD participants and forty-two controls (CG) were tested using the IGT. Behavioral responses (gain/loss options), BIS/BAS scores and lateralized alpha band modulation (LTA) were considered. The SUD group increased the tendency to opt in favor of the immediate reward (loss strategy) more than the long-term option (win strategy) compared to the CG. Secondly, higher reward-subscale scores were observed in SUD. Thirdly, SUD showed an increase in left-hemisphere activation in response to losing (with immediate reward) choices in comparison with the CG. An imbalanced left hemispheric effect related to higher BAS trait could explain this &quot;reward bias,&quot; because these components were found to explain (through the regression analysis) the main behavioral deficits.


The purpose of the present study was to identify the changes in the levels of proinflammatory cytokines like IL-1, IL-6 and TNF- in peripheral circulation in Alzheimer's disease (AD) subjects and to correlate these with associated depression and cognitive deficit. Fifty five AD subjects and thirty seven age and sex matched controls were included in the study. The AD patients were grouped as AD with depression (n= 31) and AD without depression (n= 24). The serum levels of IL-1, IL-6 and TNF- were determined by immunoassay by commercially available kits. The serum levels of IL-6 and TNF- were elevated in AD patients with depression compared to control (p&lt;0.001) or AD without depression (p&lt;0.001). The serum level of IL-1 was higher in AD patients with or without depression as compared to controls. Furthermore, a strong inverse correlation was observed between the MMSE scores and serum levels of IL-6 or TNF- in AD subjects with depression. The study highlights the important role of peripheral IL-6 and TNF- in AD associated depression and cognitive deficits.

Ethanol induces appetitive, aversive, and anxiolytic effects that are involved in the development of ethanol use and dependence. Because early ethanol exposure produces later increased responsiveness to ethanol, considerable effort has been devoted to analysis of ethanol's appetitive and aversive properties during early ontogeny. Yet, there is a relative scarcity of research related to the anxiolytic effects of ethanol during early infancy, perhaps explained by a lack of age-appropriate tests. The main aim of this study was to validate a model for the assessment of ethanol's anxiolytic effects in the infant rat (postnatal days 13-16). The potentially anxiolytic effects of ethanol tested included: i) amelioration of conditioned place aversion, ii) ethanol intake in the presence of an aversive conditioned stimulus, iii) the inhibitory behavioral effect in an anxiogenic environment, and iv) innate aversion to a brightly illuminated area in a modified light/dark paradigm. Ethanol doses employed across experiments were 0.0, 0.5, and 2.0g/kg. Results indicated that a low ethanol dose (0.5g/kg) was effective in attenuating expression of a conditioned aversion. Ethanol intake, however, was unaffected by simultaneous exposure to an aversive stimulus. An anxiogenic environment diminished ethanol-induced locomotor stimulation. Finally, animals given 0.5g/kg ethanol and evaluated in a light/dark box showed increased time spent in the illuminated area and increased latency to escape from the brightly lit compartment than rats treated with a higher dose of ethanol or vehicle. These new results suggest that ethanol doses as low as 0.5g/kg are effective in ameliorating an aversive and/or anxiogenic state in preweanling rats. These behavioral preparations can be used to assess ethanol's anxiolytic properties during early development.
Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) rats have been selectively bred for high alcohol preference and consumption. When exposed to the standard, home cage 2-bottle &quot;alcohol (10%, v/v) vs. water&quot; choice regimen with continuous access, male sP rats consume daily approximately 6g/kg alcohol. Conversely, when exposed to the intermittent (once every other day) access to 2 bottles containing alcohol (20%, v/v) and water, respectively, male sP rats display marked increases in daily alcohol intake and signs of alcohol intoxication and &quot;behavioral&quot; dependence. The present study was designed to assess alcohol intake in female sP rats exposed, under the 2-bottle choice regimen, to (a) 10% (v/v) alcohol with continuous access (CA10%), (b) 10% (v/v) alcohol with intermittent access (IA10%), (c) 20% (v/v) alcohol with continuous access (CA20%), and (d) 20% (v/v) alcohol with intermittent access (IA20%). Male sP rats (exposed to CA10% and IA20% conditions) were included for comparison. Over 20 daily drinking sessions, daily alcohol intake in female CA10% and IA20% rats averaged 7.0 and 9.6g/kg, respectively. The rank of alcohol intake was IA20%&gt;IA10%=CA20%&gt;CA10%. Conversely, daily alcohol intake in male CA10% and IA20% rats averaged 6.0 and 8.2g/kg, respectively. Comparison of female and male rats yielded the following rank of alcohol intake: female IA20%&gt;male IA20%&gt;female CA10%male CA10%. An additional experiment found that alcohol drinking during the first hour of the drinking session produced mean blood alcohol levels of 35-40mg% and 85-100mg% in the CA10% and IA20% rats, respectively. These results (a) extend to female sP rats previous data demonstrating the capacity of the IA20% condition to markedly escalate alcohol drinking, and (b) demonstrate that female sP rats consume more alcohol than male sP rats. This sex difference is more evident under the IA20% condition, suggesting that female sP rats are highly sensitive to the promoting effect of the IA20% condition on alcohol drinking. These data contribute to the characterization of sP rats as a model of excessive alcohol consumption.


X-linked myotubular myopathy is a congenital myopathy caused by deficiency of myotubularin. Patients often present with severe perinatal weakness, requiring mechanical ventilation to prevent death from respiratory failure. We recently reported that an activin receptor type IIB inhibitor produced hypertrophy of type 2b myofibers and modest increases of strength and life span in the severely myopathic Mtm14 mouse model of X-linked myotubular myopathy. We have now performed a similar study in the less severely symptomatic Mtm1 p.R69C mouse in hopes of finding greater treatment efficacy. Activin receptor type IIB inhibitor treatment of Mtm1 p.R69C animals produced behavioral and histological evidence of hypertrophy in gastrocnemius muscles but not in quadriceps or triceps. The ability of the muscles to respond to activin receptor type IIB inhibitor treatment correlated with treatment-induced increases in satellite cell number and several muscle-specific abnormalities of hypertrophic signaling. Treatment-responsive Mtm1 p.R69C gastrocnemius muscles displayed lower levels of phosphorylated ribosomal protein S6 and higher levels of phosphorylated eukaryotic elongation factor 2 kinase than were observed in Mtm1 p.R69C quadriceps muscle or in muscles from wild-type littermates. Hypertrophy in the Mtm1 p.R69C gastrocnemius muscle was associated with increased levels of phosphorylated ribosomal protein S6. Our findings indicate that muscle-, fiber type-, and mutation-specific factors affect the response to hypertrophic therapies that will be important to assess in future therapeutic trials.
Abnormalities in phosphoinositide metabolism are an emerging theme in human neurodegenerative disease. Myotubular myopathy is a prototypical disorder of phosphoinositide dysregulation that is characterized by profound muscle pathology and weakness and that is caused by mutations in MTM1, which encodes a phosphatase that targets 3-position phosphoinositides, including phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate. Although the association between MTM1 and muscle disease has become increasingly clarified, the normal role(s) of phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate metabolism in muscle development and homeostasis remain poorly understood. To begin to address the function of phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate in skeletal muscle, we focused on the primary kinase responsible for its production, and created a muscle-specific conditional knockout of the class III phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, Pik3c3. Muscle-specific deletion of Pik3c3 did not disturb embryogenesis or early postnatal development, but resulted in progressive disease characterized by reduced activity and death by 2 months of age. Histopathological analysis demonstrated changes consistent with a murine muscular dystrophy. Examination for cellular mechanism(s) responsible for the dystrophic phenotype revealed significant alterations in the autophagolysosomal pathway with mislocation of known dystrophy proteins to the lysosomal compartment. In all, we present the first analysis of Pik3c3 in skeletal muscle, and report a novel association between deletion of Pik3c3 and muscular dystrophy.
Glucocorticoids are well known to affect T cell migration, leading to a redistribution of the cells from blood to the bone marrow, accompanied by a concurrent suppression of lymph node homing. Despite numerous studies in this context, with most of them employing synthetic glucocorticoids in nonphysiological doses, the mechanisms of this redistribution are not well understood. Here, we investigated in healthy men the impact of cortisol at physiological concentrations on the expression of different migration molecules on eight T cell subpopulations in vivo and in vitro. Hydrocortisone (cortisol, 22 mg) infused during nocturnal rest when endogenous cortisol levels are low, compared with placebo, differentially reduced numbers of T cell subsets, with naive CD4(+) and CD8(+) subsets exhibiting the strongest reduction. Hydrocortisone in vivo and in vitro increased CXCR4 expression, which presumably mediates the recruitment of T cells to the bone marrow. Expression of the lymph node homing receptor CD62L on total CD3(+) and CD8(+) T cells appeared reduced following hydrocortisone infusion. However, this was due to a selective extravasation of CD62L(+) T cell subsets, as hydrocortisone affected neither CD62L expression on a subpopulation level nor CD62L expression in vitro. Corresponding results in the opposite direction were observed after blocking of endogenous cortisol synthesis by metyrapone. CCR7, another lymph node homing receptor, was also unaffected by hydrocortisone in vitro. Thus, cortisol seems to redirect T cells to the bone marrow by upregulating their CXCR4 expression, whereas its inhibiting effect on T cell homing to lymph nodes is apparently regulated independently of the expression of classical homing receptors.
Many patients with hyperandrogenemia are overweight or obese, which exacerbates morbidities associated with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). To examine the ability of testosterone (T) to generate PCOS-like symptoms, monkeys received T or cholesterol (control) implants (n = 6/group) beginning prepubertally. As previously reported, T-treated animals had increased neuroendocrine drive to the reproductive axis [increased luteinizing hormone (LH) pulse frequency] at 5 yr, without remarkable changes in ovarian or metabolic features. To examine the combined effects of T and obesity, at 5.5 yr (human equivalent age: 17 yr), monkeys were placed on a high-calorie, high-fat diet typical of Western cultures [Western style diet (WSD)], which increased body fat from &lt;2% (pre-WSD) to 15-19% (14 mo WSD). By 6 mo on WSD, LH pulse frequency in the controls increased to that of T-treated animals, whereas LH pulse amplitude decreased in both groups and remained low. The numbers of antral follicles present during the early follicular phase increased in both groups on the WSD, but maximal follicular size decreased by 50%. During the late follicular phase, T-treated females had greater numbers of small antral follicles than controls. T-treated monkeys also had lower progesterone during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle. Although fasting insulin did not vary between groups, T-treated animals had decreased insulin sensitivity after 1 yr on WSD. Thus, while WSD consumption alone led to some features characteristic of PCOS, T + WSD caused a more severe phenotype with regard to insulin insensitivity, increased numbers of antral follicles at midcycle, and decreased circulating luteal phase progesterone levels.
Our aim was to examine the effects of GLP-1 and PYY3-36, separately and in combination, on energy intake, energy expenditure, appetite sensations, glucose and fat metabolism, ghrelin, and vital signs in healthy overweight men. Twenty-five healthy male subjects participated in this randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, four-arm crossover study (BMI 29  3 kg/m(2), age 33  9 yr). On separate days they received a 150-min intravenous infusion of 1) 0.8 pmolkg(-1)min(-1) PYY3-36, 2) 1.0 pmolkg(-1)min(-1) GLP-1, 3) GLP-1 + PYY3-36, or 4) placebo. Ad libitum energy intake was assessed during the final 30 min. Measurements of appetite sensations, energy expenditure and fat oxidation, vital signs, and blood variables were collected throughout the infusion period. No effect on energy intake was found after monoinfusions of PYY3-36 (-4.2  4.8%, P = 0.8) or GLP-1 (-3.0  4.5%, P = 0.9). However, the coinfusion reduced energy intake compared with placebo (-30.4  6.5%, P &lt; 0.0001) and more than the sum of the monoinfusions (P &lt; 0.001), demonstrating a synergistic effect. Coinfusion slightly increased sensation of nausea (P &lt; 0.05), but this effect could not explain the effect on energy intake. A decrease in plasma ghrelin was found after all treatments compared with placebo (all P &lt; 0.05); however, infusions of GLP-1 + PYY3-36 resulted in an additional decrease compared with the monoinfusions (both P &lt; 0.01). We conclude that coinfusion of GLP-1 and PYY3-36 exerted a synergistic effect on energy intake. The satiating effect of the meal was enhanced by GLP-1 and PYY3-36 in combination compared with placebo. Coinfusion was accompanied by slightly increased nausea and a decrease in plasma ghrelin, but neither of these factors could explain the reduction in energy intake.

Dietary sources of essential amino acids (EAAs) are used for growth, somatic maintenance and reproduction. Eusocial insect workers such as honeybees are sterile, and unlike other animals, their nutritional needs should be largely dictated by somatic demands that arise from their role within the colony. Here, we investigated the extent to which the dietary requirements of adult worker honeybees for EAAs and carbohydrates are affected by behavioural caste using the Geometric Framework for nutrition. The nutritional optimum, or intake target (IT), was determined by confining cohorts of 20 young bees or foragers to liquid diets composed of specific proportions of EAAs and sucrose. The IT of young, queenless bees shifted from a proportion of EAAs-to-carbohydrates (EAA:C) of 1:50 towards 1:75 over a 2-week period, accompanied by a reduced lifespan on diets high in EAAs. Foragers required a diet high in carbohydrates (1:250) and also had low survival on diets high in EAA. Workers exposed to queen mandibular pheromone lived longer on diets high in EAA, even when those diets contained 5 their dietary requirements. Our data show that worker honeybees prioritize their intake of carbohydrates over dietary EAAs, even when overeating EAAs to obtain sufficient carbohydrates results in a shorter lifespan. Thus, our data demonstrate that even when young bees are not nursing brood and foragers are not flying, their nutritional needs shift towards a diet largely composed of carbohydrates when they make the transition from within-hive duties to foraging.
Abstract There is need for a valid, sensitive and short instrument capable of detecting and quantifying behavioural changes in ALS, which can be utilized in clinical and research settings. This study aimed to 1) develop and validate such an instrument; 2) verify the most common behavioural symptoms; and 3) investigate longitudinal changes over a six-month period. Two hundred and nineteen patients were included. The development sample (n = 140) was used to determine the most appropriate items to include in the new tool, the Motor Neuron Disease Behavioural Instrument (MiND-B) * , via a data-driven approach. An independent sample (n = 79) validated the tool. A more comprehensive sample (n = 50, sub-classified into ALS and ALS plus) was utilized to verify if the MiND-B could detect ALS plus patients. Finally, 20 ALS patients completed the MiND-B after a six-month period. Apathy, disinhibition and stereotypical behaviour were all found to be very common symptoms in ALS occurring in 75%, 66% and 58%, respectively, of cases. Notably, the MiND-B could identify ALS plus patients without standard cognitive assessments. In conclusion, the MiND-B tool can detect patients with ALS plus reliably, by means of questions to the informant. This test could enable ALS centres to evaluate non-motor symptoms and adapt management and decision-making approaches as necessary. *only available in the online version of the journal. Please find this material with the following direct link to the article: http://www.informahealthcare.com/(DOI: 10.3109/21678421.2014.896927).
Abstract Our objective was to describe incidence and clinical features of ALS from a prospective population-based study in Emilia Romagna Region (ERR). From 2009 onwards, a prospective registry recorded all incident cases of ALS among residents in the ERR (population, 4.4 million inhabitants), involving 17 neurological departments. For each patient, detailed demographic and clinical information was collected by caring physicians. Results showed that from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2011, 347 patients received a new diagnosis of ALS with a crude incidence rate of 2.63/100,000/year. There was micro-geographic heterogeneity throughout ERR, with higher incidence rates in the low density population (3.27/100,000) (p &lt; 0.01). ALS patients have been more frequently employed in agriculture than the general ERR population (8.64% vs. 4.6%, p &lt; 0.01). Clinical features were similar to those described in previous population based studies. In conclusion, we report incidence rates similar to those reported by European registries, reflecting good accuracy of our prospective study. We confirmed previous studies reporting higher incidence rates in rural areas and among agricultural workers. Although genetics has been gaining increasing importance in ALS aetiology, some epidemiological data are still unexplained. Identifying geographical areas or populations with high incidence rates can be a starting point for identifying environmental risk factors. Further studies having this specific aim can shed light on these topics.
Abstract ALS is a progressive neurodegenerative disease. The stage of disease reached can be described using a simple system based on the number of central nervous system regions involved. Historically, datasets have not attempted to record clinical stage, but being able to re-analyse the data by stage would have several advantages. We therefore explored the possibility of using an algorithm based on the revised ALS Functional Rating Scale (ALSFRS-R), which is commonly used in clinical practice, to estimate clinical stage. We devised an algorithm to convert ALSFRS-R score into clinical stage. ALSFRS-R domains were mapped to equivalent CNS regions. Stage 4 is reached when gastrostomy or non- invasive ventilation is needed, but as a proxy we used provision. We collected ALSFRS-R from clinic visits, and compared the estimation of clinical stage from the ALSFRS-R with the actual stage. Results showed that the agreement between staging by the two methods was excellent with an intraclass correlation coefficient of 0.92 (95% confidence interval 0.88-0.94). There was no systematic bias towards over-staging or under-staging using the algorithm. In conclusion, we have shown that clinical stage in ALS can be reliably estimated using the ALSFRS-R in historical data and in current data where stage has not been recorded.
Abstract Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease typically causing death within three years. Understanding the impact of disease on patients using health utility at different stages of ALS would allow meaningful cost-benefit analysis of new potential therapies. A common health-related quality of life measurement, developed and validated for the UK, is the EQ-5D. Using clinical trial data from the LiCALS study, we calculated health utility using the EQ-5D for each King's ALS clinical stage from 214 patients. We analysed whether health utility, and other health-related measures, significantly changed between each of the clinical stages. Results showed that mean health utility decreased by 0.487 (the scale runs from 1 to - 0.594) between clinical stages 2A and 4. Emotional states, measured using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), showed worsening depression and anxiety scores as ALS progressed. Age of onset, disease onset, gender and treatment group were not predictors of EQ-5D, depression or anxiety. In conclusion, increasing severity of King's ALS Clinical Stage is associated with a progressive decrease in EQ-5D health utility. This is useful for cost-benefit analysis of new therapies and validates this ALS clinical staging system.
Abstract Our objective was to distinguish ALS, ALS-FTD and bvFTD via a novel visual MRI cortical atrophy scale that can be employed in a clinical setting. MRI images of 100 participants (33 ALS, 11 ALS-FTD, 22 bvFTD and 34 controls) were rated in four brain areas: orbitofrontal cortex, anterior temporal pole, anterior cingulate, and motor cortex. Areas were rated on a 5- point Likert scale by two raters blinded to the diagnosis. Results demonstrated that bvFTD patients showed the highest levels of atrophy across all regions, while ALS patients had the lowest atrophy scores. ALS-FTD patients have higher atrophy ratings compared to ALS patients for the motor cortex, anterior cingulate and anterior temporal lobe, with a statistical trend for the orbitofrontal cortex. ALS-FTD patients were not significantly different from bvFTD for any of the brain regions. These findings were confirmed in a post hoc VBM analysis of the same participants. Our study demonstrates that a simple visual MRI rating scale can reliably distinguish ALS, ALS-FTD and bvFTD atrophy patterns in a clinical setting. Motor cortex, anterior cingulate and anterior temporal atrophy emerged as good diagnostic markers for ALS-FTD. Employment of this MRI rating scale can complement clinical diagnostics of patients in the ALS-FTD continuum.
The following report describes a simple and optimized assay for the detection of iron in solution based on the binding of this metal by ferrozine. This assay accurately measures between 1 and 200 M sample iron concentrations within 2 hours.

Despite advances in immunohistochemical and molecular diagnostics, there are persistent difficulties in differentiating between several subtypes of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and classic Hodgkin lymphoma (CHL). Considering high level of livin expression in hematologic malignancies, we aimed to examine the utility of livin expression ratio, as an ancillary biomarker, in distinguishing CHL from NHL in ambiguous cases. We evaluated livin expression in 38 CHL, 23 NHL, and 39 nonneoplastic lymph nodes in paraffin-embedded blocks. Tissue microarray-based semiquantitative immunoflourecent staining was applied for protein expression. Criterion standard of diagnosis was based on selection of only definite cases and not the cases suspected by hemathopathologists. A significant difference was found in the livin/GAPDH mean ratio (M.R) of expression between NHL and CHL cases. A receiver operating characteristic curve analysis confirmed 0.6370 to be the best diagnostic cut-off value for the livin/GAPDH expression M.R in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) (area under the curve = 0.944); it yielded 92% sensitivity, 94% specificity, likelihood ratios positive 17.5, and likelihood ratios negative 0.07 for diagnosing DLBCL from CHL. Mean ratio of livin/Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) expression seems to be a valuable index in differentiating DLBCL from CHL. We suggested an optimal cut-off point for livin/GAPDH expression M.R with a high sensitivity and specificity. Thus, in diagnostically difficult cases of DLBCL and CHL, focus on livin as marker may provide useful corroborative information.
Abstract Aims: Redox and growth-factor imbalance fosters muscle disuse atrophy. Since the endoplasmic-reticulum chaperone Grp94 is required for folding insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) and for antioxidant cytoprotection, we investigated its involvement in muscle mass loss due to inactivity. Results: Rat soleus muscles were transfected in vivo and analyzed after 7 days of hindlimb unloading, an experimental model of muscle disuse atrophy, or standard caging. Increased muscle protein carbonylation and decreased Grp94 protein levels (p&lt;0.05) characterized atrophic unloaded solei. Recombinant Grp94 expression significantly reduced atrophy of transfected myofibers, compared with untransfected and empty-vector transfected ones (p&lt;0.01), and decreased the percentage of carbonylated myofibers (p=0.001). Conversely, expression of two different N-terminal deleted Grp94 species did not attenuate myofiber atrophy. No change in myofiber trophism was detected in transfected ambulatory solei. The absence of effects on atrophic untransfected myofibers excluded a major role for IGFs folded by recombinant Grp94. Immunoprecipitation and confocal microscopy assays to investigate chaperone interaction with muscle atrophy regulators identified 160kDa neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) as a new Grp94 partner. Unloading was demonstrated to untether nNOS from myofiber subsarcolemma; here, we show that such nNOS localization, revealed by means of NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry, appeared preserved in unloaded myofibers expressing recombinant Grp94, compared to those transfected with the empty vector or deleted Grp94 cDNA (p&lt;0.02). Innovation: Grp94 interacts with nNOS and prevents its untethering from sarcolemma in unloaded myofibers. Conclusion: Maintenance of Grp94 expression is sufficient to counter unloading atrophy and oxidative stress by mechanistically stabilizing nNOS-multiprotein complex at the myofiber sarcolemma. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 20, 2479-2496.
The heritability of variety seeking in the food domain was estimated from a large sample (N=5,543) of middle age to elderly monozygotic and dizygotic twins from the &quot;Virginia 30,000&quot; twin study. Different dietary variety scores were calculated based on a semi-quantitative food choice questionnaire that assessed consumption frequencies and quantities for a list of 99 common foods. Results indicate that up to 30% of the observed variance in dietary variety was explained through heritable influences. Most of the differences between twins were due to environmental influences that are not shared between twins. Additional non-genetic analyses further revealed a weak relationship between dietary variety and particular demographic variables, including socioeconomic status, age, sex, religious faith, and the number of people living in the same household.
Stress or negative mood often promotes energy intake and overeating. Since the serotonin transporter-linked polymorphic region (5-HTTLPR) is found to mediate stress vulnerability as well as to influence energy intake, this gene may also influence the negative effects of stress exposure on overeating. Moreover, since stress proneness also reflects cognitive stress vulnerability - as often defined by trait neuroticism - this may additionally predispose for stress-induced overeating. In the present study it was investigated whether the 5-HTTLPR genotype interacted with neuroticism on changes in mood, appetite and energy intake following exposure to a real-life academic examination stressor. In a balanced-experimental design, homozygous S-allele and L-allele carriers (N=94) with the lowest and highest neuroticism scores were selected from a large database of 5-HTTLPR genotyped students. Mood, appetite and energy intake were measured before and after a 2-hour academic examination and compared with a control day. Examination influenced appetite for particular sweet snacks differently depending on 5-HTTLPR genotype and neuroticism. S/S compared with L/L subjects reported greater examination stress, and this was accompanied by a more profound post-stress increase in appetite for sweet snacks. Data also revealed a 5-HTTLPR genotype by trait neuroticism interaction on energy intake, regardless of examination. These results consolidate previous assumptions of 5-HTTLPR involvement in stress vulnerability and suggest 5-HTTLPR and neuroticism may influence stress-induced overeating depending on the type of food available. These findings furthermore link previous findings of increased risk for weight gain in S/S-allele carriers, particularly with high scores on trait neuroticism, to increased energy intake.
In this study we explored how parental exposure to pharmaceuticals influences reproduction in offspring. Adult zebrafish (Danio rerio) were exposed for 6 weeks to 10 gL(-1) of carbamazepine (CBZ) and gemfibrozil (GEM), two commonly prescribed drugs. Embryos were collected, reared in clean water until sexual maturity and then assessed for reproductive output, courtship, sperm function and organ histology. While 34% of the control pairs produced clutches, only 11% of the fish with CBZ exposed parents or 17% of the fish with GEM exposed parents produced clutches. Reciprocal crosses indicated that exposure in males had more profound reproductive effects. When a control F1 male was crossed with either a F1 female whose parents were CBZ or GEM exposed; no differences were observed in embryo production compared to controls. However, when a control F1 female was crossed with either a CBZ or GEM F1 male, 50% less embryos were produced. Male courtship was reduced in both CBZ and GEM F1 fish but the deficits in courtship displays were drug specific. Compared to control males, the sperm from GEM F1 males had shorter head lengths and midpieces whereas sperm from CBZ F1 males had longer midpieces. Although it remains unclear how specifically these morphological differences influenced sperm velocity, the sperm from GEM F1 males and from CBZ F1 males swam faster than the sperm of control F1 at 20s post activation. No significant differences were observed in the histology of the liver, kidney and gonads across treatment groups. These data are important as they show that chronic, low dose pharmaceutical exposure of parental fish is sufficient to cause significant reproductive effects in offspring.
The discovery that selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as fluoxetine are present and bioaccumulate in aquatic ecosystems have spurred studies of fish serotonin transporters (SERTs) and changes in SSRI-sensitive behaviors as adverse outcomes relevant for risk assessment. Many SSRIs also act at serotonin 5-HT1A receptors. Since capitalizing on this action may improve treatments of clinical depression and other psychiatric disorders, novel multimodal drugs that agonize 5-HT1A and block SERT were introduced. In mammals both 5-HT1A and CB agonists, such as buspirone and WIN55,212-2, reduce anxious behaviors. Immunological and behavioral evidence suggests that 5-HT1A-like receptors may function similarly in zebrafish (Danio rerio), yet their pharmacological properties are not well characterized. Herein we compared the density of [(3)H] 8-hydroxy-2-di-n-propylamino tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) binding to 5-HT1A-like sites in the zebrafish brain, to that of similarly Gi/o-coupled cannabinoid receptors. [(3)H] 8-OH-DPAT specific binding was 1768, 27532, and 23036fmol/mg protein in the hypothalamus, optic tectum, and telencephalon. [(3)H] WIN55,212-2 binding density was higher in those same brain regions at 60.3, 5.50.4 and 7.30.3pm/mg protein. The aquatic light-dark plus maze was used to examine behavioral effects of 5-HT1A and CB receptor agonists on zebrafish novelty-based anxiety. With acute exposure to the 5-HT1A partial-agonist buspirone (50mg/L), or dietary exposure to WIN55,212-2 (7g/week) zebrafish spent more time in and/or entered white arms more often than controls (p&lt;0.05). Acute exposure to WIN55,212-2 at 0.5-50mg/L reduced mobility. These behavioral findings suggest that azipirones, like cannabinoid agonists, have anxiolytic and/or sedative properties on fish in novel environments. These observations highlight the need to consider potential ecological risks of azapirones and multimodal antidepressants in the future.
Mutations in the mitochondrial genome can impair normal metabolic function in the central nervous system (CNS) where cellular energy demand is high. Primary mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations have been linked to several mitochondrial disorders that have comorbid psychiatric, neurologic, and cognitive sequelae. Here, we present a series of cases with primary mtDNA mutations who were genotyped and evaluated across a common neuropsychological battery. Nineteen patients with mtDNA mutations were genotyped and clinically and cognitively evaluated. Pronounced deficits in nonverbal/visuoperceptual reasoning, verbal recall, semantic word generativity, and processing speed were evident and consistent with a &quot;mitochondrial dementia&quot; that has been posited. However, variation in cognitive performance was noteworthy, suggesting that the phenotypic landscape of cognition linked to primary mtDNA mutations is heterogeneous. Our patients with mtDNA mutations evidenced cognitive deficits quite similar to those commonly seen in Alzheimer's disease and could have clinical relevance to the evaluation of dementia.
The purpose of this study was to identify factors that are predictive of, or associated with, high endorsement of postconcussion and posttraumatic stress symptoms following military-related traumatic brain injury (TBI). Participants were 1,600 U.S. service members (age: M = 27.1, SD = 7.1; 95.4% male) who had sustained a mild-to-moderate TBI and who had been evaluated by the Defense and Veterans Brain Injury Center at one of six military medical centers. Twenty-two factors were examined that included demographic, injury circumstances/severity, treatment/evaluation, and psychological/physical variables. Four factors were statistically and meaningfully associated with clinically elevated postconcussion symptoms: (i) low bodily injury severity, (ii) posttraumatic stress, (iii) depression, and (iv) military operation where wounded (p &lt; .001, 43.2% variance). The combination of depression and posttraumatic stress symptoms accounted for the vast majority of unique variance (41.5%) and were strongly associated with, and predictive of, clinically elevated postconcussion symptoms [range: odds ratios (OR) = 4.24-7.75; relative risk (RR) = 2.28-2.51]. Five factors were statistically and meaningfully associated with clinically elevated posttraumatic stress symptoms: (i) low bodily injury severity, (ii) depression, (iii) a longer time from injury to evaluation, (iv) military operation where wounded, and (v) current auditory deficits (p &lt; .001; 65.6% variance accounted for). Depression alone accounted for the vast majority of unique variance (60.0%) and was strongly associated with, and predictive of, clinically elevated posttraumatic stress symptoms (OR = 38.78; RR = 4.63). There was a very clear, strong, and clinically meaningful association between depression, posttraumatic stress, and postconcussion symptoms in this sample. Brain injury severity, however, was not associated with symptom reporting following TBI.

Motor tics are frequently observed in children during development. Usually transient and benign, they can become chronic over time, join various morbid disorders (vocal tics, attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder, and obsessive-compulsive disorders) and move toward genuine Tourette syndrome. In this case, it will be necessary to prevent impacts -mainly in terms of quality of life and emotional and relational problems- using a global therapeutic strategy combining psychoeducational approaches with appropriate medication.

The purpose of this descriptive correlational study was to explore potential gender differences in the relationship of dementia severity, age, APOE status, cognitive reserve and co-morbidity (two potentially modifiable factors), to delirium severity in older adults. Baseline data from an ongoing clinical trial and a Poisson regression procedure were used in the analyses. Participants were 148 elderly individuals with dementia and delirium admitted to post-acute care. In women, delirium severity was related to dementia severity (p=0.002) and co-morbidity moderated that effect (p=0.03). In men, education was marginally associated with delirium severity (p=0.06). Implications for research are discussed.


Prenatal estrogen/testosterone exposure is known to be involved in early brain development. In this context, the ratio of the index finger to ring finger length (2D:4D) has been put forward as an indicator of the intrauterine sex hormonal level. A previous study by Collinson et al. (2010) examined 2D:4D ratios in Asian patients with schizophrenia and found an increased 2D:4D pattern in male patients compared to male healthy controls. In the current study, we tried to replicate the result of this study on the 2D:4D ratio in schizophrenia patients and controls in a Chinese sample. Moreover, we investigated the link between 2D:4D ratios and schizotypal personality traits in the participants of the study. No significant difference between cases and controls in 2D:4D ratios for both hands could be observed. However, a positive association between right 2D:4D ratio and schizotypal personality traits was found in healthy controls (both in the male and female subsamples) suggesting that a high 2D:4D ratio could represent a vulnerability factor for schizophrenia in healthy males and females. Same results were observed for the digit ratio of the left hand and the SPQ in the healthy total and healthy female subsample. Therefore, the inclusion of personality measures to study the link between the digit ratio and schizophrenia might help to provide insights in a potential continuum from healthy to schizophrenic behavior.

Objective: To outline some of the key issues for injury-related data linkage studies in Australia and describe potential applications of data linkage for injury surveillance and research. Methods: Narrative review of data linkage capacity and injury-related data collection quality in Australia. Results: The establishment of national and state-based data linkage centres in Australia has been a great leap forward for data linkage capacity for injury research. However, there are still limitations of using data linkage for injury surveillance and research. These are highlighted in the form of key perils and pitfalls, with examples provided. There is still much to be gained for injury research by using data linkage techniques to enhance the information available across the injury continuum, but data quality issues should always be acknowledged. Conclusions: Obtaining authorisation to link injury data collections for national research remains cumbersome. Streamlining of the application process is needed to ensure that injury research is able to be conducted in a timely fashion. Data quality and data linkage rates need to be considered when interpreting research findings. Implications: Streamlining of the application process for research that involves linking data collections would help ensure that research is conducted in a timely fashion.
DOV 216,303, an inhibitor of serotonin, noradrenaline and dopamine reuptake, belongs to a new line of drugs called 'triple reuptake inhibitors' that have been proposed for treatment of depression. The addictive drug cocaine has similar mechanism of action and exerts rewarding effects by blocking reuptake of dopamine, leading to increased extracellular concentrations of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens. Thus, DOV 216,303 and other triple reuptake inhibitors might be speculated to exhibit abuse potential, limiting their future therapeutic use. To further elucidate potential addictive properties of DOV 216,303, we conducted a comparative study of addiction-related effects of DOV 216,303 and cocaine in mice using acute self-administration, conditioned place preference (CPP) and drug-induced hyperlocomotion. Effects on accumbal extracellular dopamine levels were determined using microdialysis, and we measured monoamine receptor occupancy as well as brain and plasma exposure. DOV 216,303 was self-administered acutely in the same dose range as cocaine. However, in the CPP model, DOV 216,303 did not induce place preference at doses where cocaine caused place preference. Higher doses of DOV 216,303 than cocaine were needed to induce hyperlocomotion and increase extracellular accumbal dopamine with effective doses being higher than effective doses used in depression models. Moreover, DOV 216,303 displayed a pharmacokinetic profile with lower potential for addiction than cocaine. Thus, high levels of DAT occupancy were reached slower and decayed more slowly after DOV 216,303 than cocaine administration. The present study shows that acute administration of DOV 216,303 displays some addictive-like properties in mice, but these were less pronounced than cocaine, most likely due to different pharmacokinetic profiles.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) has been shown to be effective for relief of Parkinson's disease, depression and obsessive-compulsive disorder in humans, but the effect of DBS on psychosis is largely unknown. In previous studies, we showed that inactivation of the medial septum or nucleus accumbens normalized the hyperactive and psychosis-related behaviors induced by psychoactive drugs. We hypothesized that DBS of the medial septum or nucleus accumbens normalizes the ketamine-induced abnormal behaviors and brain activity in freely moving rats. Male Long-Evans rats were subcutaneously injected with ketamine (3 mg/kg) alone, or given ketamine and DBS, or injected with saline alone. Subcutaneous injection of ketamine resulted in loss of gating of hippocampal auditory evoked potentials (AEPs), deficit in prepulse inhibition (PPI) and hyperlocomotion, accompanied by increased hippocampal gamma oscillations of 70-100 Hz. Continuous 130-Hz stimulation of the nucleus accumbens, or 100-Hz burst stimulation of the medial septum (1s on and 5s off) significantly attenuated ketamine-induced PPI deficit and hyperlocomotion. Medial septal stimulation also prevented the loss of gating of hippocampal AEPs and the increase in hippocampal gamma waves induced by ketamine. Neither septal or accumbens DBS alone without ketamine injection affected spontaneous locomotion or PPI. The results suggest that DBS of the medial septum or nucleus accumbens may be an effective method to alleviate psychiatric symptoms of schizophrenia. The effect of medial septal DBS in suppressing both hippocampal gamma oscillations and abnormal behaviors induced by ketamine suggests that hippocampal gamma oscillations are a correlate of disrupted behaviors.
Virtual reality (VR) environments are increasingly used to study spatial navigation in rodents. So far behavioral paradigms in virtual realities have been limited to linear tracks or open fields. However, little is known whether rodents can learn to navigate in more complex virtual spaces. We used a VR setup with a spherical treadmill but no head-fixation, which permits animals not only to move in a virtual environment but also to freely rotate around their vertical body axis. We trained Mongolian gerbils to perform spatial tasks in virtual mazes of different complexity. Initially the animals learned to run back and forth between the two ends of a virtual linear track for food reward. Performance, measured as path length and running time between the virtual reward locations, improved to asymptotic performance within about five training sessions. When more complex mazes were presented after this training epoch, the animals generalized and explored the new environments already at their first exposure. In a final experiment, the animals also learned to perform a two-alternative forced choice task in a virtual Y-maze. Our data thus shows that gerbils can be trained to solve spatial tasks in virtual mazes and that this behavior can be used as a readout for psychophysical measurements.
Recent research has shown that emotion influences postural control. The objective of the present study was to establish whether or not postural threat influences postural and physiological responses to aversive visual stimuli. In order to investigate the coupling between emotional reactions, motivated behavior and postural responses, we studied the displacement of the subject's center of pressure (COP) and the changes in electrodermal activity (EDA), heart rate (HR) and postural muscle activation. Thirty-two participants (15 males, 17 females; mean  SD age: 21.4  2.3) viewed affective and neutral pictures while standing still on a force platform in the presence or absence of postural threat. The HR and EDA data revealed that the emotional state varied as a function of the postural condition. The mean displacement in the anteroposterior (AP) axis was more rearwards in response to aversive stimuli that in response to neutral stimuli, in both the absence of postural threat (-0.65 mm and +0.90 mm for aversive and neutral stimuli, respectively) and the presence of postural threat (-0.00 mm vs. +0.89 mm, respectively). An aversive stimulus was associated with a shorter AP COP sway path than a neutral stimulus in the presence of a postural threat (167.26 mm vs. 174.66 mm for aversive and neutral stimuli, respectively) but not in the latter's absence (155.85 mm vs. 154.48 mm, respectively). Our results evidenced withdrawal behavior in response to an aversive stimulus (relative to a neutral stimulus) in the absence of postural threat. Withdrawal behavior was attenuated (but nevertheless active) in the presence of a postural threat.
Explicit associative memory relies on different neural substrates depending on similarity of the items associated. Extant literature dissociates old/new effects elicited by homogeneous and heterogeneous pairs. However, current results scarcely address potential priming effects induced by the presentation sequence. In the present ERP study, participants learned associations between two pictures, which either belonged to the same semantic category (e.g., animal-animal), or to different categories (e.g., animal-scene). Pictures forming a pair were shown sequentially, allowing for investigation of the different neural processes related to presentation of the first and the second item. After the study phase, participants performed a recognition judgment. After recognition, participants were asked to recall the associated picture. During retrieval, between 260 and 350 ms post-stimulus there was a significant frontal effect of category (i.e., same-category versus different-category), but only for items shown first within a pair. In the 350-600 ms time window the parietal old/new effect was unaffected by semantic category, but was modulated by presentation order. Exploratory analyses revealed even earlier effects in the time windows 40-90 ms and 150-200 ms. This evidence supports the priming account of the FN400 and highlights the importance of sequence effects in electrophysiological activity during episodic retrieval.
In an operational setting acquisition of visual targets using both head and eye movements can be driven by memorized sequence of commands - internal triggering (IT) or by commands issued through secondary operator - external triggering (ET). The primary objective of our research was to examine differences in target acquisition using IT compared with ET. Using a forced time optimal strategy eight subjects were required to acquire targets with angular offsets of 20, 30 and 60 along the horizontal plane in both IT and ET conditions. The data showed that the eye/head latency difference in IT condition is longer than that for ET, the target acquisition time is also longer for IT commands. Consistent with this finding were similar results when examining the peak head velocity and peak head acceleration. Under IT protocol head amplitude is higher than when using ET. In conclusion, the study demonstrates that the pattern of performance of target acquisition task is influenced by the way of command triggering.
Neuropeptide S (NPS) is a 20-aminoacid peptide that selectively activates a G-protein coupled receptor named NPSR. Preclinical studies have shown that NPSR activation promotes anxiolysis, hyperlocomotion, arousal and weakfullness. Previous findings suggest that dopamine neurotransmission plays a role in the actions of NPS. Based on the close relationship between dopamine and Parkinson disease (PD) and on the evidence that NPSR are expressed on brain dopaminergic nuclei, the present study investigated the effects of NPS in motor deficits induced by intracerebroventricular (icv) administration of the dopaminergic neurotoxin 6-OHDA in the mouse rotarod test. 6-OHDA injection evoked motor deficits and significantly reduced tyrosine hidroxylase (TH)-positive cells in the substantia nigra (SN) and ventral tegmental area. However, a positive correlation was found only between the motor performance of 6-OHDA-injected mice and the number of TH-positive cells in SN. The systemic administration of l-DOPA+benserazide (25+6.25 mg/kg) counteracted 6-OHDA-induced motor deficits in mice. Similar to L-DOPA, the icv injection of NPS (0.1 and 1 nmol) reversed motor deficits evoked by 6-OHDA. In conclusion, NPS attenuated 6-OHDA-induced motor impairments in mice assessed in the rota-rod test. We discussed the beneficial actions of NPS based on a putative facilitation of dopaminergic neurotransmission in the brain. Finally, these findings candidate NPSR agonists as a potential innovative treatment for PD.
Maternal tobacco use increases the risk of complications in pregnancy and also the risk of adverse fetal outcomes. Studies have established nicotine as the principal component of tobacco smoke that leads to the majority of negative reproductive outcomes associated with maternal tobacco use. It appears the neuroteratogenicity of nicotine is mediated by complex gene-environment interactions. Genetic background contributes to individual differences in nicotine-related phenotypes. The aim of the current study was to investigate the interaction between pre- and post-natal nicotine exposure and genetic background on the histology of the striatum and behavioral measures using DBA/2J (D2) and C57BL/6J (B6) inbred mice. Alterations in neuronal cell populations, striatal brain volume, and behavior - open field (OF) activity, novel object recognition (NOR), elevated plus maze (EPM), and passive avoidance (PA) - were evaluated on post-natal day (PN) 24 and PN75. Histological data showed that pre- and post-natal nicotine exposure resulted in decreased striatal volume among preadolescent B6 and reduced neuronal number within the striatum of preadolescent B6 mice. Behavioral data showed that pre- and post-natal nicotine exposure promoted hyperactivity in D2 female mice and disrupted NOR and PA memory. Specifically, NOR deficits were significant amongst adult male mice whereas PA deficits were seen across genetic background and sex. These data suggest that nicotine treatment, genetic background, developmental stage, and sex effect striatal morphology can lead to neurobehavioral alterations.
Sleep is an important physiological state, but its function and regulation remain elusive. Drosophila melanogaster is a useful model organism for studying sleep because it has a well-established diurnal activity pattern, including consolidated periods of quiescence that share many characteristics with human sleep. Sleep behavior is regulated by circadian and homeostatic processes and is modulated by environmental and physiological context cues. These cues are communicated to sleep circuits by neurohormones and neuromodulators. A major class of neuromodulators, monoamines, has been found to be essential in various aspects of sleep regulation. Dopamine promotes arousal and sleep-dependent memory formation as well as daily activity. Octopamine, the insect homolog of norepinephrine, promotes wake and may play a role in circadian clock-dependent sleep and arousal. Serotonin promotes sleep and modulates circadian entrainment to light. The different monoamines each signal through multiple receptors in various brain regions in response to different conditions. How these separate circuits integrate their inputs into a single program of behavior is an open field of study for which Drosophila will continue to be a useful model. Monoamine biosynthetic pathways and receptors are conserved between flies and humans, and, thus far, their roles in modulating sleep also appear to be conserved. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).
Circadian rhythms influence virtually every aspect of behavior. This special issue provides updates on the current state and future directions for the field of circadian rhythms in behavioral neuroscience. Recent data have linked circadian rhythms to behavioral and physiological phenomena and disease states in virtually every area of behavioral and biomedical science. Specifically, a growing interest in the cognitive, neuropsychiatric, and metabolic consequences of circadian rhythm disorders and dysfunction is emerging. This special issue is not intended to provide an exhaustive overview of the entire field of chronobiology or behavioral rhythms. Instead, we invited researchers from a variety of fields to critically review and integrate studies that address the roles of circadian rhythms in behavioral neuroscience. The papers included in this issue range from the molecular biology of clock genes to the behavior of free-living animals, and cover a wide variety of species ranging from insects, to rodents, to humans. As such, the reviews provide an overview of the burgeoning field of circadian rhythms within behavioral neuroscience. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).
Circadian rhythms in most mammals are synchronized to local time by phase and period resetting actions of daily light-dark cycles on a retino-recipient, light-entrainable circadian pacemaker, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). The SCN receives input from other brain regions, some of which mediate the phase and period resetting actions of behavioral arousal on circadian rhythms. We review historical milestones in the discovery of so-called &quot;nonphotic&quot; circadian clock resetting induced by environmentally stimulated arousal, or by feedback from clock-controlled rest-activity cycles. Topics include species generality, interactions between concurrent or successive photic and nonphotic inputs to the circadian clock, neural pathways, neurotransmitters, and clock cell responses that mediate resetting by behavioral arousal. The role of behavioral inputs to the circadian clock in determining the phase of entrainment to local time in natural environments is not well understood. Nonetheless, nonphotic effects are of sufficient magnitude to raise issues for the design of experiments in behavioral neuroscience (any procedure that is sufficiently arousing may alter the timing of circadian clocks that regulate dependent variables of primary interest). Nonphotic inputs to the clock may be exploited in strategies to reset or strengthen circadian rhythms in humans. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).
The circadian system has pronounced influence on learning and memory, manifesting as marked changes in memory acquisition and recall across the day. From a mechanistic perspective, the majority of studies have investigated mammalian hippocampal-dependent learning and memory, as this system is highly tractable. The hippocampus plays a major role in learning and memory, and has the potential to integrate circadian information in many ways, including information from local, independent oscillators, and through circadian modulation of neurogenesis, synaptic remodeling, intracellular cascades, and epigenetic regulation of gene expression. These local processes are combined with input from other oscillatory systems to synergistically augment hippocampal rhythmic function. This overview presents an account of the current state of knowledge on circadian interactions with learning and memory circuitry and provides a framework for those interested in further exploring these interactions. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).
Reconsolidation is the process whereby consolidated memories are destabilized upon retrieval and restabilized to persist for later use. Although the neurobiology of the reconsolidation of both appetitive and aversive memories has been intensively investigated, reconsolidation of memories of physiologically relevant social rewards has received little attention. Social play, the most characteristic social behaviour displayed by young mammals, is highly rewarding, illustrated by the fact that it can induce conditioned place preference (CPP). Here, we investigated the role of signalling mechanisms implicated in memory processes, including reconsolidation, namely glucocorticoid, mineralocorticoid, NMDA glutamatergic and CB1 cannabinoid receptors, in the reconsolidation of social play-induced CPP in rats. Systemic treatment with the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist mifepristone before, but not immediately after, retrieval disrupted the reconsolidation of social play-induced CPP. Mifepristone did not affect social play-induced CPP in the absence of memory retrieval. Treatment with the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 modestly affected the reconsolidation of social play-induced CPP. However, the reconsolidation of social play-induced CPP was not affected by treatment with the mineralocorticoid and CB1 cannabinoid receptor antagonists spironolactone and rimonabant, respectively. We conclude that glucocorticoid neurotransmission mediates the reconsolidation of social reward-related memories in rats. These data indicate that the neural mechanisms of the reconsolidation of social reward-related memories only partially overlap with those underlying the reconsolidation of other reward-related memories.
There seems to be a close relationship between hippocampal N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) and GABAA receptors with respect to the modulation of behavior that occurs in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. This study investigated the possible involvement of the CA1 GABAA receptors in anxiolytic-like effects induced by (+)-MK-801 (a noncompetitive antagonist of the NMDA subtype of the glutamate receptor). Male Wistar rats were subjected to the elevated plus-maze apparatus and open arm time (%OAT), and open arm entries (%OAE) for anxiety-related behaviors, and closed arm entries that correspond to the locomotor activity were assessed. An intra-CA1 injection of (+)-MK-801 (2 g/rat) and muscimol (0.5 g/rat; a GABAA receptor agonist) increased %OAT and %OAE by themselves while not altering the closed arm entries, indicating an anxiolytic-like effect of these drugs. Injection of bicuculline (0.1, 0.25, and 0.5 g/rat; a GABAA receptor antagonist) did not alter any of the anxiety-related parameters. An intra-CA1 injection of a subthreshold dose of muscimol (0.1 g/rat) or bicuculline (0.5 g/rat), 5 min before injection of subthreshold and effective doses of (+)-MK-801 (0.5, 1 and 2 g/rat), increased and decreased the anxiolytic-like effect of (+)-MK-801, respectively. The isobologram analysis of these findings suggested a synergistic anxiety-like effect of intra-CA1 (+)-MK-801 and muscimol. In conclusion, the CA1 GABAA receptors appear to be involved in anxiolytic-like behaviors induced by (+)-MK-801.
Systemic as well as hippocampal administration of nNOS inhibitors induces antidepressant-like effects in animal models. However, the mechanisms underlying these effects have not been completely understood. Evidence has suggested that nNOS inhibition increases serotonin signaling in the brain. Moreover, activation of prosencephalic 5HT1A receptors is considered to mediate stress coping and antidepressant effects. On this basis, the aim of this study was to investigate the hypothesis that the antidepressant-like effect induced by nNOS inhibition in the dorsal hippocampus (DH) would involve local serotonergic signaling and 5HT1A receptor activation. Therefore, rats were subjected to the forced swimming test and received microinjections of fluoxetine, NPA (N-propyl-L-arginine, selective nNOS inhibitor), WAY100635 (5HT1A antagonist), and vehicle, alone or in combination, into the DH. Exposure to the forced swimming test increased nitric oxide acid levels in the DH. The administration of NPA or fluoxetine in the DH induced dose-dependent antidepressant-like effects. WAY100635 microinjection in the DH did not induce any effect per se, but it counteracted NPA-induced and fluoxetine-induced effects. These results suggest that the antidepressant-like effect induced by the administration of nNOS inhibitors in the DH involves local serotonergic signaling and 5HT1A receptor activation.
Studies using factor analysis have helped describe the organization of copulatory behavior in male rodents. However, the focus of these studies on a few traditional measures may have limited their results. To test this possibility, 74 sexually-experienced male hamsters were observed as they copulated with stimulus females. The measures collected exceeded the conventional ones in number, variety and independence. The factor analysis of these data revealed a structure with seven factors collectively accounting for 80% of the variance. Most resembled the factors in previous reports, reinforcing the contributions that the processes suggested by these factors make to the organization of male behavior. But several other factors were more novel, possibly reflecting the use of measures that were novel or revised for greater independence. The most interesting of these were two factors focusing on early steps in the progression leading to ejaculation. Importantly, both incorporated measures from each of the three copulatory series that were observed. Past work suggests that independent processes control the times required to initiate copulation and later resume it after an ejaculation. In contrast, these results suggest the existence of two processes, each of which contributes to both the initiation and reinitiation of copulation.
We reported that differentiation-inducing factor-1 (DIF-1), synthesized by Dictyostelium discoideum, inhibited proliferation of various tumor cell lines in vitro by suppressing the Wnt/-catenin signaling pathway. However, it remained unexplored whether DIF-1 also inhibits tumor growth in vivo. In the present study, therefore, we examined in-vivo effects of DIF-1 using three cancer models: Mutyh-deficient mice with oxidative stress-induced intestinal tumors and nude mice xenografted with the human colon cancer cell line HCT-116 and cervical cancer cell line HeLa. In exploration for an appropriate route of administration, we found that orally administered DIF-1 was absorbed through the digestive tract to elevate its blood concentration to levels enough to suppress tumor cell proliferation. Repeated oral administration of DIF-1 markedly reduced the number and size of intestinal tumors that developed in Mutyh-deficient mice, reducing the phosphorylation level of GSK-3 Ser(9) and the expression levels of early growth response-1 (Egr-1), transcription factor 7-like 2 (TCF7L2) and cyclin D1. DIF-1 also inhibited the growth of HCT-116- and HeLa-xenograft tumors together with decreasing phosphorylation level of GSK-3 Ser(9), although it was not statistically significant in HeLa-xenograft tumors. DIF-1 also suppressed the expressions of Egr-1, TCF7L2 and cyclin D1 in HCT-116-xenograft tumors and those of -catenin, TCF7L2 and cyclin D1 in HeLa-xenograft tumors. This is the first report to show that DIF-1 inhibits tumor growth in vivo, consistent with its in-vitro action, suggesting that this compound may have potential as a novel anti-tumor agent.
Monoamine oxidases (MAO) and cholinesterases are validated targets in the design of drugs for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. The multi-target compound N-((5-(3-(1-benzylpiperidin-4-yl)propoxy)-1-methyl-1H-indol-2-yl)methyl)-N-methylprop-2-yn-1-amine (ASS234), bearing the MAO-inhibiting propargyl group attached to a donepezil moiety that inhibits cholinesterases, retained activity against human acetyl- and butyryl-cholinesterases. The inhibition of MAO A and MAO B by ASS234 was characterized and compared to other known MAO inhibitors. ASS234 was almost as effective as clorgyline (kinact/KI=310(6) min(-1)M(-1)) and was shown by structural studies to form the same N5 covalent adduct with the FAD cofactor.
Abnormal accumulation of amyloid- (A) peptide in the brain is a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In addition to neurotoxic effects, A also damages brain endothelial cells (ECs) and may thus contribute to the degeneration of cerebral vasculature, which has been proposed as an early pathogenic event in the course of AD and is able to trigger and/or potentiate the neurodegenerative process and cognitive decline. However, the mechanisms underlying A-induced endothelial dysfunction are not completely understood. Here we hypothesized that A impairs protein quality control mechanisms both in the secretory pathway and in the cytosol in brain ECs, leading cells to death. In rat brain RBE4 cells, we demonstrated that A1-40 induces the failure of the ER stress-adaptive unfolded protein response (UPR), deregulates the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) decreasing overall proteasome activity with accumulation of ubiquitinated proteins and impairs the autophagic protein degradation pathway due to failure in the autophagic flux, which culminates in cell demise. In conclusion, A deregulates proteostasis in brain ECs and, as a consequence, these cells die by apoptosis.

Plant vacuolar invertases, which belong to family 32 of glycoside hydrolases (GH32), are key enzymes in sugar metabolism. They hydrolyse sucrose into glucose and fructose. The cDNA encoding a vacuolar invertase from Solanum lycopersicum (TIV-1) was cloned and heterologously expressed in Pichia pastoris. The functional role of four N-glycosylation sites in TIV-1 has been investigated by site-directed mutagenesis. Single mutations to Asp of residues Asn52, Asn119 and Asn184, as well as the triple mutant (Asn52, Asn119 and Asn184), lead to enzymes with reduced specific invertase activity and thermostability. Expression of the N516D mutant, as well as of the quadruple mutant (N52D, N119D, N184D and N516D) could not be detected, indicating that these mutations dramatically affected the folding of the protein. Our data indicate that N-glycosylation is important for TIV-1 activity and that glycosylation of N516 is crucial for recombinant enzyme stability. Using a functional genomics approach a new vacuolar invertase inhibitor of S. lycopersicum (SolyVIF) has been identified. SolyVIF cDNA was cloned and heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli. Specific interactions between SolyVIF and TIV-1 were investigated by an enzymatic approach and surface plasmon resonance (SPR). Finally, qRT-PCR analysis of TIV-1 and SolyVIF transcript levels showed a specific tissue and developmental expression. TIV-1 was mainly expressed in flowers and both genes were expressed in senescent leaves.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease exhibiting amyloid beta (A) peptide accumulation as a key characteristic. Autophagy, which is dysregulated in AD, participates in the metabolism of A. Unexpectedly, we recently found that autophagy, in addition to its degradative function, also mediates the secretion of A. This finding adds A to an increasing number of biomolecules, the secretion of which is mediated by autophagy. We also showed that inhibition of A secretion through genetic deletion of autophagy leads to intracellular A accumulation, which enhanced neurodegeneration induced by autophagy deficiency. Hence, autophagy may play a central role in two pathological hallmarks of AD: A amyloidosis and neurodegeneration. Herein, we summarize the role of autophagy in AD with focus on A metabolism in light of the recently established role of autophagy in protein secretion. We discuss potential routes for autophagy-mediated A secretion and suggest experimental approaches to further elucidate its mechanisms.
Genomic and neuro-scientific research into the causes and course of antisocial behaviour triggers bioethical debate. Often, these new developments are met with reservation, and possible drawbacks and negative side-effects are pointed out. This article reflects on these scientific developments and the bioethical debate by means of an exploration of the perspectives of one important stakeholder group: juveniles convicted of a serious crime who stay in a juvenile justice institution. The views of juveniles are particularly interesting, as possible applications of current and future scientific findings are considered to be most effective if applied early in life. Based on their statements we come to the following provisional conclusions. Concerns about labelling and stigmatization are recognized and widely shared. Possible effects on one's identity are acknowledged too. Yet, a possible biological underpinning of one's antisocial behaviour is not considered to result in the development of a criminal identity. Nonetheless, psychopharmacological interventions are experienced as endangering one's current self. Concerns regarding the refusal of responsibility and the blaming of one's genes or brain can be put into perspective. Instead, participants emphasize the motive of own choice as underlying their criminal behaviour. Moreover, bioethical debate should pay attention to the role of parents of children at risk and the parent-child relationship in families at-risk. We argue that the short-term and long-term interests of children at risk, as well as their interests and those of society at large, may conflict. In order to deal appropriately with newly arising dilemmas, a normative framework needs to be developed.

In this article, we present a neurologically motivated computational architecture for visual information processing. The computational architecture's focus lies in multiple strategies: hierarchical processing, parallel and concurrent processing, and modularity. The architecture is modular and expandable in both hardware and software, so that it can also cope with multisensory integrations - making it an ideal tool for validating and applying computational neuroscience models in real time under real-world conditions. We apply our architecture in real time to validate a long-standing biologically inspired visual object recognition model, HMAX. In this context, the overall aim is to supply a humanoid robot with the ability to perceive and understand its environment with a focus on the active aspect of real-time spatiotemporal visual processing. We show that our approach is capable of simulating information processing in the visual cortex in real time and that our entropy-adaptive modification of HMAX has a higher efficiency and classification performance than the standard model (up to [Formula: see text]).




Being in work or the equivalent is an important goal after allo-SCT and is used as an indicator of recovery. The aim was to elucidate occupational status and factors associated with work among SCT survivors. Adults in working age with a haematological disease (n=177) were followed up within a median of 8 (range 28) years post allo-SCT. Predictors of not being in work at all or working part-time because of sick leave, disability pension or early old-age pension were analyzed using logistic regression analyses. At diagnosis, 82% of the participants were working full-time and 2% were on sick leave or old-age pension. At follow-up, 52% were working full-time, 27% were working part-time and 17% were on sick leave, disability pension or old-age pension. Not working at all was associated with multi-morbidity (P=0.01) and poorer health (P=0.00). Working part-time was associated with a higher age at diagnosis (P=0.00), being a woman (P=0.03), being born abroad (P=0.03) and multi-morbidity (P=0.00). In conclusion, the majority of survivors were in paid work at follow-up; however, a substantial number were not working or worked part-time.




Abstract Background. The increasing utilisation of decompressive craniectomy for traumatic brain injury and stroke has led to an increase in the number of cranioplasties undertaken. Cranioplasty is also undertaken following excision of tumours originating from or invading the skull vault, removal of bone flaps due to post-operative infection, and decompressive craniectomy for the management of rarer causes of brain oedema and/or refractory intracranial hypertension. The existing literature which mainly consists of single-centre, retrospective studies, shows a significant variation in practice patterns and a wide range of morbidity. There also exists a need to measure the outcome as perceived by the patients themselves with patient reported outcome measures (PROMs; functional outcome, quality of life, satisfaction with cosmesis). In the UK, the concept of long-term surveillance of neurosurgical implants is well established with the UK shunt registry. Based on this background, we propose to establish the UK Cranial Reconstruction Registry (UKCRR). Aim. The overarching aim of the UKCRR is to collect high-quality data about cranioplasties undertaken across the UK and Ireland in order to improve outcomes for patients. Methods. Any patient undergoing reconstruction of the skull vault with autologous bone, titanium, or synthetic material in participating units will be eligible for inclusion. Data will be submitted directly by participating units to the Outcome Registry Intervention and Operation Network secure platform. A Steering Committee will be responsible for overseeing the strategic direction and running of the UKCRR. Outcome measures. These will include re-operation due to a cranioplasty-related issue, surgical site infection, re-admission due to a cranioplasty-related issue, unplanned post-operative escalation of care, adverse events, length of stay in admitting unit, destination at discharge from admitting unit, mortality at discharge from admitting unit, neurological status and PROMs during routine follow-up. Conclusion. The UKCRR will be an important pillar in the ongoing efforts to optimise the outcomes of patients undergoing cranioplasty.
Abstract Introduction. The inpatient length of stay for lumbar discectomy has been steadily declining, since its original description over 80 years ago. The operation was first described as a day case procedure in 1987, but only sporadically since then, especially in the UK. We describe our initial experience in introducing this service in Manchester. Methods. Over a 2-year period, 50 of 80 patients undergoing lumbar discectomy met the inclusion criteria for day case surgery, using standard microscopic techniques and admission via a day case unit. Results. Majority (N = 48) were single level, unilateral discectomies and 36 (72%) were discharged home the same day. The remainder (28%) were discharged after an overnight stay and within 24 h. Reasons for this included post-operative back pain and hypotension. Majority (N = 47), reported improvement or resolution of pre-operative back and leg pain, which was quantified using Visual analogue scores (p &lt; 0.01). Conclusions. Lumbar microdiscectomy as a day case procedure remains a feasible and safe option in selected patients and can help free up in patient beds with a significant economic benefit also.
Abstract Objective. In the UK approximately 4000 patients are diagnosed with brain tumours each year. Many patients undergo CT scans of the chest, abdomen and pelvis as part of the investigation of such tumours. We aimed to determine the value of CT body scans in patients with newly diagnosed brain tumours. Methods. We retrospectively reviewed the minutes of our neuro-oncology multidisciplinary team (MDT) meetings over a 12-month period to identify patients with a new radiological diagnosis of a brain tumour. Patients were divided into groups based on radiological diagnosis. Histology results were obtained for patients who underwent surgery. Results of CT body scans were obtained. Results. A total of 261 patients were identified. Sixty percent had radiological primary brain tumours and 40% had secondary brain tumours. Concordance between radiological and histological diagnoses was high (97% for radiological primary brain tumours, and 83% for radiological secondary brain tumours). CT body scans demonstrated primary lesions in 90% of radiological secondary brain tumours. Thirty-four percent of patients with a radiological diagnosis of primary brain tumour underwent CT body scans. The majority of these scans were normal (78%). Conclusion. The ability of a specialist neuro-oncology MDT to correctly identify primary and secondary brain tumours on initial imaging is high. If the radiological diagnosis is of a secondary brain tumour, then CT body scans are essential. If the radiological diagnosis is of a primary brain tumour, then CT scans of the body are likely to add little to patient management.

Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1A (CMT1A) is associated with increased gene dosage for PMP22. Therapeutic approaches are currently aiming at correcting PMP22 over-expression. It is unknown whether PMP22 can be used as a biological marker of disease progression and therapy efficacy. We performed quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction on skin biopsies of 45 patients with CMT1A, obtained at study entry and after 24-months of treatment either with ascorbic acid or placebo. Data of a subgroup of patients were also compared with matched healthy subjects. Finally, we analysed PMP22 messenger RNA levels in sural nerve biopsies. We did not find significant differences in the levels of any known PMP22 transcripts in treated or untreated patients with CMT1A, thus confirming that ascorbic acid does not impact on the molecular features of CMT1A. Most importantly, we did not observe any correlation between PMP22 messenger RNA levels and the different clinical and electrophysiological outcome measures, underscoring the weakness of PMP22 to mirror the phenotypic variability of patients with CMT1A. We did not find increased PMP22 messenger RNA levels in skin and sural nerve biopsies of patients with CMT1A compared with relative controls. In conclusion, this study shows that ascorbic acid does not impact on PMP22 transcriptional regulation and PMP22 is not a suitable biomarker for CMT1A.

Sodium channel Nav1.9 is expressed in peripheral nociceptive neurons, as well as visceral afferents, and has been shown to act as a threshold channel. Painful peripheral neuropathy represents a significant public health challenge and may involve gain-of-function variants in sodium channels that are preferentially expressed in peripheral sensory neurons. Although gain-of-function variants of peripheral sodium channels Nav1.7 and Nav1.8 have recently been found in painful small fibre neuropathy, the aetiology of peripheral neuropathy in many cases remains unknown. We evaluated 459 patients who were referred for possible painful peripheral neuropathy, and confirmed the diagnosis of small fibre neuropathy in a cohort of 393 patients (369 patients with pure small fibre neuropathy, and small fibre neuropathy together with large fibre involvement in an additional 24 patients). From this cohort of 393 patients with peripheral neuropathy, we sequenced SCN11A in 345 patients without mutations in SCN9A and SCN10A, and found eight variants in 12 patients. Functional profiling by electrophysiological recordings showed that these Nav1.9 mutations confer gain-of-function attributes to the channel, depolarize resting membrane potential of dorsal root ganglion neurons, enhance spontaneous firing, and increase evoked firing of these neurons. Our data show, for the first time, missense mutations of Nav1.9 in individuals with painful peripheral neuropathy. These genetic and functional observations identify missense mutations of Nav1.9 as a cause of painful peripheral neuropathy.
In Parkinson's disease, visual dysfunction is prominent. Visual hallucinations can be a major hallmark of late stage disease, but numerous visual deficits also occur in early stage Parkinson's disease. Specific retinopathy, deficits in the primary visual pathway and the secondary ventral and dorsal pathways, as well as dysfunction of the attention pathways have all been posited as causes of hallucinations in Parkinson's disease. We present data from patients with Parkinson's disease that contrast with a known neuro-ophthalmological syndrome, termed 'blindsight'. In this syndrome, there is an absence of conscious object identification, but preserved 'guess' of the location of a stimulus, preserved reflexive saccades and motion perception and preserved autonomical and expressive reactions to negative emotional facial expressions. We propose that patients with Parkinson's disease have the converse of blindsight, being 'blind to blindsight'. As such they preserve conscious vision, but show erroneous 'guess' localization of visual stimuli, poor saccades and motion perception, and poor emotional face perception with blunted autonomic reaction. Although a large data set on these deficits in Parkinson's disease has been accumulated, consolidation into one specific syndrome has not been proposed. Focusing on neuropathological and physiological data from two phylogenetically old and subconscious pathways, the retino-colliculo-thalamo-amygdala and the retino-geniculo-extrastriate pathways, we propose that aberrant function of these systems, including pathologically inhibited superior colliculus activity, deficient corollary discharges to the frontal eye fields, dysfunctional pulvinar, claustrum and amygdaloid subnuclei of the amygdala, the latter progressively burdened with Lewy bodies, underlie this syndrome. These network impairments are further corroborated by the concept of the 'silent amygdala'. Functionally being 'blind to blindsight' may facilitate the highly distinctive 'presence' or 'passage' hallucinations of Parkinson's disease and can help to explain handicaps in driving capacities and dysfunctional 'theory of mind'. We propose this synthesis to prompt refined neuropathological and neuroimaging studies on the pivotal nuclei in these pathways in order to better understand the networks underpinning this newly conceptualized syndrome in Parkinson's disease.
The natural history of brain growth in autism spectrum disorders remains unclear. Cross-sectional studies have identified regional abnormalities in brain volume and cortical thickness in autism, although substantial discrepancies have been reported. Preliminary longitudinal studies using two time points and small samples have identified specific regional differences in cortical thickness in the disorder. To clarify age-related trajectories of cortical development, we examined longitudinal changes in cortical thickness within a large mixed cross-sectional and longitudinal sample of autistic subjects and age- and gender-matched typically developing controls. Three hundred and forty-five magnetic resonance imaging scans were examined from 97 males with autism (mean age = 16.8 years; range 3-36 years) and 60 males with typical development (mean age = 18 years; range 4-39 years), with an average interscan interval of 2.6 years. FreeSurfer image analysis software was used to parcellate the cortex into 34 regions of interest per hemisphere and to calculate mean cortical thickness for each region. Longitudinal linear mixed effects models were used to further characterize these findings and identify regions with between-group differences in longitudinal age-related trajectories. Using mean age at time of first scan as a reference (15 years), differences were observed in bilateral inferior frontal gyrus, pars opercularis and pars triangularis, right caudal middle frontal and left rostral middle frontal regions, and left frontal pole. However, group differences in cortical thickness varied by developmental stage, and were influenced by IQ. Differences in age-related trajectories emerged in bilateral parietal and occipital regions (postcentral gyrus, cuneus, lingual gyrus, pericalcarine cortex), left frontal regions (pars opercularis, rostral middle frontal and frontal pole), left supramarginal gyrus, and right transverse temporal gyrus, superior parietal lobule, and paracentral, lateral orbitofrontal, and lateral occipital regions. We suggest that abnormal cortical development in autism spectrum disorders undergoes three distinct phases: accelerated expansion in early childhood, accelerated thinning in later childhood and adolescence, and decelerated thinning in early adulthood. Moreover, cortical thickness abnormalities in autism spectrum disorders are region-specific, vary with age, and may remain dynamic well into adulthood.
Epileptic encephalopathies, including Dravet syndrome, are severe treatment-resistant epilepsies with developmental regression. We examined a mouse model based on a human 1 sodium channel subunit (Scn1b) mutation. Homozygous mutant mice shared phenotypic features and pharmaco-sensitivity with Dravet syndrome. Patch-clamp analysis showed that mutant subicular and layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons had increased action potential firing rates, presumably as a consequence of their increased input resistance. These changes were not seen in L5 or CA1 pyramidal neurons. This raised the concept of a regional seizure mechanism that was supported by data showing increased spontaneous synaptic activity in the subiculum but not CA1. Importantly, no changes in firing or synaptic properties of gamma-aminobutyric acidergic interneurons from mutant mice were observed, which is in contrast with Scn1a-based models of Dravet syndrome. Morphological analysis of subicular pyramidal neurons revealed reduced dendritic arborization. The antiepileptic drug retigabine, a K(+) channel opener that reduces input resistance, dampened action potential firing and protected mutant mice from thermal seizures. These results suggest a novel mechanism of disease genesis in genetic epilepsy and demonstrate an effective mechanism-based treatment of the disease.
We report on the extensive phenotypic characterization of five Italian patients from four unrelated families carrying dominant heterozygous DNMT1 mutations linked to two distinct autosomal dominant diseases: hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy with dementia and hearing loss type IE (HSAN IE) and autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia, deafness and narcolepsy (ADCA-DN). Patients underwent genetic analysis of DNMT1 gene, neurophysiological tests investigating sleep, auditory functions and peripheral nervous system, ophthalmological studies including optical coherence tomography, lymphoscintigraphy, brain magnetic resonance and nuclear imaging, cerebrospinal fluid hypocretin-1, total tau, phosphorylated tau, amyloid-1-42 and 14-3-3 proteins measurement, skin, muscular and sural nerve biopsies. Exome and direct sequencing studies disclosed two different point mutations affecting exon 21 of DNMT1 gene in patients with ADCA-DN, a novel heterozygous point mutation in exon 20 in two affected HSAN IE siblings, and a trinucleotide deletion in exon 20 in the latter patient with HSAN IE. Phenotypic characterization pinpoints that ADCA-DN and HSAN IE represent two discrete clinical entities belonging to the same disease spectrum, with variable degree of overlap. Remarkably, narcolepsy with or without cataplexy with low/intermediate or normal cerebrospinal fluid hypocretin-1 is present in both diseases. The human leukocyte antigen DQB1*06:02 was absent in all patients. Other common symptoms and features observed in our cases, involving the central and peripheral nervous system, include deafness, optic neuropathy-previously not reported in HSAN IE-large and small fibres polyneuropathy and lower limbs oedema. Overall, the two syndromes share more characteristics than previously recognized and narcolepsy is common to both. HSAN IE and ADCA-DN are two extreme phenotypic manifestations of a DNMT1 methylopathy.
The ventromedial prefrontal cortex is known to play a crucial role in regulating human social and emotional behaviour, yet the precise mechanisms by which it subserves this broad function remain unclear. Whereas previous neuropsychological studies have largely focused on the role of the ventromedial prefrontal cortex in higher-order deliberative processes related to valuation and decision-making, here we test whether ventromedial prefrontal cortex may also be critical for more basic aspects of orienting attention to socially and emotionally meaningful stimuli. Using eye tracking during a test of facial emotion recognition in a sample of lesion patients, we show that bilateral ventromedial prefrontal cortex damage impairs visual attention to the eye regions of faces, particularly for fearful faces. This finding demonstrates a heretofore unrecognized function of the ventromedial prefrontal cortex-the basic attentional process of controlling eye movements to faces expressing emotion.
Non-invasive imaging of tau pathology in the living brain would be useful for accurately diagnosing Alzheimer's disease, tracking disease progression, and evaluating the treatment efficacy of disease-specific therapeutics. In this study, we evaluated the clinical usefulness of a novel tau-imaging positron emission tomography tracer (18)F-THK5105 in 16 human subjects including eight patients with Alzheimer's disease (three male and five females, 66-82 years) and eight healthy elderly controls (three male and five females, 63-76 years). All participants underwent neuropsychological examination and 3D magnetic resonance imaging, as well as both (18)F-THK5105 and (11)C-Pittsburgh compound B positron emission tomography scans. Standard uptake value ratios at 90-100 min and 40-70 min post-injection were calculated for (18)F-THK5105 and (11)C-Pittsburgh compound B, respectively, using the cerebellar cortex as the reference region. As a result, significantly higher (18)F-THK5105 retention was observed in the temporal, parietal, posterior cingulate, frontal and mesial temporal cortices of patients with Alzheimer's disease compared with healthy control subjects. In patients with Alzheimer's disease, the inferior temporal cortex, which is an area known to contain high densities of neurofibrillary tangles in the Alzheimer's disease brain, showed prominent (18)F-THK5105 retention. Compared with high frequency (100%) of (18)F-THK5105 retention in the temporal cortex of patients with Alzheimer's disease, frontal (18)F-THK5105 retention was less frequent (37.5%) and was only observed in cases with moderate-to-severe Alzheimer's disease. In contrast, (11)C-Pittsburgh compound B retention was highest in the posterior cingulate cortex, followed by the ventrolateral prefrontal, anterior cingulate, and superior temporal cortices, and did not correlate with (18)F-THK5105 retention in the neocortex. In healthy control subjects, (18)F-THK5105 retention was 10% higher in the mesial temporal cortex than in the neocortex. Notably, unlike (11)C-Pittsburgh compound B, (18)F-THK5105 retention was significantly correlated with cognitive parameters, hippocampal and whole brain grey matter volumes, which was consistent with findings from previous post-mortem studies showing significant correlations of neurofibrillary tangle density with dementia severity or neuronal loss. From these results, (18)F-THK5105 positron emission tomography is considered to be useful for the non-invasive assessment of tau pathology in the living brain. This technique would be applicable to the longitudinal evaluation of tau deposition and allow a better understanding of the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease.
Biological markers that are grounded in neuroscience may facilitate understanding of the pathophysiology of complex psychiatric disorders. One of the most consistent and robust neural abnormalities in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is increased EEG power in the theta band at rest (4-8Hz). The present study used a twin design to estimate the extent of genetic overlap between increased theta power and risk for ADHD in order to validate theta power as a marker of genetic risk for ADHD. At rest, EEG was measured in 30 monozygotic and dizygotic adolescent twin pairs concordant or discordant for high ADHD symptom scores and 37 monozygotic and dizygotic control twin pairs with low ADHD symptom scores. Structural equation modelling was used to estimate the heritability of theta power and partition the genetic and environmental contributions to the overlap between ADHD and theta power. A significant phenotypic correlation between ADHD symptoms and elevated theta power was found. Theta power demonstrated moderate to high heritability estimates (0.77) and moderate genetic correlations with ADHD (0.35) suggesting shared genetic influences. Increased theta power is a candidate biological marker of genetic risk for ADHD, which warrants further investigation of the neurobiological mechanisms that underlie the genetic relationship.
In the literature concerning the study of emotional effect on cognition, several researches highlight the mechanisms of reasoning ability and the influence of emotions on this ability. However, up to now, no neuroimaging study was specifically devised to directly compare the influence on reasoning performance of visual task-unrelated with semantic task-related emotional information. In the present functional fMRI study, we devised a novel paradigm in which emotionally negative vs. neutral visual stimuli (context) were used as primes, followed by syllogisms composed of propositions with emotionally negative vs. neutral contents respectively. Participants, in the MR scanner, were asked to assess the logical validity of the syllogisms. We have therefore manipulated the emotional state and arousal induced by the visual prime as well as the emotional interference exerted by the syllogism content. fMRI data indicated a medial prefrontal cortex deactivation and lateral/dorsolateral prefrontal cortex activation in conditions with negative context. Furthermore, a lateral/dorsolateral prefrontal cortex modulation caused by syllogism content was observed. Finally, behavioral data confirmed the influence of emotional task-related stimuli on reasoning ability, since the performance was worse in conditions with syllogisms involving negative emotions. Therefore, on the basis of these data, we conclude that emotional states can impair the performance in reasoning tasks by means of the delayed general reactivity, whereas the emotional content of the target may require a larger amount of top-down resources to be processed.
Freezing of gait (FOG) in Parkinson's disease (PD) is typically assumed to be a pure motor deficit, although it is important to consider how an abrupt loss of gait automaticity might be associated with an overloaded central resource capacity. If resource capacity limits are a factor underlying FOG, then obstacle crossing may be particularly sensitive to dual task effects in eliciting FOG. Participants performed a dual task (auditory digit monitoring) in order to increase cognitive load during obstacle crossing. Forty-two non-demented participants (14 PD patients with FOG, 13 PD who do not freeze, and 14 age-matched healthy control participants) were required to walk and step over a horizontal obstacle set at 15% of the participants' height. Kinematic data were split into two phases of their approach: early (farthest away from the obstacle), and late (just prior to the obstacle). Interestingly, step length variability and step time variability increased when PD patients with FOG performed the dual task, but only in the late phase prior to the obstacle (i.e. when closest to the obstacle). Additionally, immediately after crossing, freezers landed the lead foot abnormally close to the obstacle regardless of dual task condition, and also contacted the obstacle more frequently (planning errors). Strength of the dual task effect was associated with low general cognitive status, declined executive function, and inappropriate spatial planning, but only in the PD-FOG group. This study is the first to demonstrate that cognitive load differentially impacts planning of the final steps needed to avoid an obstacle in PD patients with freezing, but not non-freezers or healthy controls, suggesting specific neural networks associated with FOG behaviours.
Many studies involving functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) have exposed participants to paintings under varying task demands. To isolate neural systems that are activated reliably across fMRI studies in response to viewing paintings regardless of variation in task demands, a quantitative meta-analysis of fifteen experiments using the activation likelihood estimation (ALE) method was conducted. As predicted, viewing paintings was correlated with activation in a distributed system including the occipital lobes, temporal lobe structures in the ventral stream involved in object (fusiform gyrus) and scene (parahippocampal gyrus) perception, and the anterior insula-a key structure in experience of emotion. In addition, we also observed activation in the posterior cingulate cortex bilaterally-part of the brain's default network. These results suggest that viewing paintings engages not only systems involved in visual representation and object recognition, but also structures underlying emotions and internalized cognitions.
Despite sleep-induced drastic decrease of self-awareness, human sleep allows some cognitive processing of external stimuli. Here we report the fortuitous observation in a patient who, while being recorded with intra-cerebral electrodes, was able, during paradoxical sleep, to reproduce a motor behaviour previously performed at wake to consciously indicate her perception of nociceptive stimulation. Noxious stimuli induced behavioural responses only if they reached the cortex during periods when mid-frontal networks (pre-SMA, pre-motor cortex) were pre-activated. Sensory responses in the opercular cortex and insula were identical whether the noxious stimulus was to evoke or not a motor behaviour; conversely, the responses in mid-anterior cingulate were specifically enhanced for stimuli yielding motor responses. Neuronal networks implicated in the voluntary preparation of movements may be reactivated during paradoxical sleep, but only if behavioural-relevant stimuli reach the cortex during specific periods of &quot;motor awareness&quot;. These local activation appeared without any global sleep stage change. This observation opens the way to further studies on the currently unknown capacity of the sleeping brain to interact meaningfully with its environment.
Background: Genetic programming of cerebral development involves tissue morphogenesis and also timing of developmental processes. Precocious synaptogenesis in the neocortical plate was previously demonstrated in 5 of 6 fetuses of 20-31weeks gestation. Materials and methods: Neuropathological examination was performed of a 13-week-5-day fetus with trisomy-13, alobar holoprosencephaly, hydrocephalus, cyclopia and absence of ears. Immunocytochemical demonstration of the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin was performed in the brain and retina, along with other neuronal markers. Results: Synaptophysin reactivity in the cortical plate was patchy and precocious. Radial glial fibres, demonstrated by vimentin, were oriented parallel to the cortical plate rather than perpendicular, probably because of hydrocephalus. A corpus striatum was not identified, but the poorly formed thalamus exhibited synaptophysin reactivity around many neurones. The cyclopean eye had ocular features of maturational delay including persistent hyaloid artery; ganglion cells were reduced in number, but retinal synaptophysin reactivity was paradoxically precocious. Conclusions: Holoprosencephaly exhibits abnormal patchy synapse distribution in the neocortex and retina; synaptogenesis was precocious, as we previously described in older fetuses. Too soon an onset of synapse formation may promote early epileptic circuitry, leading to severe infantile epilepsies postnatally. The visual system is the last of the special sensory systems to mature, yet in this case showed too early synapse formation. In HPE, cyclopia and in trisomy 13, total absence of external ears has not been reported; it results from faulty craniofacial induction by neural crest.
The eponym &quot;Tapia's syndrome&quot; indicates an associated unilateral vocal cord and tongue paralysis secondary to a peripheral involvement of the recurrent laryngeal branch and the hypoglossal nerve. Although mainly observed as a complication of surgery or anaesthesia, it can rarely occur secondary to infectious or neoplastic causes. We are presenting a case of a teen-ager with Tapia's syndrome who had been seeking medical assistance for episodes of loss of consciousness and was diagnosed with a high-grade peripheral B-cell lymphoma, an association not previously described. This syndrome should be remembered even outside the surgical contest for its highly localising value.
Purpose: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of lacosamide in pediatric patients with refractory focal epilepsy. Methods: We reviewed retrospectively the medical records of children younger than 18years of age treated at Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, in whom oral lacosamide was used as an adjunctive treatment for refractory focal epilepsy. Clinical information regarding the patients' epilepsy and the outcome of lacosamide treatment was gathered and analyzed. Results: Twenty-one patients (16 boys, 5 girls) were included, with a median age of 13.9 (range, 1.2-17.9) years. The mean number of concomitant antiepileptic drugs was 3.0 (range, 1-6) and the mean duration of follow-up was 10.1 (range, 6.1-13.0) months. The mean maintenance dose of lacosamide was 5.4 (range, 1.4-9.8) mg/kg/day. Fourteen patients (67%) were responders; four of these were seizure free at the last follow-up. Seven patients (33%) were nonresponders: two of these presented with &lt;50% seizure reduction and five showed no change in seizure frequency. Two patients (10%) discontinued oral lacosamide because of adverse events (aggressive behavior and depression). Mild transient treatment-related adverse events were observed in eight of the 21 patients (38%). Conclusions: Lacosamide represents a useful drug that is effective for a wide range of pediatric refractory focal epilepsy and is well tolerated.
The Enhancing NeuroImaging Genetics through Meta-Analysis (ENIGMA) Consortium is a collaborative network of researchers working together on a range of large-scale studies that integrate data from 70 institutions worldwide. Organized into Working Groups that tackle questions in neuroscience, genetics, and medicine, ENIGMA studies have analyzed neuroimaging data from over 12,826 subjects. In addition, data from 12,171 individuals were provided by the CHARGE consortium for replication of findings, in a total of 24,997 subjects. By meta-analyzing results from many sites, ENIGMA has detected factors that affect the brain that no individual site could detect on its own, and that require larger numbers of subjects than any individual neuroimaging study has currently collected. ENIGMA's first project was a genome-wide association study identifying common variants in the genome associated with hippocampal volume or intracranial volume. Continuing work is exploring genetic associations with subcortical volumes (ENIGMA2) and white matter microstructure (ENIGMA-DTI). Working groups also focus on understanding how schizophrenia, bipolar illness, major depression and attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) affect the brain. We review the current progress of the ENIGMA Consortium, along with challenges and unexpected discoveries made on the way.
Neuroimaging has rapidly advanced investigations into dysfunction both within and emanating from the hippocampus in early Alzheimer's disease . Focusing on prodromal subjects, we will discuss structural changes to hippocampal subregions, alterations to functional activity both within the hippocampus and elsewhere in the cortex, as well as changes to structural white matter connectivity and changes to functionally correlated patterns during memory performance. We present ample evidence that asymptomatic subjects demonstrate substantial identifiable brain changes before the onset of cognitive decline, but suggest there is significant work yet to be accomplished before applying these findings to individual patients.
Recent work in neuroscience supports the idea that variability in brain function is necessary for optimal brain responsivity to a changing environment. In this review, we discuss a series of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies in younger and older adults to assess age-related differences in variability of the fMRI signal. This work shows that moment-to-moment brain signal variability represents an important &quot;signal&quot; within what is typically considered measurement-related &quot;noise&quot; in fMRI. This accumulation of evidence suggests that moving beyond the mean will provide a complementary window into aging-related neural processes.
A common strategy to reveal the components of the speech production network is to use psycholinguistic manipulations previously tested in behavioral protocols. This often disregards how implementation aspects that are nonessential for interpreting behavior may affect the neural response. We compared the electrophysiological (EEG) signature of two popular picture naming protocols involving either unfamiliar pictures without repetitions or repeated familiar pictures. We observed significant semantic interference effects in behavior but not in the EEG, contrary to some previous findings. Remarkably, the two protocols elicited clearly distinct EEG responses. These were not due to naming latency differences nor did they reflect a homogeneous modulation of amplitude over the trial time-window. The effect of protocol is attributed to the familiarization induced by the first encounter with the materials. Picture naming processes can be substantially modulated by specific protocol requirements controlled by familiarity and, to a much lesser degree, the repetition of materials.
Abstract The Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study (ADCS) started in 1991 as part of an agreement between the National Institute on Aging (NIA) and the University of California, San Diego, is a major clinical activity for treating Alzheimer's disease (AD). As part of the NIA Division, the ADCS supports all activities for AD treatment, including the discovery and evaluation of new diagnostic methods, drugs, and devices for patients with AD, as well as the prevention of AD.
Abstract The discovery of the mirror neuron system has dramatically changed the study of motor control in neuroscience. The mirror neuron system provides a conceptual framework covering the aspects of motor as well as sensory functions in motor control. Previous studies of motor control can be classified as studies of motor or sensory functions, and these two classes of studies appear to have advanced independently. In rehabilitation requiring motor learning, such as relearning movement after limb paresis, however, sensory information of feedback for motor output as well as motor command are essential. During rehabilitation from chronic pain, motor exercise is one of the most effective treatments for pain caused by dysfunction in the sensory system. In rehabilitation where total intervention unifying the motor and sensory aspects of motor control is important, learning through imitation, which is associated with the mirror neuron system can be effective and suitable. In this paper, we introduce the clinical applications of imitated movement in rehabilitation from motor impairment after brain damage and phantom limb pain after limb amputation.



Aberrant von Hippel Lindau (VHL) protein function is the underlying driver of VHL-related diseases, including both sporadic and inherited clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC). About one third of VHL mutations are missense point mutations, with R167Q being the most common VHL point mutation in hereditary VHL disease. Although it has been studied extensively, the ability of VHL-R167Q to downregulate hypoxia-inducible factor 2 (HIF2) is still controversial. In addition, the manner in which the mutation contributes to tumorigenesis is not fully understood. No therapeutic approach is available to target VHL-R167Q and similar missense point mutations. We analyzed VHL-R167Q proteostasis and function at normoxia, at hypoxia with different oxygen pressure, and in a xenograft mouse model. We showed that the protein levels of VHL-R167Q dictate its ability to downregulate HIF2 and suppress tumor growth. Strikingly, the proteasome inhibitors bortezomib and carfilzomib, which are currently in clinical use, stabilize VHL-R167Q and increase its ability to downregulate HIF2. VHL-R167Q binds elongin C and elongin B with considerably less avidity than wild-type VHL does but retains residual capacity to generate a VHL-elongin C-elongin B complex, downregulate HIF2, and suppress tumorigenesis, which could be rescued by increase of VHL-R167Q levels. Finally, we used in silico approaches and identified other missense VHL mutants in addition to VHL-R167Q that might be rescued by similar strategies. Thus, our studies revealed detailed information describing how VHL-R167Q contributes to tumorigenesis and identified a potential targeted therapy for ccRCC and other VHL-related disease in patients carrying VHL-R167Q or similar missense mutations. Cancer Res; 74(11); 3127-36. 2014 AACR.
Glioblastoma (GBM) stem cells (GSC) are a subpopulation of tumor cells that display stem-like characteristics (stemness) and play unique roles in tumor propagation, therapeutic resistance, and tumor recurrence. Therapeutic targets in GSCs are a focus of increasing interest to improve GBM therapy. Here we report that the hyaluronan-mediated motility receptor (HMMR) is highly expressed in GBM tumors, where it supports the self-renewal and tumorigenic potential of GSCs. HMMR silencing impairs GSC self-renewal and inhibits the expression of GSC markers and regulators. Furthermore, HMMR silencing suppresses GSC-derived tumor growth and extends the survival of mice bearing GSC xenografts. Conversely, HMMR overexpression promotes GSC self-renewal and intracranial tumor propagation. In human GBM tumor specimens, HMMR expression is correlated positively with the expression of stemness-associated markers and regulators. Our findings identify HMMR as a candidate therapeutic target to GSCs as a GBM treatment strategy. Cancer Res; 74(11); 3168-79. 2014 AACR.
Cancer remains as stressful condition and a leading cause of death in the western world. Actual cornerstone treatments of cancer disease rest as an elusive alternative, offering limited efficacy with extensive secondary effects as a result of severe cytotoxic effects in healthy tissues. The advent of nanotechnology brought the promise to revolutionize many fields including oncology, proposing advanced systems for cancer treatment. Drug delivery systems rest among the most successful examples of nanotechnology. Throughout time they have been able to evolve as a function of an increased understanding from cancer biology and the tumor microenvironment. Marketing of Doxil unleashed a remarkable impulse in the development of drug delivery systems. Since then, several nanocarriers have been introduced, with aspirations to overrule previous technologies, demonstrating increased therapeutic efficacy besides decreased toxicity. Spatial and temporal targeting to cancer cells has been explored, as well as the use of drug combinations co-encapsulated in the same particle as a mean to take advantage of synergistic interactions in vivo. Importantly, targeted delivery of siRNA for gene silencing therapy has made its way to the clinic for a &quot;first in man&quot; trial using lipid-polymeric-based particles. Focusing in state-of-the-art technology, this review will provide an insightful vision on nanotechnology-based strategies for cancer treatment, approaching them from a tumor biology-driven perspective, since their early EPR-based dawn to the ones that have truly the potential to address unmet medical needs in the field of oncology, upon targeting key cell subpopulations from the tumor microenvironment.

During early neurogenesis, retinal neuronal cells display a conserved differentiation program in vertebrates. Previous studies established that nitric oxide (NO) and cGMP accumulation regulate essential events in retinal physiology. Here we used pharmacological and genetic loss-of-function to investigate the effects of NO and its downstream signaling pathway in the survival of developing avian retinal neurons in vitro and in vivo. Six-day-old (E6) chick retinal cells displayed increased calcium influx and produced higher amounts of NO when compared with E8 cells. L-arginine (substrate for NO biosynthesis) and S-nitroso-N-acetyl-D,L-penicillamine (SNAP; a nitrosothiol NO donor) promoted extensive cell death in E6 retinas, whereas in E8 both substances decreased apoptosis. The effect of NO at both periods was mediated by soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC) and cGMP-dependent kinase (cGK) activation. In addition, shRNA-mediated cGKII knockdown prevented NO-induced cell death (E6) and cell survival (E8). This, NO-induced cell death or cell survival was not correlated with an early inhibition of retinal cell proliferation. E6 cells also responded differentially from E8 neurons regarding cyclic AMP-responsive element-binding protein (CREB) activation in the retina in vivo. NO strongly decreased nuclear phospho-CREB staining in E6 but it robustly enhanced CREB phosphorylation in the nuclei of E8 neurons, an effect that was completely abrogated by cGKII shRNAs at both embryonic stages. The ability of NO in regulating CREB differentially during retinal development relied on the capacity of cGKII in decreasing (E6) or increasing (E8) nuclear AKT (V-Akt murine thymoma viral oncogene) activation. Accordingly, inhibiting AKT prevented both cGKII shRNA-mediated CREB upregulation in E6 and SNAP-induced CREB activation in E8. Furthermore, shRNA-mediated in vivo cGKII or in vitro CREB1 knockdown confirmed that NO/cGKII dualistically regulated the downstream CREB1 pathway and caspase activation in the chick retina to modulate neuronal viability. These data demonstrate that NO-mediated cGKII signaling may function to control the viability of neuronal cells during early retinal development via AKT/CREB1 activity.
The motif &quot;SYDE&quot;, incorporating the protein kinase CK2 consensus sequence (S-x-x-E) has been found to be phosphorylated at both its serine and tyrosine residues in several proteins. Of special interest is the case of cystic fibrosis Transmembrane-conductance Regulator (CFTR), where this motif is close to the residue (F508), whose deletion is the by far commonest cause of cystic fibrosis. Intriguingly, however, CFTR S511 cannot be phosphorylated by CK2 to any appreciable extent. Using a number of peptide substrates encompassing the CFTR &quot;SYDE&quot; site we have recently shown that: (1) failure of CK2 to phosphorylate the S(511)YDE motif is due to the presence of Y512; (2) CK2 readily phosphorylates S511 if Y512 is replaced by a phospho-tyrosine; (3) the Src family protein tyrosine kinase Lyn phosphorylates Y512 in a manner that is enhanced by the deletion of F508. These data, in conjunction with the recent observation that by inhibiting CK2 the degradation of F508delCFTR is reduced, lead us to hypothesize that the hierarchical phosphorylation of the motif SYDE by the concerted action of protein tyrosine kinases and CK2 is one of the mechanisms that cooperate to the premature degradation of F508delCFTR.
Post-translational modification of histone proteins, such as the methylation of lysine and arginine residues, influences the higher order of chromatin and leads to gene activation or silencing. Histone methyltransferases or demethylases actively add or remove various methylation marks in a cell-type-specific and context-dependent way. They are therefore important players in regulating the transcriptional program of a cell. Some control of the various cellular programs is necessary during the differentiation of stem cells along a specific lineage, when differentiation to alternative lineages needs to be suppressed. One example is the development of neurons from neural stem cells during neurogenesis. Neurogenesis is a highly organized process that requires the proper coordination of survival, proliferation, differentiation and migration signals. This holds true for both embryonic and neural stem cells that give rise to the various cell types of the central nervous system. The control of embryonic and neural stem cell self-renewal and differentiation is achieved by both extrinsic and intrinsic signals that regulate gene expression precisely. Recent advances in neuroscience support the importance of epigenetic modifications, such as the methylation and acetylation of histones, as an important intrinsic mechanism for the regulation of central nervous system development. This review summarizes our current knowledge of histone methylation processes during neural development and provides insights into the function of histone methylation enzymes and their role during central nervous system development.
Both cognitive aging and -amyloid (A) deposition, a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease, are associated with structural and cognitive changes in cognitively normal older people. To examine independent effects of age and A deposition on cognition and brain structure in aging, 83 cognitively normal older adults underwent structural magnetic resonance imaging scans and neuropsychological tests and were classified as negative (PIB-) or positive (PIB+) for A deposition using the radiotracer Pittsburgh compound B (PIB). Weighted composite discriminant scores represented subjects' cognition. Older adults showed age-related gray matter (GM) atrophy across the whole brain regardless of A deposition. Amyloid burden within PIB+ subjects, however, was associated with GM atrophy in the frontal, parietal, and temporal cortices. Associations between cognition and volume in PIB- subjects were primarily seen throughout frontal regions and the striatum, while, in PIB+ subjects, these associations were seen in orbital-frontal and hippocampal regions. Furthermore, in PIB- subjects, cognition was related to putaminal volume, but not to hippocampus, while, in PIB+ subjects, cognition was related to hippocampal volume, but not to putamen. These findings highlight differential age and A effects on brain structure, indicating effects of age and A that operate somewhat independently to affect frontostriatal and medial temporal brain systems.
Prior studies of head direction (HD) cells indicate strong landmark control over the preferred firing direction of these cells, with few studies exhibiting shifts away from local reference frames over time. We recorded spiking activity of grid and HD cells in the medial entorhinal cortex of rats, testing correlations of local environmental cues with the spatial tuning curves of these cells' firing fields as animals performed continuous spatial alternation on a T-maze that shared the boundaries of an open-field arena. The environment was rotated into configurations the animal had either seen or not seen in the past recording week. Tuning curves of both cell types demonstrated commensurate shifts of tuning with T-maze rotations during less recent rotations, more so than recent rotations. This strongly suggests that animals are shifting their reference frame away from the local environmental cues over time, learning to use a different reference frame more likely reliant on distal or idiothetic cues. In addition, grid fields demonstrated varying levels of &quot;fragmentation&quot; on the T-maze. The propensity for fragmentation does not depend on grid spacing and grid score, nor animal trajectory, indicating the cognitive treatment of environmental subcompartments is likely driven by task demands.
Cue reactivity and craving can be influenced by cue exposure with response prevention (CERP). This study investigated the neural correlates of CERP using functional magnetic resonance imaging, while participants smelled chocolate (17 participants) or a control object (17 participants). CERP was interrupted by 7 scanning sequences measuring the brain response to neutral and chocolate pictures. Chocolate craving was hypothesized to be mirrored by activation in brain reward regions. As expected, control group craving remained similar throughout the session. A short exposure (30 min) increased chocolate craving in the experimental group, which was mirrored by significant group differences in activation in brain reward regions. Unexpectedly, a long exposure (60 min) did not lead to craving extinction in the experimental group, although craving started to decrease at this point. On a neural level, however, activation in regions of interest in the experimental group seemed to have extinguished after the long exposure, as activation levels returned to or fell below control group levels. These results indicate that brain reward activation during CERP is linked to craving, at least for a short exposure. Regarding a longer exposure, the decline in brain reward activation in the experimental group may be a precursor of a decrease in craving.
In less than three decades, the concept &quot;cerebellar neurocognition&quot; has evolved from a mere afterthought to an entirely new and multifaceted area of neuroscientific research. A close interplay between three main strands of contemporary neuroscience induced a substantial modification of the traditional view of the cerebellum as a mere coordinator of autonomic and somatic motor functions. Indeed, the wealth of current evidence derived from detailed neuroanatomical investigations, functional neuroimaging studies with healthy subjects and patients and in-depth neuropsychological assessment of patients with cerebellar disorders shows that the cerebellum has a cardinal role to play in affective regulation, cognitive processing, and linguistic function. Although considerable progress has been made in models of cerebellar function, controversy remains regarding the exact role of the &quot;linguistic cerebellum&quot; in a broad variety of nonmotor language processes. This consensus paper brings together a range of different viewpoints and opinions regarding the contribution of the cerebellum to language function. Recent developments and insights in the nonmotor modulatory role of the cerebellum in language and some related disorders will be discussed. The role of the cerebellum in speech and language perception, in motor speech planning including apraxia of speech, in verbal working memory, in phonological and semantic verbal fluency, in syntax processing, in the dynamics of language production, in reading and in writing will be addressed. In addition, the functional topography of the linguistic cerebellum and the contribution of the deep nuclei to linguistic function will be briefly discussed. As such, a framework for debate and discussion will be offered in this consensus paper.
It has been reported that a subset of type III taste cells express glutamate decarboxylase (GAD)67, which is a molecule that synthesizes gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), and that Mash1 could be a potential regulator of the development of GABAnergic neurons via Dlx transcription factors in the central nervous system. In this study, we investigated the expression of GAD67 and Dlx in the embryonic taste buds of the soft palate and circumvallate papilla using Mash1 knockout (KO)/GAD67-GFP knock-in mice. In the wild-type animal, a subset of type III taste cells contained GAD67 in the taste buds of the soft palate and the developing circumvallate papilla, whereas GAD67-expressing taste bud cells were missing from Mash1 KO mice. A subset of type III cells expressed mRNA for Dlx5 in the wild-type animals, whereas Dlx5-expressing cells were not evident in the apical part of the circumvallate papilla and taste buds in the soft palate of Mash1 KO mice. Our results suggest that Mash1 is required for the expression of GAD67 and Dlx5 in taste bud cells.


The origins of the Howard Florey Laboratories of Experimental Physiology, Department of Physiology, The University of Melbourne, are tied to the ground-breaking clinical work of Derek A Denton in 1947 and to the investigations of the initial scientific team into the control of salt and water balance in health and disease over the period 1947-1963 were Professor RD Wright, Drs JR Goding, IR McDonald, John P Coghlan, E Marelyn Wintour and John R Blair-West. An Act of Parliament in 1971 by the Victorian State Government formally established the Institute named after Howard Florey, the Australian Nobel Prize winner who isolated penicillin. The Howard Florey Laboratories/Institute quickly became an international leader in the scientific areas of the physiological control of body fluids and electrolyte balance, especially sodium regulation and the regulation of the secretion of aldosterone, the adrenal salt-retaining hormone; the micro measurement of hormones, in particular steroids and peptides; instinctive ingestive behaviour; fetal fluid regulation; hybridization histochemistry, and the hormone relaxin. Subsequently, the senior staff included, inter alia, Bruce Scoggins, Richard Weisinger, John McDougall, Brian Oldfield, Michael McKinley, Robin McAllen, Hugh Niall, Geoff Tregear and Felix Beck. During the 1990s, an explosion occurred in neuroscience and, in 1997, the Board made the strategic decision to change the focus of the Institute to brain disorders. From 1997 to 2007, Fred Mendelsohn steered the Florey to become one of Australia's premier brain research institutes and, under the current director (the eminent clinician and neuroscientist Geoffrey Donnan), this reputation has been further enhanced.


This study evaluated changes in motor speech control and inter-gestural coordination for children with speech sound disorders (SSD) subsequent to Prompts for Restructuring Oral and Muscular Phonetic Targets (PROMPT) intervention. We measured the distribution patterns of voice onset time (VOT) for a voiceless stop (/p/) to examine the changes in inter-gestural coordination. Two standardized tests were used (Verbal Motor Production Assessment for Children (VMPAC), GFTA-2) to assess the changes in motor speech skills and articulation. Data showed positive changes in patterns of VOT with a lower pattern of variability. All children showed significantly higher scores for VMPAC, but only some children showed higher scores for GFTA-2. Results suggest that the proprioceptive feedback provided through PROMPT had a positive influence on speech motor control and inter-gestural coordination in voicing behavior. This set of VOT data for children with SSD adds to our understanding of the speech characteristics underlying speech motor control. Directions for future studies are discussed.
















Distinguishing dependent from recreational drug use can be a surprisingly difficult task, and the current means for identifying substance abuse can be inadequate or even misleading. In subjective self-reports, those who are most at risk may downplay their consumption, not admitting to the full extent of their habit, and measures purely of quantity of use rarely capture the true nature of an individual's relationship to the drug, such as a psychological dependence on the substance. This trend is particularly true for heavy stimulant use, which is absent of the physical withdrawal symptoms that can help identify opiate or alcohol dependence. As such, a simple objective measure to help identify substance abuse, particularly in individuals who might not otherwise raise suspicion, would be a valuable tool in both clinical and experimental settings. We propose that the drug-word Stroop task, an objective assessment of attentional bias and distraction to salient drug-related stimuli, would be a valuable tool in helping to make these categorizations. This measure has been shown to correlate with drug craving, as well as to successfully distinguish dependent from recreational stimulant users and to help to predict outcomes in treatment-seeking individuals. Here, we survey prior literature on the drug-word Stroop task and provide a perspective on using the assessment as a potential diagnostic for drug use severity.

A small but growing neuroimaging literature has begun to examine the neural mechanisms underlying the difficulty that substance-use dependent (SUD) groups have with ignoring salient, drug-related stimuli. Drug-related attentional bias appears to implicate the countermanding forces of cognitive control and reward salience. Basic cognitive neuroscience research suggests that ignoring emotionally evocative stimuli in our environment requires both up-regulation of control networks and down-regulation of processing in emotion and reward regions. Research to date suggests that attentional biases for drug-related stimuli emerge from a failure to sufficiently increase control of attention over salient, but task-irrelevant stimuli. While SUD samples have typically shown increased activity in the cognitive control regions (ie, lateral prefrontal and dorsal anterior cingulate), during attentional bias such increases appear to have been insufficient for the concomitant increases in processing by the emotion/reward regions (ie, amygdala, insula, and striatum). Given the potential contribution of attentional biases to perpetuating drug use and the development of interventions (both pharmaceutical and cognitive-behavioral) to treat biases, understanding the neural basis of successfully reducing bias remains an important, but as yet unanswered, question for our field.
Embodied cognition offers an approach to word meaning firmly grounded in action and perception. A strong prediction of embodied cognition is that sensorimotor simulation is a necessary component of lexical-semantic representation. One semantic distinction where motor imagery is likely to play a key role involves the representation of manufactured artefacts. Many questions remain with respect to the scope of embodied cognition. One dominant unresolved issue is the extent to which motor enactment is necessary for representing and generating words with high motor salience. We investigated lesion correlates of manipulable relative to nonmanipulable name generation (e.g., name a school supply; name a mountain range) in patients with nonfluent aphasia (N=14). Lesion volumes within motor (BA4, where BA = Brodmann area) and premotor (BA6) cortices were not predictive of category discrepancies. Lesion symptom mapping linked impairment for manipulable objects to polymodal convergence zones and to projections of the left, primary visual cortex specialized for motion perception (MT/V5+). Lesions to motor and premotor cortex were not predictive of manipulability impairment. This lesion correlation is incompatible with an embodied perspective premised on necessity of motor cortex for the enactment and subsequent production of motor-related words. These findings instead support a graded or &quot;soft&quot; approach to embodied cognition premised on an ancillary role of modality-specific cortical regions in enriching modality-neutral representations. We discuss a dynamic, hybrid approach to the neurobiology of semantic memory integrating both embodied and disembodied components.
Mirror writing is a striking behaviour that is common in children and can reemerge in adults following brain damage. Skilled deliberate mirror writing has also been reported, but only anecdotally. We provide the first quantitative study of skilled deliberate mirror writing. K.B. can write forward or backward, vertically upright or inverted, with the hands acting alone or simultaneously. K.B. is predominantly left handed, but writes habitually with his right hand. Of his writing formats, his left hand mirror writing is by far the most similar in style to his normal handwriting. When writing bimanually, he performs better when his two hands make mirror-symmetrical movements to write opposite scripts than if they move in the same direction to write similar scripts. He has no special facility for reading mirrored text. These features are consistent with prior anecdotal cases and support a motor basis for K.B.'s ability, according to which his skilled mirror writing results from the left hand execution of a low-level motor program for a right hand abductive writing action. Our methods offer a novel framework for investigating the sharing of motor representations across effectors.
The most relevant evidence for the organization of the conceptual knowledge in the brain was first provided by the patterns of deficits in brain-damaged individuals affecting one or another semantic category. Patients with various etiologies showed a disproportionate impairment in producing and understanding names of either living (fruits, vegetables, animals) or nonliving things (tools, vehicles, clothes). These double dissociations between spared and impaired recognition of living and nonliving things led to suggest that these categories are discretely represented in the brain. Recently social groups were found to be represented independently of traditional living and nonliving categories. Here we tested 21 patients with different types of primary dementia with three word sorting tasks tapping their conceptual knowledge about living and nonliving entities and social groups. Patients double dissociated in categorizing words belonging to the three categories. These findings clarify that knowledge about social groups is distinct from other semantic categories.
Processing local elements of hierarchical patterns at a superior level and independently from an intact global influence is a well-established characteristic of autistic visual perception. However, whether this confirmed finding has an equivalent in the auditory modality is still unknown. To fill this gap, 18 autistics and 18 typical participants completed a melodic decision task where global and local level information can be congruent or incongruent. While focusing either on the global (melody) or local level (group of notes) of hierarchical auditory stimuli, participants have to decide whether the focused level is rising or falling. Autistics showed intact global processing, a superior performance when processing local elements and a reduced global-to-local interference compared to typical participants. These results are the first to demonstrate that autistic processing of auditory hierarchical stimuli closely parallels processing of visual hierarchical stimuli. When analyzing complex auditory information, autistic participants present a local bias and a more autonomous local processing, but not to the detriment of global processing.
The ability of perspective taking is a fundamental aspect of social cognition. The ability to decide, what another person can or cannot see is referred to as &quot;level 1 perspective taking.&quot; This is thought to be a process that we can make use of intentionally, but which also takes place spontaneously. Autism is characterized by impairments of social interaction, which are thought to be related to deficits in implicit rather than explicit perspective taking. In order to assess both levels of processing with regard to perspective taking, we employed an established task in patients and controls. Our results demonstrate that both groups engage in spontaneous level 1 perspective taking. In contrast to controls, however, patients reacted more slowly if they had to verify the other's as compared to their own perspective, which shows that participants with high-functioning autism have selective difficulties in explicit, but not implicit, level 1 perspective taking. These findings demonstrate that while spontaneous level 1 perspective taking appears to be intact in autism, this ability is impaired in patients when used explicitly.
Teleost fish are important models for human biology, health, and disease. Because genome duplication in a teleost ancestor (TGD) impacts the evolution of teleost genome structure and gene repertoires, we must discriminate gene functions that are shared and ancestral from those that are lineage-specific in teleosts or tetrapods to accurately apply inferences from teleost disease models to human health. Generalizations must account both for the TGD and for divergent evolution between teleosts and tetrapods after the likely two rounds of genome duplication shared by all vertebrates. Progress in sequencing techniques provides new opportunities to generate genomic and transcriptomic information from a broad range of phylogenetically informative taxa that facilitate detailed understanding of gene family and gene function evolution. We illustrate here the use of new sequence resources from spotted gar (Lepisosteus oculatus), a rayfin fish that diverged from teleosts before the TGD, as well as RNA-Seq data from gar and multiple teleost lineages to reconstruct the evolution of the Paired-related homeobox (Prrx) transcription factor gene family, which is involved in the development of mesoderm and neural crest-derived mesenchyme. We show that for Prrx genes, the spotted gar genome and gene expression patterns mimic mammals better than teleosts do. Analyses force the seemingly paradoxical conclusion that regulatory mechanisms for the limb expression domains of Prrx genes existed before the evolution of paired appendages. Detailed evolutionary analyses like those reported here are required to identify fish species most similar to the human genome to optimally connect fish models to human gene functions in health and disease.
Many cortical disorders are associated with memory problems. In schizophrenia, verbal memory deficits are a hallmark feature. However, the exact nature of this deficit remains elusive. Modeling aspects of language features used in memory recall have the potential to provide means for measuring these verbal processes. We employ computational language approaches to assess time-varying semantic and sequential properties of prose recall at various retrieval intervals (immediate, 30min and 24h later) in patients with schizophrenia, unaffected siblings and healthy unrelated control participants. First, we model the recall data to quantify the degradation of performance with increasing retrieval interval and the effect of diagnosis (i.e., group membership) on performance. Next we model the human scoring of recall performance using an n-gram language sequence technique, and then with a semantic feature based on Latent Semantic Analysis. These models show that automated analyses of the recalls can produce scores that accurately mimic human scoring. The final analysis addresses the validity of this approach by ascertaining the ability to predict group membership from models built on the two classes of language features. Taken individually, the semantic feature is most predictive, while a model combining the features improves accuracy of group membership prediction slightly above the semantic feature alone as well as over the human rating approach. We discuss the implications for cognitive neuroscience of such a computational approach in exploring the mechanisms of prose recall.



Advances in automatic text classification have been necessitated by the rapid increase in the availability of digital documents. Machine learning (ML) algorithms can 'learn' from data: for instance a ML system can be trained on a set of features derived from written texts belonging to known categories, and learn to distinguish between them. Such a trained system can then be used to classify unseen texts. In this paper, we explore the potential of the technique to classify transcribed speech samples along clinical dimensions, using vocabulary data alone. We report the accuracy with which two related ML algorithms [naive Bayes Gaussian (NBG) and naive Bayes multinomial (NBM)] categorized picture descriptions produced by: 32 semantic dementia (SD) patients versus 10 healthy, age-matched controls; and SD patients with left- (n=21) versus right-predominant (n=11) patterns of temporal lobe atrophy. We used information gain (IG) to identify the vocabulary features that were most informative to each of these two distinctions. In the SD versus control classification task, both algorithms achieved accuracies of greater than 90%. In the right- versus left-temporal lobe predominant classification, NBM achieved a high level of accuracy (88%), but this was achieved by both NBM and NBG when the features used in the training set were restricted to those with high values of IG. The most informative features for the patient versus control task were low frequency content words, generic terms and components of metanarrative statements. For the right versus left task the number of informative lexical features was too small to support any specific inferences. An enriched feature set, including values derived from Quantitative Production Analysis (QPA) may shed further light on this little understood distinction.
We explored the impact of a degraded semantic system on lexical, morphological and syntactic complexity in language production. We analysed transcripts from connected speech samples from eight patients with semantic dementia (SD) and eight age-matched healthy speakers. The frequency distributions of nouns and verbs were compared for hand-scored data and data extracted using text-analysis software. Lexical measures showed the predicted pattern for nouns and verbs in hand-scored data, and for nouns in software-extracted data, with fewer low frequency items in the speech of the patients relative to controls. The distribution of complex morpho-syntactic forms for the SD group showed a reduced range, with fewer constructions that required multiple auxiliaries and inflections. Finally, the distribution of syntactic constructions also differed between groups, with a pattern that reflects the patients' characteristic anomia and constraints on morpho-syntactic complexity. The data are in line with previous findings of an absence of gross syntactic errors or violations in SD speech. Alterations in the distributions of morphology and syntax, however, support constraint satisfaction models of speech production in which there is no hard boundary between lexical retrieval and grammatical encoding.
One of the cardinal features of semantic dementia (SD) is a steady reduction in expressive vocabulary. We investigated the nature of this breakdown by assessing the psycholinguistic characteristics of words produced spontaneously by SD patients during an autobiographical memory interview. Speech was analysed with respect to frequency and imageability, and a recently-developed measure called semantic diversity. This measure quantifies the degree to which a word can be used in a broad range of different linguistic contexts. We used this measure in a formal exploration of the tendency for SD patients to replace specific terms with more vague and general words, on the assumption that more specific words are used in a more constrained set of contexts. Relative to healthy controls, patients were less likely to produce low-frequency, high-imageability words, and more likely to produce highly frequent, abstract words. These changes in the lexical-semantic landscape were related to semantic diversity: the highly frequent and abstract words most prevalent in the patients' speech were also the most semantically diverse. In fact, when the speech samples of healthy controls were artificially engineered such that low semantic diversity words (e.g., garage, spanner) were replaced with broader terms (e.g., place, thing), the characteristics of their speech production came to closely resemble that of SD patients. A similar simulation in which low-frequency words were replaced was less successful in replicating the patient data. These findings indicate systematic biases in the deterioration of lexical-semantic space in SD. As conceptual knowledge degrades, speech increasingly consists of general terms that can be applied in a broad range of linguistic contexts and convey less specific information.



Information on the use of neuromonitoring in intensive care units is scattered but significant. Nurses who do not care for neurologically impaired patients on a daily basis may not have a strong understanding of the utility of various neuromonitoring techniques, why they are used, or how they are interpreted. Two main types of neuromonitoring that are frequently seen but poorly understood are reviewed here: transcranial Doppler sonography and electrophysiology. Information on these 2 techniques tends to be either superficial with limited applicability to the critical care setting or very technical. This review provides information about neuromonitoring to help guide critical care nurses providing care to neurologically impaired patients. (Critical Care Nurse. 2014;34[3]:30-40).













Cancer pain is not a single entity but a complex pain state involving different pain syndromes, with inflammatory, neuropathic, compressive, and ischaemic mechanisms. Current therapeutic regimens are based largely on opioids, although opioid treatment can lead to many side effects. Studies using animal models of cancer pain are aimed at understanding cancer pain and developing novel therapies. The most frequently reported models are of bone cancer pain, predominantly modelling pain associated with tumour growth within bone marrow. Here we summarise recent findings from studies using animal models of cancer pain and discuss the methodological quality of these studies.

For the publication of DSM-5, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) was the subject of significant revisions to its classification and diagnostic criteria. One of these significant changes was the placement of OCD in a new category, &quot;Obsessive-Compulsive and Related Disorders (OCRDs),&quot; which also includes body dysmorphic disorder (BDD), trichotillomania (hair-pulling disorder), excoriation (skin-picking) disorder, hoarding disorder, substance/medication-induced OCRD, OCRD due to another medical condition, and other specified OCRDs. Changes in the diagnostic criteria and grouping of these disorders may have significant clinical implications, and will be reviewed in this article.
The bones of the vertebrate face develop from transient embryonic branchial arches that are populated by cranial neural crest cells. We have characterized a mouse mutant for the Forkhead family transcription factor Foxi3, which is expressed in branchial ectoderm and endoderm. Foxi3 mutant mice are not viable and display severe branchial arch-derived facial skeleton defects, including absence of all but the most distal tip of the mandible and complete absence of the inner, middle and external ear structures. Although cranial neural crest cells of Foxi3 mutants are able to migrate, populate the branchial arches, and display some elements of correct proximo-distal patterning, they succumb to apoptosis from embryonic day 9.75 onwards. We show this cell death correlates with a delay in expression of Fgf8 in branchial arch ectoderm and a failure of neural crest cells in the arches to express FGF-responsive genes. Zebrafish foxi1 is also expressed in branchial arch ectoderm and endoderm, and morpholino knock-down of foxi1 also causes apoptosis of neural crest in the branchial arches. We show that heat shock induction of fgf3 in zebrafish arch tissue can rescue cell death in foxi1 morphants. Our results suggest that Foxi3 may play a role in the establishment of signaling centers in the branchial arches that are required for neural crest survival, patterning and the subsequent development of branchial arch derivatives.
Background: Avian forelimb (wing) contains only three digits, and the three-digit formation in the bird forelimb is one of the avian-specific limb characteristics that have been evolutionarily inherited from the common ancestral form in dinosaurs. Despite many studies on digit formation in the chick limb bud, the developmental mechanisms giving rise to the three-digit forelimb in birds have not been completely clarified. Results: To identify which cell populations of the early limb bud contribute to digit formation in the late limb bud, fate maps of the early fore- and hindlimb buds were prepared. Based on these fate maps, we found that the digit-forming region in the forelimb bud is narrower than that in the hindlimb bud, suggesting that some developmental mechanisms on the anterior-most region lead to a reduced number of digits in the forelimb. We also found temporal differences in the onset of appearance of the ANZ (anterior necrotic zone) as well as differences in the position of the anterior edge of the AER. Conclusions: Forelimb-specific events in the anterior limb bud are possible developmental mechanisms that might generate the different cell fates in the fore- and hindlimb buds, regulating the number of digits in birds. Developmental Dynamics 243:741-752, 2014.  2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

Adolescence involves shifts in social behaviors, behavioral flexibility, and adaptive risk-taking that coincide with structural remodeling of the brain. We previously showed that new cells are added to brain regions associated with sexual behaviors, suggesting that cytogenesis may be a mechanism for acquiring adult-typical behaviors during adolescence. Whether pubertal cell addition occurs in brain regions associated with behavioral flexibility or motivation and whether these patterns differ between pubertal and adult animals had not been determined. Therefore, we assessed patterns of cell proliferation or survival in the prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens. Pubertal and adult male rats were given injections of bromo-deoxyuridine (BrdU). To assess cell proliferation, half of the animals from each group were sacrificed 24 h following the last injection. The remaining animals were sacrificed at Day 30 following the last injection to evaluate cell survival. Adult animals had significantly lower densities of BrdU-immunoreactive (ir) cells in the prefrontal cortex, irrespective of post-BrdU survival time, whereas in the nucleus accumbens, adult animals had a lower density of BrdU-ir cells at the short survival time; however, the density of BrdU-ir cells was equivalent in pubertal and adult animals at the longer survival time. These data provide evidence that cell addition during puberty may contribute to the remodeling of brain regions associated with behavioral flexibility and motivation, and this cell addition continues into adulthood, albeit at lower levels. Higher levels of cell proliferation or survival in younger animals may reflect a higher level of plasticity, possibly contributing to the dynamic remodeling of the pubertal brain.  2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Develop Neurobiol 74: 633-642, 2014.
Life-long neurogenesis is a characteristic feature of many vertebrate and invertebrate species. In decapod crustaceans, new neurons are added throughout life to two cell clusters containing local (cluster 9) and projection (cluster 10) interneurons in the olfactory pathway. Adult-born neurons in clusters 9 and 10 in crayfish have the anatomical properties and chemistry of mature neurons by 6 months after birth. Here we use 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation to pulse label mitotically active cells in these cell clusters, followed by a survival time of up to 8 months, during which crayfish (Cherax destructor) were sacrificed at intervals and the numbers of BrdU-labeled cells quantified. We find a decrease in the numbers of BrdU-labeled cells in cell cluster 10 between the first and second weeks following BrdU exposure, suggesting a period of cell death shortly after proliferation. Additional delayed cell divisions in both cell clusters are indicated by increases in labeled cells long after the BrdU clearing time. The differentiation time of these cells into neurons was defined by detection of the first immunoreactivity for the transmitter SIFamide in cluster 10 BrdU-labeled cells, which begins at 4 weeks after BrdU labeling; the numbers of SIFamide-labeled cells continues to increase over the following month. Experiments testing whether proliferation and survival of Cluster 10 cells are influenced by locomotor activity provided no evidence of a correlation between activity levels and cell proliferation, but suggest a strong influence of locomotor activity on cell survival.  2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Develop Neurobiol 74: 602-615, 2014.
The developing zebrafish retinotectal arbors make many trial branches with synapses but most are retracted. With NMDA blockers, branches are withdrawn at a higher rate, and a synapse on a branch not only stabilizes that branch, but biases new branches to form nearby. Here, we tested whether new branch formation requires the polarity complex, which is essential for organizing the cytoskeleton in initial axon formation. The complex (PAR3, PAR6, and atypical protein kinase C [aPKC]) is downstream of phosphatidyl-inositol-3-kinase (PI3K), and its aPKC could be activated by retrograde arachidonic acid synaptic signaling. DiO-labeled arbors in zebrafish were imaged on day 3 (before treatment) and 1-2 days after treatment to suppress or inhibit PAR3, PAR6, or PI3K. Intraocular antisense (AS) oligos to PAR3 or PAR6 both severely limited branch addition, which was most evident in arbors with few branches before treatment. As a result of the inability to branch, arbor segments grew longer than in controls. Both PI3K inhibition (LY294002) and AS suppression of PI3K and PI3K isoforms likewise limited branch addition but also decreased growth, as the sum of segment lengths was below normal after 2 days. Both the results support the idea that the polarity complex and PI3K participate in arbor branch formation. The PKC inhibitor Go6983 also severely restricted branch addition and growth, as did bisindolyl-maleimide and calphostin C reported previously, consistent with PKC, but not PKC, participation. These experiments suggest a mechanism whereby activity signaling could affect the branching of retinotectal arbors.  2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Develop Neurobiol 74: 591-601, 2014.
Objective: Assessing a new camera-based microswitch technology, which did not require the use of color marks on the participants' face. Method: Two children with extensive multiple disabilities participated. The responses selected for them consisted of small, lateral head movements and mouth closing or opening. The intervention was carried out according to a multiple probe design across responses. The technology involved a computer with a CPU using a 2-GHz clock, a USB video camera with a 16-mm lens, a USB cable connecting the camera and the computer, and a special software program written in ISO C++ language. Results: The new technology was satisfactorily used with both children. Large increases in their responding were observed during the intervention periods (i.e. when the responses were followed by preferred stimulation). Conclusion: The new technology may be an important resource for persons with multiple disabilities and minimal motor behavior.
Our goal in the present study was to examine the effects of maternal smoking during pregnancy on infant self-regulation, exploring birth weight as a mediator and sex as a moderator of risk. A prospective sample of 218 infants was assessed at 6 months of age. Infants completed a battery of tasks assessing working memory/inhibition, attention, and emotional reactivity and regulation. Propensity scores were used to statistically control for confounding risk factors associated with maternal smoking during pregnancy. After prenatal and postnatal confounds were controlled, prenatal tobacco exposure was related to reactivity to frustration and control of attention during stimulus encoding. Birth weight did not mediate the effect of prenatal exposure but was independently related to reactivity and working memory/inhibition. The effect of tobacco exposure was not moderated by sex. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).
B-cell translocation gene 2 (BTG2) is a member of an emerging gene family that is involved in cellular functions. In this study, we demonstrate that BTG2 regulates glucose homeostasis via upregulation of Nur77 in diabetic mice. Hepatic BTG2 gene expression was elevated by fasting and forskolin. Overexpression of Btg2 increased the expression of hepatic gluconeogenic genes and blood glucose output and subsequently impaired glucose and insulin tolerance. Upregulation of the transcriptional activity of Nur77, gluconeogenic genes, and glucose production by forskolin was observed by Btg2 transduction, but not in Btg2 knockdown. BTG2-stimulated glucose production and glucose-6-phosphatase promoter activity were attenuated by dominant-negative Nur77. Coimmunoprecipitation and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays showed that BTG2 induced Nur77 occupancy on the glucose-6-phosphatase promoter via a physical interaction. Btg2 gene expression was increased in streptozotocin-treated and db/db mice. Finally, impairment of glucose homeostasis, such as the increase of blood glucose, glucose intolerance, and insulin intolerance, was elevated in diabetic mice, whereas this phenomenon was abolished in knockdown of Btg2. Together, these data suggest that BTG2 participates in the regulation of hepatic glucose homeostasis, which means that BTG2 might serve as a potential therapeutic target for combating metabolic dysfunction.
High doses of the active form of vitamin D3, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25(OH)2D3], prevent diabetes in the NOD mouse but also elicit unwanted calcemic side effects. Because immune cells themselves can convert vitamin D3 into 1,25(OH)2D3 locally, we hypothesized that dietary vitamin D3 can also prevent disease. Thus, we evaluated whether dietary administration of high doses of regular vitamin D3 (800 IU/day) during different periods of life (pregnancy and lactation, early life [3-14 weeks of age], or lifelong [3-35 weeks of age]) safely prevents diabetes in NOD mice. We found that only lifelong treatment raised serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 from 173 nmol/L in controls to 290 nmol/L, without inducing signs of calcemic or bone toxicity, and significantly reduced diabetes development in both male and female NOD mice. This diabetes protection by vitamin D3 correlated with preserved pancreatic insulin content and improved insulitis scores. Moreover, vitamin D3 treatment decreased interferon--positive CD8(+) T cells and increased CD4(+)(CD25(+))FoxP3(+) T cells in pancreatic draining lymph nodes. In conclusion, this study shows for the first time that high doses of regular dietary vitamin D3 can safely prevent diabetes in NOD mice when administered lifelong, although caution is warranted with regards to administering equivalently high doses in humans.
Decreased heart rate variability (HRV) is a major risk factor for sudden death and cardiovascular disease. We previously demonstrated that parasympathetic dysfunction in the heart of the Akita type 1 diabetic mouse was due to a decrease in the level of the sterol response element-binding protein (SREBP-1). Here we demonstrate that hyperactivity of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK3) in the atrium of the Akita mouse results in decreased SREBP-1, attenuation of parasympathetic modulation of heart rate, measured as a decrease in the high-frequency (HF) fraction of HRV in the presence of propranolol, and a decrease in expression of the G-protein coupled inward rectifying K(+) (GIRK4) subunit of the acetylcholine (ACh)-activated inward-rectifying K(+) channel (IKACh), the ion channel that mediates the heart rate response to parasympathetic stimulation. Treatment of atrial myocytes with the GSK3 inhibitor Kenpaullone increased levels of SREBP-1 and expression of GIRK4 and IKACh, whereas a dominant-active GSK3 mutant decreased SREBP-1 and GIRK4 expression. In Akita mice treated with GSK3 inhibitors Li(+) and/or CHIR-99021, Li(+) increased IKACh, and Li(+) and CHIR-99021 both partially reversed the decrease in HF fraction while increasing GIRK4 and SREBP-1 expression. These data support the conclusion that increased GSK3 activity in the type 1 diabetic heart plays a critical role in parasympathetic dysfunction through an effect on SREBP-1, supporting GSK3 as a new therapeutic target for diabetic autonomic neuropathy.
Shift workers, who are exposed to irregular sleep schedules resulting in sleep deprivation and misalignment of circadian rhythms, have an increased risk of diabetes relative to day workers. In healthy adults, sleep restriction without circadian misalignment promotes insulin resistance. To determine whether the misalignment of circadian rhythms that typically occurs in shift work involves intrinsic adverse metabolic effects independently of sleep loss, a parallel group design was used to study 26 healthy adults. Both interventions involved 3 inpatient days with 10-h bedtimes, followed by 8 inpatient days of sleep restriction to 5 h with fixed nocturnal bedtimes (circadian alignment) or with bedtimes delayed by 8.5 h on 4 of the 8 days (circadian misalignment). Daily total sleep time (SD) during the intervention was nearly identical in the aligned and misaligned conditions (4 h 48 min [5 min] vs. 4 h 45 min [6 min]). In both groups, insulin sensitivity (SI) significantly decreased after sleep restriction, without a compensatory increase in insulin secretion, and inflammation increased. In male participants exposed to circadian misalignment, the reduction in SI and the increase in inflammation both doubled compared with those who maintained regular nocturnal bedtimes. Circadian misalignment that occurs in shift work may increase diabetes risk and inflammation, independently of sleep loss.
Haploinsufficiency of SHANK3, caused by chromosomal abnormalities or mutations that disrupt one copy of the gene, leads to a neurodevelopmental syndrome called Phelan-McDermid syndrome, symptoms of which can include absent or delayed speech, intellectual disability, neurological changes and autism spectrum disorders. The SHANK3 protein forms a key structural part of the post-synaptic density. We previously generated and characterized mice with a targeted disruption of Shank3 in which exons coding for the ankyrin-repeat domain were deleted and expression of full-length Shank3 was disrupted. We documented specific deficits in synaptic function and plasticity, along with reduced reciprocal social interactions, in Shank3 heterozygous mice. Changes in phenotype owing to a mutation at a single locus are quite frequently modulated by other loci, most dramatically when the entire genetic background is changed. In mice, each strain of laboratory mouse represents a distinct genetic background and alterations in phenotype owing to gene knockout or transgenesis are frequently different across strains, which can lead to the identification of important modifier loci. We have investigated the effect of genetic background on phenotypes of Shank3 heterozygous, knockout and wild-type mice, using C57BL/6, 129SVE and FVB/Ntac strain backgrounds. We focused on observable behaviors with the goal of carrying out subsequent analyses to identify modifier loci. Surprisingly, there were very modest strain effects over a large battery of analyses. These results indicate that behavioral phenotypes associated with Shank3 haploinsufficiency are largely strain-independent.

Genetic variation in SLC12A5 which encodes KCC2, the neuron-specific cation-chloride cotransporter that is essential for hyperpolarizing GABAergic signaling and formation of cortical dendritic spines, has not been reported in human disease. Screening of SLC12A5 revealed a co-segregating variant (KCC2-R952H) in an Australian family with febrile seizures. We show that KCC2-R952H reduces neuronal Cl(-) extrusion and has a compromised ability to induce dendritic spines in vivo and in vitro. Biochemical analyses indicate a reduced surface expression of KCC2-R952H which likely contributes to the functional deficits. Our data suggest that KCC2-R952H is a bona fide susceptibility variant for febrile seizures.
Human psychology, neuroscience and behavioural economics study the human mind, brain and behaviour. Scientific research has discovered a great deal about the factors that influence human perception, judgment and activity in the real world. In this article, I aim to provide an outline of the relationship between decision-making, cognition, emotion and behaviour. I propose that meta-cognition, or thinking-about-thinking, has the potential to inform how we practice emergency medicine. By accommodating human traits rather than trying to defy them, we can ultimately benefit our patients.
Age-related LH surge dysfunction in middle-aged rats is characterized, in part, by reduced responsiveness to estradiol (E2)-positive feedback and reduced hypothalamic kisspeptin neurotransmission. Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) neurons in the suprachiasmatic nucleus project to hypothalamic regions that house kisspeptin neurons. Additionally, middle-age females express less VIP mRNA in the suprachiasmatic nucleus on the day of the LH surge and intracerebroventricular (icv) VIP infusion restores LH surges. We tested the hypothesis that icv infusion of VIP modulates the LH surge through effects on the kisspeptin and RFamide-related peptide-3 (RFRP-3; an estradiol-regulated inhibitor of GnRH neurons) neurotransmitter systems. Brains were collected for in situ hybridization analyses from ovariectomized and ovarian hormone-primed young and middle-aged females infused with VIP or saline. The percentage of GnRH and Kiss1 cells coexpressing cfos and total Kiss1 mRNA were reduced in saline-infused middle-aged compared with young females. In young females, VIP reduced the percentage of GnRH and Kiss1 cells coexpressing cfos, suggesting that increased VIP signaling in young females adversely affected the function of Kiss1 and GnRH neurons. In middle-aged females, VIP increased the percentage of GnRH but not Kiss1 neurons coexpressing cfos, suggesting VIP affects LH release in middle-aged females through kisspeptin-independent effects on GnRH neurons. Neither reproductive age nor VIP affected Rfrp cell number, Rfrp mRNA levels per cell, or coexpression of cfos in Rfrp cells. These data suggest that VIP differentially affects activation of GnRH and kisspeptin neurons of female rats in an age-dependent manner.
Estrogens play an important role in the regulation of energy homeostasis in female mammals and a reduced ovarian function, due to natural aging or surgery, is associated with body weight increase and fat redistribution. This disruption of energy homeostasis may constitute a trigger for several pathologies known to be associated with climacterium; however, so far, limited attention has been devoted to the ability of estrogen replacement therapies (ERT) to reinstate the balanced energy metabolism characteristic of cycling female mammals. The purpose of the present study was to compare the efficacy of selected ERTs in reversing the ovariectomy-induced gain in body weight. To this aim female ERE-Luc mice were ovariectomized and, after 3 weeks, treated per os for 21 days with: conjugated estrogens, two selective estrogen receptor modulators (bazedoxifene and raloxifene), and the combination of bazedoxifene plus conjugated estrogens (tissue-selective estrogen complex, TSEC). The study shows that the therapy based on TSEC was the most efficacious in reducing the body weight accrued by ovariectomy (OVX). In addition, by means of in vivo imaging, the TSEC treatment was shown to increase estrogen receptor (ER) transcriptional activity selectively in the arcuate nucleus, which is a key area for the control of energy homeostasis. Finally, quantitative analysis of the mRNAs encoding orexigenic and anorexigenic peptides indicated that following ERT with TSEC there was a significant change in Agrp, NPY, and Kiss-1 mRNA accumulation in the whole hypothalamus. Considering that prior studies showed that ERT with TSEC was able to mimic the rhythm of ER oscillatory activity during the reproductive cycle and that such fluctuations were relevant for energy metabolism, the present observations further point to the ER tetradian oscillation as an important component of the ER signaling necessary for the full hormone action and therefore for an efficacious ERT.
This editorial focuses on discordant twins as a valuable epidemiological design for psychiatric aetiological research. First, we summarise the advantages and strengths of this design over the classical matched case-control study. Then, we draw attention to the use of this method in bipolar disorder, revising previous discordant-twin studies. A future greater use of discordant twins is desirable to gain further relevant insights in the aetiology of bipolar disorder.


Myosin myopathies comprise a group of inherited diseases caused by mutations in myosin heavy chain (MyHC) genes. Homozygous or compound heterozygous truncating MYH2 mutations have been demonstrated to cause recessive myopathy with ophthalmoplegia, mild-to-moderate muscle weakness and complete lack of type 2A muscle fibers. In this study, we describe for the first time the clinical and morphological characteristics of recessive myosin IIa myopathy associated with MYH2 missense mutations. Seven patients of five different families with a myopathy characterized by ophthalmoplegia and mild-to-moderate muscle weakness were investigated. Muscle biopsy was performed to study morphological changes and MyHC isoform expression. Five of the patients were homozygous for MYH2 missense mutations, one patient was compound heterozygous for a missense and a nonsense mutation and one patient was homozygous for a frame-shift MYH2 mutation. Muscle biopsy demonstrated small or absent type 2A muscle fibers and reduced or absent expression of the corresponding MyHC IIa transcript and protein. We conclude that mild muscle weakness and ophthalmoplegia in combination with muscle biopsy demonstrating small or absent type 2A muscle fibers are the hallmark of recessive myopathy associated with MYH2 mutations.


Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a disorder of progressive memory loss and executive dysfunction. Little is known about the progression from amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI; isolated memory loss) to AD. Studies have found impairments in mild-stage AD and aMCI in specific tests of executive function. Here, we used objective saccade tasks to determine if they can effectively assess executive function deficits otherwise assessed by neuropsychological testing. To determine which executive function deficits the saccade tasks are most sensitive to, we also investigated the relationship between performance on saccade tasks and neuropsychological test scores. Twenty-two aMCI patients (63-90years), 24 mild AD patients (61-87years) and 76 healthy controls (60-85years) performed a battery of neuropsychological tests, and two saccade tasks designed to probe sensory, motor and cognitive function. The prosaccade task requires a fast, automatic saccade toward an eccentric visual stimulus. The antisaccade task requires additional executive processing to inhibit the automatic prosaccade toward the stimulus, so that a voluntary saccade can be initiated to a location opposite the stimulus. Antisaccade performance was impaired similarly in aMCI and AD patients relative to controls; both groups were slower to initiate correct antisaccades and they made more direction errors (erroneous prosaccades), suggesting similar brain deficits. Scores on the Stroop task were inversely correlated with the percentage of short-latency direction errors in the antisaccade task for controls and aMCI patients, whereas other more global measures of executive function were not related to saccade measures in any subject group. Our results show that the antisaccade task is useful for detecting executive dysfunction in aMCI and AD, especially dysfunction in selective attention. Saccade tasks may therefore have potential to assess executive dysfunction when use of neuropsychological tests is not possible.
Oscillatory activity in the beta (13-30Hz) frequency band is widespread in cortico-basal ganglia circuits, and becomes prominent in Parkinson's disease (PD). Here we develop the hypothesis that the degree of synchronization in this frequency band is a critical factor in gating computation across a population of neurons, with increases in beta band synchrony entailing a loss of information-coding space and hence computational capacity. Task and context drive this dynamic gating, so that for each state there will be an optimal level of network synchrony, and levels lower or higher than this will impair behavioural performance. Thus, both the pathological exaggeration of synchrony, as observed in PD, and the ability of interventions like deep brain stimulation (DBS) to excessively suppress synchrony can potentially lead to impairments in behavioural performance. Indeed, under physiological conditions, the manipulation of computational capacity by beta activity may itself present a mechanism of action selection and maintenance.
There is accumulating evidence implicating a set of key brain regions in encoding rewarding and punishing outcomes, including the orbitofrontal cortex, medial prefrontal cortex, ventral striatum, anterior insula, and anterior cingulate. However, it has proved challenging to reach consensus concerning the extent to which different brain areas are involved in differentially encoding rewarding and punishing outcomes. Here, we show that many of the brain areas involved in outcome processing represent multiple outcome components: encoding the value of outcomes (whether rewarding or punishing) and informational coding, i.e. signaling whether a given outcome is rewarding or punishing, ignoring magnitude or experienced utility. In particular, we report informational signals in the lateral orbitofrontal cortex and anterior insular cortex that respond to both rewarding and punishing feedback, even though value-related signals in these areas appear to be selectively driven by punishing feedback. These findings highlight the importance of taking into account features of outcomes other than value when characterising the contributions of different brain regions in outcome processing.
Rodent models are a key factor in the process of translating psychiatric genetics and genomics findings, allowing us to shed light on how risk-genes confer changes in neurobiology by merging different types of data across fields, from behavioural neuroscience to the burgeoning omics (e.g. genomics, epigenomics, proteomics, etc.). Moreover, they also provide an indispensable first step for drug discovery. However, recent evidence from both clinical and genetic studies highlights possible limitations in the current methods for classifying psychiatric illness, as both symptomology and underlying genetic risk are found to increasingly overlap across disorder diagnoses. Meanwhile, integration of data from animal models across disorders is currently limited. Here, we argue that behavioural neuroscience is in danger of missing informative data because of the practice of trying to 'diagnose' an animal model with a psychiatric illness. What is needed is a shift in emphasis, from seeking to ally an animal model to a specific disorder, to one focused on a more systematic assessment of the neurobiological and behavioural outcomes of any given genetic or environmental manipulation.
Gamma-band activity (30-90Hz) and the synchronization of neural activity in the gamma-frequency range have been observed in different cortical and subcortical structures and have been associated with different cognitive functions. However, it is still unknown whether gamma-band synchronization subserves a single universal function or a diversity of functions across the full spectrum of cognitive processes. Here, we address this question reviewing the mechanisms of gamma-band oscillation generation and the functions associated with gamma-band activity across several cortical and subcortical structures. Additionally, we raise a plausible explanation of why gamma rhythms are found so ubiquitously across brain structures. Gamma band activity originates from the interplay between inhibition and excitation. We stress that gamma oscillations, associated with this interplay, originate from basic functional motifs that conferred advantages for low-level system processing and multiple cognitive functions throughout evolution. We illustrate the multifunctionality of gamma-band activity by considering its role in neural systems for perception, selective attention, memory, motivation and behavioral control. We conclude that gamma-band oscillations support multiple cognitive processes, rather than a single one, which, however, can be traced back to a limited set of circuit motifs which are found universally across species and brain structures.
Circadian rhythms are generated by an endogenously organized timing system that drives daily rhythms in behavior, physiology and metabolism. In mammals, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus is the locus of a master circadian clock. The SCN is synchronized to environmental changes in the light:dark cycle by direct, monosynaptic innervation via the retino-hypothalamic tract. In turn, the SCN coordinates the rhythmic activities of innumerable subordinate clocks in virtually all bodily tissues and organs. The core molecular clockwork is composed of a transcriptional/post-translational feedback loop in which clock genes and their protein products periodically suppress their own transcription. This primary loop connects to downstream output genes by additional, interlocked transcriptional feedback loops to create tissue-specific 'circadian transcriptomes'. Signals from peripheral tissues inform the SCN of the internal state of the organism and the brain's master clock is modified accordingly. A consequence of this hierarchical, multilevel feedback system is that there are ubiquitous effects of circadian timing on genetic and metabolic responses throughout the body. This overview examines landmark studies in the history of the study of circadian timing system, and highlights our current understanding of the operation of circadian clocks with a focus on topics of interest to the neuroscience community.
Chronic variable stress (CVS) exposure modifies the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) in a manner consistent with enhanced central drive of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis. As previous reports suggest that post-stress enhancement of norepinephrine (NE) action contributes to chronic stress regulation at the level of the PVN, we hypothesised that PVN-projecting NE neurons were necessary for the stress facilitatory effects of CVS. Following intra-PVN injection of saporin toxin conjugated to a dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH) antibody (DSAP), in rats PVN DBH immunoreactivity was almost completely eliminated, but immunoreactive afferents to other key regions involved in stress integration were spared (e.g. DBH fiber densities were unaffected in the central nucleus of the amygdala). Reductions in DBH-positive fiber density were associated with reduced numbers of DBH-immunoreactive neurons in the nucleus of the solitary tract and locus coeruleus. Following 2weeks of CVS, DSAP injection did not alter stress-induced adrenal hypertrophy or attenuation of body weight gain, indicating that PVN-projecting NE [and epinephrine (E)] neurons are not essential for these physiological effects of chronic stress. In response to acute restraint stress, PVN-targeted DSAP injection attenuated peak adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone in controls, but only attenuated peak ACTH in CVS animals, suggesting that enhanced adrenal sensitivity compensated for reduced excitatory drive of the PVN. Our data suggest that PVN-projecting NE/E neurons contribute to the generation of acute stress responses, and are required for HPA axis drive (ACTH release) during chronic stress. However, loss of NE/E drive at the PVN appears to be buffered by compensation at the level of the adrenal.
Kainate receptors (KARs) consist of a family of ionotropic glutamate receptors composed of the combinations of five subunits, GluK1-GluK5. Although KARs display close structural homology with AMPA receptors, they serve quite distinct functions. A great deal of our knowledge of the molecular and functional properties of KARs comes from their study in the hippocampus. This review aims at summarising the functions of KARs in the regulation of the activity of hippocampal synaptic circuits at the adult stage and throughout development. We focus on the variety of roles played by KARs in physiological conditions of activation, at pre- and postsynaptic sites, in different cell types and through either metabotropic or ionotropic actions. Finally, we present some of the few attempts to link the role of KARs in the regulation of local hippocampal circuits to the behavioural functions of the hippocampus in health and diseases.
We assessed the role of alpha-band oscillatory activity during a task-switching design that required participants to switch between an auditory and a visual task, while task-relevant audiovisual inputs were simultaneously presented. Instructional cues informed participants which task to perform on a given trial and we assessed alpha-band power in the short 1.35-s period intervening between the cue and the task-imperative stimuli, on the premise that attentional biasing mechanisms would be deployed to resolve competition between the auditory and visual inputs. Prior work had shown that alpha-band activity was differentially deployed depending on the modality of the cued task. Here, we asked whether this activity would, in turn, be differentially deployed depending on whether participants had just made a switch of task or were being asked to simply repeat the task. It is well established that performance speed and accuracy are poorer on switch than on repeat trials. Here, however, the use of instructional cues completely mitigated these classic switch-costs. Measures of alpha-band synchronisation and desynchronisation showed that there was indeed greater and earlier differential deployment of alpha-band activity on switch vs. repeat trials. Contrary to our hypothesis, this differential effect was entirely due to changes in the amount of desynchronisation observed during switch and repeat trials of the visual task, with more desynchronisation over both posterior and frontal scalp regions during switch-visual trials. These data imply that particularly vigorous, and essentially fully effective, anticipatory biasing mechanisms resolved the competition between competing auditory and visual inputs when a rapid switch of task was required.
Following injury to the adult mammalian cochlea, hair cells cannot be spontaneously replaced. Nonetheless, the postnatal cochlea contains progenitor cells, distinguished by the expression of nestin, which are able to proliferate and form neurospheres in vitro. Such resident progenitors might be endowed with reparative potential. However, to date little is known about their behaviour in situ following hair cell injury. Using adult mice and ex vivo cochlear cultures, we sought to determine whether: (i) resident cochlear progenitors respond to kanamycin ototoxicity and compensate for it; and (ii) the reparative potential of cochlear progenitors can be stimulated by the addition of growth factors. Morphological changes of cochlear tissue, expression of nestin mRNA and protein and cell proliferation were investigated in these models. Our observations show that ototoxic injury has modest effects on nestin expression and cell proliferation. On the other hand, the addition of growth factors to the injured cochlear explants induced the appearance of nestin-positive cells in the supporting cell area of the organ of Corti. The vast majority of nestin-expressing cells, however, were not proliferating. Growth factors also had a robust stimulatory effect on axonal sprouting and the proliferative response, which was more pronounced in injured cochleae. On the whole, our findings indicate that nestin expression after kanamycin ototoxicity is related to tissue reactivity rather than activation of resident progenitors attempting to replace the lost receptors. In addition, administration of growth factors significantly enhances tissue remodelling, suggesting that cochlear repair may be promoted by the exogenous application of regeneration-promoting substances.
Synaptic cell adhesion molecules are characterized by their potential to trigger synaptogenesis in vitro, even when expressed in non-neuronal cell lines. In addition to the prototypic synaptic cell adhesion molecules (SynCAMs), other structurally unrelated families of synaptic cell adhesion molecules have been identified: neurexins and neuroligins, as well as the leucine-rich repeat transmembrane neuronal protein family. Although in vivo the absence of individual synaptic cell adhesion molecules does not necessarily reduce the number of synapses, it does affect the function of synapses. Not surprisingly, mutations in synaptic cell adhesion molecules have been identified in patients suffering from neurodevelopmental disorders, such as autism spectrum disorders, intellectual disability or schizophrenia. In line with the major function of these genes at the synapse, their role in the pathogenesis of neurodevelopmental diseases has been attributed to synaptogenesis, synapse maintenance and synaptic plasticity. However, one family of synaptic cell adhesion molecules, the SynCAMs, have also been implicated in axon guidance, that is, an earlier step in neural circuit formation. These findings suggest that SynCAMs, and maybe other families of synaptic cell adhesion molecules as well, could contribute to the pathogenesis of neurodevelopmental disorders at multiple steps of neural circuit formation and, thus, shape the distinct symptoms associated with different disease variants or distinct neurodevelopmental disorders in addition to their effect on synaptic function. In this review, we summarize the roles of one family of synaptic cell adhesion molecules, the SynCAMs, at the synapse and beyond in axon guidance and myelination.
GABAA receptors (GABAA Rs) are ligand-gated Cl(-) channels that mediate most of the fast inhibitory neurotransmission in the central nervous system (CNS). Multiple GABAA R subtypes are assembled from a family of 19 subunit genes, raising the question of the significance of this heterogeneity. In this review, we discuss the evidence that GABAA R subtypes represent distinct receptor populations with a specific spatio-temporal expression pattern in the developing and adult CNS, being endowed with unique functional and pharmacological properties, as well as being differentially regulated at the transcriptional, post-transcriptional and translational levels. GABAA R subtypes are targeted to specific subcellular domains to mediate either synaptic or extrasynaptic transmission, and their action is dynamically regulated by a vast array of molecular mechanisms to adjust the strength of inhibition to the changing needs of neuronal networks. These adaptations involve not only changing the gating or kinetic properties of GABAA Rs, but also modifying the postsynaptic scaffold organised by gephyrin to anchor specific receptor subtypes at postsynaptic sites. The significance of GABAA R heterogeneity is particularly evident during CNS development and adult neurogenesis, with different receptor subtypes fulfilling distinct steps of neuronal differentiation and maturation. Finally, analysis of the specific roles of GABAA R subtypes reveals their involvement in the pathophysiology of major CNS disorders, and opens novel perspectives for therapeutic intervention. In conclusion, GABAA R subtypes represent the substrate of a multifaceted inhibitory neurotransmission system that is dynamically regulated and performs multiple operations, contributing globally to the proper development, function and plasticity of the CNS.
Traditional descriptions of the basal forebrain cholinergic projection system to the cortex have focused on neuromodulatory influences, that is, mechanisms that modulate cortical information processing but are not necessary for mediating discrete behavioral responses and cognitive operations. This review summarises and conceptualises the evidence in support of more deterministic contributions of cholinergic projections to cortical information processing. Through presynaptic receptors expressed on cholinergic terminals, thalamocortical and corticocortical projections can evoke brief cholinergic release events. These acetylcholine (ACh) release events occur on a fast, sub-second to seconds-long time scale ('transients'). In rats performing a task requiring the detection of cues as well as the report of non-cue events cholinergic transients mediate the detection of cues specifically in trials that involve a shift from a state of monitoring for cues to cue-directed responding. Accordingly, ill-timed cholinergic transients, generated using optogenetic methods, force false detections in trials without cues. We propose that the evidence is consistent with the hypothesis that cholinergic transients reduce detection uncertainty in such trials. Furthermore, the evidence on the functions of the neuromodulatory component of cholinergic neurotransmission suggests that higher levels of neuromodulation favor staying-on-task over alternative action. In other terms, higher cholinergic neuromodulation reduces opportunity costs. Evidence indicating a similar integration of other ascending projection systems, including noradrenergic and serotonergic systems, into cortical circuitry remains sparse, largely because of the limited information about local presynaptic regulation and the limitations of current techniques in measuring fast and transient neurotransmitter release events in these systems.
The investigation of impulsivity as a core marker of several major neuropsychiatric disorders has been greatly influenced by the therapeutic efficacy of drugs that block the reuptake of dopamine and noradrenaline in the brain. As a result, research into the neural mechanisms of impulsivity has focused on the catecholamine systems as the loci responsible for the expression of impulsive behaviour and the primary mechanism of action of clinically effective drugs for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). However, abnormalities in the catecholamine systems alone are unlikely to account for the full diversity and complexity of impulsivity subtypes, nor can they fully explain co-morbid brain disorders such as drug addiction. Here we review the lesser-studied role of -aminobutyric acid (GABA) in impulsivity, a major target of the dopaminergic and noradrenergic systems in the prefrontal cortex and striatum, and consider how abnormalities in this inhibitory neurotransmitter might contribute to several forms of impulsive behaviour in humans and experimental animals. Our analysis reveals several promising leads for future research that may help inform the development of new therapies for disorders of impulse control.

Timely administration of rescue medication for prolonged convulsive seizures lasting more than 5min is necessary to prevent progression to status epilepticus in children. The Practices in Emergency and Rescue Medication for Epilepsy Managed with Community Administered Therapy (PERFECT) initiative was set up to gain a better understanding of how prolonged convulsive seizures in children are managed when they occur outside of the hospital. We present the findings from an exploratory telephone survey of 128 healthcare professionals (HCPs) (85 pediatric neurologists and neurologists, 28 community pediatricians, and 15 epilepsy nurses) from six EU countries, conducted as part of the PERFECT initiative. Among HCPs, there was greater awareness of local protocols and lesser awareness of national or international guidelines. HCPs were not very aware of how prolonged convulsive seizures were managed outside of the hospital and had few professional links to schools or other settings where these seizures were most likely to occur. Approximately one third believed that lack of confidence and fear of liability were barriers to caregivers administering treatment in schools, as was insufficient training of caregivers in the wider community on the management of prolonged convulsive seizures. Conclusion: Results of this HCP survey have identified several clear gaps that need to be addressed: clearer guidance that spans all settings of care, greater dissemination of such guidelines across the chain of care, more open communication and better links between HCPs and schools, and systematic training of all relevant caregivers on the appropriate management of prolonged convulsive seizures.

Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS) represents a disabling condition characterized by persistent mental and physical fatigue, bodily discomfort and cognitive difficulties. To date the neural bases of CFS are poorly understood; however, mono-aminergic abnormalities, sleep-wake cycle changes and prefrontal dysfunctions are all thought to play a role in the development and maintenance of this condition. Here we explored in a group of 62 CFS subjects the impact on fatigue levels of agomelatine, an antidepressant with agonist activity at melatonin receptors (MT1 and MT2) and antagonist activity at serotoninergic 2C receptors (5HT2C). To tease out the relative effects of MT-agonism and 5HT2C antagonism on fatigue, we compared agomelatine 50mg u.i.d. with sustained release melatonin 10mg u.i.d. in the first 12-week-long phase of the study, and then switched all melatonin-treated subjects to agomelatine in the second 12-week-long phase of the study. Agomelatine treatment, but not melatonin, was associated with a significant reduction of perceived fatigue and an increase in perceived quality of life. Moreover the switch from melatonin to agomelatine was associated with a reduction of fatigue levels. Agomelatine was well tolerated by all enrolled subjects. Our data, albeit preliminary, suggest that agomelatine treatment could represent a novel useful approach to the clinical care of subjects with CFS.
Cannabis abuse in adolescence is associated with a broad array of phenotypical consequences, including a higher risk for schizophrenia and other mental disturbances related to dopamine (DA) imbalances. The great variability of these sequelae likely depends on the key influence of diverse genetic vulnerability factors. Inbred rodent strains afford a highly informative tool to study the contribution of genetic determinants to the long-term effects of juvenile cannabinoid exposure. In this study, we analyzed the phenotypical impact of the synthetic cannabinoid agonist WIN 55,212-2 (WIN; 2mg/kg/day from postnatal day 35-48) in adolescent Lewis rats, an inbred strain exhibiting resistance to psychotomimetic effects of environmental manipulations. At the end of this treatment, WIN-injected animals displayed increased survival of new cells (mainly oligodendroglia precursors) in the striatum and prefrontal cortex (PFC), two key terminal fields of DAergic pathways. To test whether these changes may be associated with enduring behavioral alterations, we examined the consequences of adolescent WIN treatment in adulthood (postnatal days 60-70), with respect to DA levels and metabolism as well as multiple behavioral paradigms. Rats injected with WIN exhibited increased turnover, but not levels, of striatal DA. In addition, cannabinoid-treated animals displayed increases in acoustic startle latency and novel-object exploration; however, WIN treatment failed to induce overt deficits of sensorimotor gating and social interaction. These results indicate that, in Lewis rats, juvenile cannabinoid exposure leads to alterations in frontostriatal gliogenesis, as well as select behavioral alterations time-locked to high DAergic metabolism, but not overt schizophrenia-related deficits.
Elevated blood serotonin (5-HT) levels were the first biomarker identified in autism research. Many studies have contrasted blood 5-HT levels in autistic patients and controls, but different measurement protocols, technologies, and biomaterials have been used through the years. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to provide an overall estimate of effect size and between-study heterogeneity, while verifying whether and to what extent different methodological approaches influence the strength of this association. Our literature search strategy identified 551 papers, from which 22 studies providing patient and control blood 5-HT values were selected for meta-analysis. Significantly higher 5-HT levels in autistic patients compared to controls were recorded both in whole blood (WB) [O.R.=4.6; (3.1-5.2); P=1.010(-12]), and in platelet-rich plasma (PRP) [O.R.=2.6 (1.8-3.9); P=2.710(-7)]. Predictably, studies measuring 5-HT levels in platelet-poor plasma (PPP) yielded no significant group difference [O.R.=0.54 (0.2-2-0); P=0.36]. Altogether, elevated 5-HT blood levels were recorded in 28.3% in WB and 22.5% in PRP samples of autistic individuals, as reported in 15 and 4 studies, respectively. Studies employing HPLC vs fluorometric assays yield similar cumulative effect sizes, but the former display much lower variability. In summary, despite some limitations mainly due to small study sample sizes, our results significantly reinforce the reliability of elevated 5-HT blood levels as a biomarker in ASD, providing practical indications potentially useful for its inclusion in multi-marker diagnostic panels for clinical use.
Chronic stress is one of the predominant environmental risk factors for a number of psychiatric disorders, particularly for major depression. Different hypotheses have been formulated to address the interaction between early and adult chronic stress in psychiatric disease vulnerability. The match/mismatch hypothesis of psychiatric disease states that the early life environment shapes coping strategies in a manner that enables individuals to optimally face similar environments later in life. We tested this hypothesis in female Balb/c mice that underwent either stress or enrichment early in life and were in adulthood further subdivided in single or group housed, in order to provide aversive or positive adult environments, respectively. We studied the effects of the environmental manipulation on anxiety-like, depressive-like and sociability behaviors and gene expression profiles. We show that continuous exposure to adverse environments (matched condition) is not necessarily resulting in an opposite phenotype compared to a continuous supportive environment (matched condition). Rather, animals with mismatched environmental conditions behaved differently from animals with matched environments on anxious, social and depressive like phenotypes. These results further support the match/mismatch hypothesis and illustrate how mild or moderate aversive conditions during development can shape an individual to be optimally adapted to similar conditions later in life.
The behavioral characterization of animal models of psychiatric disorders is often based upon independent traits measured at adult age. To model the neurodevelopmental aspects of psychiatric pathogenesis, we introduce a novel approach for a developmental behavioral analysis in mice. C57BL/6J (C57) mice were used as a reference strain and compared with 129S1/SvImJ (129Sv), BTBR T+tf/J (BTBR) and A/J (AJ) strains as marker strains for aberrant development. Mice were assessed at pre-adolescence (4 weeks), adolescence (6 weeks), early adulthood (8 weeks) and in adulthood (10-12 weeks) on a series of behavioral tasks measuring general health, neurological reflexes, locomotor activity, anxiety, short- and long-term memory and cognitive flexibility. Developmental delays in short-term object memory were associated with either a hypo-reactive profile in 129Sv mice or a hyper-reactive profile in BTBR mice. Furthermore, BTBR mice showed persistent high levels of repetitive grooming behavior during all developmental stages that was associated with the adult expression of cognitive rigidity. In addition, strain differences in development were observed in puberty onset, touch escape, and body position. These data showed that this longitudinal testing battery provides sufficient behavioral and cognitive resolution during different development stages and offers the opportunity to address the behavioral developmental trajectory in genetic mouse models for neurodevelopmental disorders. Furthermore, the data revealed that the assessment of multiple behavioral and cognitive domains at different developmental stages is critical to determine confounding factors (e.g., impaired motor behavior) that may interfere with the behavioral testing performance in mouse models for brain disorders.
Psychostimulants, such as methylphenidate, are thought to improve information processing in motivation-reward and attention-activation networks by enhancing the effects of more relevant signals and suppressing those of less relevant ones; however the nature of such reciprocal influences remains poorly understood. To explore this question, we tested the effect of methylphenidate on performance and associated brain activity in the Anticipation, Conflict, Reward (ACR) task. Sixteen healthy adult volunteers, ages 21-45, were scanned twice using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) as they performed the ACR task under placebo and methylphenidate conditions. A three-way repeated measures analysis of variance, with cue (reward vs. non-reward), target (congruent vs. incongruent) and medication condition (methylphenidate vs. placebo) as the factors, was used to analyze behaviors on the task. Blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) signals, reflecting task-related neural activity, were evaluated using linear contrasts. Participants exhibited significantly greater accuracy in the methylphenidate condition than the placebo condition. Compared with placebo, the methylphenidate condition also was associated with lesser task-related activity in components of attention-activation systems irrespective of the reward cue, and less task-related activity in components of the reward-motivation system, particularly the insula, during reward trials irrespective of target difficulty. These results suggest that methylphenidate enhances task performance by improving efficiency of information processing in both reward-motivation and in attention-activation systems.
Depression can influence pain and vice versa, yet the biological mechanisms underlying how one influences the pathophysiology of the other remains unclear. Dysregulation of locus coeruleus-noradrenergic transmission is implicated in both conditions, although it is not known whether this effect is exacerbated in cases of co-morbid depression and chronic pain. We studied locus coeruleus activity using immunofluorescence and electrophysiological approaches in rats subjected to unpredictable chronic mild stress (CMS, an experimental model of depression) and/or chronic constriction injury (CCI, a model of chronic neuropathic pain) for 2 weeks. CCI alone had no effect on any of the locus coeruleus parameters studied, while CMS led to a slight reduction in the electrophysiological activity of the locus coeruleus. Furthermore, CMS was associated with an increase in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells in the locus coeruleus, although they were smaller in size. Interestingly, these effects of CMS were exacerbated when combined with CCI, even though no changes in the 2-adrenoreceptors or the noradrenaline transporter were observed in any group. Together, these findings suggest that CMS triggers several modifications in locus coeruleus-noradrenergic transmission that are exacerbated by co-morbid chronic pain.
In the present study, modulation of anxiolytic action of agmatine by neuropeptide Y (NPY) in the central nucleus of amygdala (CeA) is evaluated employing Vogel's conflict test (VCT) in rats. The intra-CeA administration of agmatine (0.6 and 1.2mol/rat), NPY (10 and 20pmol/rat) or NPY Y1/Y5 receptors agonist [Leu(31), Pro(34)]-NPY (30 and 60pmol/rat) significantly increased the number of punished drinking licks following 15min of treatment. Combination treatment of subeffective dose of NPY (5pmol/rat) or [Leu(31), Pro(34)]-NPY (15pmol/rat) and agmatine (0.3mol/rat) produced synergistic anxiolytic-like effect. However, intra-CeA administration of selective NPY Y1 receptor antagonist, BIBP3226 (0.25 and 0.5mmol/rat) produced anxiogenic effect. In separate set of experiment, pretreatment with BIBP3226 (0.12mmol/rat) reversed the anxiolytic effect of agmatine (0.6mol/rat). Furthermore, we evaluated the effect of intraperitoneal injection of agmatine (40mg/kg) on NPY-immunoreactivity in the nucleus accumbens shell (AcbSh), lateral part of bed nucleus of stria terminalis (BNSTl) and CeA. While agmatine treatment significantly decreased the fibers density in BNSTl, increase was noticed in AcbSh. In addition, agmatine reduced NPY-immunoreactive cells in the AcbSh and CeA. Immunohistochemical data suggest the enhanced transmission of NPY from the AcbSh and CeA. Taken together, this study suggests that agmatine produced anxiolytic effect which might be regulated via modulation of NPYergic system particularly in the CeA.
Psychiatric diseases may often represent the consequence of exposure to adverse events early in life. Accordingly, exposure to stress during gestation in rats has a strong impact on development and can cause long-term abnormalities in adult behavior. Considering that neuronal plasticity has emerged as a major vulnerability element in psychiatric disorders, we investigated the postnatal developmental profile of Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor expression (BDNF), an important mediator for long-term functional deterioration associated to mental illness, in male and female rats following exposure to prenatal stress (PNS). Since we found that the majority of alterations became fully manifest at early adulthood, we tried to prevent these abnormalities with an early pharmacological intervention. To address this point, we treated rats during adolescence with the multi-receptor antipsychotic lurasidone, which was proven to be effective in animal models of schizophrenia. Interestingly, we show that lurasidone treatment was able to prevent the reduction of BDNF expression in adult rats that were exposed to PNS. Collectively, our results provide further support to the notion that exposure to early life stress has a negative impact on neuronal plasticity and that pharmacological intervention during critical time windows may prove effective in preventing neuroplastic dysfunction, leading to long-term beneficial effects on brain function.
Recent research suggests an important role of FKBP5, a glucocorticoid receptor regulating co-chaperone, in the development of stress-related diseases such as depression and anxiety disorders. The present study aimed to replicate and extend previous evidence indicating that FKBP5 polymorphisms moderate hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function by examining whether FKBP5 rs1360780 genotype and different measures of childhood adversity interact to predict stress-induced cortisol secretion. At age 19 years, 195 young adults (90 males, 105 females) participating in an epidemiological cohort study completed the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST) to assess cortisol stress responsiveness and were genotyped for the FKBP5 rs1360780. Childhood adversity was assessed using the Childhood Trauma Questionnaire (CTQ) and by a standardized parent interview yielding an index of family adversity. A significant interaction between genotype and childhood adversity on cortisol response to stress was demonstrated for exposure to childhood maltreatment as assessed by retrospective self-report (CTQ), but not for prospectively ascertained objective family adversity. Severity of childhood maltreatment was significantly associated with attenuated cortisol levels among carriers of the rs1360780 CC genotype, while no such effect emerged in carriers of the T allele. These findings point towards the functional involvement of FKBP5 in long-term alterations of neuroendocrine stress regulation related to childhood maltreatment, which have been suggested to represent a premorbid risk or resilience factor in the context of stress-related disorders.
Schizophrenia and bipolar disorder are associated with neurocognitive symptoms including deficits in attentional set shifting (changing attentional focus from one perceptual dimension to another) and reversal learning (learning a reversed stimulus/outcome contingency). Maternal infection during gestation and chronically flattened glucocorticoid rhythm are aetiological risk factors for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. We hypothesised that these factors are causative in the neurocognitive deficits observed in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Here we used maternal immune activation (MIA) as a rat model of maternal infection, and sub-chronic low dose corticosterone treatment as a rat model of flattened glucocorticoid rhythm. For comparison we examined the effects of sub-chronic phencyclidine - a widely used rodent model of schizophrenia pathology. The effects of these three treatments on neurocognition were explored using the attentional set shifting task - a multistage test of executive functions. As expected, phencyclidine treatment selectively impaired set shifting ability. In contrast, MIA caused a marked and selective impairment of reversal learning. Corticosterone treatment impaired reversal learning but in addition also impaired rule abstraction and prevented the animals from forming an attentional set. The reversal learning deficits induced by MIA and corticosterone treatment were due to increases in non-perseverative rather than perseverative errors. Our data indicate that the cognitive deficits of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder may be explained by aetiological factors including maternal infection and glucocorticoid abnormalities and moreover suggest that the particular spectrum of cognitive deficits in individual patients may depend on the specific underlying aetiology of the disorder.
This paper reviews a fast periodic visual stimulation (FPVS) approach developed recently to make significant progress in understanding visual discrimination of individual faces. Displaying pictures of faces at a periodic frequency rate leads to a high signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) response in the human electroencephalogram, at the exact frequency of stimulation, a so-called steady-state visual evoked potential (SSVEP, Regan in Electroencephalogr Clin Neurophysiol 20:238-248, 1966). For fast periodic frequency rates, i.e., between 3 and 9Hz, this response is reduced if the exact same face identity is repeated compared to the presentation of different face identities, the largest difference being observed over the right occipito-temporal cortex. A 6-Hz stimulation rate (cycle duration of ~170ms) provides the largest difference between different and repeated faces, as also evidenced in face-selective areas of the ventral occipito-temporal cortex in functional magnetic resonance imaging. This high-level discrimination response is reduced following inversion and contrast-reversal of the faces and can be isolated without subtraction thanks to a fast periodic oddball paradigm. Overall, FPVS provides a response that is objective (i.e., at an experimentally defined frequency), implicit, has a high SNR and is directly quantifiable in a short amount of time. Although the approach is particularly appealing for understanding face perception, it can be generalized to study visual discrimination of complex visual patterns such as objects and visual scenes. The advantages of the approach make it also particularly well-suited to investigate these functions in populations who cannot provide overt behavioral responses and can only be tested for short durations, such as infants, young children and clinical populations.
The widespread use of EEG methods and the introduction of new brain imaging methods such as near-infrared spectroscopy have made cognitive neuroscience research with infants more feasible, resulting in an explosion of new findings. Among the long-established study of the neural correlates of face and speech perception in infancy, there has been an abundance of recent research on infant perception and production of action and concomitant neurocognitive development. In this review, three significant strands of developmental action research are discussed. The first strand focuses on the relationship of diverse social cognitive processes, including the perception of goals and animacy, and the development of precursors to theory of mind, to action perception. The second investigates the role of motor resonance and mirror systems in early action development. The third strand focuses on the extraction of meaning from action by infants and discusses how semantic processing of action emerges early in life. Although these strands of research are pursued separately, many of the findings from each strand inform all three theoretical frameworks. This review will evaluate the evidence for a synthesised account of infant action development.
Environmental stimuli play a key role in affecting the likelihood to abuse drugs. Environmental enrichment can reduce that likelihood. The neurotransmitter glutamate contributes to both drug reward and rearing-induced changes in the brain. The current study investigated the effects of the Group-2 metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR2/3) agonist, LY-379268 (0.5, 1.0 mg/kg), on acute and repeated amphetamine-induced locomotor activity in differentially reared male rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned to one of 3 environmental conditions postweaning: enriched (EC), isolated (IC), or standard (SC), where they reared for 30 days. The effect of LY-379268 on acute amphetamine-induced locomotor activity was assessed. Rats were injected with either LY-379268 (0.5, 1.0 mg/kg) or saline prior to an amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg) or saline challenge injection. Rats were also administered amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg) or saline injections prior to 5 locomotor sessions. Following a rest period of 14-15 days, the effects of repeated amphetamine exposure were evaluated using LY-379268 (0.5, 1.0 mg/kg) or saline injections 30 min prior to receiving amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg). Results showed that LY-379268 administration dose-dependently attenuated acute amphetamine-induced locomotor activity, with EC rats generally displaying less attenuation than IC or SC rats. After repeated amphetamine administrations, the ability of LY-379268 to attenuate the final expression of amphetamine-induced locomotor activity in differentially reared rats was dose-dependent. The differing effect of LY-379268 observed in EC rats suggests enrichment-induced glutamatergic alterations that may protect against sensitivity to psychostimulants. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).

This article reviews the current state of knowledge regarding the potential of Mller glia to become neuronal progenitor cells in the avian retina. We compare and contrast the remarkable proliferative and neurogenic capacity of Mller glia in the fish retina to the limited capacity of Mller glia in avian and rodent retinas. We summarize recent findings regarding the secreted factors, signaling pathways and cell intrinsic factors that have been implicated in the formation of Mller glia-derived progenitors. We discuss several key similarities and differences between the fish, rodent and chick model systems, highlighting several of the key transcription factors and signaling pathways that regulate the formation of Mller glia-derived progenitors.
Galanin is a pleiotropic neuropeptide widely expressed in the nervous system. It plays a role in many diverse physiological functions - including nociception, cognition and metabolism regulation - and acts as neurotrophic/neuroprotective factor for several neuronal populations. In this article we sought to determine the role of galanin on neural stem cell function and its contribution to the plasticity of the nervous system. Here we show that galanin and its receptors are expressed in neural progenitor cells (NPCs) isolated from the developing striatum. Stimulation with galanin results in upregulation of Bcl-Xl, Bcl-2, Mash-1 and Olig-2 that are part of well known pro-survival/pro-neuronal signalling pathways. Accordingly, treatment with galanin increases the number of neurons upon differentiation from these progenitors. We then show that these effects are recapitulated in NPCs isolated from the adult subventricular zone (SVZ), where galanin increases the total number of neurons and the number of newly-generated neurons upon differentiation in vitro. The significance of these findings is highlighted in the adult brain where loss of galanin leads to a marked decrease in the rate of adult SVZ neurogenesis and a reduction in the number of newly generated cells in the olfactory bulb. Interestingly, Gal-KO mice display normal performances in simple tasks of olfactory detection and discrimination, which points to the existence of a certain degree of redundancy in SVZ neurogenesis. Our findings establish the role of galanin as a modulator of neural stem cell function and support the importance of galanin for brain plasticity and repair.
Children with epilepsy show a high co-morbidity with psychiatric disorders and autism. One of the critical determinants of a child's behavioral outcome with autism and cognitive dysfunction is the age of onset of seizures. In order to examine whether seizures during postnatal days 7-11 result in learning and memory deficits and behavioral features of autism we administered the inhalant flurothyl to induce seizures in C57BL/6J mice. Mice received three seizures per day for five days starting on postnatal day 7. Parallel control groups consisted of similarly handled animals that were not exposed to flurothyl and nave mice. Subjects were then processed through a battery of behavioral tests in adulthood: elevated-plus maze, nose-poke assay, marble burying, social partition, social chamber, fear conditioning, and Morris water maze. Mice with early-life seizures had learning and memory deficits in the training portion of the Morris water maze (p&lt;0.05) and probe trial (p&lt;0.01). Mice with seizures showed no differences in marble burying, the nose-poke assay, or elevated plus-maze testing compared to controls. However, they showed a significant difference in the social chamber and social partition tests. Mice with seizures during postnatal days 7-11 showed a significant decrease in social interaction in the social chamber test and had a significant impairment in social behavior in the social partition test. Together, these results indicate that early life seizures result in deficits in hippocampal-dependent memory tasks and produce long-term disruptions in social behavior.
Neuroinflammation is a component of secondary injury following traumatic brain injury (TBI) that can persist beyond the acute phase. Leukotrienes are potent, pro-inflammatory lipid mediators generated from membrane phospholipids. In the absence of injury, leukotrienes are undetectable in the brain, but after trauma they are rapidly synthesized by a transcellular event involving infiltrating neutrophils and endogenous brain cells. Here, we investigate the efficacy of MK-886, an inhibitor of 5-lipoxygenase activating protein (FLAP), in blocking leukotriene synthesis, secondary brain damage, synaptic dysfunction, and cognitive impairments after TBI. Male Sprague Dawley rats (9-11weeks) received either MK-886 or vehicle after they were subjected to unilateral moderate fluid percussion injury (FPI) to assess the potential clinical use of FLAP inhibitors for TBI. MK-886 was also administered before FPI to determine the preventative potential of FLAP inhibitors. MK-886 given before or after injury significantly blocked the production of leukotrienes, measured by reverse-phase liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (RP LC-MS/MS), and brain edema, measured by T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). MK-886 significantly attenuated blood-brain barrier disruption in the CA1 hippocampal region and deficits in long-term potentiation (LTP) at CA1 hippocampal synapses. The prevention of FPI-induced synaptic dysfunction by MK-886 was accompanied by fewer deficits in post-injury spatial learning and memory performance in the radial arm water maze (RAWM). These results indicate that leukotrienes contribute significantly to secondary brain injury and subsequent cognitive deficits. FLAP inhibitors represent a novel anti-inflammatory approach for treating human TBI that is feasible for both intervention and prevention of brain injury and neurologic deficits.



Introduction: Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a common condition characterized by paresthesia and an urge to move. Predominantly, symptoms occur at rest in the evening or at night, and they are alleviated by moving the affected extremity. RLS prevalence in the general population has been estimated to be approximately 5%. Areas covered: This review presents all options for the treatment of RLS. Expert opinion: Pharmacological treatment should be limited to those patients who suffer from clinically relevant RLS, that is, when symptoms impair the patient's quality of life, daytime functioning, social functioning or sleep. Treatment on demand is a clinical need in some RLS patients, and medications include carbidopa/levodopa, pramipexole, ropinirole, oxycodone, methadone, codeine and tramadol. Chronic RLS should be treated with either a nonergot dopamine agonist or an -2- calcium channel ligand. A dopamine agonist is a more appropriate choice in the presence of depression and overweight. As -2- ligands can alleviate chronic pain and may be helpful in treating anxiety and insomnia, the presence of any of these comorbidities may favor their use. For RLS present through much of the day and night, the use of long-acting agents, such as the rotigotine patch or gabapentin enacarbil should be considered. In refractory RLS, oral prolonged release oxycodone-naloxone should be considered.
The advent of biopharmaceuticals (BPs) has led to significant improvements in the treatment of many chronic inflammatory diseases, and the number of BPs on the market and of diseases treated reflects their success. However, repetitive parenteral administration and intrinsic immunogenic properties of the drug can elicit an immune response, leading to production of anti-drug antibodies (ADA). This is a major limitation of the use of BPs and has to be taken into consideration in clinical practice and during drug development. With increasing knowledge about the immunogenicity of BPs and regular ADA testing in patients, we ensure optimized long-term treatment for the individual and thus optimal use of health care resources. This field has already been extensively investigated in the treatment of multiple sclerosis with IFN-, but there is a clear need for consensus from academia, health care providers and the BP industry in managing ADA across all BPs and diseases.
Bipolar disorder is a severe, disabling and life-threatening illness, which affects nearly 2% of the general population. The identification of reliable and objective biomarkers may aid early diagnosis and optimize treatment efficacy. Through a careful overview of the neuroimaging studies which investigated the structural, functional, and effective connectivity in bipolar disorder, we explored the role of a disconnected cortico-limbic circuitry in the development and maintenance of the disorder. This review offers perspectives and suggestions for future research, in order to propose the corticolimbic disconnection as a neurobiological underpinning and biomarker for bipolar psychopathology.
The increasing prevalence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and a lack of effective prevention or disease-modifying therapies are global challenges with devastating personal, social and economic consequences. The amyloid  (A) hypothesis posits that cerebral -amyloidosis is a critical early event in AD pathogenesis. However, failed clinical trials of A-centric drug candidates have called this hypothesis into question. Whereas we acknowledge that the A hypothesis is far from disproven, we here re-visit the links between A, tau and neurodegeneration. We review the genetics, epidemiology and pathology of sporadic AD and give an updated account of what is currently known about the molecular pathogenesis of the disease.




Four new isocoumarins (1-4), along with three known ones (5-7), were isolated from the 70% ethanol extract of the whole body of the traditional Chinese insect medicine, American cockroach (Periplaneta americana). The structures with absolute configurations of new compounds were elucidated by extensive spectroscopic methods in combination with X-ray diffraction experiment and CD analyses. Compounds 3-5 showed significant cytotoxic activities in HepG2 and MCF-7 cells with IC50 values in the ranges 6.41-23.91M and 6.67-39.07M, respectively.

Skeletal muscle redox homeostasis is transcriptionally regulated by nuclear erythroid-2-p45-related factor-2 (Nrf2). We recently demonstrated that age-associated stress impairs Nrf2-ARE (antioxidant-response element) transcriptional signaling. Here, we hypothesize that age-dependent decline or genetic ablation of Nrf2 leads to accelerated apoptosis and skeletal muscle degeneration. Under basal-physiological conditions, disruption of Nrf2 significantly downregulates antioxidants and causes oxidative stress. Surprisingly, Nrf2-null mice had enhanced antioxidant capacity identical to wild-type (WT) upon acute endurance exercise stress (AEES), suggesting activation of Nrf2-independent mechanisms (i.e., PGC1) against oxidative stress. Analysis of prosurvival pathways in the basal state reveals decreased AKT levels, whereas p-p53, a repressor of AKT, was increased in Nrf2-null vs WT mice. Upon AEES, AKT and p-AKT levels were significantly (p &lt; 0.001) increased (&gt;10-fold) along with profound downregulation of p-p53 (p &lt; 0.01) in Nrf2-null vs WT skeletal muscle, indicating the onset of prosurvival mechanisms to compensate for the loss of Nrf2 signaling. However, we found a decreased stem cell population (PAX7) and MyoD expression (differentiation) along with profound activation of ubiquitin and apoptotic pathways in Nrf2-null vs WT mice upon AEES, suggesting that compensatory prosurvival mechanisms failed to overcome the programmed cell death and degeneration in skeletal muscle. Further, the impaired regeneration was sustained in Nrf2-null vs WT mice after 1 week of post-AEES recovery. In an age-associated oxidative stress condition, ablation of Nrf2 results in induction of apoptosis and impaired muscle regeneration.
Understanding the human neuro-anatomy of face recognition is a long-standing goal of Cognitive Neuroscience. Studies of patients with face recognition impairment following brain damage (i.e., acquired prosopagnosia) have revealed the specificity of face recognition, the importance and nature of holistic/configural perception of individual faces, and the distribution of this function in the ventral occipito-temporal (VOT) cortex, with a right hemispheric dominance. Yet, neuroimaging studies in this field have essentially focused on a single face-selective area of the VOT and underestimated the right hemisphere superiority. Findings in these studies have also been taken as supporting a hierarchical view of face perception, according to which a face is decomposed into parts in early face-selective areas, these parts being subsequently integrated into a whole representation in higher-order areas. This review takes a historical and current perspective on the study of acquired prosopagnosia and neuroimaging that challenges this latter view. It argues for a combination of these methods, an approach suggesting a coarse-to-fine emergence of the holistic face percept in a non-hierarchical network of cortical face-selective areas.
Parkinson's disease (PD) represents a challenging condition where different therapeutic options have evolved over the course of the last 50 years. The potential for therapeutic use of cell transplantation for cell replacement or for gene delivery of neurotrophic factors has received a great deal of attention. Currently, all available treatment options are directed towards the amelioration of symptoms. A greater understanding of the distinctive pathology underlying PD might offer some novel therapeutic approaches. Transplantation of embryonic ventral mesencephalon (VM) dopaminergic neurons has shown promise in animal studies, but similar transplant procedures have shown limited success in clinical trials. One important issue may be the site of transplantation. Previous studies have transplanted VM into the striatum, which is the target of these neurons. With increased understanding of growth and guidance molecule effecting dopaminergic neurons, it may be feasible to place transplants in the damaged substantia nigra and direct the growth of axons into target regions to reconstruction of midbrain dopamine (DA) circuitry. Our established and on-going understanding of the molecular cues which support directed growth of DA neurons form an important basis for the refinement and optimization of VM grafting procedures, and also the development of new procedures based on the use of stem cells. In this review, we discuss transplantation therapy and how selective guidance molecules could be used to reconstruction of nigrostriatal circuit.
Despite synergistic morbidity and mortality, concomitant consumption of alcohol and tobacco is increasing, and their antinociceptive effect has been linked with co-abuse. Present study was designed to investigate the role of imidazoline binding sites in the antinociceptive effect of nicotine, ethanol, and their combination. Separate group of male Sprague-Dawley rats (200-250 g) were treated with different doses of alcohol (0.50-2 g/kg, i.p.) or nicotine (0.25-1 mg/kg, i.p.), and their combination evaluated in tail flick test. Influence of endogenous imidazoline binding site ligands, agonist, and antagonists were determined by their prior treatment with effective or subeffective doses of either ethanol or nicotine. Ethanol, nicotine, or their subeffective dose combination exhibited significant antinociceptive effects in dose-dependent manner. Antinociceptive effect of ethanol and nicotine was significantly augmented by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of endogenous imidazoline receptor ligands, harmane (25 g/rat, i.c.v.) and agmatine (10 g/rat, i.c.v.), as well as imidazoline I1 /2 adrenergic receptor agonist, clonidine (2 g/rat, i.c.v.), I1 agonist moxonidine (25 g/rat, i.c.v.), and imidazoline I2 agonist, 2-BFI (10 g/rat, i.c.v.). Conversely, antinociception elicited by ethanol or nicotine or their subeffective dose combination was antagonized by pretreatment with imidazoline I1 antagonist, efaroxan (10 g/rat, i.c.v.), and I2 antagonist, idazoxan (4 g/rat, i.c.v.), at their per se ineffective doses. These findings project imidazoline binding ligands as important therapeutic molecules for central antinociceptive activity as well as may reduce the co-abuse potential of alcohol and nicotine.


X-linked retinoschisis, a disease characterized by splitting of the retina, is caused by mutations in the retinoschisin gene, which encodes a putative secreted cell adhesion protein. Currently, there is no effective treatment for retinoschisis, though viral vector-mediated gene replacement therapies offer promise. We used intravitreal delivery of three different AAV vectors to target delivery of the RS1 gene to Mller glia, photoreceptors or multiple cell types throughout the retina. Mller glia radially span the entire retina, are accessible from the vitreous, and remain intact throughout progression of the disease. However, photoreceptors, not glia, normally secrete retinoschisin. We compared the efficacy of rescue mediated by retinoschisin secretion from these specific subtypes of retinal cells in the Rs1h-/- mouse model of retinoschisis. Our results indicate that all three vectors deliver the RS1 gene, and that several cell types can secrete retinoschisin, leading to transport of the protein across the retina. The greatest long-term rescue was observed when photoreceptors produce retinoschisin. Similar rescue was observed with photoreceptor-specific or generalized expression, although photoreceptor secretion may contribute to rescue in the latter case. These results collectively point to the importance of cell targeting and appropriate vector choice in the success of retinal gene therapies.
Viral vector-mediated gene transfer of neurotrophic factors is an emerging and promising strategy to promote the regeneration of injured peripheral nerves. Unfortunately, the chronic exposure to neurotrophic factors results in local trapping of regenerating axons or other unwanted side effects. Therefore, tight control of therapeutic gene expression is required. The tetracycline/doxycycline-inducible system is considered to be one of the most promising systems for regulating heterologous gene expression. However, an immune response directed against the transactivator protein rtTA hampers further translational studies. Immunogenic proteins fused with the Gly-Ala repeat of the Epstein-Barr virus Nuclear Antigen-1 protein have been shown to successfully evade the immune system. In this article, we used this strategy to demonstrate that a chimeric transactivator, created by fusing the Gly-Ala repeat with rtTA and embedded in a lentiviral vector (i) retained its transactivator function in vitro, in muscle explants, and in vivo following injection into the rat peripheral nerve, (ii) exhibited a reduced leaky expression, and (iii) had an immune-evasive advantage over rtTA as shown in a novel bioassay for human antigen presentation. The current findings are an important step toward creating a clinically applicable potentially immune-evasive tetracycline-regulatable viral vector system.
The development of the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum is controlled by coordinated changes in gene expression throughout its complex life cycle, but the corresponding regulatory mechanisms are incompletely understood. To study the relationship between genome architecture and gene regulation in Plasmodium, we assayed the genome architecture of P. falciparum at three time points during its erythrocytic (asexual) cycle. Using chromosome conformation capture coupled with next-generation sequencing technology (Hi-C), we obtained high-resolution chromosomal contact maps, which we then used to construct a consensus three-dimensional genome structure for each time point. We observed strong clustering of centromeres, telomeres, ribosomal DNA, and virulence genes, resulting in a complex architecture that cannot be explained by a simple volume exclusion model. Internal virulence gene clusters exhibit domain-like structures in contact maps, suggesting that they play an important role in the genome architecture. Midway during the erythrocytic cycle, at the highly transcriptionally active trophozoite stage, the genome adopts a more open chromatin structure with increased chromosomal intermingling. In addition, we observed reduced expression of genes located in spatial proximity to the repressive subtelomeric center, and colocalization of distinct groups of parasite-specific genes with coordinated expression profiles. Overall, our results are indicative of a strong association between the P. falciparum spatial genome organization and gene expression. Understanding the molecular processes involved in genome conformation dynamics could contribute to the discovery of novel antimalarial strategies.

While there clearly is an intimate relationship between astrocytes and microglia, few studies have examined these potentially dynamic interactions. In this study, cytokine-mediated communication between microglia and astrocytes under inflammatory conditions was investigated. We have previously shown that activated microglia produce Interleukin (IL)-10, a regulatory cytokine that plays an important role in resolving neuroinflammation. Nonetheless, the mechanism by which IL-10 attenuates pro-inflammatory cytokine expression in the brain is unclear. Here, we show that IL-10 redirected astrocytes regulate the activation of microglia in a transforming growth factor (TGF)- dependent manner. In support of this concept, astrocytes in the brain maintained higher IL-10 receptor (IL-10R1) expression and primary astrocytes in culture were markedly more sensitive to the anti-inflammatory effects of IL-10 compared with microglia. Moreover, studies using primary cultures and an astrocyte-microglia coculture system revealed that astrocytes mediated the anti-inflammatory effects of IL-10 on microglia through the production of TGF. For instance, only when astrocytes were present did IL-10 stimulation reduce the expression of IL-1 and increase expression of anti-inflammatory mediators fractalkine receptor (CX3 CR1) and interleukin 4 receptor- (IL-4R) in microglia. Importantly, these IL-10-astrocyte dependent effects on microglia were blocked by a TGF inhibitor. Furthermore, inhibition of TGF signaling in the brain resulted in prolonged sickness behavior and amplified pro-inflammatory cytokine expression in mice challenged with lipopolysaccharide. Taken together, IL-10 stimulated the production of TGF by astrocytes, which in turn, attenuated microglial activation. Overall, these findings provide novel insight into the mechanisms by which astrocytes modulate microglia under inflammatory conditions.
The ten-eleven translocation (TET) family of methylcytosine dioxygenases catalyze oxidation of 5-methylcytosine (5mC) to 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) and promote DNA demethylation. Despite the abundance of 5hmC and TET proteins in the brain, little is known about their role in oligodendrocytes (OLs). Here, we analyzed TET expression during OL development in vivo and in vitro, and found that three TET family members possess unique subcellular and temporal expression patterns. Furthermore, the level of 5hmC exhibits dynamic changes during OL maturation, which implies that 5hmC modification may play a role in the expression of critical genes necessary for OL maturation. siRNA-mediated silencing of the TET family proteins in OLs demonstrated that each of the TET proteins is required for OL differentiation. However, based on their unique domain structures, we speculate that the three TET members may function by different mechanisms. In summary, we have established the temporal expression of TET proteins and the dynamic level of 5hmC during OL development and demonstrate that all three TET members are necessary for OL differentiation.
Microglia most likely appeared early in evolution as they are not only present in vertebrates, but are also found in nervous systems of various nonvertebrate organisms. Mammalian microglia are derived from a specific embryonic, self-renewable myeloid cell population that is throughout lifetime not replaced by peripheral myeloid cells. These phylogenic and ontogenic features suggest that microglia serve vital functions. Yet, microglia often are described as neurotoxic cells, that actively kill (healthy) neurons. Since it is from an evolutionary point of view difficult to understand why an important and vulnerable organ like the brain should host numerous potential killers, we here review the concept of microglia neurotoxicity. On one hand it is discussed that most of our understanding about how microglia kill neurons is based on in vitro experiments or correlative staining studies that suffer from the difficulty to discriminate microglia and peripheral myeloid cells in the diseased brain. On the other hand it is described that a more functional approach by mutating, inactivating or deleting microglia is seldom associated with a beneficial outcome in an acute injury situation, suggesting that microglia are normally important protective elements in the brain. This might change in chronic disease or the aged brain, where; however, it remains to be established whether microglia simply lose their protective capacities or whether microglia become truly neurotoxic cells.
Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease presenting clinically with parkinsonian, cerebellar, and autonomic features. -Synuclein (syn), encoded by the gene SNCA, is the main constituent of glial cytoplasmic inclusion (GCI) found in oligodendrocytes in MSA, but the methods of its accumulation have not been established. The aim of this study is to investigate alterations in regional and cellular SNCA mRNA expression in MSA as a possible substrate for GCI formation. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) was performed on postmortem brain samples from 15 MSA, 5 IPD, and 5 control cases to investigate regional expression in the frontal and occipital regions, dorsal putamen, pontine base, and cerebellum. For cellular expression analysis, neurons and oligodendrocytes were isolated by laser-capture microdissection from five MSA and five control cases. SNCA mRNA expression was not significantly different between the MSA, IPD and control cases in all regions (multilevel model, P = 0.14). After adjusting for group effect, the highest expression was found in the occipital cortex while the lowest was in the putamen (multilevel model, P &lt; 0.0001). At the cellular level, MSA oligodendrocytes expressed more SNCA than control oligodendrocytes and expression in MSA neurons was slightly lower than that in controls, however, these results did not reach statistical significance. We have demonstrated regional variations in SNCA expression, which is higher in cortical than subcortical regions. This study is the first to demonstrate SNCA mRNA expression by oligodendrocytes in human postmortem tissue using qPCR and, although not statistically significant, could suggest that this may be increased in MSA compared to controls.

A listener's capacity to discriminate between sounds is related to the amount of acoustic variability that exists between these sounds. However, a full understanding of how this natural variability impacts neural activity and behavior is lacking. Here, we tested monkeys' ability to discriminate between different utterances of vocalizations from the same acoustic class (i.e., coos and grunts), while neural activity was simultaneously recorded in the anterolateral belt region (AL) of the auditory cortex, a brain region that is a part of a pathway that mediates auditory perception. Monkeys could discriminate between coos better than they could discriminate between grunts. We also found AL activity was more informative about different coos than different grunts. This difference could be attributed, in part, to our finding that coos had more acoustic variability than grunts. Thus, intrinsic acoustic variability constrained the discriminability of AL spike trains and the ability of rhesus monkeys to discriminate between vocalizations.
Dividing attention over two streams of speech strongly decreases performance compared to focusing on only one. How divided attention affects cognitive processing load as indexed with pupillometry during speech recognition has so far not been investigated. In 12 young adults the pupil response was recorded while they focused on either one or both of two sentences that were presented dichotically and masked by fluctuating noise across a range of signal-to-noise ratios. In line with previous studies, the performance decreases when processing two target sentences instead of one. Additionally, dividing attention to process two sentences caused larger pupil dilation and later peak pupil latency than processing only one. This suggests an effect of attention on cognitive processing load (pupil dilation) during speech processing in noise.
Todd etal. (2014) have recently demonstrated the presence of vestibular dependent changes both in the morphology and in the intensity dependence of auditory evoked potentials (AEPs) when passing through the vestibular threshold as determined by vestibular evoked myogenic potentials (VEMPs). In this paper we extend this work by comparing left vs. right ear stimulation and by conducting a source analysis of the resulting evoked potentials of short and long latency. Ten healthy, right-handed subjects were recruited and evoked potentials were recorded to both left- and right-ear sound stimulation, above and below vestibular threshold. Below VEMP threshold, typical AEPs were recorded, consisting of mid-latency (MLR) waves Na and Pa followed by long latency AEPs (LAEPs) N1 and P2. In the supra-threshold condition, the expected changes in morphology were observed, consisting of: (1) short-latency vestibular evoked potentials (VsEPs) which have no auditory correlate, i.e. the ocular VEMP (OVEMP) and inion response related potentials; (2) a later deflection, labelled N42/P52, followed by the LAEPs N1 and P2. Statistical analysis of the vestibular dependent responses indicated a contralateral effect for inion related short-latency responses and a left-ear/right-hemisphere advantage for the long-latency responses. Source analysis indicated that the short-latency effects may be mediated by a contralateral projection to left cerebellum, while the long-latency effects were mediated by a contralateral projection to right cingulate cortex. In addition we found evidence of a possible vestibular contribution to the auditory T-complex in radial temporal lobe sources. These last results raise the possibility that acoustic activation of the otolith organs could potentially contribute to auditory processing.
Excessive noise exposure is known to produce an auditory threshold shift, which can be permanent or transient in nature. Recent studies showed that noise-induced temporary threshold shifts are associated with loss of synaptic connections to the inner hair cells and with cochlear nerve degeneration, which is reflected in a decreased amplitude of wave I of the auditory brainstem response (ABR). This suggests that, despite normal auditory thresholds, central auditory processing may be abnormal. We recorded changes in central auditory processing following a sound-induced temporary threshold shift. Anesthetized guinea pigs were exposed for 1h to a pure tone of 11kHz (124dB sound pressure level). Hearing thresholds, amplitudes of ABR waves I and IV, and spontaneous and tone-evoked firing rates in the inferior colliculus (IC) were assessed immediately, one week, two weeks, and four weeks post exposure. Hearing thresholds were elevated immediately following overexposure, but recovered within one week. The amplitude of the ABR wave I was decreased in all sound-exposed animals for all test periods. In contrast, the ABR wave IV amplitude was only decreased immediately after overexposure and recovered within a week. The proportion of IC units that show inhibitory responses to pure tones decreased substantially up to two weeks after overexposure, especially when stimulated with high frequencies. The proportion of excitatory responses to low frequencies was increased. Spontaneous activity was unaffected by the overexposure. Despite rapid normalization of auditory thresholds, our results suggest an increased central gain following sound exposure and an abnormal balance between excitatory and inhibitory responses in the midbrain up to two weeks after overexposure. These findings may be associated with hyperacusis after a sound-induced temporary threshold shift.
Tinnitus is a phantom sound percept that is strongly associated with peripheral hearing loss. However, only a fraction of hearing-impaired subjects develops tinnitus. This may be based on differences in the function of the brain between those subjects that develop tinnitus and those that do not. In this study, cortical and sub-cortical sound-evoked brain responses in 34 hearing-impaired chronic tinnitus patients and 19 hearing level-matched controls were studied using 3-T functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Auditory stimuli were presented to either the left or the right ear at levels of 30-90dB SPL. We extracted neural activation as a function of sound intensity in eight auditory regions (left and right auditory cortices, medial geniculate bodies, inferior colliculi and cochlear nuclei), the cerebellum and a cinguloparietal task-positive region. The activation correlated positively with the stimulus intensity, and negatively with the hearing threshold. We found no differences between both groups in terms of the magnitude and lateralization of the sound-evoked responses, except for the left medial geniculate body and right cochlear nucleus where activation levels were elevated in the tinnitus subjects. We observed significantly reduced functional connectivity between the inferior colliculi and the auditory cortices in tinnitus patients compared to controls. Our results indicate a failure of thalamic gating in the development of tinnitus.

The chances of developing psychiatric disorders in adulthood are increased when stress is experienced early in life. In particular, stress experienced in the childhood or 'prepubertal' phase is associated with the later development of disorders such as depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, and psychosis. Relatively little is known about the biological basis of this effect, but one hypothesis is that prepubertal stress produces long-lasting changes in brain development, particularly in stress sensitive regions such as the hippocampus, leaving an individual vulnerable to disorders in adulthood. In this study, we used an animal model of prepubertal stress to investigate the hypothesis that prepubertal stress induces alterations in hippocampal function in adulthood. Male and female rats were exposed to a brief, variable prepubertal stress protocol (postnatal days 25-27), and their performance in two distinct hippocampal-dependent tasks (contextual fear and spatial navigation) was compared with controls in adulthood. Prepubertal stress significantly impaired contextual fear responses in males and enhanced performance in spatial navigation in females. These results demonstrate that exposure to a brief period of stress in the prepubertal phase alters hippocampal-dependent behaviors in adulthood in a sex-specific manner.  2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Memory retrieval is believed to involve a disparate network of areas, including medial prefrontal and medial temporal cortices, but the mechanisms underlying their coordination remain elusive. One suggestion is that oscillatory coherence mediates inter-regional communication, implicating theta phase and theta-gamma phase-amplitude coupling in mnemonic function across species. To examine this hypothesis, we used non-invasive whole-head magnetoencephalography (MEG) as participants retrieved the location of objects encountered within a virtual environment. We demonstrate that, when participants are cued with the image of an object whose location they must subsequently navigate to, there is a significant increase in 4-8 Hz theta power in medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), and the phase of this oscillation is coupled both with ongoing theta phase in the medial temporal lobe (MTL) and perceptually induced 65-85 Hz gamma amplitude in medial parietal cortex. These results suggest that theta phase coupling between mPFC and MTL and theta-gamma phase-amplitude coupling between mPFC and neocortical regions may play a role in human spatial memory retrieval.  2014 The Authors. Hippocampus Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Although there are many types of epilepsy, temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is probably in humans the most common and most often studied. TLE represents 40% of the total epilepsy form of the disease and is difficult to treat. Despite a wealth of descriptive data obtained from the disease history of patients, the EEG recording, imaging techniques, and histological studies, the epileptogenic process remains poorly understood. However, it is unlikely that a single factor or a single mechanism can cause many changes associated with this neuropathological phenomenon. MALDI mass spectrometry imaging (MSI) coupled to protein identification, because of its ability to study a wide range of molecules, appears to be suitable for the preparation of molecular profiles in TLE. Seven neuropeptides have been have been identified in Dental gyrus regions of the hippocampus in relation with TLE pathology. Shot-gun studies taking into account gender influence have been performed. Tissue microextraction from control (10) toward 10 TLE patients have been analyzed after trypsin digestion followed by separation on nanoLC coupled to LTQ orbitrap. From the shot-gun analyses, results confirmed the presence of specific neuropeptides precursors and receptors in TLE patients as well as proteins involved in axons regeneration including neurotrophins, ECM proteins, cell surface proteins, membrane proteins, G-proteins, cytoskeleton proteins and tumor suppressors. Among the tumor suppressors identified, the Leucine-rich glioma inactivated 1 (LGI1) protein was found. LGI1 gene recently been demonstrated being implicated in heritability of TLE. We have also demonstrate the presence a complete profile of tumor suppressors in TLE patients, 7 have been identified. Refining this analysis taken into account the gender influence in both control and in TLE reflected the presence of specific proteins between male and female and thus mechanisms in pathology development could be completely different.  2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Hippocampal theta activity is linked to various processes, including locomotion, learning and memory, and defense and affect (i.e., fear and anxiety). Interestingly, all classes of clinically effective anxiolytics, as well as experimental compounds that decrease anxiety in pre-clinical animal models of anxiety, reduce the frequency of hippocampal theta activity elicited by stimulation of the reticular formation in freely behaving or anesthetized animals. In the present experiments, we found that bilateral histamine infusions (0.5 g/hemisphere) into the lateral septum (LS) of rats decreased anxiety-like responses in two models of anxiety, the elevated plus maze and novelty-induced suppression of feeding test. Surprisingly, these same infusions significantly increased hippocampal theta frequency elicited by reticular stimulation in urethane-anesthetized rats. In contrast to these findings, additional experiments showed that the clinically effective anxiolytic buspirone (40 mg/kg, i.p.) reduced theta frequency, confirming previous observations. Taken together, the dissociation of behavioral anxiolysis and theta frequency reduction noted here suggest that hippocampal theta frequency is not a direct index of anxiety levels in rodents. Further, the mechanisms underlying the behavioral and physiological effects elicited by histamine in the LS require further study.  2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
The organization and dynamics of proteins are fundamental parameters for cellular function. Their study, at the single-molecule level, provides precise information on molecular interactions. Over the last 30years, the single-particle tracking imaging technique has proven its capability to efficiently quantify such parameters in many biological systems, with nanometric accuracy and millisecond temporal resolutions. Nevertheless, the low concentration of labeling required for single-molecule imaging usually prevents the extraction of large statistics. The advent of high-density single-molecule-based super-resolution techniques has revolutionized the field, allowing monitoring of thousands of biomolecules in the minute timescale and providing unprecedented insight into the molecular organization and dynamics of cellular compounds. In this issue, I will review the main principles of single-particle tracking, a highly interdisciplinary technique at the interface between microscopy, image analysis and labeling strategies. I will point out the advantages brought by high-density single-particle tracking which will be illustrated with a few recent biological results.
The rostral cingulate cortex has been associated with a multitude of cognitive control functions. Recent neuroimaging data suggest that the anterior midcingulate cortex (aMCC) has a key role for cognitive aspects of movement generation, i.e., intentional motor control. We here tested the functional connectivity of this area using two complementary approaches: (1) resting-state connectivity of the aMCC based on fMRI scans obtained in 100 subjects, and (2) functional connectivity in the context of explicit task conditions using meta-analytic connectivity modeling (MACM) over 656 imaging experiment. Both approaches revealed a convergent functional network architecture of the aMCC with prefrontal, premotor and parietal cortices as well as anterior insula, area 44/45, cerebellum and dorsal striatum. To specifically test the role of the aMCC's task-based functional connectivity in cognitive motor control, separate MACM analyses were conducted over &quot;cognitive&quot; and &quot;action&quot; related experimental paradigms. Both analyses confirmed the same task-based connectivity pattern of the aMCC. While the &quot;cognition&quot; domain showed higher convergence of activity in supramodal association areas in prefrontal cortex and anterior insula, &quot;action&quot; related experiments yielded higher convergence in somatosensory and premotor areas. Secondly, to probe the functional specificity of the aMCC's convergent functional connectivity, it was compared with a neural network of intentional movement initiation. This exemplary comparison confirmed the involvement of the state independent FC network of the aMCC in the intentional generation of movements. In summary, the different experiments of the present study suggest that the aMCC constitute a key region in the network realizing intentional motor control.
The ventral stream of the human extrastriate visual cortex shows a considerable functional heterogeneity from early visual processing (posterior) to higher, domain-specific processing (anterior). The fusiform gyrus hosts several of those &quot;high-level&quot; functional areas. We recently found a subdivision of the posterior fusiform gyrus on the microstructural level, that is, two distinct cytoarchitectonic areas, FG1 and FG2 (Caspers et al., Brain Structure &amp; Function, 2013). To gain a first insight in the function of these two areas, here we studied their behavioral involvement and coactivation patterns by means of meta-analytic connectivity modeling based on the BrainMap database (www.brainmap.org), using probabilistic maps of these areas as seed regions. The coactivation patterns of the areas support the concept of a common involvement in a core network subserving different cognitive tasks, that is, object recognition, visual language perception, or visual attention. In addition, the analysis supports the previous cytoarchitectonic parcellation, indicating that FG1 appears as a transitional area between early and higher visual cortex and FG2 as a higher-order one. The latter area is furthermore lateralized, as it shows strong relations to the visual language processing system in the left hemisphere, while its right side is stronger associated with face selective regions. These findings indicate that functional lateralization of area FG2 relies on a different pattern of connectivity rather than side-specific cytoarchitectonic features.
How fat is sensed in the mouth and represented in the brain is important in relation to the pleasantness of food, appetite control, and the design of foods that reproduce the mouthfeel of fat yet have low energy content. We show that the human somatosensory cortex (SSC) is involved in oral fat processing via functional coupling to the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), where the pleasantness of fat texture is represented. Using functional MRI, we found that activity in SSC was more strongly correlated with the OFC during the consumption of a high fat food with a pleasant (vanilla) flavor compared to a low fat food with the same flavor. This effect was not found in control analyses using high fat foods with a less pleasant flavor or pleasant-flavored low fat foods. SSC activity correlated with subjective ratings of fattiness, but not of texture pleasantness or flavor pleasantness, indicating a representation that is not involved in hedonic processing per se. Across subjects, the magnitude of OFC-SSC coupling explained inter-individual variation in texture pleasantness evaluations. These findings extend known SSC functions to a specific role in the processing of pleasant-flavored oral fat, and identify a neural mechanism potentially important in appetite, overeating, and obesity.

Understanding how the mammalian neocortex creates cognition largely depends on knowledge about large-scale cortical organization. Accumulated evidence has illuminated cortical substrates of cognition across the lifespan, but how topological properties of cortical networks support structure-function relationships in normal aging remains an open question. Here we investigate the role of connections (i.e., short/long and direct/indirect) and node properties (i.e., centrality and modularity) in predicting functional-structural connectivity coupling in healthy elderly subjects. Connectivity networks were derived from correlations of cortical thickness and cortical glucose consumption in resting state. Local-direct connections (i.e., nodes separated by less than 30 mm) and node modularity (i.e., a set of nodes highly interconnected within a topological community and sparsely interconnected with nodes from other modules) in the functional network were identified as the main determinants of coupling between cortical networks, suggesting that the structural network in aging is mainly constrained by functional topological properties involved in the segregation of information, likely due to aging-related deficits in functional integration. This hypothesis is supported by an enhanced connectivity between cortical regions of different resting-state networks involved in sensorimotor and memory functions in detrimental to associations between fronto-parietal regions supporting executive processes. Taken collectively, these findings open new avenues to identify aging-related failures in the anatomo-functional organization of the neocortical mantle, and might contribute to early detection of prevalent neurodegenerative conditions occurring in the late life.
Mutations in the SCN1A gene-encoding voltage-gated sodium channel -I subunit (Nav1.1) cause various spectrum of epilepsies including Dravet syndrome (DS), a severe and intractable form. A large number of SCN1A mutations identified from the DS patients lead to the loss of function or truncation of Nav1.1 that result in a haploinsufficiency effects, indicating that the exact expression level of SCN1A should be essential to maintain normal brain function. In this study, we have identified five variants c.*1025T&gt;C, c.*1031A&gt;T, c.*1739C&gt;T, c.*1794C&gt;T and c.*1961C&gt;T in the SCN1A 3' UTR in the patients with DS. The c.*1025T&gt;C, c.*1031A&gt;T and c.*1794C&gt;T are conserved among different species. Of all the five variants, only c.*1794C&gt;T is a novel variant and alters the predicted secondary structure of the 3' UTR. We also show that glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) only binds to the 3' UTR sequence containing the mutation allele 1794U but not the wild-type allele 1794C, indicating that the mutation allele forms a new GAPDH-binding site. Functional analyses show that the variant negatively regulates the reporter gene expression by affecting the mRNA stability that is mediated by GAPDH's binding, and this phenomenon could be reversed by shRNA-induced GAPDH knockdown. These findings suggest that GAPDH and the 3'-UTR variant are involved in regulating SCN1A expression at post-transcriptional level, which may provide an important clue for further investigating on the relationship between 3'-UTR variants and SCN1A-related diseases.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory, demyelinating disease of the central nervous system. Both genetic and environmental factors contribute to disease susceptibility and two viruses associated with MS are human herpesvirus (HHV)-6A and HHV-6B, together referred to as HHV-6. This study characterized the plasma IgG antibody response against HHV-6 in MS patients (n=446) and healthy controls (n=487), and the relationship between MS susceptibility factors and the anti-HHV-6 response was investigated. In addition, 134 samples were further investigated for IgG against the early HHV-6 antigen p41. Antibody levels were measured with ELISA. The overall seroprevalence against HHV-6 was 90%, with no significant difference in positivity or levels between MS patients and controls. Interestingly, carriership of HLA-A()02 and tobacco smoking was associated with lower anti-HHV-6 IgG levels (p=0.0017 and p=0.026 respectively), whereas females sex was associated with higher levels (p=0.0090). No difference in IgG titers against p41 was observed between MS patients and controls. In conclusion, the IgG response against HHV-6 was associated with several factors that have previously been associated with MS susceptibility, possibly reflecting a relation between autoimmunity and how the immune system handles viral infections.
Spectral measures of linear Granger causality have been widely applied to study the causal connectivity between time series data in neuroscience, biology, and economics. Traditional Granger causality measures are based on linear autoregressive with exogenous (ARX) inputs models of time series data, which cannot truly reveal nonlinear effects in the data especially in the frequency domain. In this study, it is shown that the classical Geweke's spectral causality measure can be explicitly linked with the output spectra of corresponding restricted and unrestricted time-domain models. The latter representation is then generalized to nonlinear bivariate signals and for the first time nonlinear causality analysis in the frequency domain. This is achieved by using the nonlinear ARX (NARX) modeling of signals, and decomposition of the recently defined output frequency response function which is related to the NARX model.
We describe secure surgical method for catheter placement using ultrasonic scalpel via the occipital artery to achieve retrograde superselective intra-arterial chemotherapy for advanced oral cancer, as alternative to approach via the superficial temporal artery.

We investigated if changes in glial activity in cortical areas that process nociceptive stimuli persisted in adult rats after neonatal injury. Neonatal pain was induced by repetitive needle prickling on the right paw, twice per day for 15 days starting at birth. Wistar rats received either neonatal pain or tactile stimulation and were tested behaviorally for mechanical withdrawal thresholds of the paws and gait alterations, after 15 (P15) or 180 (P180) days of life. Brains from rats on P15 and P180 were immunostained for glial markers (GFAP, MCP-1, OX-42) and the following cortical areas were analyzed for immunoreactivity density: prefrontal, anterior insular, anterior cingulated, somatosensory and motor cortices. Withdrawal thresholds of the stimulated paw remained decreased on P180 after neonatal pain when compared to controls. Neonatal pain animals showed increased density for both GFAP and MCP-1 staining, but not for OX-42, in all investigated cortical areas on both experimental times (P15 and P180). Painful stimuli in the neonatal period produced pain behaviors immediately after injury that persisted in adult life, and was accompanied by increase in the glial markers density in cortical areas that process and interpret pain. Thus, long-lasting changes in cortical glial activity could be, at least in part, responsible for the persistent hyperalgesia in adult rats that suffered from neonatal pain.

The analysis and discrimination of action potentials, or &quot;spikes&quot;, is a central issue to systems neuroscience research. Here we introduce a free open source software for the analysis and discrimination of neural spikes based on principal component analysis and different clustering algorithms. The main objective is to supply a friendly user interface that links the experimental data to a basic set of routines for analysis, visualization and classification of spikes in a consistent framework. The tool has been tested on artificial data sets, on multi-electrode extracellular recordings from ganglion cell populations in isolated superfused mouse, rabbit and turtle retinas, and on electrophysiological recordings from mouse visual cortex. Our results show that NEV2lkit is very reliable and able to satisfy the experimental demands in terms of accuracy, efficiency and consistency across experiments. It performs fast unit sorting in single or multiple experiments and allows the extraction of spikes from over large time intervals in continuously recorded data streams. The tool is implemented in C++ and runs cross-platform on Linux, OS X and Windows systems. To facilitate the adaptation and extension as well as the addition of new routines, tools and algorithms for data analysis, the source code, binary distributions for different operating systems and documentation are all freely available at http://nev2lkit.sourceforge.net .
We have attempted to replicate studies showing higher levels of serotonin 2A receptors (HTR2A) in the cortex of people with mood disorders and to determine the effects of treating rats with antidepressant drugs on levels of that receptor. In situ [3H]ketanserin binding and autoradiography was used to measure levels of HTR2A in Brodmann's area (BA) 46 and 24 from people with major depressive disorders (MDD, n = 16), bipolar disorders (BD, n = 14) and healthy controls (n = 14) as well as the central nervous system (CNS) of rats (20 per treatment arm) treated for 10 or 28 d with fluoxetine (10 mg/kg/d) or imipramine (20 mg/kg/d). Compared with controls, HTR2A were lower in BA 24, but not BA 46, from people with MDD (p = 0.005); HTR2A were not changed in BD. Levels of HTR2A were lower in BA 24 (p = 0.007), but not BA 46, from people who had died by suicide. Finally, levels of HTR2A were lower in the CNS of rats treated with imipramine, but not fluoxetine, for 28 d, but not 10 d. From our current and previous data we conclude cortical HTR2A are lower in schizophrenia, MDD, people with mood disorders who died by suicide, rats treated with some antipsychotic or some antidepressant drugs. As levels of cortical HTR2A can be affected by the aetiologies of different disorders and mechanisms of action of different drugs, a better understanding of how such changes can occur needs to be elucidated.
The role of hepatic tryptophan 2,3 dioxygenase (TDO) was assessed in the provocation of stress-induced depression-related behaviour in the rat. TDO drives tryptophan metabolism via the kynurenine pathway (KP) and leads to the production of neuroactive metabolites including kynurenine. A single 2 h period of restraint stress in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats provoked an increase in circulating concentrations of the glucocorticoid corticosterone and induction of hepatic TDO expression and activity. Repeated exposure to stress (10 d of 2 h restraint each day) provoked an increase in immobility in the forced swimming test (FST) indicative of depression-related behaviour. Immobility was accompanied by an increase in the circulating corticosterone concentrations, expression and activity of hepatic TDO and increase in the expression of TDO in the cerebral cortex. Increased TDO activity was associated with raised circulating kynurenine concentrations and a reduction in circulating tryptophan concentrations indicative of KP activation. Co-treatment with the TDO inhibitor allopurinol (20 mg/kg, i.p.), attenuated the chronic stress-related increase in immobility in the FST and the accompanying increase in circulating kynurenine concentrations. These findings indicate that stress-induced corticosterone and consequent activation of hepatic TDO, tryptophan metabolism and production of kynurenine provoke a depression-related behavioural phenotype. Inhibition of stress-related hepatic TDO activity promotes antidepressant activity. TDO may therefore represent a promising target for the treatment of depression associated with stress-related disorders in which there is evidence for KP activation.
Although the serotonin transporter length polymorphic region (5-HTTLPR) polymorphism is an extensively-investigated genetic marker of anxiety related personality traits (neuroticism and harm avoidance) and affective disorders, effect sizes in meta-analyses are small, if present at all, and all available primary studies to date lack mandatory statistical power. Moreover, questionnaire data is prone to confounding by variables such as social desirability. Therefore, extreme response style (ERS) is suggested as a new approach to elucidate the relationship between 5-HTTLPR and negative emotionality, as it is more implicit and of high reliability. N = 1075 healthy subjects were genotyped for 5-HTTLPR and a flanking polymorphism (rs25531) and filled out the NEO Five Factor Inventory and the Temperament Character Inventory. As dependent variable the number of extreme responses across all items was calculated. Using the common genotype or the triallelic approach (including rs25531) the meta-analytic findings could not be replicated. However, there was a significant association between 5-HTTLPR and extreme response style. Carriers of the L-allele or the L'-allele, respectively, had a significantly higher number of extreme responses than homozygous SS carriers across all items of the NEO Five Factor Inventory. This finding could be replicated in an alternative personality questionnaire (Affective Neuroscience Personality Scales, ANPS). There is a long tradition in psychological assessment indicating that ERS is an implicit measure of personality. Given the positive findings of the present study, ERS qualifies as a promising endophenotype in future genetic association studies on personality and affective disorders.
Methylphenidate (MPH), a stimulant drug with dopamine and noradrenaline reuptake inhibition properties, is mainly prescribed in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, is increasingly used by the general population, intending to enhance their cognitive function. In this literature review, we aim to answer whether this is effective. We present a novel way to determine the extent to which MPH enhances cognitive performance in a certain domain. Namely, we quantify this by a percentage that reflects the number of studies showing performance enhancing effects of MPH. To evaluate whether the dose-response relationship follows an inverted-U-shaped curve, MPH effects on cognition are also quantified for low, medium and high doses, respectively. The studies reviewed here show that single doses of MPH improve cognitive performance in the healthy population in the domains of working memory (65% of included studies) and speed of processing (48%), and to a lesser extent may also improve verbal learning and memory (31%), attention and vigilance (29%) and reasoning and problem solving (18%), but does not have an effect on visual learning and memory. MPH effects are dose-dependent and the dose-response relationship differs between cognitive domains. MPH use is associated with side effects and other adverse consequences, such as potential abuse. Future studies should focus on MPH specifically to adequately asses its benefits in relation to the risks specific to this drug.
We evaluate the factors predictive of prognosis in 91 Caucasian patients affected by ocular myasthenia gravis (OMG), followed at our Institution during an observational time, ranging from 12 to 240 months. The Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America (MGFA) clinical classification was used to grade the disease severity. We considered as outcome measures the variation in two subscores, ocular (O-QMG) and nonocular (NO-QMG); the last one reflected bulbar, neck, extremity functions. None of the independent variables evaluated for association with the outcome, as age of onset, type of therapy, length of interval between first and last examinations, and presence of antibodies to acetylcholine receptors (AChR-Abs) significantly affected the evolution of O-QMG and of NO-QMG. Health-related quality of life (HRQol) was assessed in 63 patients. Variations of diplopia or ptosis did not affect significantly physical (PCS) or mental composite subscores (MCS) of the Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36). Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genotyping was studied to explore whether HLA class I and II allelic distribution differed among MG patients and controls. None of the studied HLA alleles significantly differed between OMG patients and controls. Similarly, none of the alleles with frequencies higher than 15% either in OMG patients or in controls was significantly associated, after Bonferroni correction, with the presence or absence of anti-AChR-Abs in serum.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) are primordial, uncommitted cells postulated to give rise to the array of more specialized cells of the central nervous system (CNS). NSCs can self-renew and give rise to neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. NSCs are found in the CNS of mammalian organisms, and represent a promising resource for both fundamental research and CNS repair. Animal models of CNS damage have highlighted the potential benefit of NSC-based approaches. Present study described that buffalo neural stem cells (Bu-NSCs) were isolated and expanded rapidly from buffalo fetal brain in adherent culture. They were capable of multidifferentiation into neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. Bu-NSCs were morphologically homogeneous and possessed high proliferation ability. The population doubled every 128.16h. Normal buffalo karyotype was unchanged throughout the in vitro culture period. Together, we have isolated and cultured Bu-NSC from fetal brain that showed self-renewal, rapid proliferation and ability to differentiate into cells of nervous system. The availability of such cells may hold great interest for basic and applied neuroscience.
Infrequent, salient stimuli often capture attention despite their task-irrelevancy, and disrupt on-going goal-directed behavior. A number of studies show that presenting cues signaling forthcoming deviants reduces distraction, which may be a &quot;by-product&quot; of cue-processing interference or the result of direct preparatory processes for the forthcoming distracter. In the present study, instead of &quot;bursts&quot; of cue information, information on the temporal structure of the stimulus sequence was provided. Young adults performed a spatial discrimination task where complex tones moving left or right were presented. In the predictable condition, every 7th tone was a pitch-deviant, while in the random condition the position of deviants was random with a probability of 1/7. Whereas the early event-related potential correlates of deviance-processing (N1 and MMN) were unaffected by predictability, P3a amplitude was significantly reduced in the predictable condition, indicating that prevention of distraction was based on the knowledge about the temporal structure of the stimulus sequence.
To investigate the health-related quality of life (QOL) in Swedish patients with post-polio syndrome (PPS), with a focus on sex and age. A total of 364 patients were recruited from five Swedish post-polio clinics. Analysis was carried out using SF-36 and data were compared with those of a normal population. QOL was significantly lower in PPS patients for all eight subdomains and the two main scores (physical compound score and mental compound score) when compared with the controls. Male patients had a significantly higher QOL than female patients for all subdomains and also for mental compound score and physical compound score, a phenomenon also observed in the normal population. There was a decrease in QOL in the physical domains and an increase in vitality with age. PPS decreases health-related QOL in both sexes, more in female patients. QOL for physical domains decreases whereas vitality increases with age in both sexes.
Skilled hand movements require a precise coordination between the grip force and the load force. To coordinate those forces, we rely on both a predictive and a reactive control. On the basis of specific impairments observed previously in children with hemiplegic cerebral palsy, we aimed to assess the predictive or reactive nature of hand deficits in stroke patients. This case-control study was carried out with eight stroke patients and eight control participants. The load of a handheld object was rapidly increased by dropping a mass attached to the object. We tested predictive and reactive aspects of the movement in the same task as the drop was triggered either unexpectedly by the examiner (reactive condition) or by the patient himself (predictive condition). Deficits observed in the paretic hand were similar to those highlighted previously in children with hemiplegic cerebral palsy. Under predictive conditions, temporal deficits were observed after impact. Under reactive conditions, the reflex latency was slightly increased in the paretic hand. The nonparetic hand showed similar results to controls. The predictive mechanism is present but altered in the paretic hand. These alterations suggest an inability to anticipate the consequences of dynamic perturbations in the paretic hand only.




We report the clinical and confocal microscopic findings of the cornea in a patient with smouldering multiple myeloma (SMM) using in vivo scanning laser confocal microscopy. A 72-year-old female underwent a complete ophthalmological examination including slit-lamp biomicroscopy with digital photography, HRT II laser scanning in vivo confocal microscopy and haematological laboratory assessment. Corneal biomicroscopy revealed the presence of bilateral diffuse microgranular tiny grey opacities. In vivo confocal microscopy showed randomly oriented hyper-reflective needle-shaped crystals throughout all levels of the stroma, sparing epithelium and endothelium. In vivo confocal microscopy was very helpful in the differential diagnosis by allowing the nature of the corneal deposits to be established, revealing the typical aspect of the crystals, and excluding granular dystrophy, leading to a suspected diagnosis of SMM. Crystalline corneal deposits may easily be confused as crumb-like opacities typical of granular dystrophy on slit-lamp examination even by experienced ophthalmologists.













Extensive muscle damage can be induced in isolated muscle preparations by performing a small number of stretches during muscle activation. While typically these fiber strains are large and occur over long lengths, the extent of exercise-induced muscle damage (EIMD) observed in humans is normally less even when multiple high-force lengthening actions are performed. This apparent discrepancy may be due to differences in muscle fiber and tendon dynamics in vivo; however, muscle and tendon strains have not been quantified during muscle-damaging exercise in humans. Ultrasound and an infrared motion analysis system were used to measure medial gastrocnemius fascicle length and lower limb kinematics while humans walked backward, downhill for 1 h (inducing muscle damage), and while they walked briefly forward on the flat (inducing no damage). Supramaximal tibial nerve stimulation, ultrasound, and an isokinetic dynamometer were used to quantify the fascicle length-torque relationship pre- and 2 h postexercise. Torque decreased 23%, and optimal fascicle length shifted rightward 10%, indicating that EIMD occurred during the damage protocol even though medial gastrocnemius fascicle stretch amplitude was relatively small (18% of optimal fascicle length) and occurred predominantly within the ascending limb and plateau region of the length-torque curve. Furthermore, tendon contribution to overall muscle-tendon unit stretch was 91%. The data suggest the compliant tendon plays a role in attenuating muscle fascicle strain during backward walking in humans, thus minimizing the extent of EIMD. As such, in situ or in vitro mechanisms of muscle damage may not be applicable to EIMD of the human gastrocnemius muscle.


This study sought to investigate whether gelatin sponge (GS) scaffold would produce less acidic medium in injured spinal cord, as compared with poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) scaffold, to determine which of the two scaffolds as the biomaterial is more suitable for transplantation into spinal cord. GS scaffold or PLGA scaffold was transplanted into a transected spinal cord in this study. Two months after transplantation of scaffolds, acid sensing ion channel 1a (ASIC1a) positive cells expressing microtubule associated protein 2 (Map2) were observed as well as expressing adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) in spinal cord. GFAP positive cells were distributed at the rostral and caudal of the injury/graft area in the GS and PLGA groups. Western blot showed ASIC1a and GFAP expression of injured spinal cord was downregulated in the GS group. The number of CD68 positive cells was fewer and NF nerve fibers were more in the GS group. Nissl staining and cell counting showed that the number of survival neurons was comparable between the GS and PLGA groups in the pyramidal layer of sensorimotor cortex and the red nucleus of midbrain. However, in the Clarke's nucleus at L1 spinal segment, the surviving neurons in the GS group were more numerous than that in the PLGA group. H&amp;E staining showed that the tissue cavities in the GS group were smaller in size than that in the PLGA group. The results suggest that GS scaffold is more suitable for transplantation to promote the recovery of spinal cord injury compared with PLGA scaffold.
The development of the vertebrate face is regulated by complex interactions among several signaling pathways. Dickkopf-1 (Dkk-1), an inhibitor of the Wnt/-catenin signaling pathway, can affect midfacial morphogenesis. The downstream target genes of the Wnt/-catenin signaling pathway in morphogenesis of the developing upper jaw and lip remain unknown. To investigate the functional roles of Wnt/-catenin signaling in facial development, we performed a loss-of-function experiment using local implantation of beads soaked with Dkk-1 during lip fusion at the maxillary prominence of chick embryos at stage 22(HH22). Antagonism of Wnt/-catenin signaling by Dkk-1 induced deformities of the premaxilla and jugal bone, which are derived from the maxillary mesenchyme. Real-time and semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed the significant reduction of Lhx8, Msx1 and Msx2 expression levels around the beads in the maxillary mesenchyme at 6 and 24h after bead implantation. Time course experiments in the HH 22 embryos showed the effect of Dkk-1 on Lhx8, Msx1 and Msx2 expression was not significant after 48h of the treatment. At HH 26 when the fusion of facial primordial started, Dkk-1 application did not exhibit any significant reduction of those genes. Our findings suggested that Dkk-1 regulates maxillary morphogenesis in chick embryos through Lhx8, Msx1 and Msx2 signals. Wnt/-catenin signaling is responsible for intrinsic upper jaw development before the lip fusion.
Cyclin dependent kinase-5 (Cdk5), a family member of the cyclin-dependent kinases, plays a pivotal role in the central nervous system. During embryogenesis, Cdk5 is indispensable for brain development and, in the adult brain, it is essential for numerous neuronal processes, including higher cognitive functions such as learning and memory formation. However, Cdk5 activity becomes deregulated in several neurological disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease, which leads to neurotoxicity. Therefore, precise control over Cdk5 activity is essential for its physiological functions. This Commentary covers the various mechanisms of Cdk5 regulation, including several recently identified protein activators and inhibitors of Cdk5 that control its activity in normal and diseased brains. We also discuss the autoregulatory activity of Cdk5 and its regulation at the transcriptional, post-transcriptional and post-translational levels. We finally highlight physiological and pathological roles of Cdk5 in the brain. Specific modulation of these protein regulators is expected to provide alternative strategies for the development of effective therapeutic interventions that are triggered by deregulation of Cdk5.
The Ca(2+)-binding protein tescalcin is known to be involved in hematopoietic cell differentiation; however, this mechanism is poorly understood. Here, we identify CSN4 (subunit 4 of the COP9 signalosome) as a novel binding partner of tescalcin. The COP9 signalosome (CSN) is a multiprotein complex that is essential for development in all eukaryotes. This interaction is selective, Ca(2+)-dependent and involves the PCI domain of CSN4 subunit. We then investigated tescalcin and CSN activity in human erythroleukemia HEL and promyelocytic leukemia K562 cells and find that phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA)-induced differentiation, resulting in the upregulation of tescalcin, coincides with reduced deneddylation of cullin-1 (Cul1) and stabilization of p27(Kip1) - molecular events that are associated with CSN activity. The knockdown of tescalcin led to an increase in Cul1 deneddylation, expression of F-box protein Skp2 and the transcription factor c-Jun, whereas the levels of cell cycle regulators p27(Kip1) and p53 decreased. These effects are consistent with the hypothesis that tescalcin might play a role as a negative regulator of CSN activity towards Cul1 in the process of induced cell differentiation.
G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) regulate the organisation of the actin cytoskeleton by activating the Rac subfamily of small GTPases. The guanine-nucleotide-exchange factor (GEF) P-Rex1 is engaged downstream of GPCRs and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) in many cell types, and promotes tumorigenic signalling and metastasis in breast cancer and melanoma, respectively. Although P-Rex1-dependent functions have been attributed to its GEF activity towards Rac1, we show that P-Rex1 also acts as a GEF for the Rac-related GTPase RhoG, both in vitro and in GPCR-stimulated primary mouse neutrophils. Furthermore, loss of either P-Rex1 or RhoG caused equivalent reductions in GPCR-driven Rac activation and Rac-dependent NADPH oxidase activity, suggesting they both function upstream of Rac in this system. Loss of RhoG also impaired GPCR-driven recruitment of the Rac GEF DOCK2, and F-actin, to the leading edge of migrating neutrophils. Taken together, our results reveal a new signalling hierarchy in which P-Rex1, acting as a GEF for RhoG, regulates Rac-dependent functions indirectly through RhoG-dependent recruitment of DOCK2. These findings thus have broad implications for our understanding of GPCR signalling to Rho GTPases and the actin cytoskeleton.
Intraarterial therapy (IAT) in acute ischemic stroke is effective for opening occlusions of major extracranial or intracranial vessels. Clinical efficacy data are lacking pointing to a need for proper patient selection. We examined feasibility, clinical impact, and safety profile of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for patient selection before IAT. In this single-center study, we collected epidemiologic, imaging, and outcome data on all intraarterial-treated patients presenting with anterior circulation occlusions at our center from 2004 to 2011. Magnetic resonance imaging was the first imaging choice. Computer tomography (CT) was performed in the presence of a contraindication. We treated 138 patients. Mean age was 64 years and median National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) was 17. Major reperfusion (thrombolysis in cerebral infarction (TICI) 2b+3) was achieved in 52% and good outcome defined as modified Rankin Scale (mRS) score 0 to 2 at 90 days was achieved in 41%. Mortality at 90 days was 10%. There was only one symptomatic hemorrhage. Recanalization, age, and stroke severity were associated with outcome. Preprocedure MRI was obtained in 83%. Good outcome was significantly associated with smaller diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) lesion size at presentation and not with the size of the perfusion lesion. It is feasible to triage patients for IAT using MRI with acceptable rates of poor outcome and symptomatic hemorrhage.
HIV-1 genetic differences influence viral replication and progression to AIDS. HIV-1 circulating recombinant form (CRF)02_AG is the predominant viral subtype infecting humans in West and Central Africa, but its effects on HIV neuropathogenesis are not known. In the present study, we investigated the effects of Tat proteins from HIV-1 subtype B (Tat.B) and HIV-1 CRF02_AG (Tat.AG) on primary human brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBMEC), the major component of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Using Affymetrix GeneChip Human Gene 1.0.ST arrays, we showed that Tat.AG had minimal effects while Tat.B induced transcriptional upregulation of 90 genes in HBMEC, including proinflammatory chemokines, complement components C3, C7, and complement factor B, matrix metalloproteinases (MMP)-3, MMP-10, and MMP-12. These results were confirmed by real-time PCR. Compared with Tat.AG, Tat.B significantly increased MMP-3, MMP-10, and MMP-12 activities in HBMEC, and the MMPs tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-2 blocked Tat-induced increase in MMPs activity. Western blot analyses also showed that Tat increased the expression of C3 and its cleaved fragment C3b in HBMEC. These data suggest that genetic differences between HIV-1 subtypes B and CRF02_AG influence the effects of Tat proteins from these two clades on HBMEC, including molecular and cellular functions, and canonical pathways, which would affect BBB dysfunction and viral neuropathogenesis.
Preserving mitochondrial pools of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) or nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (Nampt), an enzyme involved in NAD production, maintains mitochondrial function and confers neuroprotection after ischemic stress. However, the mechanisms involved in regulating mitochondrial-localized Nampt or NAD have not been defined. In this study, we investigated the roles of protein kinase C epsilon (PKC) and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) in regulating mitochondrial pools of Nampt and NAD after resveratrol or ischemic preconditioning (IPC) in the cortex and in primary neuronal-glial cortical cultures. Using the specific PKC agonist RACK, we found that PKC induced robust activation of AMPK in vitro and in vivo and that AMPK was required for PKC-mediated ischemic neuroprotection. In purified mitochondrial fractions, PKC enhanced Nampt levels in an AMPK-dependent manner and was required for increased mitochondrial Nampt after IPC or resveratrol treatment. Analysis of intrinsic NAD autofluorescence using two-photon microscopy revealed that PKC modulated NAD in the mitochondrial fraction. Further assessments of mitochondrial NAD concentrations showed that PKC has a key role in regulating the mitochondrial NAD(+)/nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide reduced (NADH) ratio after IPC and resveratrol treatment in an AMPK- and Nampt-dependent manner. These findings indicate that PKC is critical to increase or maintain mitochondrial Nampt and NAD after pathways of ischemic neuroprotection in the brain.
Positron emission tomography (PET) targeting the 18kDa translocator protein (TSPO) is used to quantify neuroinflammation. Translocator protein is expressed throughout the brain, and therefore a classical reference region approach cannot be used to estimate binding potential (BPND). Here, we used blockade of the TSPO radioligand [(11)C]PBR28 with the TSPO ligand XBD173, to determine the non-displaceable volume of distribution (VND), and hence estimate the BPND. A total of 26 healthy volunteers, 16 high-affinity binders (HABs) and 10 mixed affinity binders (MABs) underwent a [(11)C]PBR28 PET scan with arterial sampling. Six of the HABs received oral XBD173 (10 to 90mg), 2hours before a repeat scan. In XBD173-dosed subjects, VND was estimated via the occupancy plot. Values of BPND for all subjects were calculated using this VND estimate. Total volume of distribution (VT) of MABs (2.940.31) was lower than VT of HABs (4.330.29) (P&lt;0.005). There was dose-dependent occupancy of TSPO by XBD173 (ED50=0.340.13mg/kg). The occupancy plot provided a VND estimate of 1.98 (1.69, 2.26). Based on these VND estimates, BPND for HABs is approximately twice that of MABs, consistent with predictions from in vitro data. Our estimates of [(11)C]PBR28 VND and hence BPND in the healthy human brain are consistent with in vitro predictions. XBD173 blockade provides a practical means of estimating VND for TSPO targeting radioligands.
The ADP-responsive P2Y12 receptor is expressed on both platelets and microglia. Clinical data show that ticagrelor, a direct-acting, reversibly binding P2Y12-receptor antagonist, reduces total cardiovascular events, including stroke. In our present study, we investigated the expression of P2Y12 receptors and the effects of ticagrelor on brain injury in Sprague-Dawley rats subjected to a permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo). Rats were treated per os with ticagrelor 3mg/kg or vehicle at 10minutes, 22, and 36hours after MCAo and killed after 48hours. Immunofluorescence analysis showed an ischemia-related modulation of the P2Y12 receptor, which is constitutively expressed in Iba1(+) resting microglia. After MCAo, activated microglia was mainly concentrated around the lesion, with fewer cells present inside the ischemic core. Ticagrelor significantly attenuated the evolution of ischemic damage-evaluated by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at 2, 24, and 48hours after MCAo-, the number of infiltrating cells expressing the microglia/monocyte marker ED-1, the cerebral expression of proinflammatory mediators (interleukin 1 (IL-1), monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1), nitric oxide synthase (iNOS)) and the associated neurologic impairment. In transgenic fluorescent reporter CX3CR1-green fluorescent protein (GFP) mice, 72hours after MCAo, ticagrelor markedly reduced GFP(+) microglia and both early and late infiltrating blood-borne cells. Finally, in primary cultured microglia, ticagrelor fully inhibited ADP-induced chemotaxis (P&lt;0.01). Our results show that ticagrelor is protective against ischemia-induced cerebral injury and this effect is mediated, at least partly, by inhibition of P2Y12-mediated microglia activation and chemotaxis.
The recent publication of the latest version of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5) unleashed a torrent of dissatisfaction with and criticism of the ongoing use of a symptom-based classification system, based on descriptive phenotypical features. Thus, the 'multiple memory systems' framework proposed in the accompanying Annual Research Review by Goodman etal. (Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, 55, 2014, XX) as a potential explanatory mechanism underlying several psychiatric disorders, is innovative and consistent with an emergent focus on transdiagnostic core mechanisms. In this commentary, I discuss the 'merit and mire' of the proposed framework, focusing on its potential for delineating neurobehavioral mechanisms underlying psychiatric disorders, with particular emphasis on one of the neurodevelopmental disorders, ADHD.
The field of developmental cognitive neuroscience is now established as a discipline at the nexus of the broader fields of developmental psychology and cognitive neuroscience. Sitting in its rear view mirror, but gaining rapidly, is the nascent discipline of developmental social neuroscience. Given the relative youth of this field, it is not surprising that a great deal of energy has gone into generating a rich corpus of empirical data.

Patterns of smoking behavior vary between the sexes. There is evidence that decision making, which is one of the key &quot;executive functions&quot; necessary for making life-style modifications such as smoking cessation, is relatively lateralized to the right hemisphere in males and left hemisphere in females. In the current study, we examined whether the side of brain lesion has a differential effect on smoking behavior between the sexes. We hypothesized sex differences in smoking cessation based on lesion side. Participants were 49 males and 50 females who were smoking at the time of lesion onset. The outcome variable was abstinence from smoking (quit rate) at least one year post lesion. We found that in patients with left-hemisphere damage, quit rates were significantly higher in males than in females; however, in patients with right-hemisphere damage, quit rates were not statistically different. The findings support previous cognitive neuroscience literature showing that components of behavior responsible for maintaining addiction tend to be more strongly lateralized in males, whereas in females there is a more bilateral distribution. Our study provides further evidence for differences in lateralization of complex behavior between the sexes, which has significant implications for differences in treatment strategies between the sexes.
Background: Impairments in information processing speed are common in multiple sclerosis (MS), with affected individuals demonstrating slower responses and more intraindividual variability (IIV) in their performance on timed tasks. Evidence suggesting that IIV provides novel information about cognitive deficits in MS is accumulating; however, little is known about the stability of IIV across multiple assessments. In this study, we investigated IIV in response speed in persons with MS across 6 monthly sessions using the Attention Network Test-Interaction (ANT-I). Method: Individuals with relatively mild relapsing remitting MS and healthy controls completed the ANT-I at 6 monthly intervals. Clinical assessments (Sessions 1 and 6) and conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies (Sessions 1-6) were examined for individuals with MS. Results: The MS group's clinical and neuroimaging measures were stable during the 6-month period. Individuals with MS were slower and more variable in reaction time performance on the ANT-I than were controls. Differences in IIV between groups were maintained across the 6 sessions, with IIV demonstrating less susceptibility to across-session practice effects than mean latency scores. Conclusions: IIV provides a stable measure of cognitive performance in mildly affected persons with MS who are clinically and radiologically stable. Further studies exploring its utility as a clinical outcome are warranted.
Rapid development within the field of massive parallel sequencing (MPS) is about to bring this technology within reach for diagnostic microbiology laboratories. We wanted to explore its potential for improving diagnosis and understanding of polymicrobial infections, using bacterial brain abscesses as an example. We conducted a prospective nationwide study on bacterial brain abscesses. Fifty-two surgical samples were included over a 2-year period. The samples were categorized as either spontaneous intracerebral, spontaneous subdural, or postoperative. Bacterial 16S rRNA genes were amplified directly from the specimens and sequenced using Ion Torrent technology, with an average of 500,000 reads per sample. The results were compared to those from culture- and Sanger sequencing-based diagnostics. Compared to culture, MPS allowed for triple the number of bacterial identifications. Aggregatibacter aphrophilus, Fusobacterium nucleatum, and Streptococcus intermedius or combinations of them were found in all spontaneous polymicrobial abscesses. F. nucleatum was systematically detected in samples with anaerobic flora. The increased detection rate for Actinomyces spp. and facultative Gram-negative rods further revealed several species associations. We suggest that A. aphrophilus, F. nucleatum, and S. intermedius are key pathogens for the establishment of spontaneous polymicrobial brain abscesses. In addition, F. nucleatum seems to be important for the development of anaerobic flora. MPS can accurately describe polymicrobial specimens when a sufficient number of reads is used to compensate for unequal species concentrations and principles are defined to discard contaminant bacterial DNA in the subsequent data analysis. This will contribute to our understanding of how different types of polymicrobial infections develop.
Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) is a well-described condition involving the peripheral nervous system. The most well-known form of this disease is acute inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy. Among the different variants of GBS described in the literature, the sensory variant is scantily recognized. There has been a recent attempt to classify the sensory variants of the GBS and bring more objectivity to this diagnostic paradigm. We report a rare sensory variant of GBS presenting with isolated small nerve fiber involvement peripherally in the limbs and associated facial nerve palsy in a patient who had clinical and serological evidence of a preceding Mycoplasma pneumoniae infection. The symptoms resolved gradually with intravenous immunoglobulin therapy. This case adds to the growing literature of the rare form of acute small fiber neuropathy and GBS variants.


This study aimed to determine the prevalence and type of extrapyramidal signs (EPS) in spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA) type 1, 2 and 3. Eighty-five patients with genetically confirmed SCA (SCA1=40, SCA2=28, SCA3=17) were evaluated for the prevalence and types of EPS. Forty-one SCA patients (48.2%) had one or more types of EPS. The prevalence of EPS was 60.7% in SCA2, 52.9% in SCA3, and 37.5% in SCA1. Among SCA2 patients, bradykinesia was the most frequent (35.3%), followed by reduced facial expression, postural tremor and dystonia (29.4% each), rest tremor, titubation and rigidity (23.5% each), and lip/jaw tremor and chorea (11.8% each). In SCA3 the common EPS were bradykinesia (44.4%), staring look, postural tremor and dystonia (33.3% each), and reduced facial expression and rigidity (22.2% each). In SCA1, staring look was the most common (53.3%), followed by dystonia and bradykinesia (33.3% each), and postural tremor (26.7%). In all three groups, there was no significant difference in the mean length of repeat of the abnormal allele between those with and without EPS. To conclude bradykinesia, staring look, dystonia and postural tremor were the most frequent EPS observed in SCA. In SCA1, these signs were seen more often in younger patients with early onset of symptoms.
Prolonged acute spontaneous vertigo can be secondary to acute vestibular neuritis or posterior circulation ischaemia. We present a 66-year-old man who first developed an acute vestibular syndrome with profound unilateral hearing loss 34 years ago. First treated as vestibular neuritis, he subsequently developed manifestations of Behet's disease, including mouth ulcers, genital ulcers and erythema nodosum over a period of 10 years. Subsequently, sudden sensorineural hearing loss affecting his only hearing ear responded to immunomodulation, confirming an autoimmune cause for the audiovestibular symptoms. This report serves as a reminder that vestibular neuritis seldom causes hearing loss; ischaemic, infective and autoimmune causes should be sought when an acute vestibular syndrome is accompanied by hearing impairment.
Cavernous sinus hemangioma (CSH) is a rare extra-axial vascular neoplasm that accounts for 2% to 3% of all cavernous sinus tumors. Their location, propensity for profuse bleeding during surgery, and relationship to complex neurovascular structures are factors which present difficulty in excising these lesions. The authors describe their experience of 22 patients with CSH over 14 years at a tertiary care center. Patients were managed with microsurgical resection using a purely extradural transcavernous approach (13 patients) and with Gamma Knife radiosurgery (GKRS; Elekta AB, Stockholm, Sweden) (nine patients). Retrospective data analysis found headache and visual impairment were the most common presenting complaints, followed by facial hypesthesia and diplopia. All but one patient had complete tumor excision in the surgical series. Transient ophthalmoparesis (complete resolution in 6-8 weeks) was the most common surgical complication. In the GKRS group, marked tumor shrinkage (&gt;50% tumor volume reduction) was achieved in two patients, slight shrinkage in five and no change in two patients, with symptom improvement in the majority of patients. To our knowledge, we describe one of the largest series of CSH managed at a single center. Although microsurgical resection using an extradural transcavernous approach is considered the treatment of choice in CSH and allows complete excision with minimal mortality and long-term morbidity, GKRS is an additional tool for treating residual symptomatic lesions or in patients with associated comorbidities making surgical resection unsuitable.
Motor sequence learning and motor adaptation rely on overlapping circuits predominantly involving the basal ganglia and cerebellum. Given the importance of these brain regions to the pathophysiology of primary dystonia, and the previous finding of abnormal motor sequence learning in DYT1 gene carriers, we explored motor sequence learning and motor adaptation in patients with primary cervical dystonia. We recruited 12 patients with cervical dystonia and 11 healthy controls matched for age. Subjects used a joystick to move a cursor from a central starting point to radial targets as fast and accurately as possible. Using this device, we recorded baseline motor performance, motor sequence learning and a visuomotor adaptation task. Patients with cervical dystonia had a significantly higher peak velocity than controls. Baseline performance with random target presentation was otherwise normal. Patients and controls had similar levels of motor sequence learning and motor adaptation. Our patients had significantly higher peak velocity compared to controls, with similar movement times, implying a different performance strategy. The preservation of motor sequence learning in cervical dystonia patients contrasts with the previously observed deficit seen in patients with DYT1 gene mutations, supporting the hypothesis of differing pathophysiology in different forms of primary dystonia. Normal motor adaptation is an interesting finding. With our paradigm we did not find evidence that the previously documented cerebellar abnormalities in cervical dystonia have a behavioral correlate, and thus could be compensatory or reflect &quot;contamination&quot; rather than being directly pathological.
Soft tissue chondromas are rare, benign extra-skeletal tumours of cartilaginous origin, which may rarely occur within the spinal canal. We report a patient who presented with left lumbar radiculopathy, and a peripherally-enhancing dumbbell shaped soft tissue mass involving both the intraspinal and extraspinal compartments on MRI. This was misdiagnosed as a neurogenic tumour and the patient underwent surgical removal. Histological examination revealed cartilaginous tissue. Although rare, soft tissue chondromas should be considered in the differential diagnosis of spinal dumbbell shaped tumours, especially if MRI shows peripheral contrast enhancement.
Although the diagnosis and management of postoperative or traumatic fluid collections have been documented extensively in the literature, to our knowledge the occurrence of a salivoma after carotid endarterectomy has not been reported. We report an extra salivary glandular collection of saliva - a &quot;salivoma&quot; - in a 79-year-old patient who underwent a carotid endarterectomy with a high carotid bifurcation. He presented with serous watery drainage from the incision site that had started spontaneously 4 days after surgery. The patient was taken to the operating room for exploration and washout of the wound with presumption of an infectious source. As self-retaining retractors were placed under the platysma, a large release of serous fluid occurred. Copious irrigation allowed complete washout of the wound. On postoperative day 2, the patient re-exhibited neck wound fullness and a Penrose drain was placed in the incision with clear serous fluid flowing through the drain. The patient was given a scopolamine patch to decrease salivary secretions. Within 5 days, the drainage significantly decreased and the drain was removed. This diagnosis should be included in the differential diagnosis of an expanding neck mass following carotid endarterectomy to properly treat this complication.
Although most patients with intracranial hypotension typically present with headaches, the rest of the clinical spectrum is characteristically non-specific and often quite variable. In a patient with concurrent pathologies that can produce a similar clinical picture, a high index of suspicion must be maintained to achieve the correct diagnosis. The authors report a patient with intracranial hypotension in the setting of concurrent perineural cyst rupture and subarachnoid hemorrhage. A 63-year-old woman with a family history of ruptured intracranial aneurysms presented after a sudden thunderclap headache and was found to have diffuse subarachnoid hemorrhage. Imaging revealed anterior communicating and superior hypophyseal artery aneurysms. Following the uneventful clipping of both aneurysms, the patient experienced a delayed return to her neurological baseline. After it was noted that the patient had an improved neurological examination when she was placed supine, further investigation confirmed intracranial hypotension from perineural cyst rupture. The patient improved and returned to her neurological baseline after undergoing a high-volume blood patch and remained neurologically intact at postoperative follow-up. Although intracranial hypotension is known to be commonly associated with cerebrospinal fluid leak, its causal and temporal relationship with subarachnoid hemorrhage has yet to be elucidated.





Cerebrospinal fluid-contacting (CSF-c) cells are found in all vertebrates, but their function remains elusive. In the lamprey spinal cord, they surround the central canal and some have processes passing the gray matter to the lateral edge of the flattened spinal cord. Stimulation of CSF-c cells at the central canal elicits GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) in intraspinal stretch receptor neurons (edge cells). Here, we characterize laterally projecting CSF-c cells according to their morphology, phenotype, and neuronal properties by using immunohistochemistry, retrograde tracing, calcium imaging, and whole-cell recordings. We identify two types of CSF-c cells. Type 1 cells have a bulb-like ending that protrudes into the central canal and a lateral process that ramifies ventrolaterally and laterally with a dense plexus surrounding the mechanosensitive dendrites of the edge cells. Most type 1 cells fire spontaneous action potentials that are abolished by tetrodotoxin, and all display spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic potentials and IPSPs that remain in the presence of tetrodotoxin. GABA and somatostatin are colocalized in type 1 cells, and they express both GABA and glutamate receptors. Type 2 cells, on the other hand, have a flat ending protruding into the central canal and a laterally projecting process that ramifies only at the lateral edge. These cells show immunoreactivity to taurine, but they do not express GABA or somatostatin, nor do they have any active neuronal properties. Type 2 cells might be a form of glia. Type 1 CSF-c cells are neurons and may play a modulatory role by influencing edge cells and thus the locomotor-related sensory feedback.
Cerebrospinal fluid-contacting (CSF-c) cells are found in all vertebrates, but their function remains elusive. In the lamprey spinal cord, they surround the central canal and some have processes passing the gray matter to the lateral edge of the flattened spinal cord. Stimulation of CSF-c cells at the central canal elicits GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) in intraspinal stretch receptor neurons (edge cells). Here, we characterize laterally projecting CSF-c cells according to their morphology, phenotype, and neuronal properties by using immunohistochemistry, retrograde tracing, calcium imaging, and whole-cell recordings. We identify two types of CSF-c cells. Type 1 cells have a bulb-like ending that protrudes into the central canal and a lateral process that ramifies ventrolaterally and laterally with a dense plexus surrounding the mechanosensitive dendrites of the edge cells. Most type 1 cells fire spontaneous action potentials that are abolished by tetrodotoxin, and all display spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic potentials and IPSPs that remain in the presence of tetrodotoxin. GABA and somatostatin are colocalized in type 1 cells, and they express both GABA and glutamate receptors. Type 2 cells, on the other hand, have a flat ending protruding into the central canal and a laterally projecting process that ramifies only at the lateral edge. These cells show immunoreactivity to taurine, but they do not express GABA or somatostatin, nor do they have any active neuronal properties. Type 2 cells might be a form of glia. Type 1 CSF-c cells are neurons and may play a modulatory role by influencing edge cells and thus the locomotor-related sensory feedback.
The present study was undertaken to shed light on the synaptic organization of the rat basolateral amygdala (BLA). The BLA contains multiple types of GABAergic interneurons that are differentially connected with extrinsic afferents and other BLA cells. Previously, it was reported that parvalbumin immunoreactive (PV(+) ) interneurons receive strong excitatory inputs from principal BLA cells but very few cortical inputs, implying a prevalent role in feedback inhibition. However, because prior physiological studies indicate that cortical afferents do trigger feedforward inhibition in principal cells, the present study aimed to determine whether a numerically important subtype of interneurons, expressing calbindin (CB(+) ), receives cortical inputs. Rats received injections of the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHAL) in the perirhinal cortex or adjacent temporal neocortex. Light and electron microscopic observations of the relations between cortical inputs and BLA neurons were performed in the lateral (LA) and basolateral (BL) nuclei. Irrespective of the injection site (perirhinal or temporal neocortex) and target nucleus (LA or BL), ~90% of cortical axon terminals formed asymmetric synapses with dendritic spines of principal BLA neurons, while 10% contacted the dendritic shafts of presumed interneurons, half of which were CB(+) . Given the previously reported pattern of CB coexpression among GABAergic interneurons of the BLA, these results suggest that a subset of PV-immunonegative cells that express CB, most likely the somatostatin-positive interneurons, are important mediators of cortically evoked feedforward inhibition in the BLA.
New stereological assessments of lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) neuron numbers and volumes in five New World primates (Cebus apella, Saguinus midas niger, Alouatta caraya, Aotus azarae, and Callicebus moloch) and compiled LGN volumes for an additional 26 mammals were analyzed for a better understanding of visual system evolution. Both the magnocellular (M)- and the parvocellular (P)-cell populations scale allometrically with brain volume in primates, P cells with a significantly higher slope such that, for every increase in M neuron number, P neuron numbers more than double (ln scale; y = 0.89x + 2.42R(2) = 0.664). In diurnal primates, the ratio of P to M cells was slightly but significantly higher than in nocturnal primates. For all mammals, including primates, LGN volume was unrelated to nocturnal or diurnal niche but showed marked differences in slope and intercept depending on taxonomic group. The allometric scaling of M and P cells can be related to the order of neurogenesis, with late-generated P cells increasing with positive allometry compared with the earlier-generated M cells. This developmental regularity links relative foveal representation to relative isocortex enlargement, which is also generated late. The small increase in the P/M cell ratio in diurnal primates may result from increased developmental neuron loss in the M-cell population as it competes for limited termination zones in primary visual cortex.
Fluorescence microscopy is an essential technique for the basic sciences, especially biomedical research. Since the invention of laser scanning confocal microscopy in the 1980s, which enabled imaging both fixed and living biological tissue with 3D precision, high-resolution fluorescence imaging has revolutionized biological research. Confocal microscopy, by its very nature, has one fundamental limitation. Due to the confocal pinhole, deep tissue fluorescence imaging is not practical. In contrast (no pun intended), two-photon fluorescence microscopy allows, in principle, the collection of all emitted photons from fluorophores in the imaged voxel, dramatically extending our ability to see deep into living tissue. Since the development of transgenic mice with genetically encoded fluorescent protein in neocortical cells in 2000, two-photon imaging has enabled the dynamics of individual synapses to be followed for up to 2 years. Since the initial landmark contributions to this field in 2002, the technique has been used to understand how neuronal structure are changed by experience, learning, and memory and various diseases. Here we provide a basic summary of the crucial elements that are required for such studies, and discuss many applications of longitudinal two-photon fluorescence microscopy that have appeared since 2002.
Converging evidence shows that interaction of digit-specific input, which is required to form global tactile percepts, begins as early as area 3b in the primary somatosensory cortex with the involvement of intrinsic lateral connections. How tactile processing is further elaborated in area 1, the next stage of the somatosensory cortical hierarchy, is less understood. This question was investigated by studying the tangential distribution of intrinsic and interareal connections of finger representations of area 1. Retrogradely labeled cell densities and anterogradely labeled fibers and terminal patches were plotted and quantified with respect to the hand representation by combining tract tracing with electrophysiological mapping and intrinsic signal optical imaging in somatosensory areas. Intrinsic connections of distal finger pad representations of area 1 spanned the representation of multiple digits indicating strong cross-digit connectivity. Area 1 distal finger pad regions also established high-density connections with homotopic regions of areas 3b and 2. Although similar to area 3b, connections of area 1 distributed more widely and covered a larger somatotopic representation including more proximal parts of the finger representations. The lateral connectivity pattern of area 1 is a suitable anatomical substrate of the emergence of multifinger receptive fields, complex feature selectivity, and invariant stimulus properties of the neurons.
Understanding the mechanisms that link sensory stimuli to animal behavior is a central challenge in neuroscience. The quantitative description of behavioral responses to defined stimuli has led to a rich understanding of different behavioral strategies in many species. One important navigational cue perceived by many vertebrates and insects is the e-vector orientation of linearly polarized light. Drosophila manifests an innate orientation response to this cue ('polarotaxis'), aligning its body axis with the e-vector field. We have established a population-based behavioral paradigm for the genetic dissection of neural circuits guiding polarotaxis to both celestial as well as reflected polarized stimuli. However, the behavioral mechanisms by which flies align with a linearly polarized stimulus remain unknown. Here, we present a detailed quantitative description of Drosophila polarotaxis, systematically measuring behavioral parameters that are modulated by the stimulus. We show that angular acceleration is modulated during alignment, and this single parameter may be sufficient for alignment. Furthermore, using monocular deprivation, we show that each eye is necessary for modulating turns in the ipsilateral direction. This analysis lays the foundation for understanding how neural circuits guide these important visual behaviors.
We use mean field techniques to compute the distribution of excitatory and inhibitory firing rates in large networks of randomly connected spiking quadratic integrate and fire neurons. These techniques are based on the assumption that activity is asynchronous and Poisson. For most parameter settings these assumptions are strongly violated; nevertheless, so long as the networks are not too synchronous, we find good agreement between mean field prediction and network simulations. Thus, much of the intuition developed for randomly connected networks in the asynchronous regime applies to mildly synchronous networks.
Objective: This study sought to clarify the relationship between childhood trauma and adversity with later alcohol consumption and the moderating effects of adult psychosocial stress. Method: Seventy-seven recently abstinent alcohol-dependent men attending residential treatment programs were assessed. Childhood trauma/adversity was assessed with the Childhood Trauma Questionnaire (CTQ), drinks per drinking day (DDD) with the Timeline Follow Back, and chronic psychosocial stress with the UCLA Stress Interview. Drinking and stress were retrospectively assessed for 6 months prior to the present treatment episode. Direct associations between childhood trauma/adversity and alcohol consumption and the moderating effects of recent psychosocial stress were assessed. All measures were considered as continuous variables. Results: Pretreatment drinking severity (DDD) was associated with CTQ Total score (p = .009) and the Emotional Abuse (p &lt; .001) and Physical Abuse (p &lt; .01) subscales. UCLA Total Stress significantly moderated the effects of CTQ Total score on drinking severity (p = .04). Whereas higher CTQ scores were significantly associated with a greater amount of pretreatment drinking in participants with high UCLA stress scores (p = .01), CTQ scores were not associated with the amount of drinking in those with low UCLA stress scores (p = .63). Conclusions: Childhood trauma predicts drinking severity in alcohol-dependent men, and this effect is stronger in participants with ongoing stress in adult life. These findings suggest that early childhood trauma/adversity may sensitize stress-response systems. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).
Objective: Opioid pharmacotherapy is now the leading treatment for chronic pain, a problem that affects nearly one third of the U.S. population. Given the dramatic rise in prescription opioid misuse and opioid-related mortality, novel behavioral interventions are needed. The purpose of this study was to conduct an early-stage randomized controlled trial of Mindfulness-Oriented Recovery Enhancement (MORE), a multimodal intervention designed to simultaneously target mechanisms underpinning chronic pain and opioid misuse. Method: Chronic pain patients (N = 115; mean age = 48  14 years; 68% female) were randomized to 8 weeks of MORE or a support group (SG). Outcomes were measured at pre- and posttreatment, and at 3-month follow-up. The Brief Pain Inventory was used to assess changes in pain severity and interference. Changes in opioid use disorder status were measured by the Current Opioid Misuse Measure. Desire for opioids, stress, nonreactivity, reinterpretation of pain sensations, and reappraisal were also evaluated. Results: MORE participants reported significantly greater reductions in pain severity (p = .038) and interference (p = .003) than SG participants, which were maintained by 3-month follow-up and mediated by increased nonreactivity and reinterpretation of pain sensations. Compared with SG participants, participants in MORE evidenced significantly less stress arousal (p = .034) and desire for opioids (p = .027), and were significantly more likely to no longer meet criteria for opioid use disorder immediately following treatment (p = .05); however, these effects were not sustained at follow-up. Conclusions: Findings demonstrate preliminary feasibility and efficacy of MORE as a treatment for co-occurring prescription opioid misuse and chronic pain. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).

For many patients with neuropsychiatric illnesses, standard psychiatric treatments with mono or combination pharmacotherapy, psychotherapy, and transcranial magnetic stimulation are ineffective. For these patients with treatment-resistant neuropsychiatric illnesses, a main therapeutic option is electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). Decades of research have found ECT to be highly effective; however, it can also result in adverse neurocognitive effects. Specifically, ECT results in disorientation after each session, anterograde amnesia for recently learned information, and retrograde amnesia for previously learned information. Unfortunately, the neurocognitive effects and underlying mechanisms of action of ECT remain poorly understood. The purpose of this paper was to synthesize the multiple moderating and mediating factors that are thought to underlie the neurocognitive effects of ECT into a coherent model. Such factors include demographic and neuropsychological characteristics, neuropsychiatric symptoms, ECT technical parameters, and ECT-associated neurophysiological changes. Future research is warranted to evaluate and test this model, so that these findings may support the development of more refined clinical seizure therapy delivery approaches and efficacious cognitive remediation strategies to improve the use of this important and widely used intervention tool for neuropsychiatric diseases.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) remains to be one of the most effective treatment options in treatment-resistant major depressive disorder (MDD). From the early days, researchers have embarked on extracting information from electroencephalography (EEG) recordings before, during, and after ECT to identify neurophysiological targets of ECT and discover EEG predictors of response to ECT in patients with MDD. In this article, we provide an overview of visually detected and quantitative EEG features that could help in furthering our understanding of the mechanisms of action of ECT in MDD. We further discuss the EEG findings in the context of postulated hypotheses of ECT therapeutic pathways. We introduce an alternative and unifying hypothesis suggesting that ECT may exert its therapeutic efficacy through resetting the aberrant functional connectivity and promoting the generation of new and healthy connections in brain regions implicated in MDD pathophysiology, a mechanism that may be in part mediated by the ECT-induced activation of inhibitory and neuroplasticity mechanisms. We further discuss the added value of EEG markers in the larger context of ECT research and as complementary to neuroimaging and genetic markers. We conclude by drawing attention to the need for longitudinal studies in large cohort of patients and the need for standardization and validation of EEG algorithms of functional connectivity across studies to facilitate the translation of EEG correlates of ECT response in routine clinical practice.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is one of the most effective methods for managing treatment-resistant depression. Although the proposed mechanisms of action have thus far mainly been investigated at the cellular level, recent observations and developments in the field of molecular biology and genomics have provided novel insights in the actual molecular underpinnings of dynamic alterations in gene expression, particularly in response to environmental exposures, and experience-dependent plasticity, both of which are highly relevant to ECT. Here, we provided a brief background on epigenetics and we reviewed the current state of knowledge on epigenetic mediation of ECT-related therapeutic effects. We performed a systematic search on the effects of ECT on epigenetics and found only a limited number on animal studies relevant to our search. These studies, however, support the notion of a robust impact of ECT on epigenetic mechanisms and set the stage for human ECT studies on the epigenetic machinery.
Preclinical and clinical evidence show that electroconvulsive therapy (ECT)-induced intraictal surge in blood pressure may result in a small, transient breach in the blood-brain barrier, leading to mild cerebral edema and a possible leach of noxious substances from blood into brain tissues. These changes may impair neuronal functioning and contribute to the mechanisms underlying ECT-induced cognitive deficits. Some but not all clinical data on the subject suggest that blood pressure changes during ECT correlate with indices of cognitive impairment. In animal models, pharmacological manipulations of blood pressure during electroconvulsive shocks attenuate electroconvulsive shock-induced amnestic changes; however, the evidence suggests that antihypertensive mechanisms may not necessarily be involved. Clinical studies involving pre-ECT administration of antihypertensive medications do not provide convincing evidence of benefits. It is concluded that there is insufficient support, at present, for the hypothesis that the hypertensive surge during ECT and the resultant blood-brain barrier breach contribute meaningfully to ECT-induced cognitive deficits. Future research should address the subset of patients who experience pronounced hypertensive changes during ECT, and clinically relevant outcome measures, such as autobiographical memory impairment, should be examined.

The exact therapeutic mechanism of action of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) remains unresolved. Numerous psychological theories from decades ago have been proven untrue. In the ensuing years, ECT has been proven to have numerous reproducible effects on brain chemistry, regional brain activity, electroencephalographic sleep stages, and neurogenesis. Clinically, ECT has been shown to have antidepressant, antipsychotic, antimanic, antiparkinsonian, and anticonvulsive effects. It is possible that different biological effects of ECT are responsible for different clinical effects or that several biological effects in concert work together to produce a given clinical effect. This paper comments on the array of possible mechanisms and points toward the future of mechanistic research in ECT.
The aim of this study was to investigate the relation between variability in muscle activity and fatigue during a sustained low level contraction in the lumbar muscles. Twenty-five healthy participants (13 men 12 women) performed a 30min sitting task with 5 degrees inclination of the trunk. Surface electromyographic (EMG) signals were recorded bilaterally from the lumbar muscles with 2 high density surface EMG grids of 914 electrodes. Median frequency (MDF) decrease, amplitude (RMS) increase and the rating of perceived exertion (RPE) were used as fatigue indices. Alternating activation and spatial and temporal variability were computed and relations with the fatigue indices were explored. During sitting, the mono- and bipolar RMS slightly increased while the MDF remained unchanged indicating no systematic muscle fatigue, although the average RPE increased from 6 to 13 on a scale ranging between 6 and 20. Higher frequency of alternating activation between the left and right side was associated with increased RPE (p=0.03) and decreased MDF (p=0.05). A tendency in the same direction was seen between increased spatial and temporal variation within the grids and increased RPE and decreased MDF. Present findings provide evidence for a relationship between variability in muscle activity and fatigue.


There is a long history in neuroethology of investigating how communication signals influence the brain and behavior. It has become increasingly clear that brain areas associated with sensory processing are plastic in adults and that this plasticity is related to reproductive condition. However, the role of communication signal reception in adult auditory plasticity has received relatively little attention. Here, we investigated whether the reception of communication signals (a frog chorus) could enhance the responsiveness of the auditory system to future reception of communication signals (a single male call). We found that animals that had been exposed to 10 days of a male chorus had stronger auditory midbrain immediate early gene expression than animals that had been exposed to 10 days of random tones when tested with 30 min of male calls or 30 min of tones. Our results suggest that exposure to dynamic social stimuli, like frog choruses, may play an important role in shaping the neural and behavioral responses to communication signals.
We identified the insect iridovirus IIV-6/CrIV as a pathogen of the cricket Gryllus texensis using electron microscopy (EM) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis. EM showed that the virus attacks the fat body, an organ important for protein production, immune function and lipid storage. During infection the fat body hypertrophied, but egg production withered, leaving the lateral oviducts empty of eggs; the females were effectively sterile. EM of the testis of infected males suggests that the testis was not invaded by the virus, although sperm taken from the spermatophores of infected males showed little or no motility. Nevertheless, males and females continued to mate when infected. In fact, infected males were quicker to court females than uninfected controls. The virus benefits from the continued sexual behaviour of its host; transmission studies show that the virus can be spread through sexual contact. Sickness behaviour, the adaptive reduction of feeding and sexual behaviour that is induced by an activated immune system, was absent in infected crickets. Total haemolymph protein was reduced, as was phenoloxidase activity, suggesting a reduction in immune protein production by the fat body. The evidence suggests that during IIV-6/CrIV infection, the immune signal(s) that induces sickness behaviour is absent. Curtailment of a host's sickness behaviour may be necessary for any pathogen that is spread by host sexual behaviour.
This 2-year longitudinal study sought to identify a developmental pattern of Chinese and English reading skills in children with and without dyslexia from 6 to 8years of age. Three groups of 15 children each-those with dyslexia, age-matched (AM) controls, and reading-matched (RM) controls-participated. Dyslexia was diagnosed at 8years of age. All children were tested on phonological awareness, rapid automatized naming (RAN), morphological awareness, word reading, and vocabulary knowledge in both Chinese and English and also speed of processing skill. AM controls outperformed the group with dyslexia on all measures except for phonological awareness, English word reading, and vocabulary. However, those with dyslexia and AM controls developed at a similar rate across all reading-related skills from 6 to 8years of age. Compared with the RM controls, the group with dyslexia scored higher in phonological awareness, morphological awareness, and vocabulary knowledge in both Chinese and English and also in English word reading but scored similarly in RAN. Children with dyslexia, thus, manifested clear difficulties in Chinese vocabulary knowledge, morphological awareness, and RAN as well as general speed of processing, representing a developmental lag in cognitive skills. Among these, RAN deficits are likely to be the most severe deficits in Chinese children with dyslexia.
Visual searches with several targets in a display have been shown to be particularly prone to miss errors in both academic laboratory searches and professional searches such as radiology and baggage screening. Specifically, finding 1 target in a display can reduce the likelihood of detecting additional targets. This phenomenon was originally referred to as &quot;satisfaction of search,&quot; but is referred to here as &quot;subsequent search misses&quot; (SSMs). SSM errors have been linked to a variety of causes, and recent evidence supports a working memory deficit wherein finding a target consumes working memory resources that would otherwise aid subsequent search for additional targets (Cain &amp; Mitroff, 2013). The current study demonstrated that dividing 1 multiple-target search into several single-target searches, separated by three to five unrelated trials, effectively freed the working memory resources used by the found target and eliminated SSM errors. This effect was demonstrated with both university community participants and with professional visual searchers from the Transportation Security Administration, suggesting it may be a generally applicable technique for improving multiple-target visual search accuracy. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).
How do we stop ourselves during ongoing action? Recent work implies that stopping per se is easy given sufficient monitoring of contextual cues signaling the need to change action. We test key implications of this idea for improving inhibitory control. Seven- to 9-year-old children practiced stopping an ongoing action or monitoring for cues that signaled the need to go again. Both groups subsequently showed better response inhibition in a Stop-Signal task than active controls, and practice monitoring yielded a dose-response relationship. When monitoring practice was optimized to occur while children engaged in responding, the greatest benefits were observed-even greater than from practicing stopping itself. These findings demonstrate the importance of monitoring processes in developing response inhibition and suggest promising new directions for interventions. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).
Emotion influences most aspects of cognition and behavior, but emotional factors are conspicuously absent from current models of word recognition. The influence of emotion on word recognition has mostly been reported in prior studies on the automatic vigilance for negative stimuli, but the precise nature of this relationship is unclear. Various models of automatic vigilance have claimed that the effect of valence on response times is categorical, an inverted U, or interactive with arousal. In the present study, we used a sample of 12,658 words and included many lexical and semantic control factors to determine the precise nature of the effects of arousal and valence on word recognition. Converging empirical patterns observed in word-level and trial-level data from lexical decision and naming indicate that valence and arousal exert independent monotonic effects: Negative words are recognized more slowly than positive words, and arousing words are recognized more slowly than calming words. Valence explained about 2% of the variance in word recognition latencies, whereas the effect of arousal was smaller. Valence and arousal do not interact, but both interact with word frequency, such that valence and arousal exert larger effects among low-frequency words than among high-frequency words. These results necessitate a new model of affective word processing whereby the degree of negativity monotonically and independently predicts the speed of responding. This research also demonstrates that incorporating emotional factors, especially valence, improves the performance of models of word recognition. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).
In an unfamiliar environment, searching for and navigating to a target requires that spatial information be acquired, stored, processed, and retrieved. In a study encompassing all of these processes, participants acted as taxicab drivers who learned to pick up and deliver passengers in a series of small virtual towns. We used data from these experiments to refine and validate MAGELLAN, a cognitive map-based model of spatial learning and wayfinding. MAGELLAN accounts for the shapes of participants' spatial learning curves, which measure their experience-based improvement in navigational efficiency in unfamiliar environments. The model also predicts the ease (or difficulty) with which different environments are learned and, within a given environment, which landmarks will be easy (or difficult) to localize from memory. Using just 2 free parameters, MAGELLAN provides a useful account of how participants' cognitive maps evolve over time with experience, and how participants use the information stored in their cognitive maps to navigate and explore efficiently. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).
Reactions to stressful negative events have long been studied using approaches based on either the narrative interpretation of the event or the traits of the individual. Here, we integrate these 2 approaches by using individual-differences measures of both the narrative interpretation of the stressful event as central to one's life and the personality characteristic of negative affectivity. We show that they each have independent contributions to stress reactions and that high levels on both produce greater than additive effects. The effects on posttraumatic stress symptoms are substantial for both undergraduates (Study 1, n = 2,296; Study 3, n = 488) and veterans (Study 2, n = 104), with mean levels for participants low on both measures near floor on posttraumatic stress symptoms and those high on both measures scoring at or above diagnostic thresholds. Study 3 included 3 measures of narrative centrality and 3 of negative affectivity to demonstrate that the effects were not limited to a single measure. In Study 4 (n = 987), measures associated with symptoms of posttraumatic stress correlated substantially with either measures of narrative centrality or measures of negative affectivity. The concepts of narrative centrality and negative affectivity and the results are consistent with findings from clinical populations using similar measures and with current approaches to therapy. In broad nonclinical populations, such as those used here, the results suggest that we might be able to substantially increase our ability to account for the severity of stress response by including both concepts. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).
We study the dynamics of objective and subjective measures of visibility and choice in brief presentations occurring within a fixation during free eye-movements. We show that brief presentations yield homogeneous levels of performance in a window that extends almost throughout the entire fixation. Instead, confidence judgments vary for presentations occurring at different moments of the fixations. When the target occurs close to the onset of the fixation, it is reported accurately but with lower values of confidence; when it occurs close to the end of the fixation, it is reported with high confidence (Experiments 1 and 2). Consistently, in experiments in which participants can freely choose to report items, we observe a report bias toward the end of the fixation, where the maximum of confidence occurs for experiments with a single target (Experiments 3 and 4). Hence, these results suggest that confidence is not merely a measure of accumulated stimulus energy but instead varies reflecting an endogenous integration process by which later stimuli are assigned greater confidence. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).
This study investigates the human ability to perceive biological movements through friction sounds produced by drawings and, furthermore, the ability to recover drawn shapes from the friction sounds generated. In a first experiment, friction sounds, real-time synthesized and modulated by the velocity profile of the drawing gesture, revealed that subjects associated a biological movement to those sounds whose timbre variations were generated by velocity profiles following the 1/3 power law. This finding demonstrates that sounds can adequately inform about human movements if their acoustic characteristics are in accordance with the kinematic rule governing actual movements. Further investigations of our ability to recognize drawn shapes were carried out in 2 association tasks in which both recorded and synthesized sounds had to be associated to both distinct and similar visual shapes. Results revealed that, for both synthesized and recorded sounds, subjects made correct associations for distinct shapes, although some confusion was observed for similar shapes. The comparisons made between recorded and synthesized sounds lead to conclude that the timbre variations induced by the velocity profile enabled the shape recognition. The results are discussed in the context of the ecological and ideomotor frameworks. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).
Narcissism is a personality trait that has been extensively studied in normal populations. Individuals high on subclinical narcissism tend to display an excessive self-focus and reduced concern for others. Does their disregard of others have roots in low-level processes of social perception? We investigated whether narcissism is related to the automatic imitation of observed actions. In the automatic imitation task, participants make cued actions in the presence of action videos displaying congruent or incongruent actions. The difference in response times and accuracy between congruent and incongruent trials (i.e., the interference effect) is a behavioral index of motor resonance in the brain-a process whereby observed actions activate matching motor representations in the observer. We found narcissism to be negatively related to interference in the automatic imitation task, such that high narcissism is associated with reduced imitation. Thus, levels of narcissism predict differences in the tendency to automatically resonate with others, and the pattern of data we observe suggests that a key difference is that high narcissists possess an improved ability to suppress automatic imitation when such imitation would be detrimental to task performance. To the extent that motor resonance is a product of a human mirror system, our data constitute evidence for a link between narcissistic tendencies and mirror system functioning. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).
Pathological gambling behaviour is a side effect of dopaminergic drugs used in Parkinson's disease, but has seldom been reported with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. A 58-years-old woman with somatisation disorder since the age of 20 and recent-onset major depression (at 54years) received 40mg/day intravenous citalopram, thereafter switching to the same dose of oral citalopram to treat her comorbid psychiatric disorders after showing poor response to paroxetine for one year. Her anxious and depressive symptoms were moderately reduced after 7months of oral citalopram, but simultaneously, the patient admitted gambling. We gradually discontinued citalopram and introduced pregabalin and alprazolam; this was followed by a reduction of gambling compulsions, but the somatisation and depressive symptoms did not further improve. Pathological gambling may be mediated by an interplay of 5-HT1A serotonergic and D2 dopaminergic mechanisms. Citalopram affects both these mechanisms in areas that were shown to be involved in gambling behaviour, but while dopaminergic effects of citalopram appear to be consistent with the induction of gambling, its serotonergic mechanisms are rather inconsistent. In our patient, mood destabilisation induced by citalopram may have contributed to the first onset of pathological gambling.

The SLC13 transporter family, whose members play key physiological roles in the regulation of fatty acid synthesis, adiposity, insulin resistance, and other processes, catalyzes the transport of Krebs cycle intermediates and sulfate across the plasma membrane of mammalian cells. SLC13 transporters are part of the divalent anion:Na(+) symporter (DASS) family that includes several well-characterized bacterial members. Despite sharing significant sequence similarity, the functional characteristics of DASS family members differ with regard to their substrate and coupling ion dependence. The publication of a high resolution structure of dimer VcINDY, a bacterial DASS family member, provides crucial structural insight into this transporter family. However, marrying this structural insight to the current functional understanding of this family also demands a comprehensive analysis of the transporter's functional properties. To this end, we purified VcINDY, reconstituted it into liposomes, and determined its basic functional characteristics. Our data demonstrate that VcINDY is a high affinity, Na(+)-dependent transporter with a preference for C4- and C5-dicarboxylates. Transport of the model substrate, succinate, is highly pH dependent, consistent with VcINDY strongly preferring the substrate's dianionic form. VcINDY transport is electrogenic with succinate coupled to the transport of three or more Na(+) ions. In contrast to succinate, citrate, bound in the VcINDY crystal structure (in an inward-facing conformation), seems to interact only weakly with the transporter in vitro. These transport properties together provide a functional framework for future experimental and computational examinations of the VcINDY transport mechanism.
The olfactory bulb contains the first synaptic relay in the olfactory pathway, the sensory system in which odorants are detected enabling these chemical stimuli to be transformed into electrical signals and, ultimately, the perception of odor. Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs), a family of proton-gated cation channels, are widely expressed in neurons of the central nervous system. However, no direct electrophysiological and pharmacological characterizations of ASICs in olfactory bulb neurons have been described. Using a combination of whole-cell patch-clamp recordings and biochemical and molecular biological analyses, we demonstrated that functional ASICs exist in mouse olfactory bulb mitral/tufted (M/T) neurons and mainly consist of homomeric ASIC1a and heteromeric ASIC1a/2a channels. ASIC activation depolarized cultured M/T neurons and increased their intracellular calcium concentration. Thus, ASIC activation may play an important role in normal olfactory function.
Population aging is unprecedented, without parallel in human history, and the 21st century will witness even more rapid aging than did the century just past. Improvements in public health and medicine are having a profound effect on population demographics worldwide. By 2017, there will be more people over the age of 65 than under age 5, and by 2050, two billion of the estimated nine billion people on Earth will be older than 60 (http://unfpa.org/ageingreport/). Although we can reasonably expect to live longer today than past generations did, the age-related disease burden we will have to confront has not changed. With the proportion of older people among the global population being now higher than at any time in history and still expanding, maintaining health into old age (or healthspan) has become a new and urgent frontier for modern medicine. Geroscience is a cross-disciplinary field focused on understanding the relationships between the processes of aging and age-related chronic diseases. On October 30-31, 2013, the trans-National Institutes of Health GeroScience Interest Group hosted a Summit to promote collaborations between the aging and chronic disease research communities with the goal of developing innovative strategies to improve healthspan and reduce the burden of chronic disease.



D-Serine is an endogenous coagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptor in the central nervous system and its synthesis is catalyzed by serine racemase (SR). Recently, the NMDA receptor has been found to be expressed in keratinocytes (KCs) of the skin and involved in the regulation of KC growth and differentiation. However, the localization and role of SR in the skin remain unknown. Here, using SR-knockout (SR-KO) mice as the control, we demonstrated the localization of the SR protein in the granular and cornified layer of the epidermis of wild-type (WT) mice and its appearance in confluent WT KCs. We also demonstrated the existence of a mechanism for conversion of L-serine to D-serine in epidermal KCs. Furthermore, we found increased expression levels of genes involved in the differentiation of epidermal KCs in adult SR-KO mice, and alterations in the barrier function and ultrastructure of the epidermis in postnatal day 5 SR-KO mice. Our findings suggest that SR in the skin epidermis is involved in the differentiation of epidermal KCs and the formation of the skin barrier.

Aging is accompanied by a progressive increase in the incidence and prevalence of cardiovascular disease (CVD). Prolonged exposure to cardiovascular risk factors, together with intrinsic age-dependent declines in cardiac functionality, increases the vulnerability of the heart to both endogenous and exogenous stressors, ultimately enhancing the susceptibility to developing CVD in late life. Both increased levels of oxidative damage and the accumulation of dysfunctional mitochondria have been observed in a wide range of cardiac diseases, which may therefore represent a common ground upon which many aspects of CVD develop. In this review, we summarize the current knowledge on the mechanisms whereby oxidative stress arising from mitochondrial dysfunction is involved in the process of cardiac aging and in the pathogenesis of CVD highly prevalent in late life (e.g., heart failure and ischemic heart disease). Special emphasis is placed on recent evidence about the role played by alterations in cellular quality control systems, in particular autophagy/mitophagy and mitochondrial dynamics (fusion and fission), and their interconnections in the context of age-related CVD. Cardioprotective interventions acting through the modulation of mitochondrial autophagy (calorie restriction, calorie restriction mimetics, and the gasotransmitter hydrogen sulfide) are also presented. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled &quot;Protein Quality Control, the Ubiquitin Proteasome System, and Autophagy&quot;.
In general, in most organ systems, intracellular protein homeostasis is the sum of many factors, including chromosomal state, protein synthesis, post-translational processing and transport, folding, assembly and disassembly into macromolecular complexes, protein stability and clearance. In the heart, there has been a focus on the gene programs that are activated during pathogenic processes, but the removal of damaged proteins and organelles has been underappreciated as playing an important role in the pathogenesis of heart disease. Proteotoxicity refers to the adverse effects of damaged or misfolded proteins and even organelles on the cell. At the cellular level, the ultimate outcome of uncontrolled or severe proteotoxicity is cell death; hence, the pathogenic impact of proteotoxicity is maximally manifested in organs with no or very poor regenerative capability such as the brain and the heart. Evidence for increased cardiac proteotoxicity is rapidly mounting for a large subset of congenital and acquired human heart disease. Studies carried out in animal models and in cell culture have begun to establish both sufficiency and, in some cases, the necessity of proteotoxicity as a major pathogenic factor in the heart. This dictates rigorous testing for the efficacy of proteotoxic attenuation as a new strategy to treat heart disease. This review article highlights some recent advances in our understanding of how misfolded proteins can injure and are handled in the cell, examining the emerging evidence for targeting proteotoxicity as a new therapeutic strategy for heart disease. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled &quot;Protein Quality Control, the Ubiquitin Proteasome System, and Autophagy.&quot;
Levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID) present a common but elusive complication of levodopa therapy in Parkinson's disease (PD). In order to identify genetic factors associated with LID, 352 (213 males) levodopa-treated Israeli PD patients were genotyped for 34 polymorphisms within three candidate genes affecting dopaminergic activity and synaptic plasticity: dopamine transporter gene (DAT1 or SLC6A3) [14 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and 40-bp variable number tandem repeat (VNTR)], DRD2 [11 SNPs and dinucleotide CA short tandem repeat (STR)], and BDNF (7 SNPs). A comparison of patients with and without LID was performed by applying a time-oriented approach, with survival analyses evaluating LID development hazard rate over time [Cox proportional hazards and accelerated failure time (AFT) lognormal models]. Overall, 192 (54.5%) participants developed LID, with a mean latency of 5.0 (4.5) years. After adjusting for gender, age at PD onset, duration of symptoms prior to levodopa exposure, and multiple testing correction, one SNP in SLC6A3 (with 81% genotyping success) was significantly associated with LID latency: the C allele of the rs393795 extended the time to LID onset, time ratio=4.96 (95% CI, 2.3-10.9; p=4.110(-5)). This finding should be validated in larger, ethnically diverse PD populations, and the biological mechanism should be explored.
The Italian Psychiatric Reform of 1978 is reviewed here in terms of national/regional mental health (MH) policies and with the help of epidemiological data. The reform law was essentially a framework one, and Italy's 21 regions were called to draft detailed organizational norms and to implement their systems. This explains a relevant interregional variability, despite several national MH plans. In a recent survey, compliance with national standards found homogeneous implementation on structural parameters but quite a variable one on functional parameters (continuity, coordination, accessibility, specialization). Epidemiological data show the impact of regional variability on the quality of treatment provided. Because of discrepancies among regional information systems, we analyze data from six Italian regions, where regional case registers have long been implemented, focusing on adult population prevalence and incidence rates and outpatient-inpatient care. Indicators of service use and some national MH documents are discussed in relation to the system's future prospects.
Brain-computer interfaces (BCIs), also known as brain-machine interfaces (BMIs), translate brain activity into new outputs that replace, restore, enhance, supplement or improve natural brain outputs. BCI research and development has grown rapidly for the past two decades. It is beginning to provide useful communication and control capacities to people with severe neuromuscular disabilities; and it is expanding into new areas such as neurorehabilitation that may greatly increase its clinical impact. At the same time, significant challenges remain, particularly in regard to translating laboratory advances into clinical use. The papers in this special section report some of the work presented at the Fifth International BCI Meeting held on 3-7 June 2013 at the Asilomar Conference Center in Pacific Grove, California, USA. Like its predecessors over the past 15 years, this meeting was supported by the National Institutes of Health, the National Science Foundation, and a variety of other governmental and private sponsors [1]. This fifth meeting was organized and managed by a program committee of BCI researchers from throughout the world [2]. It retained the distinctive retreat-style format developed by the Wadsworth Center researchers who organized and managed the first four meetings. The 301 attendees came from 165 research groups in 29 countries; 37% were students or postdoctoral fellows. Of more than 200 extended abstracts submitted for peer review, 25 were selected for oral presentation [3], and 181 were presented as posters [4] and published in the open-access conference proceedings [5]. The meeting featured 19 highly interactive workshops [6] covering the broad spectrum of BCI research and development, as well as many demonstrations of BCI systems and associated technology. Like the first four meetings, this one included attendees and embraced topics from across the broad spectrum of disciplines essential to effective BCI research and development, including neuroscience, engineering, applied mathematics, computer science, psychology and rehabilitation. In addition, this fifth meeting extended the spectrum in two very important ways. For the first time, presentations were given by several people who could potentially benefit from current BCI technology-people with severe disabilities who need assistive technology for communication. One presented in person and one remotely. A Virtual BCI User's Forum allowed these presenters and other potential BCI users to speak directly to the BCI research community about the advantages and disadvantages of current BCIs and important directions for future study (see [7]). Their personal experiences and desires can help guide BCI research and development. Their active participation, particularly in regard to the selection of goals and the evaluation and optimization of new methods and systems, is essential if BCIs are to become clinically valuable and widely used technology. The second major innovation in this meeting was the strong emphasis on ethical issues related to BCI development and use. The meeting opened with a keynote presentation entitled 'Neuroethics, BCIs and the Cyborg Myth' by Dr Joseph Fins, a noted authority on neuroethics from the Weill Cornell Medical College and the Rockefeller University. He focused on the ability of BCIs to relieve suffering and restore function, while cautioning against applications that take intentional control away from the user. Ethical issues were also addressed in several of the workshops, and arose on multiple occasions and in multiple contexts over the course of the meeting. Their prominence reflected the growing importance and difficulty of ethical issues as BCI capacities and applications grow and extend to potentially enhancing or supplementing normal nervous system function. The 16 articles in this special section reflect the breadth, depth, growing maturity and future directions of BCI research. The first paper presents a tutorial on best practices in BCI performance measurement [8]. The following eight papers focus on specific BCI applications and on methods for increasing their usefulness for people with severe disabilities. The next two examine how brain activity and BCI use affect each other. The final five studies investigate brain signals and evaluate new signal processing algorithms in order to improve BCI performance and broaden its possible applications in some of the newest areas of BCI research, including the direct interpretation of speech from electrocorticographic (ECoG) activity [9]. Together, these papers span many aspects of BCI research, including different recording modalities (i.e. electroencephalogram (EEG), ECoG, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI)) and signal types (e.g. P300 event-related potentials (ERPs), sensorimotor rhythms, steady-state visual evoked potentials (SSVEPs)). Furthermore, additional clinically related studies that were presented at the meeting but were considered to be outside the scope of the Journal of Neural Engineering will appear in a special issue of the Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation . With a theme of 'Defining the Future' the Fifth International BCI Meeting tackled the issues of a rapidly growing multidisciplinary research and development enterprise that is now entering clinical use. Important new areas that received attention included the need for active involvement of the people with severe disabilities who are the primary initial users of BCI technology and the growing importance and difficulty of the multiple ethical questions raised by BCIs and their potential applications. The meeting also marked the launching of the new journal Brain--Computer Interfaces , dedicated to BCI research and development, and initiated the establishment of the Brain--Computer Interface Society, which will organize and manage the Sixth International BCI Meeting to be held in 2016. References [1] http://bcimeeting.org/2013/sponsors.html [2] http://bcimeeting.org/2013/meetinginfo.html [3] http://bcimeeting.org/2013/researchsessions.html (indexes individual abstracts) [4] http://bcimeeting.org/2013/posters.html (indexes individual abstracts) [5] http://castor.tugraz.at/doku/BCIMeeting2013/BCIMeeting2013_all.pdf [6] Huggins J E et al 2014 Workshops of the Fifth International Brain--Computer Interface Meeting: Defining the Future Brain--Computer Interface J. 1 27-49 [7] Peters B, Bieker G, Heckman S M, Huggins J E, Wolf C, Zeitlin D and Fried-Oken M 2014 Brain--computer interface users speak up: the Virtual Users' Forum at the 2013 International BCI Meeting Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation vol 95 fall supplement at press [8] Thompson D E et al 2014 Performance measurement for brain-computer or brain-machine interfaces: a tutorial J. Neural Eng. 11 035001 [9] Mugler E, Patton J, Flint R, Wright Z, Schuele S, Rosenow J, Shih J, Krusienski D and Slutzky M 2014 Direct classification of all American English phonemes using signals from functional speech motor cortex J. Neural Eng. 11 035015.

Many studies confirmed the efficacy and safety of continuous infusion of intrajejunal levodopa/carbidopa gel (CIILG) for advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). Although this treatment is widely used, definite inclusion/exclusion criteria do not exist. In this prospective open-label study, we evaluated the long-term outcome in 28 consecutive patients and sought to detect any predictive factor to identify the best candidates for CIILG therapy. The assessment was carried out routinely at baseline, after 6 months and every year with UPDRS III-IV, FOG Questionnaire, non-motor symptoms scale, PD questionnaire (PDQ-8), cognitive and psychiatric status evaluation (MMSE, FAB, NPI) and caregiver's quality of life. 17/28 patients reached the 24-month follow-up. A statistically significant beneficial effect was shown on motor complications in short- and long-term follow-up, also on axial symptoms like gait disturbances. A concomitant improvement in PDQ8 score was observed, with a parallel mild amelioration, but not significant, on Caregivers QoL. When classified according to their outcome on QoL, the only predictive positive factor was less severe at Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) score at baseline. Considering the improvement in motor scores (duration of &quot;off&quot; period), the more advanced age was associated with a poorer outcome. Our results confirmed a sustained efficacy and safety in long-term follow-up and suggest that younger age at operation and absence or mild presence of psychiatric/behavioural symptoms could be considered valid predicting factors in selecting the best candidates for this efficacious therapy.
By using two structurally unrelated hydrogen sulfide (H2 S) donors 5-(4-methoxyphenyl) -3H-1, 2-dithiole-3-thione (ADT) and sodium hydrosulfide (NaHS), this study investigated if H2 S protected blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity following middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). ICR mice underwent MCAO and received H2 S donors at 3h after reperfusion. Infarction, neurological scores, brain edema, Evans blue (EB) extravasation, and tight junction protein expression were examined at 48h after MCAO. We also investigated if ADT protected BBB integrity by suppressing post-ischemic inflammation-induced Matrix Metalloproteimase-9 (MMP9) and Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase (NOX). ADT increased blood H2 S concentrations, decreased infarction, and improved neurological deficits. Particularly, ADT reduced EB extravasation, brain edema and preserved expression of tight junction proteins in the ischemic brain. NaHS also increased blood H2 S levels and reduced EB extravasation following MCAO. Moreover, ADT inhibited expression of pro-inflammatory markers induced Nitric Oxide Synthase (iNOS) and IL-1 while enhanced expression of anti-inflammatory markers arginase 1 and IL-10 in the ischemic brain. Accordingly, ADT attenuated ischemia-induced expression and activity of MMP9. Moreover, ADT reduced NOX-4 mRNA expression, NOX activity, and inhibited nuclear translocation of Nuclear Factor Kappa-B (NF-B) in the ischemic brain. In conclusion, H2 S donors protected BBB integrity following experimental stroke possibly by acting through NF-B inhibition to suppress neuroinflammation induction of MMP9 and NOX4-derived free radicals. To determine H2 S effects on blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption following stroke, we used two structurally unrelated H2 S donors ADT and NaHS. Both ADT and NaHS remarkably protected BBB integrity following experimental stroke. The slow-releasing donor ADT also reduced post-ischemic inflammation-induced expression and activity of MMP9 and NOX4 in the ischemic brain possibly by inhibiting NF-B activation.
Excessive alcohol consumption is a prominent problem and one of the major causes of mortality and morbidity around the world. Long-term, heavy alcohol consumption is associated with a number of deleterious health consequences, such as cancer, heart and liver disease, a variety of neurological, cognitive, and behavioral deficits. Alcohol consumption is also associated with developmental defects. The causes of alcohol-induced toxicity are presently unclear. One of the mechanisms underlying alcohol toxicity has to do with its interaction with folic acid/homocysteine or one-carbon metabolism (OCM). OCM is a major donor of methyl groups for methylation, particularly DNA methylation critical for epigenetic regulation of gene expression, and its disturbance may compromise DNA methylation, thereby affecting gene expression. OCM disturbance mediated by nutrient deficits is a well-known risk factor for various disorders and developmental defects (e.g., neural tube defects). In this review, we summarize the role of OCM disturbance and associated epigenetic aberrations in chronic alcohol-induced toxicity. In this review, we summarize the role of one-carbon metabolism (OCM) aberrations in chronic alcohol-induced toxicity. OCM is a major donor of methyl groups for methylation reactions, particularly DNA methylation critical for epigenetic regulation of gene expression. Alcohol interference with OCM and consequent reduced availability of methyl groups, improper DNA methylation, and aberrant gene expression can play a causative role in alcohol toxicity.
Aggregate-prone mutant proteins, such as -synuclein and huntingtin, play a prominent role in the pathogenesis of various neurodegenerative disorders; thus, it has been hypothesized that reducing the aggregate-prone proteins may be a beneficial therapeutic strategy for these neurodegenerative disorders. Here, we identified two previously described glucosylceramide (GlcCer) synthase inhibitors, DL-threo-1-Phenyl-2-palmitoylamino-3-morpholino-1-propanol and Genz-123346(Genz), as enhancers of autophagy flux. We also demonstrate that GlcCer synthase inhibitors exert their effects on autophagy by inhibiting AKT-mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling. More importantly, siRNA knock down of GlcCer synthase had the similar effect as pharmacological inhibition, confirming the on-target effect. In addition, we discovered that inhibition of GlcCer synthase increased the number and size of lysosomal/late endosomal structures. Although inhibition of GlcCer synthase decreases levels of mutant -synuclein in neurons, it does so, according to our data, through autophagy-independent mechanisms. Our findings demonstrate a direct link between glycosphingolipid biosynthesis and autophagy in primary neurons, which may represent a novel pathway with potential therapeutic value for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Inhibition of GlcCer synthase enhances autophagy by inhibiting AKT-mTOR signaling, and increases the number and size of lysosomal/late endosomal structures. Furthermore, inhibition of GlcCer synthase decreased levels of mutant -synuclein in neurons, which may represent a potential therapeutic target for Parkinson's disease.
Both natural oestrogens and progesterone influence synaptic plasticity and neurogenesis within the female hippocampus. However, less is known of the impact of synthetic hormones on hippocampal structure and function. There is some evidence that the administration of the synthetic progestin, medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) is not as beneficial as natural progesterone and can attenuate oestrogen-induced neuroprotection. Although the effects of oestradiol have been well studied, little is known about the effects of natural and synthetic progestins alone and in combination with oestradiol on adult neurogenesis in females. In the present study, we investigated the effects of chronic oestradiol, progesterone, MPA and the co-administration of each progestin with oestradiol on neurogenesis within the dentate gyrus of adult ovariectomised female rats. Twenty-four hours after a bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU; 200mg/kg) injection, female rats were repeatedly administered either progesterone (1 or 4mg), MPA (1 or 4mg), oestradiol benzoate (EB), progesterone or MPA in combination with EB (10g), or vehicle for 21days. Rats were perfused on day 22 and brain tissue was analysed for the number of BrdU-labelled and Ki67 (an endogenous marker of cell proliferation)-expressing cells. EB alone and MPA+EB significantly decreased neurogenesis and the number of surviving BrdU-labelled cells in the dorsal region of the dentate gyrus, independent of any effects on cell proliferation. Furthermore, MPA (1 and 4mg) and MPA+EB treated animals had significantly lower adrenal/body mass ratios and reduced serum corticosterone (CORT) levels. By contrast, progesterone+EB treated animals had significantly higher adrenal/body mass ratios and 1mg of progesterone, progesterone+EB, and EB significantly increased CORT levels. The results of the present study demonstrate that different progestins alone and in combination with oestradiol can differentially affect neurogenesis (via cell survival) and regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. These findings have implications for women using hormone replacement therapies with MPA for both neuroprotection and stress-related disorders.
Neurological complications in opioid abusing Human Immunodeficiency Virus-1 (HIV-1) patients suggest enhanced neurodegeneration as compared to non-drug abusing HIV-1 infected population. Neural precursor cells (NPCs), the multipotent cells of the mammalian brain, are susceptible to HIV-1 infection and as opiates also perturb their growth kinetics, detailed mechanistic studies for their co-morbid exposure are highly warranted. Using a well characterized in vitro model of human fetal brain-derived neural precursor cells, we investigated alterations in NPC properties at both acute and chronic durations. Chronic morphine and Tat treatment attenuated proliferation in NPCs, with cells stalled at G1-phase of the cell cycle. Furthermore HIV-Tat and morphine exposure increased activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1/2 (ERK1/2), enhanced levels of p53 and p21, and decreased cyclin D1 and Akt levels in NPCs. Regulated by ERK1/2 and p53, p21 was found to be indispensible for Tat and morphine mediated cell cycle arrest. Our study elaborates on the cellular and molecular machinery in NPCs and provides significant mechanistic details into HIV-drug abuse co-morbidity that may have far reaching clinical consequences both in pediatric as well as adult neuroAIDS.





Information on the effects of injury on neovascularization in the immature brain is limited. We investigated the effects of ischemia on cerebral cortex neovascularization after the exposure of fetuses to 30 minutes of cerebral ischemia followed by 48 hours of reperfusion (I/R-48), 30 minutes of cerebral ischemia followed by 72 hours of reperfusion (I/R-72), or sham control treatment (Non-I/R). Immunohistochemical and morphometric analyses of cerebral cortex sections included immunostaining for glial fibrillary acidic protein and collagen type IV (a molecular component of the vascular basal lamina) to determine the glial vascular network in fetal brains and Ki67 as a proliferation marker. Cerebral cortices from I/R-48 and I/R-72 fetuses exhibited general responses to ischemia, including reactive astrocyte morphology, which was not observed in Non-I/R fetuses. Cell bodies of reactive proliferating astrocytes, along with large end-feet, surrounded the walls of cerebral cortex microvessels in addition to the thick collagen type IV-enriched basal lamina. Morphometric analysis of the Non-I/R group with the I/R-48 and I/R-72 groups revealed increased collagen type IV density in I/R-72 cerebral cortex microvessels (p &lt; 0.01), which also frequently displayed a sprouting appearance characterized by growing tip cells and activated pericytes. Increases in cerebral cortex basic fibroblast growth factor were associated with neovascularization. We conclude that increased neovascularization in fetal cerebral cortices occurs within 72 hours of ischemia.
Reliable representation of the spectrotemporal features of an acoustic stimulus is critical for sound recognition. However, if all neurons respond with identical firing to the same stimulus, redundancy in the activity patterns would reduce the information capacity of the population. We thus investigated spike reliability and temporal fluctuation coding in an ensemble of neurons recorded in vitro from the avian auditory brain stem. Sequential patch-clamp recordings were made from neurons of the cochlear nucleus angularis while injecting identical filtered Gaussian white noise currents, simulating synaptic drive. The spiking activity in neurons receiving these identically fluctuating stimuli was highly correlated, measured pairwise across neurons and as a pseudo-population. Two distinct uncorrelated noise stimuli could be discriminated using the temporal patterning, but not firing rate, of the spike trains in the neural ensemble, with best discrimination using information at time scales of 5-20 ms. Despite high cross-correlation values, the spike patterns observed in individual neurons were idiosyncratic, with notable heterogeneity across neurons. To investigate how temporal information is being encoded, we used optimal linear reconstruction to produce an estimate of the original current stimulus from the spike trains. Ensembles of trains sampled across the neural population could be used to predict &gt;50% of the stimulus variation using optimal linear decoding, compared with 20% using the same number of spike trains recorded from single neurons. We conclude that heterogeneity in the intrinsic biophysical properties of cochlear nucleus neurons reduces firing pattern redundancy while enhancing representation of temporal information.
In the natural environment, humans make saccades almost continuously. In many eye movement experiments, however, observers are required to fixate for unnaturally long periods of time. The resulting long and monotonous experimental sessions can become especially problematic when collecting data in a clinical setting, where time can be scarce and subjects easily fatigued. With this in mind, we tested whether the well-studied motor learning process of saccade adaptation could be induced with a dramatically shortened intertrial interval. Observers made saccades to targets that stepped left or right either 250 ms or 1,600 ms after the saccade landed. In experiment I, we tested baseline saccade parameters to four different target amplitudes (5, 10, 15, and 20) in the two timing settings. In experiments II and III, we adapted 10 saccades via 2 intrasaccadic steps either backwards or forwards, respectively. Seven subjects performed eight separate adaptation sessions (2 intertrial timings  2 adaptation direction  2 session trial lengths). Adaptation proceeded remarkably similarly in both timing conditions across the multiple sessions. In the faster-paced sessions, robust adaptation was achieved in under 2 min, demonstrating the efficacy of our approach to streamlining saccade adaptation experiments. Although saccade amplitudes were similar between conditions, the faster-paced condition unexpectedly resulted in significantly higher peak velocities in all subjects. This surprising finding demonstrates that the stereotyped &quot;main sequence&quot; relationship between saccade amplitude and peak velocity is not as fixed as originally thought.
Propriospinal premotoneurons (PN) are essential for accurate control of the upper limb. They receive bilateral input from premotor (PM) and primary motor (M1) cortices. In humans, excitability of PNs can be estimated from motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) by pairing a descending volley using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to summate with an ascending volley from peripheral nerve stimulation at the C3-C4 level of the spinal cord. Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) alters excitability of cortical and subcortical areas. A recent study demonstrated that cathodal tDCS can suppress facilitatory (FAC) and inhibitory (INH) components of PN excitability, presumably via effects on corticoreticulospinal neurons (Bradnam LV, Stinear CM, Lewis GN, Byblow WD. J Neurophysiol 103: 2382-2389, 2010). The present study investigated the effects of bilateral tDCS with healthy subjects. The cathode was placed over left dorsal PM or M1 and the anode over right M1 in separate sessions (PM-M1, M1-M1, or Sham). TMS of right M1 elicited MEPs in left biceps brachii across a range of TMS intensities chosen to examine PN-mediated FAC and INH. Conditioning was applied using median nerve stimulation with an interstimulus interval that coincided with TMS and peripheral volleys summating at the C3-C4 level. All participants showed FAC at TMS intensities near active motor threshold and INH at slightly higher intensities. After tDCS, FAC was reduced for M1-M1 compared with Sham but not after PM-M1 stimulation. Contrary to an earlier study with cathodal tDCS, INH was unchanged across all sessions. The difference between these and earlier findings may relate to dual- vs. single-hemisphere M1 stimulation. M1-M1 tDCS may be a useful adjuvant to techniques that aim to reduce upper limb impairment after stroke.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and other antidepressants are often prescribed to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients; however, the impact of these prescriptions on ALS disease progression has not been systematically tested. To determine whether SSRIs impact disease progression, fluoxetine (Prozac, 5 or 10 mg/kg) was administered to mutant superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) mice during one of three age ranges: neonatal [postnatal day (P)5-11], adult presymptomatic (P30 to end stage), and adult symptomatic (P70 to end stage). Long-term adult fluoxetine treatment (started at either P30 or P70 and continuing until end stage) had no significant effect on disease progression. In contrast, neonatal fluoxetine treatment (P5-11) had two effects. First, all animals (mutant SOD1(G93A) and control: nontransgenic and SOD1(WT)) receiving the highest dose (10 mg/kg) had a sustained decrease in weight from P30 onward. Second, the high-dose SOD1(G93A) mice reached end stage 8 days (6% decrease in life span) sooner than vehicle and low-dose animals because of an increased rate of motor impairment. Fluoxetine increases synaptic serotonin (5-HT) levels, which is known to increase spinal motoneuron excitability. We confirmed that 5-HT increases spinal motoneuron excitability during this neonatal time period and therefore hypothesized that antagonizing 5-HT receptors during the same time period would improve disease outcome. However, cyproheptadine (1 or 5 mg/kg), a 5-HT receptor antagonist, had no effect on disease progression. These results show that a brief period of antidepressant treatment during a critical time window (the transition from neonatal to juvenile states) can be detrimental in ALS mouse models.
The retina signals stimulus contrast via parallel On and Off pathways and sends the information to higher visual centers. Here we study the role of the On pathway using mice that have null mutations in the On-specific GRM6 receptor in the retina (Pinto LH, Vitaterna MH, Shimomura K, Siepka SM, Balannik V, McDearmon EL, Omura C, Lumayag S, Invergo BM, Brandon M, Glawe B, Cantrell DR, Donald R, Inayat S, Olvera MA, Vessey KA, Kirstan A, McCall MA, Maddox D, Morgans CW, Young B, Pletcher MT, Mullins RF, Troy JB, Takahashi JS. Vis Neurosci 24: 111-123, 2007; Maddox DM, Vessey KA, Yarbrough GL, Invergo BM, Cantrell DR, Inayat S, Balannik V, Hicks WL, Hawes NL, Byers S, Smith RS, Hurd R, Howell D, Gregg RG, Chang B, Naggert JK, Troy JB, Pinto LH, Nishina PM, McCall MA. J Physiol 586: 4409-4424, 2008). In these &quot;nob&quot; mice, single unit recordings in the primary visual cortex (V1) reveal degraded selectivity for orientations due to an increased response at nonpreferred orientations. Contrast sensitivity in the nob mice is reduced with severe deficits at low contrast, consistent with the phenotype of night blindness in human patients with mutations in Grm6. These cortical deficits can be largely explained by reduced input drive and increased response variability seen in nob V1. Interestingly, increased variability is also observed in the superior colliculus of these mice but does not affect its tuning properties. Further, the increased response variability in the nob mice is traced to the retina, a result phenocopied by acute pharmacological blockade of the On pathway in wild-type retina. Together, our results suggest that the On and Off pathways normally interact to increase response reliability in the retina, which in turn propagates to various central visual targets and affects their functional properties.
Humans can learn to make accurate movements when the required map between vision and motor commands changes, but can visuomotor maps obtained through experience with one limb benefit the other? Complete transfer would require new maps to be both fully compatible and accessible between limbs. However, when this question is addressed by providing subjects with rotated visual feedback during reaching, transfer is rarely apparent in the first few trials with the unpracticed limb and is sometimes absent altogether. Partial transfer might be explained by limited accessibility to remapped brain circuits, since critical visuomotor transformations mediating unilateral movements appear to be lateralized. Alternatively, if adaptation involves movement representations associated with both extrinsic (i.e., direction of motion in space) and intrinsic (i.e., joint or muscle based) frames of reference, new visuomotor maps might be incompatible with opposite limb use when visual distortions have opposite effects for the two limbs in intrinsic coordinates. Here we addressed this issue when subjects performed an isometric aiming task with the index finger. We manipulated the alignment of visuomotor distortion for the two hands in different reference frames by altering body posture relative to the orientation of the finger and the visual display. There was strong, immediate transfer of adaptation between limbs only when visuomotor distortion had identical effects in eye- and joint-based coordinates bilaterally. This implies that new visuomotor maps are encoded in neural circuits associated with both intrinsic and extrinsic movement representations and are available to both limbs.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) maintains information about relevant sensory stimuli, in a process thought to rely on dopamine release. In a recent paper, Jacob et al. (J Neurosci 33: 13724-13734, 2013) demonstrated one way in which dopamine might facilitate this process. The authors recorded from PFC neurons in monkeys during local application of dopamine. They found that dopamine increases the gain of sensory-evoked responses in putative pyramidal neurons in PFC, potentially by inhibiting local interneurons.

This study extends an earlier investigation (DiIorio et al., 2004) regarding neuroscience studies published in four nursing journals over the period from 1989 to 2000. A literature review was conducted from 2001 to 2010 with the same search strategy performed by DiIorio from 1989 to 2000. A trend analysis comparing the articles published in the period of 2001-2008 with those published from 1993 to 2000 (odds ratio [OR], 95% confidence interval [CI]) was performed. From 1989 to 2010, a total of 607 articles were published, 2.2 articles per month. A significantly increased number of publications on neuroscience nursing research have emerged comparing 2001-2008 versus 1993-2000 (OR = 2.1, 95% CI [1.22, 3.29]; p = .00). From 1989 to 2000, neurological problems were the predominant object of study (389 articles, 64.1%), followed by neurotrauma problems (156, 25.7%) and those neurosurgical problems (31, 5.1%). Moreover, a progressive reduction of studies focusing on neurological problems (OR = 0.42, 95% CI [0.26, 0.68]; p = .00) has emerged comparing 2001-2008 versus 1993-2000. The setting chosen for the study from 1989 to 2000 was mainly hospitals (211, 34.8%) followed by long-term care (125, 20.6%) and the home environment (77, 12.7%). Over the years (2001- 2008 vs. 1993-2000), studies performed at the home level were lower (OR = 0.27, 95% CI [0.15, 0.47]; p = .00), whereas those carried out at the hospital level and at the long-term care level have increased. Research in neuroscience nursing has continued to grow in the last decade, involving more patients who are mainly women. In the coming years, quasiexperimental, experimental, or complex intervention designs, involving the various care settings and along the trajectories of illnesses of patients who have an acute phase but especially in a long-term phase, are needed.
: Background: Patients treated in a neuroscience intensive care unit (NICU) are often viewed as too sick to tolerate physical activity. In this study, mobility status in NICU was assessed, and factors and outcomes associated with mobility were examined. Methods: Using a prospective design, daily mobility status, medical history, demographics, Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) III score, and clinical outcomes were collected by medical records and database review. Depression, anxiety, and hostility were assessed before NICU discharge. Analyses included comparative statistics and multivariable modeling. Results: In 228 unique patients, median (minimum, maximum) age was 64.0 (20, 95) years, 66.4% were Caucasian, and 53.6% were men. Of 246 admissions, median NICU stay was 4 (1, 61) days; APACHE III score was 56 (16, 145). Turning, range of motion, and head of bed of &gt;30 were uniformly applied (n = 241), but 94 patients (39%) never progressed; 94 (39%) progressed to head of bed of &gt;45 or dangling legs, 29 (12%) progressed to standing or pivoting to chair, and 24 (10%) progressed to walking. Female gender (p = .019), mechanical ventilation (p &lt; .001), higher APACHE score (p = .004), and 30-day mortality (p = .001) were associated with less mobility. In multivariable modeling, greater mobility was associated with longer unit stay (p &lt; .001) and discharge to home (p &lt; .001). Psychological profile characteristics were not associated with mobility level. Conclusion: Nearly 40% of patients never progressed beyond bed movement, and only 10% walked. Although limited mobility progression was not associated with many patient factors, it was associated with poorer clinical outcomes. Implementation and evaluation of a progressive mobility protocol are needed in NICU patients. Video Abstract: For more insights from the authors, see Supplemental Digital Content 1, at http://link.lww.com/JNN/A10.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, one of the ionotropic glutamate receptor, plays important physiological and pathological roles in learning and memory, neuronal development, acute and chronic neurological diseases, and neurogenesis. This work examines the contribution of the NR2B NMDA receptor subunit to adult neurogenesis/cell proliferation under physiological conditions and following an excitotoxic insult. We have previously shown in vitro that a discrete NMDA-induced, excitotoxic injury to the hippocampus results in an increase in neurogenesis within the dentate gyrus. Here we have characterized adult neurogenesis or proliferation, using BrdU, in an in vivo model of excitotoxic injury to the CA1 subfield of the hippocampus. We demonstrate a peak in neural stem cell proliferation/neurogenesis between 6 and 9 days after the excitotoxic insult. Treatment with ifenprodil, an NR2B subunit-specific NMDA receptor antagonist, without prior injury induction, also increased the number of BrdU-positive cells within the DG and posterior periventricle, indicating that ifenprodil itself could modulate the rate of proliferation. Interestingly, though, the increased level of cell proliferation did not change significantly when ifenprodil was administered following an excitotoxic insult. In conclusion, our results suggest and add to the growing evidence that NR2B subunit-containing NMDA receptors play a role in neural stem cell proliferation.
Electricity governs the function of both nervous systems and computers. Whilst ions move in polar fluids to depolarize neuronal membranes, electrons move in the solid-state lattices of microelectronic semiconductors. Joining these two systems together, to create an iono-electric brain-computer interface, is an immense challenge. However, such interfaces offer (and in select clinical contexts have already delivered) a method of overcoming disability caused by neurological or musculoskeletal pathology. To fulfill their theoretical promise, several specific challenges demand consideration. Rate-limiting steps cover a diverse range of disciplines including microelectronics, neuro-informatics, engineering, and materials science. As those who work at the tangible interface between brain and outside world, neurosurgeons are well placed to contribute to, and inform, this cutting edge area of translational research. This article explores the historical background, status quo, and future of brain-computer interfaces; and outlines the challenges to progress and opportunities available to the clinical neurosciences community.


Adolescent and young adult medicine is a concept that has gained traction in the last decade or so. The medical literature has come primarily from oncology. Advances in neuroscience that document continuing brain development into the third decade, and research that shows risk behaviours associated with adolescence both remain and may increase in the third decade, have been two of the drivers in the conversation around linking these two age groups together as a medical practice group. A third driver of importance is transition care in chronic illness, where older adolescents and young adults continue to have difficulties making effective linkages with adult care. The case for specific training in adolescent and young adult medicine, including the developmental concepts behind it, the benefits of the delineation and the particular challenges in the Australian health-care system, are discussed. On balance, there is a strong case for managing the health issues of adolescents and young adults together. This scenario does not fit easily with the age demarcations that are in place in acute care facilities. However, this is less the case in community services and can work in focused private practice. Such a situation suggests that both paediatric and adult physicians might be interested in adolescent and young adult medicine training and practice.
