Given current assumptions about the biology of neural organization, some connectionists believe that it may not be possible to accurately model the brain's neural architecture. We have identified five restrictive neurobiological dogmas that we believe have limited the exploration of more fundamental correlations between computational and biological neural networks. We postulate that: 1) the dendritic tree serves as a synapse storage device rather than a simple summation device; 2) connection strength between neurons depends on the number and location of synapses of similar weight, not on synapses of variable weights; 3) axonal sprouting occurs regularly in adult organisms; 4) the postsynaptic genome directly controls the presynaptic cell via mRNA, rather than indirectly by the expression of NCAMs, reverse neurotransmitters, etc.; 5) dendritic spines serve a trophic function by controlling development of new sprouts via a process we term retroduction. We entertain an alternative formulation of a computational neural element that is fully consistent with modern neuroscience research. We then show how our model neuron can learn under Hebbian conditions, and extend the model to explain non-Hebbian, one-trial learning. This work is significant because by stretching the theoretical boundaries of modern neuroscience, we show how connectionists can potentially create new, more biologically-based neural elements which, when, interconnected into networks, exhibit not only properties of existing backpropagation networks, but other physiological properties as well.
The mutation gly93--&gt;ala of Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD) is found in patients with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and causes motor neuron disease when expressed in transgenic mice. The progression of clinical and pathological disease was studied in a line of mice designated G1H. Clinical disease started at 91 +/- 14 days of age with fine shaking of the limbs, followed by paralysis and death by 136 +/- 7 days of age. Pathological changes begin by 37 days of age with vacuoles derived from swollen mitochondria accumulating in motor neurons. At the onset of clinical disease (90 days), significant death of somatic motor neurons innervating limb muscles has occurred; mice at end-stage disease (136 days) show up to 50% loss of cervical and lumbar motor neurons. However, neither thoracic nor cranial motor neurons show appreciable loss despite vacuolar changes. Autonomic motor neurons also are not affected. Mice that express wild-type human Cu,Zn SOD remain free of disease, indicating that mutations cause neuron loss by a gain-of-function. Thus, the age-dependent penetrance of motor neuron disease in this transgenic model is due to the gradual accumulation of pathological damage in select populations of cholinergic neurons.
To determine critical periods of action, the effects of trophic factors on rat lumbar dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons were evaluated during neurogenesis, and after neurogenesis, before and after target contact. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-4 increased E12.5 DRG neuronal survival. Leukemia inhibitory factor enhanced neuronal differentiation. NGF and NT3 increased BrdU incorporation in neurons derived from E12.5 DRG neuroblasts. By contrasts, neurotrophin dependence switched at E14.5 such that BDNF had no survival activity but NGF, NT3, and NT4 supported survival of the same neurons. At birth, DRG neurons were supported by NGF and to a lesser extent, leukemia inhibitory factor. Thus, specific trophic factors discretely regulate proliferation, differentiation, and survival in DRG at different ages. This study complements genetic studies of neurotrophin and trk activity by identifying the critical period of action for and the specific events regulated by each neurotrophin.

The neuropathologic hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are extracellular plaques and intracellular neurofibrillary tangles. A constituent of senile plaques in AD is beta-amyloid, a hydrophobic peptide of 39-43 amino acids and a fragment of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). APP can be metabolized by at least two pathways, one of which involves generation of soluble APP by an unidentified enzyme named alpha-secretase. This cleavage generates alpha-secretase-cleaved, soluble APP (alpha-sAPP), which in this investigation was measured by a new assay in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from members of a Swedish AD family with a pathogenic mutation at APP670/671 (ref. 2). Family members who carry the mutation and are diagnosed with AD had low levels of alpha-sAPP (160 +/- 48 ng ml-1), with no overlap compared with non-carriers (257 +/- 48 ng ml-1). Carriers of the presymptomatic mutation showed intermediate alpha-sAPP levels. Today there exists no antemortem marker in AD with sufficient sensitivity and specificity, but measurement of alpha-sAPP represents a new and promising diagnostic marker.
Information about bodily events is conveyed by primary sensory fibres to higher brain centres through neurons in the dorsal column nuclei (DCN) and spinal dorsal horn. The DCN route is commonly considered a 'touch pathway', separate from the spinal pain pathway', in part because DCN neurons respond to gentle tactile stimulation of small skin areas. Here we report that DCN neurons can additionally respond to gentle and noxious stimulation of viscera and widespread skin regions. These and other experimental and clinical data suggest that the DCN and spinal routes cooperate, rather than operate separately, to produce the many perceptions of touch and pain, an ensemble view that encourages novel approaches to health care and research.

In the present study, spontaneous and evoked release of selected amino acids in the rat spinal cord was studied using in vivo microdialysis. Perfusion of the microdialysis probe with 100 K+ evoked a 2-4-fold increase in release of the putative neurotransmitters aspartate, glutamate and taurine while glutamine was decreased. K(+)-evoked release of glutamate was almost completely Ca(2+)-dependent while that of aspartate was partially Ca(2+)-dependent. Taurine release was not affected by substituting Ca2+ with Co2+. Perfusion with 5 mM N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) evoked 3-9-fold release of glutamate, glycine and taurine and a small increase in extracellular beta-alanine. No significant changes in glutamine and serine were found. 5 mM of the competitive NMDA antagonist 3-((+/-)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP) reduced NMDA-evoked release of glutamate and taurine by approx. 50%. 5 mM 3-amino-1-hydroxypyrrolid-2-one (HA-966), an agonist at the glycine site of the NMDA receptor with very low efficacy, completely inhibited NMDA-evoked release of taurine and reduced the levels of released glutamate below baseline, similar to the effect of 1 mM CPP alone. The present results show that in situations of excessive release of excitatory amino acids such as spinal ischemia and trauma. NMDA receptor-evoked release of glutamate may amplify the deleterious process and spread the damage.
Monolayer cultures of superior cervical ganglia free of support cells were maintained in the presence of 100 ng/ml 7S-NGF for 4 days. The concentration of NGF was then changed to between 50 and 400 ng/ml and cultures continued for an additional 7 days. Tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) content, GTP cyclohydrolase (GTPCH) enzyme activity and mRNA levels were then determined. All three of these measures were found to be elevated between 2- to 4-fold by treatment with increasing concentrations of NGF. Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) enzyme activity and mRNA levels were increased from 8 to 13-fold by these same treatments. These results indicate that the content of BH4 within sympathetic neurons can be regulated by NGF receptor-mediated changes in GTPCH gene expression. Moreover, concomitant increases in TH enzyme activity and BH4 content demonstrate a coordinated regulation by NGF of this enzyme and its essential cofactor.
Portal-systemic encephalopathy (PSE) is characterized by a neuropsychiatric disorder progressing through personality changes, to stupor and coma. Previous studies have revealed alterations of serotonin and of its metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in brain tissue and CSF in experimental (rat) and human PSE. Increased brain 5-HIAA concentrations could result from its decreased removal rather than to increased serotonin metabolism. In order to evaluate this possibility, CSF 5-HIAA concentrations were measured using an indwelling cisterna magna catheter technique at various times following end-to-side portacaval anastomosis in rats (the most widely used animal model of PSE) treated with probenecid, a competitive inhibitor that blocks the active transport of acid metabolites out of the brain and CSF. Following portacaval anastomosis and probenecid treatment, CSF concentrations of 5-HIAA were increased to a greater extent than in sham-operated controls. When data were expressed as per-cent baseline values, the relative increase of CSF 5-HIAA in portacaval shunted rats following probenecid treatment was not significantly different from sham-operated controls. These findings confirm that increased 5-HIAA in the CNS in experimental PSE results from increased 5HT metabolism or turnover and that the probenecidsensitive acid metabolite carrier is intact in PSE.
Previous studies describe decreased acetylcholine synthesis in brain as well as neurobehavioral evidence for a central muscarinic cholinergic deficit in pyrithiamine-induced thiamine-deficient rats. In order to further evaluate this possibility, quantitative autoradiographic procedures using [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate (for total muscarinic binding sites), [3H]pirenzepine (for muscarinic M1 sites) and [3H]AF-DX 384 (for muscarinic M2 sites) were performed at early (presymptomatic) and late (symptomatic) stages of thiamine deficiency induced in rats by administration of the central thiamine antagonist, pyrithiamine. No significant alterations in densities of M1, M2 or total muscarinic binding sites were observed in any brain structure evaluated at either early or late stages of thiamine deficiency. These findings do not support a major role for modifications of muscarinic cholinergic function in the pathogenesis of the neurological symptoms of thiamine deficiency.
Neurologically critically ill patients, more often than others, are unable to communicate and, for a crucial period of time, have the vital functions of their brains hidden in the &quot;black box&quot; of the cranial vault behind a curtain of ambiguity and immobility. Customarily--and naively--we have relied upon beside clinical observations to pierce these barriers. Recent insights lead us to conclude that these &quot;neurochecks&quot; no longer suffice. This article has surveyed four major monitoring systems relied upon by neurointensivists to evaluate the pathophysiology of their patients. Of these, ICPM has the longest clinical track record. It provides a quantitative measure of the brain's capacity to withstand ICP and helps us monitor interventions to reduce it. To utilize this information intelligently requires an understanding of the principles of ICC, CPP, ICP wave morphology, and the hardware available. NICU-CEEG is a more recent introduction but, in principle, it transfers from the laboratory and operating suite to the ICU bedside, established correlations among electrophysiology, CBF, and CM. Digital EEG has allowed us to overcome significant logistical barriers and made NICU-CEEG a practical ICU tool. Early but impressive data suggest that NICU-CEEG has a significant clinical impact in patients with ACI, uncontrolled seizures, or coma. It also has revealed that NICU patients have a surprisingly high incidence of NCS, which may adversely affect their outcome. TCD has contributed greatly to diagnosis and management of SAH vasospasm. It also can be applied with benefit to patients with increased ICP, and has promising value in patients with ACI. It may prove beneficial in monitoring unstable cerebral embolization. Several bedside methods for monitoring CBF are available, but they require refinement to become true monitoring systems. These methods have revealed clinically important insights in patients with head trauma, SAH vasospasm, and ACI. Methods for directly monitoring CM and CMRo2 are improving our understanding of the brain's responses to injury, and becoming increasingly relevant to bedside management. SjvO2 can detect cerebral ischemia caused by overzealous hyperventilation and accelerated ICP. ICO holds promise as a noninvasive transcranial method for assessing Scvo2. We soon may see a scalp array of such detectors, similar to an EEG &quot;montage,&quot; that allows us to assess multiregional Scvo2. To be useful, a clinical method should raise questions for further investigation. If the neurophysiologic monitoring systems described here provide us with some answers and lead us to ask useful new questions, they will prove their benefit to our patients.
1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid is a high affinity ligand with partial agonist properties at strychnine-insensitive glycine sites associated with the N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptors. Since occupation of these sites appears required for operation of N-methyl-D-aspartate, receptor coupled cation channels, it was hypothesized that a glycine partial agonist could function as an N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist. This hypothesis was examined by evaluating the in vivo and in vitro neuroprotective actions of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid. 1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxlic acid (150-600 mg kg-1) administered to gerbils five minutes following twenty minutes of forebrain ischemia significantly improved seven day survival; the optimal dose (300 mg kg-1) increased 7 days survival &gt; 4-fold, from 20% to 92%. Survival of hippocampal CA1 neurons (quantitated 7 days post-ischemia) was significantly (approximately 3-fold) increased by the 600 mg kg-1 dose. Seven day survival was not significantly increased when the interval between reperfusion and drug administration (300 mg kg-1) was increased from 5 to 30 min. In cerebellar granule cell cultures, NMDA combined with a saturating concentration of glycine (10 microM) resulted in a 500% increase in cGMP levels. cGMP levels were increased by 100% over basal when NMDA was combined with a saturating (10 microM) concentration of ACPC, indicating that in this measure, the efficacy of ACPC relative to glycine was approximately 0.2. Consistent with previous findings, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid significantly reduced glutamate-induced neurotoxicity in cerebellar granule cell cultures. ACPC was most effective in blocking neurotoxicity at glutamate concentrations producing low to moderate levels of cell death.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

We investigated the effect of nimodipine (30 mg qid) in 16 de novo patients with essential tremor in a double-blind placebo-controlled study in which we assessed tremor by clinical scorings, tremorgraphic recordings, and patient self-evaluation. Of the 15 patients who completed the study, eight improved. We conclude that nimodipine is effective in some patients with essential tremor.
The rate of cognitive decline, measured by psychometric testing, is widely used to track the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). As an alternative approach, we studied clinical measures as markers of the progression of dementia in 343 community-dwelling patients with probable AD enrolled in the multi-center Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease (CERAD) project. Subjects received standardized evaluations at entry and at annual follow-up. Decline on the Clinical Dementia Rating, loss of instrumental activities of daily living, failure to recall three words on the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), and decline of the total MMSE score to below 10 were high-risk milestones, with cumulative frequencies exceeding 50% at 3 years. Loss of dressing and toileting activities occurred at intermediate rates, while loss of eating ability was rare. The risk of reaching clinical milestones and the annual rate of cognitive decline on the MMSE were directly correlated. Clinical milestones are useful indices of the progression of dementia in patients with AD.
Current postulates support the idea that MS is triggered by an infectious agent or agents through an autoimmune reaction directed against brain antigens in genetically susceptible individuals. Evidence for an infectious etiology of MS is indirect. We have proposed that MS may, in some instances, be due to a zoonotic infection and that canine distemper virus, a measles-like virus in dogs, is a likely candidate in the causation of this disorder. The high homology between canine distemper and measles virus proteins has made it extremely difficult to distinguish distemper from measles antibodies serologically. We now provide evidence that humans can be infected with this neurotropic dog virus. Furthermore, a high titer of canine distemper virus antibodies is significantly associated with MS. Identification of the etiologic agent in MS may lead to the elucidation of disease pathogenesis and to disease prevention through appropriate public health and vaccination programs.
The formation of brain circuits requires molecular recognition between functionally related neurons. We report the cloning of a molecule that participates in these interactions. The limbic system-associated membrane protein (LAMP) is an immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily member with 3 Ig domains and a glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol anchor. In the developing forebrain, lamp is expressed mostly by neurons comprising limbic-associated cortical and subcortical regions that function in cognition, emotion, memory, and learning. The unique distribution of LAMP reflects its functional specificity. LAMP-transfected cells selectively facilitate neurite outgrowth of primary limbic neurons. Most striking, administration of anti-LAMP in vivo results in abnormal growth of the mossy fiber projection from developing granule neurons in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation, suggesting that LAMP is essential for proper targeting of this pathway. Rather than being a general guidance cue, LAMP likely serves as a recognition molecule for the formation of limbic connections.

To determine the neural circuitry engaged by performance of the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST), a neuropsychological test traditionally considered to be sensitive to prefrontal lesions, regional cerebral blood flow was measured with oxygen-15 water and positron emission tomography (PET) while young normal subjects performed the test as well as while they performed a specially designed sensorimotor control task. To consider which of the various cognitive operations and other experiential phenomena involved in the WCST PET scan are critical for the pattern of physiological activation and to focus on the working memory component of the test, repeat WCST scans were also performed on nine of the subjects after instruction on the test and practice to criteria. We confirmed that performance of the WCST engages the frontal cortex and also produces activation of a complex network of regions consistently including the inferior parietal lobule but also involving the visual association and inferior temporal cortices as well as portions of the cerebellum. The WCST activation in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) remained significant even after training and practice on the test, suggesting that working memory may be largely responsible for the physiological response in DLPFC during the WCST and, conversely, that the DLPFC plays a major role in modulating working memory.
We found a 38% lower maximal prolactin response to an oral challenge dose of 60 mg of dl-fenfluramine relative to placebo in younger (&lt; 30 years) depressed inpatients compared with the response in age-matched healthy controls (p &lt; .03). Severity of depression did not correlate with prolactin response. Prolactin responses in older depressed patients (&gt; or = 30 years) did not differ from older controls. Younger depressed patients differed from older depressed patients in terms of earlier age of onset of first lifetime episode of major depression, greater degree of suicidal intent during a recent suicide attempt, double the level of hopelessness on admission to hospital, and a higher rate of comorbid borderline personality disorder. A blunted prolactin response to fenfluramine may be interpreted as evidence for reduced serotonergic function in younger depressed patients and may underlie their observed greater suicidality and hopelessness.
Syntaxin is a synapse-specific protein previously localized to the plasma membrane of axon terminals. Biochemical and molecular biological studies indicate a prominent role for syntaxin 1A and 1B in synaptic vesicle docking and/or fusion, suggesting that these proteins are localized to active zone regions of most terminal varicosities in the central nervous system. We sought to test this hypothesis by examining the cellular and subcellular immunocytochemical localization of syntaxin 1 proteins in the striatum and frontal cortex of rats. Using either a polyclonal anti-syntaxin antibody, or a monoclonal antibody directed against the identical protein, HPC-1, immunoperoxidase reaction product was localized to preterminal axons and terminal varicosities that made almost exclusively Type I (asymmetric) synapses on dendritic spines or distal shafts. Immunoreactive terminals forming Type II (symmetric) synapses were observed rarely and only in tissue that was pretreated by rapid freeze-thaw to enhance antibody penetration. From a semi-quantitative analysis, it was estimated that at least 48-62% of all vesicle-filled varicosities and 67-69% of all terminals forming Type I synapses were immunoreactive for syntaxin or HPC-1, respectively. Using a pre-embedding immunogold-silver technique to provide a non-diffusible marker for subcellular localization, gold-silver particles for syntaxin or HPC-1 were localized to the cytoplasmic surface of non-synaptic portions of the plasma membrane of preterminal axons and terminal varicosities. Enrichment of presynaptic active zone regions was not observed with immunogold-silver staining. These findings suggest that syntaxin is primarily contained in a subpopulation of terminals that are associated with excitatory amino acid transmitters, but appears not to be ubiquitously expressed in all terminal classes. The results further indicate that syntaxin is localized to non-synaptic regions of axon and terminal membranes, but may not be enriched in presynaptic active zones. The apparent inconsistency between the subcellular localization of syntaxin and its proposed role in vesicle exocytosis is discussed in terms of possible technical limitations and alternative functions for syntaxin.
Available data are conflicting as regards the occurrence of Ca2+ and Zn2+ binding S100 proteins in neurons of mammalian brain. Here the localization and expression of S100 was re-investigated using several different antibodies and in situ hybridization. A map is provided for the distribution of two classes of S100-positive neuron populations in the adult rat CNS. &quot;Persistently S100-positive&quot; neurons had large size, were strongly immunoreactive and were mainly distributed in the nuclei of the lower brainstem and cerebellum. &quot;Variably S100-positive&quot; neurons were preferentially found in the forebrain of rats older than 90 days and were especially numerous in limbic regions. The S100-immunoreactivity in these neurons was moderately intense, occurred with high interindividual variation and appeared related to function as suggested by variations due to anesthesia. The expression of S100 mRNA in neurons was re-investigated at high spatial resolution with non-radioactive in situ hybridization using an oligonucleotide specific for S100 beta-mRNA. Expression of S100 was demonstrated in astrocytes and in those neuron populations which were also strongly S100-immunoreactive. No expression of S100 beta message was seen in weakly immunoreactive neurons, b but this may be due to low sensitivity of the techniques used. The data suggest that the S100 proteins are synthesized in all astrocytes and in distinct subpopulations of neurons in rat brain. These neurons show a characteristic topography and vary in S100 expression probably due to their function and maturation.
The stimulated elevation of [Ca2+]i can either promote neuronal survival or lead to Ca(2+)-mediated neurotoxicity. Similarly, growth cone mobility and neurite outgrowth may be promoted or arrested by elevated [Ca2+]i. We examined survival, development and transmitter release properties of chick sympathetic neurons maintained in culture medium containing varying concentrations of Ca2+. Neurons maintained in medium with no added Ca2+ or as low as 0.1 mM external Ca2+ show a dramatic change in growth and development compared to neurons kept in 1-2 mM Ca(2+)-containing medium. Furthermore, neurons in Ca(2+)-free medium (+ 100 microM EGTA) survived up to 24 h and, following change to 0.1 mM Ca2+, grew neurites and survived for several weeks. Neurons grown in high Ca2+ medium (0.6-2 mM) exhibited thick neurites, aggregated cell bodies, and neurites began to detach after six to eight days in culture. Neurons in low Ca2+ medium (no added Ca2+ to 0.3 mM) grew as single cells with extensive, thin branching neurites, remained firmly attached to the substrate and survived for several weeks. Neurons initially plated in 0.1 mM Ca2+ (or 2 mM Ca2+) medium and switched over to 2 mM (or 0.1 mM) Ca2+ medium after two days acquired the characteristic morphology of high (and low) Ca2+ medium over the next six days, demonstrating the plasticity of effects of external Ca2+. The above characteristic changes in growth of sympathetic neurons in low Ca2+ medium occurred when neurons were supported by 35 mM KCl or 30 nM phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate instead of nerve growth factor. The uptake and retention of tritiated norepinephrine in neurons grown in low or high Ca2+ medium were similar. However, basal release of [3H]norepinephrine in neurons maintained in low Ca2+ medium was one-third of that in neurons kept in high Ca2+ medium. Furthermore, electrically stimulated (10 pulses at 1 or 10 Hz) [3H]norepinephrine release from neurons grown in high Ca2+ had a high fractional release (&gt; 1%) which did not change during six days in culture. On the other hand, fractional release in neurons grown in low Ca2+ medium for six to 10 days decreased about 50% and 75%, respectively, compared to release after two days in culture. The resulting low fractional release (&lt; 0.5%) is characteristic of sympathetic neurons in neuroeffector organs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Quantitative immunohistochemistry was used to study the innervation of the ureter in adult rats pretreated with capsaicin as neonates (50 mg/kg) or as adults (100-150 mg/kg, 10-22 days prior to being killed) using antibodies against protein gene-product 9.5, neuron-specific enolase, substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, neuropeptide Y, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. The number of calcitonin gene-related peptide- and substance P-containing fibres was reduced in the subepithelial plexus (adult capsaicin treatment &lt; 1%, neonatal treatment &lt; 5% of control), the submucosa (adult treatment &lt; 11%; neonatal treatment &lt; 51%) and in the smooth muscle layer and adventitia (adult treatment &lt; 11%; neonatal treatment &lt; 58%). Fibres immunoreactive for protein gene-product 9.5, a general neuronal marker, were reduced to 11% (adult treatment) or 0.5% (neonatal treatment) in the subepithelial plexus, but unchanged in the other layers, indicating a selective regional degeneration. In the smooth muscle layer the number of neuropeptide Y- and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-containing nerve fibres was not altered by capsaicin. The number of neuropeptide Y fibres in the subepithelial plexus, however, was significantly increased after adult treatment (174% of control). After neonatal capsaicin treatment the intensity of the neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity was increased, more neuropeptide Y-positive nerve bundles were found and immunoreactive cell bodies were observed regularly in the adventitia of the ureter. The data indicate that capsaicin produces a selective degeneration of most afferent fibres in the subepithelial plexus of the rat ureter. This loss of capsaicin-sensitive afferent nerves evokes neuroplastic changes resulting in a hyperinnervation by neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive, presumably sympathetic fibres. The results suggest a mutual regulation of the pattern and density of innervation of peripheral target tissues by sensory and sympathetic neurons.
This study evaluated the effect of surgical sympathectomy on pain-related behaviours in a well established model of peripheral mononeuropathy produced by loose ligatures around the common sciatic nerve in the rat. Behavioural abnormalities include spontaneous abnormal position of the hindpaw after the nerve constriction, indicative of &quot;spontaneous pain&quot;, and changes in responses to mechanical or thermal stimuli applied to this paw. These changes are usually maximal at week 2 after the surgery, stable until weeks 3-4, and disappear between weeks 8 and 12. To assess the role of the sympathetic nervous system in the development and persistence of these abnormalities, four groups of rats were behaviourally tested: (i) rats receiving a complete sham surgery, (ii) rats with a sciatic nerve constriction produced by loose ligatures around the common nerve trunk plus a sham sympathectomy, (iii) rats receiving a lumbar sympathectomy with a sham nerve ligature, and (iv) rats receiving a simultaneous surgical lumbar sympathectomy and a sciatic nerve constriction. The efficacy of the sympathectomy was assessed by the measure of the noradrenaline level in the sciatic nerve. Sympathectomy reduced selectively or even prevented the abnormal reaction to cold temperature and to heat (45 degrees C) in rats with a peripheral mononeuropathy. In contrast, the abnormal reaction to mechanical pressure was not influenced, and the behavioural abnormalities indicating spontaneous pain were still present. Sympathectomy alone resulted in a reduction of the vocalization threshold to pressure on both hindpaws, but also a short-lasting increased tolerance to cold immersion. This study confirms the selective role of the sympathetic nervous system in affecting the development and maintenance of some abnormal pain-related behaviours to thermal stimuli in rats with a moderate, but persistent, constriction of one sciatic nerve.
A variety of neurodegenerative disease states have been associated with oxidative damage or stress. Such stress is thought to be mediated by excessive exposure of cells to reactive oxygen species such as free radicals, which can be generated following cell lysis, oxidative burst (as part of the immune response) or by the presence of an excess of free transition metals. Since the neuronal death observed in neurodegenerative diseases may be related to free radical damage, we were interested in developing a model system to investigate the mechanisms by which reactive oxygen species may damage or kill neurons. To this end, we have recently reported that brief exposure of cultured cortical neurons to H2O2 can induce neuronal death that proceeds via an apoptotic cell suicide pathway. The studies reported here investigate H2O2-induced cell death in more detail. Our data suggest that exposure of cultured cortical neurons to H2O2 can induce apoptotic cell death within 3 h, as assessed by cell viability, morphological and ultrastructural measures. In addition, experiments presented show that exposure to high concentrations of H2O2 (100 microM) causes increases in intracellular free calcium within 3 h, suggesting that increased intracellular calcium may be associated with some aspects of H2O2-induced cell death. However, at intermediate concentrations of H2O2 (30 microM), intracellular calcium remained stable during a 3 h exposure, during which time membrane blebbing was observed in ultrastructural studies. This suggests that some aspects of apoptotic cell death induced by H2O2 may not be associated with increased intracellular free calcium. Thus, this model appears valuable for studies of the mechanism(s) by which oxidative injury may induce apoptotic cell death and damage to neurons in the CNS.
In early postnatal life the acquisition of mature morphological and molecular features of motor neurons is influenced by synaptic activity within the spinal cord. Glutamatergic synaptic neurotransmission is believed to play a central role in this process. We hypothesize that the repertoire of glutamate receptors expressed by neurons in the young spinal cord differ from those expressed in adults and such receptors support activity-dependent developmental plasticity. To explore this idea, we used in situ hybridization histochemistry to determine the distribution, temporal expression, and potential subunit composition of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors in the developing rat spinal cord and compared these findings with those in adult rats. We find qualitative and quantitative changes in alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor subunit gene expression over the first month of postnatal life. alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor subunit genes GluR1, 2 and 4 are expressed at greater levels throughout the spinal cord of the neonate versus the adult animals. The developmental down-regulation is most pronounced for GluR1 transcripts, less for GluR2 and GluR4 transcripts, and minimal for GluR3 transcripts. Analysis of flip and flop splice variants of each subunit show that receptors expressed by adult motor neurons are potentially composed of the subunits GluR1 flop, GluR2 flip, GluR3 flip and flop, and GluR4 flip. In neonatal motor neuron all subunits are potentially expressed (except GluR2 flop) with quantitatively the dominent subunits being the flip splice variants of GluR1, 2 and 4. Receptors in the substantia gelatinosa undergo equally dramatic, developmentally independent changes. Changes in the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor subunit composition are likely to have an important effect on the electrophysiological properties of motor neurons and may form part of the molecular identity of neurons capable of undergoing activity-dependent developmental plasticity.
Synaptic activity in early postnatal life is important for the acquisition of mature structural and functional properties of neurons. Previous studies indicate that the mature molecular features of spinal motor neurons emerge during a period of activity-dependent development in early postnatal life. Since glutamatergic synaptic transmission provides the major excitatory drive into motor neurons, glutamate receptors are likely to play a central role in motor neuron activity-dependent development. To gain insight into this process, we have used receptor autoradiography, immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry to determine the distribution, temporal expression and potential subunit composition of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid subtype glutamate receptors in the developing rat spinal cord. Using two different ligands, [3H]-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid and [3H]-6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, we find that alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid binding sites in the adult are largely restricted to the substantia gelatinosa. In marked contrast, during early postnatal life, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid binding sites are transiently expressed at high levels in the ventral horn. This parallels previous findings on the developmental regulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor expression. Using alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor subunit-specific antibodies we show by immunoblot analysis and immunohistology that, to varying degrees, the expression patterns of glutamate receptor subunit 1 and glutamate receptor subunits 2/3 are significantly developmentally regulated. The most conspicuous change is the downregulation of glutamate receptor 1 expression within motor neurons over the first three weeks of postnatal life. The qualitative and quantitative changes we observe in glutamate receptor expression in early postnatal life are likely to have a major impact on the electrophysiological properties of young motor neurons and thus may contribute to their activity-dependent development.
The synaptic responses of turtle cerebellar Purkinje cells to stimulation of localized mossy fibre systems have been studied by use of intrasomatic and intradendritic recordings in a brainstem-cerebellum preparation in vitro. Activation of mossy fibre inputs from the spinocerebellar pathway evoked fast, disynaptic postsynaptic potentials which were graded in amplitude with stimulus intensity and elicited at latencies consistent with those reported for peripheral nerve stimulation. Repetitive activation (50-100 Hz, 2-10 stimuli) of both spinocerebellar and trigeminocerebellar pathways evoked a slow, long-lasting excitatory postsynaptic potential regardless of whether single stimuli resulted in excitatory, inhibitory, or no postsynaptic responses. This slow potential was capable of triggering dendritic pacemaker discharges in recorded Purkinje cells in addition to volleys of simple spikes when activated at or near resting membrane potential. The fast excitatory synaptic potentials evoked by spinocerebellar stimulation were blocked by the glutamate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, consistent with the hypothesis that they are mediated by activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisox-azole-4-proprionic acid subtype at the mossy fibre-granule cell synapse and the subsequent parallel fibre-Purkinje cell synapse. The slow excitatory synaptic potential evoked by repetitive stimulation of either the spinocerebellar tract or trigeminal nerve was blocked by DL-2-amino-5-phosphonvalerate, indicating that this potential is primarily dependent upon N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors at the mossy fibre-granule cell synapse for its expression. This slow potential was reversibly potentiated by L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate and bicuculline; the metabotropic glutamate antagonist (+)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine did not block this potentiation. The ability of mossy fibre inputs to drive long, slow excitatory events in Purkinje cells adds another dimension to the mechanisms by which various sensory modalities can be processed interactively in the cerebellar cortex. The ability of incoming systems to access a second, longer duration response of the cerebellar output neuron may be of significant consequence to our understanding of the manner in which this neural centre integrates sensory information from multiple sources.
The consequences of epileptiform discharge on the expression of glutamate and GABA receptors were examined by in situ hybridization histochemistry after treatment of rat hippocampal slice cultures with convulsants. Application of 500 microM picrotoxin for two days led to decreases in the messenger RNA levels for the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunits, NR2A and NR2B, and for the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunits, glutamate receptors 1 and glutamate receptors 2, to about 50% of the levels seen in control cultures. Messenger RNA levels for the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit, NR1; the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunits, glutamate receptors 3 and 4; the high-affinity kainate receptor subunits 1 and 2; and the GABAA receptor subunits, alpha 2, beta 2, gamma 2 were unchanged. Decreased levels of expression were no longer seen five days after removal of convulsant. The down-regulation could be prevented by co-application of both the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) and dizocilpine maleate, but not by applying each alone. Application of CNQX or dizocilpine maleate in the absence of picrotoxin also resulted in changes in glutamate receptor expression. We suggest that the convulsant-induced reduction in glutamate receptor expression leads to a decreased excitability in these cultures, and that this down-regulation represents a compensatory reaction of hippocampal pyramidal cells to enhanced excitatory input.
This study compares certain behavioural consequences of partial and complete unilateral lesions of the dopaminergic mesotelencephalic system. We investigated skilled forelimb use, rotations induced by apomorphine and amphetamine, and dopaminergic metabolism of the nigrostriatal system of rats that had received a unilateral injection of 6-hydroxydopamine into the medial forebrain bundle. The rats classified Apo(+), that rotated after the administration of apomorphine, had a complete lesion of the nigrostriatal system, whereas those classified Apo(-), that did not rotate after the administration of apomorphine, had a partial lesion of the nigrostriatal system. In the Apo(+) rats, 99.8% of the dopamine in the striatum was depleted, as was 85% of that in the substantia nigra. For the Apo(-) rats, 72% of the dopamine in the striatum was depleted as was 56% of that in the substantia nigra. When investigated with the staircase test, the animals with the most severe dopamine depletions were those most impaired in the paw reaching task. Complete and partial unilateral depletions of the dopaminergic mesotelencephalic system impaired the hierarchic phases of paw reaching differently. A complete dopamine depletion, but not a partial one, decreased the number of attempts made with the contralateral paw, and induced a bias towards the ipsilateral paw. A partial dopamine lesion impaired the sensorimotor co-ordination of both paws, whereas the complete dopamine lesion had a greater effect on the contralateral paw than on the ipsilateral paw. The mild paw reaching impairments observed in animals with moderate depletions of dopamine are proposed as a model of the early symptoms of Parkinson's disease that may be useful for the development of protective or restorative therapies.
Extracellular potassium concentrations, [K+]e, were measured in vivo in the rat dorsal hippocampus using valinomycin-based double-barrelled ion-selective microelectrodes. Experiments were conducted under chloral hydrate anaesthesia. The microelectrodes were implanted stereotaxically, after which different gas mixtures were administered by inhalation. Transient hypoxia was induced by changing the inspired gas from 20% O2/80% N2 to 10-0% O2/90-100% N2 for 0.5-2 min. Resting [K+]e in the dorsal hippocampus was 3.4 +/- 0.09 mM; 0.5, 1 or 2 min of 100% N2 administration caused a rapid rise of [K+]e to 0.75, 1.9 and 15 mM, respectively. Following 0.5 min of 100% N2, the switch back to 20% O2/80% N2 produced an almost instantaneous return to normal levels. The return of [K+]e to basal levels was more delayed after 1 or 2 min of 100% N2 inhalation. The rise of hippocampal [K+]e induced by hypoxia was influenced by body temperature, the increase being five-fold higher in rats whose body temperature was raised from 33 to 37 degrees C using a heating blanket. Three potassium-channel blocking agents, quinine, 4-aminopyridine and gliquidone, were tested for their action on the increase in [K+]e, induced by inhalation of 100% N2 for 0.5 min. Both 4-aminopyridine and quinine, administered systemically, attenuated the anoxia-induced rise in [K+]e by 70 and 35%, respectively. In contrast, gliquidone, given by intracerebroventricular injection, had no effect, suggesting that ATP-sensitive potassium channels are not involved in this very early change in [K+]e.
There are reports that insulin may protect neurons from the effects of ischemia. The mechanisms for this protection are not fully understood. We studied the extracellular levels of glutamate and GABA in insulin-treated animals exposed to transient forebrain ischemia under normoglycemic and hypoglycemic conditions. In vivo microdialysis technique was used to collect extracellular fluid from the CA1 region of the hippocampus. There was a significant increase in GABA levels in the two insulin-treated sub-groups compared with the controls. GABA levels were &lt; 1 pmol/10 microliters in three 10 min collections prior to ischemia in all the groups. It increased from 11.1 +/- 3.5 pmol/10 microliters in the conrol group to 47 +/- 5 (P &lt; 0.001) in the insulin-treated hypoglycemic group and up to 47.2 +/- 9.3+ (P &lt; 0.005) in the insulin-treated normoglycemic group (two-way ANOVA with repeated measures). Ischemia resulted in an increase in the glutamate levels. The glutamate levels returned to baseline within 30 min of the insult. There were no significant differences in the glutamate levels in three groups. The increase in GABA concentrations in the extracellular space may result in the inhibition of CA1 pyramidal neurons. This may be a possible mechanism of neuronal protection in animals treated with insulin (with or without being hypoglycemic) during ischemia.
Hippocampal long-term potentiation may serve as an elementary process underlying certain forms of learning and memory in vertebrates. As is the case with behavioural memory, hippocampal long-term potentiation in the CA1 region and in the dentate gyrus exhibits distinct phases. These comprise a short-term early potentiation which lasts one to three hours and is independent of protein synthesis and is characterized in general by the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and protein kinases; and a later, longer lasting phase, which can be separated by inhibitors of protein synthesis. Here, we report that the prior induction of long-term potentiation, both in the dentate gyrus in vivo and in the CA1-region in vitro, precludes further long-term but not short-term potentiation by means of a newly delivered conditioning stimulus to a subset of the same activated synapse population during the early stage (approximately 1-3 hours post tetanus). In contrast, a subsequent, long-lasting potentiation can be induced after the establishment of the late phase of potentiation (&gt; 4 h). Thus, the system preserves the capacity for short-term potentiation immediately after potentiation, but the capacity for the induction of longer lasting plastic changes is recovered only after about four hours. Our results demonstrate that, once long-term potentiation has been established, hippocampal neurons do not lose their capacity for functional plasticity during certain phases of the maintenance of long-term potentiation.
Field potentials recorded from a group of cells in the intermediomedial gray matter of spinal cord slices from neonatal rats showed long-term potentiation and long-term depression in response to brief bursts of high frequency conditioning stimulation. Both N-methyl-D-aspartic acid-dependent and N-methyl-D-aspartic acid-independent long-term potentiation was seen. The long-term depression was partially reversed, but not prevented from occurring, by the opiate antagonist naloxone. The frequency of occurrence of long-term potentiation and depression was affected by the inhibitory blockers bicuculline and strychnine in a fashion consistent with the hypothesis that a slight depolarization favoured long-term potentiation and a larger depolarization favoured long-term depression.
The neuropeptide somatostatin is widely distributed in the central nervous system and in peripheral tissues and may be involved in the regulation of a number of physiological functions including movement and cognition. Somatostatin may also have a role in the development of the central nervous system, in particular, the cerebellum and spinal cord. Somatostatin induces its actions by interacting with a family of membrane associated receptors. Recently, five somatostatin receptors have been cloned and referred to as SSTR1-SSTR5. The distribution of the expression of the mRNAs for these receptors are distinct but overlapping. Preliminary pharmacological analysis of these receptors may lead to the development of selective ligands at these receptors. These compounds may be useful in identifying the selective functions of these receptor subtypes. Some somatostatin analogues have antiproliferative actions and are used presently to treat carcinoids. Development of subtype selective somatostatin analogues could be helpful in further identifying somatostatin receptor-expressing tumors and in the treatment of cancer. The cloning of these receptors has now opened up the possibility of more clearly investigating the functions of somatostatin in the brain and peripheral tissues and will facilitate the generation of new somatostatin drugs that may be employed for the treatment of a number of diseases.
Immunocytochemistry was used to characterize oligodendrocyte maturation in the developing mammalian olfactory system. Postnatal day 10-16, 20, 30 and adult rats were examined, as well as postnatal day 20, 30, 40 and adult Monodelphis domestica (the grey, short-tailed opossum). In rats, oligodendrocyte/myelin-immunoreactivity first appears in the accessory olfactory bulb by day 11, with labeling rapidly increasing throughout the entire bulb over the next five days. An adult pattern of immunoreactivity, characterized by dense labeling in the granule cell layer, sparse immunoreactivity in the external plexiform layer, and staining along the periphery of glomeruli, is attained by day 30. Staining is apparent in both the lateral olfactory tract and anterior commissure by day 11, and becomes heavy by day 20. While patterns of oligodendrocyte/myelin-immunoreactivity in the adult Monodelphis and rat bulb are similar, staining first appears much later in the opossum (around day 30), and maturation occurs more slowly. For example, rostral-caudal gradients in the development of staining in the anterior commissure were noted which were not seen in the rat. These differences emerge because Monodelphis' slower growth allows more resolution into developmental sequences. Finally, in rats, unilateral naris closure on the day after birth, which significantly alters normal patterns of bulb development, has no effect on the pattern and level of immunoreactivity even after long (30 day) survival periods. In both normal and naris occluded rats, oligodendrocyte/myelin-immunoreactivity is found in caudal aspects of the rat bulb on day 11 and subsequently progresses throughout the entire bulb over the next five days. Patterns in the Monodelphis bulb mirror those observed in the rat, however, staining appears later and progresses more slowly, suggesting Monodelphis is a useful animal for examining early myelin formation.
The distribution of tubulin, microtubule-associated protein 2 and Tau in the spinal cords of bullfrog tadpoles during development and after transection was studied. alpha-Tubulin or beta-tubulin immunoreactivity was present in the axons, neuronal perikarya and dendrites, as revealed by immunocytochemistry. The axonal staining intensity of the tubulins in the tadpoles was significantly stronger than that in the adult bullfrog. Microtubule-associated protein 2 immunoreactivity was localized largely to dendrites and expanded from distal to proximal dendrites with time; a high-molecular-weight microtubule-associated protein 2 was seen on the immunoblots of cord homogenates throughout development Tau1 stained mainly the axons. Two-dimensional gel immunoblotting disclosed that the tadpole contained a greater number of isoforms of Tau than the frog. Complete transection of the spinal cords of stage IV tadpoles was followed by regeneration of the damaged cord region. The levels of tubulin and Tau immunoreactivity in the regenerating axons of the ventral fasciculi were generally increased. Strikingly, microtubule-associated protein 2 immunoreactivity appeared in the regenerating axons and the chromatolytic cell bodies of axotomized motor neurons, paralleling the induction of microtubule-associated protein 2c in the regenerating cord segment shown by immunoblotting. The chromatolytic cell bodies were also markedly labeled by Tau1, whereas the high-molecular-weight microtubule-associated protein 2 diminished on the immunoblots, in accordance with the reduced level of staining for the dendrites. It is apparent that the changes in the cytoskeletal proteins in the regenerating axons mostly recapitulated their developmental patterns. Moreover, the data indicate a close relationship between tubulin and microtubule-associated proteins in axonal growth as well as providing evidence for similar molecular mechanisms underlying successful regeneration for central and peripheral axons.
Peripheral inflammation induced in adult rats by an intraplantar injection of complete Freund's adjuvant results in a rapid (6 h) increase in the expression of the messenger RNAs for the neuronal growth-associated protein 43 and for preprotachykinin A, the precursor for substance P, in dorsal root ganglion sensory neurons innervating the inflamed area. This increase peaks at 48 h and then declines by five days. The changes are present in the dorsal root ganglion cells innervating the inflamed skin (lumbar 4 or 5) but no elevation was found in the third lumbar dorsal root ganglion which innervates neighbouring non-inflamed skin. The increased growth-associated protein 43 messenger RNA in the dorsal root ganglion is followed by a marked increase in growth-associated protein 43-like immunoreactive fibres in the epidermis of the inflamed skin. Systemic administration of neutralizing anti-nerve growth factor antibodies immediately prior to the inflammation prevents the increase in growth-associated protein 43 and preprotachykinin A messenger RNAs in the sensory neurons. A subcutaneous injection of nerve growth factor (200 ng) into the hindpaw elevates preprotachykinin A but not growth-associated protein 43 messenger RNA in the fourth lumbar dorsal root ganglion 48 h post-injection and this could be prevented by co-administration of the anti-nerve growth factor serum. The production of nerve growth factor in inflamed target tissues leads to alterations in the phenotype of responsive adult primary sensory neurons which include a change in the levels of a growth-related protein and a peptide neuromodulator.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We have examined the effects of low pH and the selectivity of the capsaicin antagonist capsazepine on single sensory fibres innervating the guinea-pig trachea in vitro, and on the whole isolated vagus nerve. Application of a pH 5 solution for 1 min to the exposed receptive fields of single fibres caused excitation of all C-fibres tested but had no effect on A delta-fibres. Capsazepine (1 microM) perfused onto the receptive field for 5 min produced a reversible inhibition of both low pH- and capsaicin (60 nM)-evoked firing of C-fibres. In contrast, capsazepine had no effect on responses of C-fibres to bradykinin (0.1 microM) or of A delta-fibres to hypertonic saline. Perfusion of tissues with zero-calcium Krebs' solution containing trypsin produced denudation of the epithelium. In these tissues responses to low pH and capsaicin were unchanged and, moreover, the inhibitory effect of capsazepine against low pH and capsaicin was maintained. C- and A delta-fibre responses to bradykinin and hypertonic saline were similarly unaffected by epithelium removal. Perfusion of the whole guinea-pig vagus nerve with capsaicin (0.3 microM) or pH 5 buffer caused depolarization. However, in this preparation prior perfusion with capsazepine (1 microM) abolished responses to capsaicin whilst low pH-evoked depolarization was unchanged. These data show that capsazepine is a specific antagonist of proton- and capsaicin-evoked activation of the peripheral endings of sensory nerves in the guinea-pig airways, and suggest the release by protons of an endogenous ligand for the capsaicin receptor that does not originate from the epithelium.
Three hours after intraplantar carrageenin (6 mg/150 microliters) Fos-like immunoreactivity was predominantly observed in the superficial and deep laminae of the L4-L5 segments of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord in the rat. The total number of Fos-like immunoreactive neurons was equally divided between the superficial (laminae I-II) and deep laminae (laminae V-VI), 99 +/- 3 and 102 +/- 7 Fos-like immunoreactive neurons per section, respectively. In the absence of carrageenin stimulation a negligible number of Fos-like immunoreactive neurons were observed. Pre-administered systemic morphine (0.3 mg/kg) did not significantly influence the total number of Fos-like immunoreactive neurons 3 h after carrageenin. However, pre-administration of a higher dose of morphine (3 mg/kg) significantly reduced the total number of Fos-like immunoreactive neurons (28 +/- 8% reduction, P &lt; 0.001, as compared with control carrageenin Fos-like immunoreactive expression), with this effect being equally divided between the superficial and deep laminae (29 +/- 5 and 29 +/- 6% reduction, respectively, P &lt; 0.001, as compared with control carrageenin Fos-like immunoreactive expression, for both). Pre-administration of the selective cholecystokinin B receptor antagonist, L-365-260 (0.2 mg/kg), alone did not influence the total number of Fos-like immunoreactive neurons 3 h after carrageenin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The dorsolateral medulla, including the nucleus reticularis parvicellularis, the cuneate nucleus, and the external cuneate nucleus, is an integrative region for a variety of sensory inputs. The purpose of this study was to determine whether individual neurons respond to a variety of different sensory modalities. To this end, responses of 40 neurons in the dorsolateral medulla to multiple sources of sensory input were assessed in cats anesthetized with alpha-chloralose. Neurons were located in the nucleus reticularis parvicellularis (24 cells, 60%), the cuneate nucleus (10 cells, 25%), and the external cuneate nucleus (6 cells, 15%). All neurons were tested for responses to: electrical stimulation of afferents coursing through the left stellate ganglion and afferents in the left cervical vagus nerve, and somatic, auditory, and visual stimulation. No neurons responded to all five stimuli. Three cells (7.5%) responded to four stimuli, 11 (27.5%) responded to three stimuli, 10 (25.0%) responded to two stimuli, and 15 (37.5%) responded to only a single stimulus. The remaining cell was unresponsive to any stimulus. As a group, neurons in the nucleus reticularis parvicellularis received input from the greatest number of sensory modalities, and cuneate nucleus neurons received input predominantly from somatosensory afferents. External cuneate nucleus neurons displayed response profiles intermediate between nucleus reticularis parvicellularis and cuneate nucleus. In addition, eight neurons (20% of the total) were sensitive to changes in blood pressure. Results of the present study support the hypothesis that neurons in the nucleus reticularis parvicellularis receive convergent inputs from different sensory modalities.2+ behaviors.
The present study used quantitative receptor autoradiography to examine the effects of aging on the binding profile of the strychnine-sensitive glycine receptor in the Fischer 344 rat. Glycine receptor binding sites were localized using [3H]strychnine in two principal subdivisions of the cochlear nucleus; the dorsal and anteroventral cochlear nucleus. These central auditory brainstem structures are known to receive extensive glycinergic inputs. In young rats, single concentrations of [3H]strychnine showed significantly higher binding levels in the dorsal cochlear nucleus than the anteroventral cochlear nucleus (+38%, P &lt; 0.001). Little binding was detected in regions of the posteroventral cochlear nucleus, and no specific binding was apparent in the cerebellum. Saturation analysis in the dorsal cochlear nucleus revealed an affinity constant (Kd) of 16.9 nM and a maximum number of binding sites of 850 fmol/mg protein. A significant age-related decrease in [3H]strychnine (8 nM) binding was observed in the anteroventral cochlear nucleus (-37%, P = 0.003) and dorsal cochlear nucleus (-23%, P = 0.034) of 26-month-old rats compared with three-month-old rats. Saturation analysis indicated that the observed decrease in binding was due to a decrease in the total number of binding sites with no significant change in affinity. In the dorsal cochlear nucleus, the number of binding sites was reduced (-26%) in 26-month-old rats compared with three-month-old adults (P = 0.011). Kd was decreased (-22%) in 26-month-old rats when compared with young adults, but this decrease was not statistically significant (P = 0.377).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Ponto-geniculo-occipital waves precede rapid eye movement sleep and play an important role in triggering and maintaining rapid eye movement sleep. Ponto-geniculo-occipital waves have been implicated in several important functions such as sensorimotor integration, learning, cognition, development of the visual system, visual hallucination, and startle response. Peribrachial area neurons have long been thought to play a key role in the triggering of ponto-geniculo-occipital wave. However, the exact location within the peribrachial area for triggering pontine ponto-geniculo-occipital wave has not been unequivocally demonstrated. In an attempt to address this issue, kainic acid was microinjected (1.0 micrograms) unilaterally into the caudo-lateral peribrachial area of four cats in order to destroy the cell bodies located in that region and thus to study the effects of their destruction upon waking-sleep states and ponto-geniculo-occipital waves. The kainic acid produced a small spherical area of nerve cell loss and/or gliosis centered on the stereotaxic coordinates of P: 4.0, L: 4.5, and H: -2.5. The maximum diameter of that spherical area of cell loss was 0.9 mm. Unilateral lesioning of the caudo-lateral peribrachial area decreased ponto-geniculo-occipital waves during rapid eye movement sleep by 85% ipsi-laterally and 15% contralaterally in the lateral geniculate body without significantly changing the amounts of time spent in wake, slow-wave sleep, and rapid eye movement sleep. These results suggest that the caudo-lateral peribrachial area cells are critical to the genesis of ponto-geniculo-occipital waves, and provide compelling evidence that the different parts of the peribrachial area have quite different roles in the generation of discrete rapid eye movement sleep signs. We propose that caudo-lateral peribrachial cells exert an excitatory influence on rostral peribrachial cells, which then directly activate the ponto-geniculo-occipital waves that are recorded in the lateral geniculate body. Results of this study are not only important to understand the mechanisms generating ponto-geniculo-occipital waves but also could be used as an experimental tool to study the functions of this wave.
In sympathetic neurons, axotomy induces a marked depression in synaptic transmission. We asked whether the decrease in synaptic efficacy observed in a given axotomized cell is more severe if most of the postsynaptic neurons are also injured. Accordingly, we studied if the synaptic depression induced by axotomy in neurons with axons running in a postganglionic nerve is influenced by section of other postganglionic nerves. The excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked by preganglionic stimulation were recorded intracellularly in an in vitro preparation of the superior cervical ganglion. Eight days after cutting the inferior postganglionic nerve, postsynaptic potentials recorded from neurons projecting through this nerve were smaller (median = 6 mV, n = 62) than the controls (median = 34 mV, n = 89), but were similar to those found after sectioning the inferior nerve plus most postganglionic nerves (median = 5 mV, n = 70). If the inferior nerve was left intact, but most postganglionic branches were cut, the synaptic potentials recorded from inferior nerve neurons were normal (median = 33 mV, n = 77). It is concluded that the synaptic depression induced by axotomy in a sympathetic neuron is not affected by axotomy of nearby ganglion cells, even if they share part of their presynaptic axons. This suggests that the effect of axotomy is restricted to the synaptic terminals on the injured neuron.
Antibodies directed against choline acetyltransferase and glutamic acid decarboxylase were used in combination with recently developed stereological techniques to quantify changes in cholinergic, GABAergic, and total neuron number (Nissl-stain) within adjacent tissue sections through the horizontal limb/nucleus basalis in young (3 months, n = 6) and aged (27 months, n = 6) Fischer-344 male rats. Unbiased estimates of total neuron number within these regions were produced using a three-dimensional optical probe, the optical disector, in combination with a systematic random sampling scheme. Estimates of cell counts in immunostained tissue sections were conducted throughout the entire horizontal limb/nucleus basalis region. A significant 30% decrease in both cholinergic and total neuron number was detected in the aged animals; GABAergic neuron number remained unchanged. Total neuron number was significantly correlated with both cholinergic (r = 0.94) and glial cell number (r = 0.63), but not with GABAergic cell number. Based on neuron counts within an individual thick tissue section, the cholinergic neurons comprised only 11-15% of all neurons in the nucleus basalis of young and aged animals. Cholinergic neuron loss accounted for only 20% of the total age-related neuron loss within the horizontal limb/nucleus basalis in Fischer-344 male rats. These results indicate that age-related cholinergic neuron loss within the basal forebrain is reflected in reductions in total neuron number; however, GABAergic neurons, many of which project to the cortex, are unaffected by age. The magnitude of the age-related total neuron loss cannot be entirely accounted for by cholinergic cell loss. Therefore, an unidentified non-cholinergic, non-GABAergic component within the basal forebrain is also lost during aging and may contribute to the cognitive deficits previously ascribed to cholinergic dysfunction.
The cholinergic neuronal structures and their synaptic connections in the main olfactory bulb of adult rats were analysed by using choline acetyltransferase immunocytochemistry. Within the glomeruli, cholinergic nerve fibers were restricted to strands which subdivided the neuropil into small compartments, the interior of which contained sensory axons but was devoid of cholinergic axons. Small numbers of choline acetyltransferase neurons were detected in all layers. Ultrastructural analysis revealed selective triadic synaptic relationships with different neuron classes in the intraglomerular area and in the external plexiform layer. These triads were made up of (i) a cholinergic axon, (ii) one or several periglomerular or granule cell dendrites, and (iii) usually one relay cell dendrite. In these triads, asymmetric cholinergic synapses were selectively focused on dendrites (gemmules and spines) of periglomerular or granule cells. Within the glomerulus, mitral and tufted cell dendrites were closely apposed to some cholinergic axon varicosities, most abundantly near arborizations of the apical dendrites. However, cholinergic synapses were never seen on any relay cell dendrite. In the external plexiform layer, cholinergic synapses were present on all parts of the superficial short-axon cells. In the internal plexiform layer and the granule cell layer, cholinergic axon varicosities exhibited close apposition or asymmetric synapses with granule cell gemmules. The data suggest that cholinergic projections from the basal forebrain to the main olfactory bulb focus synaptic innervation on interneurons. On relay cells, direct acetylcholine effects may occur, but these must be based on non-synaptic acetylcholine release at the surface of their dendrites.
Animal models with partial lesions of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway may be useful for developing neuroprotective and neurotrophic therapies for Parkinson's disease. To develop such a model, different doses of 6-hydroxydopamine (0.0, 0.625, 1.25, 2.5 and 5.0 micrograms/microliters in 3.5 microliters of saline) were unilaterally injected into the striatum of rats. Animals that received 1.25 to 5.0 micrograms/microliters 6-hydroxydopamine displayed dose-dependent amphetamine and apomorphine-induced circling. 6-Hydroxydopamine also caused dose-dependent reductions in [3H]mazindol-labeled dopamine uptake sites in the lesioned striatum and ipsilateral substantia nigra pars compacta (up to 93% versus contralateral binding), with smaller losses in the nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle and ventral tegmental area. In the substantia nigra pars compacta and the ventral tegmental area, the number of Nissl-stained neurons decreases in parallel with the reduction in [3H]mazindol binding. The reduction in [3H]mazindol binding in the striatum and the nucleus accumbens, and the reduction in [3H]mazindol binding and in the number of Nissl-stained neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta and the ventral tegmental area is stable for up to 12 weeks after the lesion. Macroscopically, forebrain coronal sections showed normal morphology, except for rats receiving 5.0 micrograms/microliters 6-hydroxydopamine in which striatal cross-sectional area was reduced, suggesting that this high dose non-specifically damages intrinsic striatal neurons. Nissl-stained sections revealed an area of neuronal loss and intense gliosis centered around the needle track, which increased in size with the dose of neurotoxin. Striatal [3H]sulpiride binding was increased by 2.5 micrograms/microliters and 5.0 micrograms/microliters 6-hydroxydopamine, suggesting up-regulation of dopamine D2 receptors. Striatal binding of [3H]CGS 21680-labeled adenosine A2a receptors, but not of [3H]SCH 23390-labeled dopamine D1 receptors, was reduced at the highest dose, suggesting preservation of the striatal intrinsic neurons with the lower doses. This study indicates that intrastriatal injection of different doses of 6-hydroxydopamine can be used to cause increasing amounts of dopamine denervation, which could model Parkinson's disease of varying degrees of severity. Injecting 3.5 microliters of 2.5 micrograms/microliters 6-hydroxydopamine appears to be particularly useful as a general model of early Parkinson's disease, since it induces a lesion characterized by robust drug-induced rotation, changes in binding consistent with approximately 70% dopamine denervation, approximately 19% dopamine D22 receptor up-regulation, negligible intrinsic striatal damage and stability for at least 12 weeks. This study outlines a technique for inducing partial lesions of the nigrostriatal dopamine pathway in rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The basolateral region of the amygdala and the lateral hypothalamic area are involved in cardiovascular regulation. The aim of the present investigation was to determine if the terminal field of afferent projections from the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala to the nucleus accumbens overlap with the origin of the efferent projections from the nucleus accumbens to the lateral hypothalamic area. Neurons projecting from the nucleus accumbens to the lateral hypothalamic area were labeled by injecting the retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold in the lateral hypothalamus of rats. In the same rats, fiber terminals from the amygdala to the nucleus accumbens were labeled by injecting the anterograde tracer Fluoro-Ruby in the basolateral region of the amygdala. Injections of Fluoro-Gold in the lateral hypothalamus labeled neurons in the posteromedial portion of the nucleus accumbens. Injections of Fluoro-Ruby in the basolateral amygdala labeled fibers and terminals in all parts of the nucleus accumbens with the highest density being found in the posteromedial part of the nucleus accumbens where Fluoro-Gold-labeled neurons were located. When regions of the posteromedial nucleus accumbens were examined under high-magnification, Fluoro-Ruby-labeled terminals appeared to make contact on Fluoro-Gold-labeled dendrites and cell bodies. This investigation demonstrates that there is a distinct overlap in the posteromedial region of the nucleus accumbens between the terminal field from neurons originating in the amygdala and neurons which project to the lateral hypothalamus. In addition, neurons in the basolateral amygdala appear to make synaptic contact with neurons in the nucleus accumbens that project to the lateral hypothalamic area.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Recent electrophysiological investigations in this laboratory have shown that cultured mesopontine serotonergic neurons from neonatal rats evoke serotonergic and/or glutamatergic responses in themselves and in non-serotonergic neurons. Serotonergic nerve terminals in vivo are heterogeneous with respect to vesicle type, synaptic structure, and the frequency with which they form conventional synaptic contacts, but the functional correlates of this heterogeneity are unclear. We have therefore examined the ultrastructure of electrophysiologically-characterized synapses formed by cultured serotonergic neurons, and have compared the findings with the ultrastructural characteristics of serotonergic synapses reported in vivo. Dissociated rat serotonergic neurons in microcultures were identified by serotonin immunocytochemistry or by uptake of the autofluorescent serotonin analogue 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine, and were subsequently processed for electron microscopy. Unlabeled axon terminals formed numerous synapses on serotonin-immunoreactive somata and dendrites. Serotonin-immunoreactive axon terminals formed synapses on the somata, dendrites and somatodendritic spine-like appendages of serotonergic and non-serotonergic neurons. In microcultures containing a solitary serotonergic neuron that evoked glutamatergic or serotonergic/glutamatergic autaptic responses, both symmetric and asymmetric synapses were present. In addition to large dense core vesicles, individual neurons contained either microcanaliculi and microvesicles, clear round vesicles, or clear pleiomorphic vesicles. For a given cell, however, the subtypes of vesicles present in each axon terminal were similar. Thus, dissociated serotonergic and non-serotonergic raphe neurons formed functional, morphological synapses in culture. A direct examination of both the synaptic physiology and ultrastructure of single cultured serotonergic neurons indicated that these cells released serotonin and glutamate at synapses that were morphologically similar to synapses formed by serotonergic neurons in vivo. The findings also suggested that individual serotonergic neurons differ with respect to synaptic vesicle morphology, and are capable of simultaneously forming symmetric and asymmetric synapses with target cells.
When cerebellar granule cells in the presence of 1.3 mM calcium chloride (Ca2+) are depolarized by high potassium chloride (KCl), the release of endogenous glutamate is coupled to a high threshold Ca2+ channel blocked by the spider toxin omega Agatoxin-glutamate-release-inhibitor (Aga-GI) and insensitive to the L-type voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel-inhibitor nifedipine. A prolonged KCl depolarization in the absence of Ca2+ followed by addition of 5 mM Ca2+ results in an enhanced nifedipine-sensitive Ca2+ entry; glutamate exocytosis retains sensitivity to tetanus toxin and bafilomycin A1, is now totally inhibited by nifedipine and shows greatly reduced sensitivity to AGA-GI. Single cell Ca2+ imaging indicates that the L-type channel modulating release is preferentially located at somatic regions rather than neurites. A different pattern of vesicle endocytosis monitored with the fluorescent indicator FM1-43 is seen in response to the two depolarization protocols. Furthermore, vesicles loaded during depolarization with high KCl in the presence of 5 mM Ca2+ extensively exocytose dye in a nifedipine-insensitive manner in response to a second similar stimulation but release little dye in response to stimulus with high KCl in the absence of Ca2+ followed by the addition of 5 mM Ca2+. In contrast, vesicles loaded by stimulating with KCl in the absence of Ca2+ followed by the addition of 5 mM Ca2+ can be released by a second similar stimulus and this release is sensitive to nifedipine. Nifedipine sensitivity is not induced in cerebellar synaptosomes subjected to stimulation with high KCl in the absence of Ca2+ followed by the re-addition of 5 mM Ca2+. The results indicate that different populations of channels and vesicles may be functional during two depolarization protocols.
In cultured cerebellar granule neurons (seven days in vitro) the expression of GABAA receptor subunits was quantified by using freeze-fracture immunocytochemical techniques with antibodies that specifically recognize the alpha 1, alpha 6, beta 2-3, gamma 2 and delta subunits of the GABAA receptor. In some experiments we have also used a less specific antibody that recognizes several alpha receptor subunits (alpha-total). The specificity of these antibodies was verified in human embryonic kidney cell line no. 293 cells transfected with complementary DNAs codifying for various GABAA receptor subunits. The most abundant labeling in granule cells was generated by the antibody against the beta 2-3 subunits (approximately 44 colloidal gold particles/microns2), while the specific antibodies against alpha 1 and alpha 6 subunits show a labeling of about 16 colloidal gold particles/microns2. The alpha-total antibody shows a labeling of approximately 37 gold particles/microns2. Both the gamma 2 and delta antibodies show a labeling of about 10 gold particles/microns2. In granule cells, the relative proportion of the label density revealed with antibodies against alpha-total, beta 2-3, gamma 2 and delta subunits is approximately 4:4:1:1. Assuming that one molecular form of the alpha subunit is assembled in a GABAA receptor, it can be estimated that in granule cells about 50% of receptors include the alpha 1 subunit. A similar relative abundance can be estimated for the alpha 6 subunit. The proportion of GABAA receptors containing the gamma 2 or delta subunits can be estimated to be about 50% in each case. Cerebellar granule cells express various abundances of GABAA receptor subunits which can be estimated by freeze-fracture immunocytochemistry. Fifty to sixty percent of these subunits form small receptor clusters, which appear to be associated with neuronal cytoskeleton proteins.
The success of fetal neural transplantation in alleviating neurological dysfunction depends significantly on the degree of graft cellular survival and dispersion within the host. We hypothesize that various lesion-induced host factors, such as trophic support and denervation, enhance these graft factors differentially following unilateral intracerebroventricular kainic acid lesions. We have performed quantitative graft reconstructions of embryonic day 19 fetal hippocampal cells transplanted at different post-lesion delays (four, 11, 26 and 60 days) into adult hippocampus. We have used a permanent graft prelabel (5'-bromodeoxyuridine) which allows unambiguous identification of graft cell location in the host. Cellular integration of grafted cells was rigorously assessed by calculating both absolute cell survival (cells recovered/cells injected) and quantitative cell dispersion from the graft injection site. Graft cell survival and graft volume were dramatically enhanced in transplants performed ipsilateral to the kainic acid lesion, to a maximum of 77% cell recovery at a post-lesion graft delay of four days. Cell survival decreased over time after the lesion to the level of the contralateral grafts by 60 days post-lesion (33% cell survival), though cell survival on either side remained significantly greater than grafts into normal hosts (18% survival). The time-course of post-lesion enhanced survival (four to 26 days) in hippocampus ipsilateral to the lesion strongly correlated with reported peak neurotrophic activity (four to 30 days). Graft cell dispersion was limited in this model, averaging less than 500-microns-cell movement; there were no differences compared to transplants grafted into normal hippocampus. Timm's staining demonstrated host mossy fiber innervation of transplants to be denser ipsilateral to the kainic acid lesion, resulting in a partial decrease in dentate supragranular sprouting near appropriate grafts placed at early post-lesion time points. These results suggest that lesion-induced trophic support and denervation lead to improved graft cell survival but not graft cell dispersion. The improved survival of grafts transplanted into hippocampus contralateral to the lesion, compared to transplants in normal hippocampus, suggests that denervation alone exerts a significant effect on graft cell survival. However, this denervation effect on graft cell survival is significantly less than the combination of both enhanced neurotrophic factors and denervation observed ipsilateral to the lesion.
To investigate the changes underlying kindling epileptogenesis in the rat hippocampus, the levels of the messenger RNAs encoding for the subunits of the N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor (1, 2A-D) and the kainate-receptor (1, -2, GluR-5, -6, -7) were determined in hippocampal principal neurons using in situ hybridization techniques and semi-quantitative analysis of the autoradiograms. Schaffer collateral-commissural pathway kindled rats were investigated at three different stages of kindling acquisition, always 24 h after the last stimulation. Furthermore, fully kindled rats were studied at long-term (28 days) after termination of kindling stimulations. NR1 messenger RNA levels were slightly decreased in CA1 area of fully kindled animals. In the fascia dentata region, a minor increase of NR2A and NR2B transcripts was found at all stages of kindling acquisition. KA-2 messenger RNA was enhanced in all hippocampal subfields during kindling development. However, none of these changes persisted at long-term after the last seizure and only the low-abundant GluR-7 expression was slightly depressed in the fascia dentata. From our observations we conclude that it is unlikely that alterations in N-methyl-Daspartate or kainate receptor gene expression play an important role in kindling acquisition or maintenance.
To study the effects of norepinephrine on synaptic inhibition in the dentate gyrus, intracellular recordings were made from hilar neurons in the guinea-pig hippocampal slice. The effects of norepinephrine on hilar neurons were compared with changes in the frequency of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic potentials recorded from granule cells. Hilar neurons comprised two electrophysiologically distinct groups: type I hilar neurons displayed a pronounced single spike afterhyperpolarization and little spike frequency accommodation, type II hilar neurons had small afterhyperpolarizations and pronounced spike frequency accommodation. The majority of recordings were from type I hilar neurons which are presumably inhibitory to granule cells. In most instances, effects of norepinephrine (2-10 microM) on hilar neurons could be mimicked by the beta-adrenergic agonist isoproterenol (0.1-1 microM). Isoproterenol induced a slight depolarization, blocked a slow afterhyperpolarization and, in type II neurons, reduced spike frequency accommodation. These effects were associated with an increase in the spontaneous discharge rate and an enhancement of spontaneous excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. In accordance, isoproterenol and norepinephrine increased the frequency of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in granule cells. In the presence of the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist CGP 37849, isoproterenol and norepinephrine also increased the frequency of Cl- -dependent inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in granule cells. Under this experimental condition, however, norepinephrine reduced the discharge rate of type I hilar neurons through an effect on alpha-receptors. In the presence of GABAA receptor blockers, norepinephrine increased the frequency of spontaneously occurring K(+)-dependent inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in granule cells. Accordingly, the frequency of burst discharges in type I hilar neurons was increased. We suggest that the discrepancy in the effect of norepinephrine on the discharge rate of presumed inhibitory hilar neurons and the frequency of Cl- -dependent inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in granule cells results from a direct effect of norepinephrine on GABAergic terminals because norepinephrine also enhanced the frequency of tetrodotoxin-resistant inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in granule cells. Thus, the net effect of synaptically released norepinephrine on synaptic inhibition in the dentate gyrus will be determined by opposing actions of alpha- versus beta-receptor stimulation at the synapse on hilar neurons.
The present study deals with the question of whether L-type voltage-gated calcium channels can support the induction of input specific long-term potentiation. Tetanus-induced potentiation of synaptic transmission was examined in the CA1 region of normal and disinhibited guinea-pig hippocampal slices. It was found that afferent tetanization in the presence of 50 microM of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid led to a prolonged input specific potentiation. This potentiation was found only in disinhibited slices, its induction required cooperativity, and it was associated with an increase in the early part of the field excitatory postsynaptic potential initial slope. It was not affected by the L-type voltage-gated calcium channel blocker nifedipine, but it was reduced when D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid was supplemented with other N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists. The present study also examined a potentiation that was not restricted to the activated synapses and that was not associated with an increase in the early part of the field excitatory postsynaptic potential initial slope. This potentiation was blocked by the L-type voltage-gated calcium channel antagonist nifedipine. It is concluded that calcium influx through L-type voltage-gated calcium channels participates in the generation of a prolonged potentiation, but not of the input specific N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent long-term potentiation. The results also suggest that high concentrations of D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid can be insufficient to fully prevent N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation by strong afferent tetanization in the disinhibited slice.
Postsynaptic Ca2+ signals are a precondition for many types of synapse modification, including long-term potentiation. Here we describe a postsynaptic mechanism that augments synaptic currents at the serotonergic Retzius-P cell synapse of the leech. Depolarizations large enough to elicit Ca2+ currents evoked an increase in the amplitude of serotonin-activated Cl- currents in isolated embryonic neurons as well as at the Retzius-P cell synapse. The effect on embryonic whole cell currents lasted for up to one hour and was abolished in solutions containing Cd2+ as a Ca2+ channel blocker. Hence, Ca2+ influx into the postsynaptic neuron may be a common step regulating the plasticity of various vertebrate as well as invertebrate synapses.
Membrane currents evoked by iontophoretically applied acetylcholine were recorded from non-dissociated neurons of rat superior cervical ganglion using the whole-cell patch-clamp recording method. Blocking effects produced by a series of specially synthesized organic compounds, the blockers of the open channel of ganglionic nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, used as tools, were studied, and dimensions of the channel were deduced from correlation between the sizes of the blocking molecules and their blocking activities. Two channel cross-profiles were found, small and large, as approximated by the rectangles with the most probable dimensions 5.8 x 8.0 A and 7.0 x (8.4 - 9.0) A, at intra- and extracellular sides of the channel, correspondingly, in addition to the 6.1 x 8.3 A (medium) cross-profile found in our earlier work and localized between the two above. These findings indicate that the channel is funnel-shaped in the area where the open channel blockers are bound. The binding site is localized at the level of the medium cross-profile or between it and small cross-profile. The small cross-profile is probably a selectivity filter.
The developmental changes in alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) receptor properties in rat hippocampus were evaluated with quantitative autoradiography of ligand binding and in situ hybridization performed in adjacent sections with antisense oligonucleotides for AMPA receptor subunits (GluR1-3, flip and flop splice variants). Specific 3H-AMPA binding in different hippocampal subfields increased between postnatal day 7 and 15 and was higher in CA3 during the postnatal period when compared to adult levels. This effect was mostly due to high levels of high affinity binding sites in cell body layers during the developmental period. By contrast, autoradiograms of 3H-AMPA binding predominantly to the low affinity binding sites indicated an absence of these sites in cell body layers and the overall levels of binding exhibited little overshoot compared to adult levels during the developmental period. The changes in binding of the antagonist of the AMPA receptor, 6-nitro-7-cyanoquinoxaline-2,3-dione were markedly different from those for the high affinity AMPA binding sites but quite similar to those for the low affinity sites. The binding was extremely low at postnatal day 7 and increased rapidly between postnatal day 7 and 15 and slowly between postnatal day 15 and adult. Low levels of binding were observed in the cell body layer at every postnatal age. The changes in expression of messenger RNAs for the different subunits of the AMPA receptors were well correlated with the modifications in high affinity AMPA binding sites measured in the cell body layers also exhibiting an increased expression of the receptors at the transcriptional level during the developmental period as compared to adult levels. The relative expression of the GluR2 subunits decreased during the postnatal period and the time course for this reduction paralleled that for the increased vulnerability of hippocampal pyramidal neurons to a variety of insults. The results indicate that both the messenger RNAs for the subunits and the AMPA receptors exhibit increased levels of expression during the postnatal period compared to adult levels. They also suggest that nascent receptors might bind AMPA with high affinity before their insertion in membranes into functional receptors that have low affinity for agonists and high affinity for antagonists. The changes in subunit composition of the receptors during the postnatal period may have important implications for mechanisms of plasticity as well as of neuropathology.
The spontaneous activities, evoked postsynaptic potentials and membrane properties of spiny neurons in rat neostriatum were compared before, during and after 5-8 min ischemia using intracellular recording and staining techniques in vivo. Severe forebrain ischemia was induced with the four-vessel occlusion method. Approximately 2.5 min after the onset of ischemia the baseline membrane potential quickly depolarized to -20 mV and remained at this level during ischemia. Repolarization began within 2 min after recirculation. The onset of ischemic depolarization was directly related to the severity of ischemia and its latency was inversely related to brain temperature. Spontaneous firing and membrane potential fluctuation of spiny neurons ceased immediately after ischemia and slowly recovered several hours after recirculation. No neuronal hyperactivity was observed up to 7 h after recirculation. Cortically evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials and late depolarizations disappeared earlier after ischemia and recovered later following recirculation than the initial excitatory postsynaptic potentials. Membrane input resistance of spiny neurons was significantly increased but the time constant remained the same following recirculation. The rheobase and spike threshold of spiny neurons were significantly increased and the repetitive firing evoked by depolarizing current pulse was suppressed shortly after recirculation. The results of the present study indicated that the spontaneous activity and evoked postsynaptic responses of spiny neurons are suppressed and the excitability of spiny neurons is decreased after transient ischemia. The polysynaptic responses are more sensitive to ischemia than the monosynaptic ones.
Nitric oxide synthase activities in the facial motor nucleus were studied in rats after unilateral compression of the facial nerve. Using a radiometric assay which measured the total soluble nitric oxide synthase activities in the facial motor nucleus and the surrounding tissues, it was found that nitric oxide synthase activities were markedly increased during facial paralysis that resulted from compression of the facial nerve. The subsequent decrease in nitric oxide synthase activities between postoperative days 20 and 40 coincided with the recovery of facial functions. In contrast, staining with NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry revealed that the diaphorase activities in the facial motor neurons were markedly increased between days 20-40 when the total activities as measured biochemically were in decline. However, staining of the vascular endothelium was increased on postoperative day 7 when the total activity was high. It is suggested that the increase in total nitric oxide synthase activities immediately after facial nerve compression may be predominantly endothelial. Since the increase in neuronal NADPH-diaphorase reactivity coincided with the recovery of facial functions, increased neuronal nitric oxide synthase may be a contributing factor to the restoration of facial innervation. The results of this study show that biochemical measurements of soluble nitric oxide synthase activities in tissue homogenates and NADPH-diaphorase histochemical staining in tissue sections may represent two distinct populations of nitric oxide synthase.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The substantia nigra and globus pallidus (two iron-rich brain areas) receive a substantial innervation from the neostriatum, a considerable amount of which is GABAergic. Because of this anatomic relationship and the finding that prevention of GABA degradation in these two areas decreases their histochemical levels of iron, GABAergic transmission/metabolism may be important in regulating brain iron levels. Therefore, the present study investigated the effects of denervation of striatal/pallidal inputs to globus pallidus/substantia nigra on iron levels and associated pathologic changes in globus pallidus/substantia nigra. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats received unilateral ibotenic acid infusions resulting in comprehensive lesions of the entire neostriatum/globus pallidus complex, or of either the anterior neostriatum or the posterior neostriatum/globus pallidus. Animals were killed at one week or one month following surgery. Between one week and one month postlesioning, comprehensive neostriatum/globus pallidus lesions induced a progressive decrease in substantia nigra volume, as well as a progressive increase in both substantia nigra zona reticularis iron staining and substantia nigra iron concentration. By one month following neostriatum/globus pallidus lesions, a marked 73% loss of substantia nigra zona reticularis neurons occurred in association with a 65% increase in glial cell numbers within zona reticularis. Compared to comprehensive neostriatum/globus pallidus lesions at the one month postlesion time point, more restricted anterior neostriatum and posterior neostriatum/globus pallidus lesions induced a less severe atrophy of the substantia nigra, a small (anterior neostriatum lesions) to moderate (posterior neostriatum/globus pallidus lesions) increase in substantia nigra zona reticularis iron staining, and either no zona reticularis neuronal loss (anterior neostriatum lesions) or limited zona reticularis neuronal loss selectively within areas of increased iron staining. These results suggest that destruction of striatal/pallidal innervation to the substantia nigra's zona reticularis induces a disruption of zona reticularis iron homeostasis, resulting in a redistribution and/or accumulation of iron in the zona reticularis and consequent zona reticularis of the substantia nigra neurodegeneration. The results further suggest that loss or dysfunction of striatonigral/striatopallidal GABAergic neurons in several neurodegenerative diseases (including Hallervorden-Spatz syndrome, progressive supranuclear palsy, multiple system atrophy, and Parkinson's disease) may result in an increase or redistribution of nigral iron to cause loss of substantia nigra neurons.
Discoveries of long-term potentiation and immediate early gene in the central nervous system have enabled new developments in experiments on learning and memory. These experiments are conducted in many kinds of animals with different procedures, physiology, chemistry and pharmacology. However, there is still some confusion when these various procedures are discussed. Memory is defined as information storage of an animal's previous experiences. The memory induces changes in behavioral performance. This means that memory must be observed in whole animals, and one question that can occur is how does long-term potentiation, for example, correlate with memory. Furthermore, memory has been divided into two major classifications, declarative and non-declarative, from the comparison of amnesias observed in humans and animals. The declarative memory can be observed in human subjects, but not in animals. This article presents a neuronal circuit concerning memory formation and some results obtained from benzodiazepines, and it discusses some problems encountered executing when experiments on learning and memory. In addition, the discussion speculates over the possibility for an &quot;anti-dementia drug&quot;.

Fanconi syndrome is an important presentation of respiratory chain disease. We report three patients who presented in the neonatal period with Fanconi syndrome, lactic acidosis and intrauterine growth retardation. In all three patients the major biochemical defect was in complex III of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, a relatively uncommon defect. The diagnosis could only be made by muscle biopsy as the defect was not expressed in cultured skin fibroblasts. Treatment with vitamins C and K3 and ubiquinone did not alter the course of the disease and all patients died before the age of 4 months.
Soldiers must often carry heavy loads which can lead to symptoms of body soreness, aches, pains, and tiredness. This study assessed symptoms when soldiers carried loads in the standard U.S. Army ALICE pack (a single backpack) and in a prototype Double Pack (a two-pack system designed to alleviate symptoms by evenly distributing the load between a backpack and a frontpack). Each of 15 male soldiers completed a 20-km (12.4 mi) road march while carrying either 34, 48, or 61 kg (75, 105, or 135 lb) and while wearing either the ALICE pack or the Double Pack. Symptoms included feeling alert, good, and wide awake. Postmarch symptoms included tiredness, muscle tightness, and soreness of the legs, feet, back, and shoulders. Analyses of eight symptom factors showed that (a) as load increased, fatigue and muscle discomfort intensified, and alertness and feelings of well-being diminished and (b) distress and heat-illness indices were most intense at 61 kg with the Double Pack.
The ability to image the impedance changes that accompany neuronal depolarization in the brain would constitute a major advance in neuroscience technology. Unfortunately, these changes are likely to be small and rapid and so difficult to measure. The impedance change at frequencies above 10 kHz, as used by conventional EIT systems, may be estimated to be about 0.1%. Modelling indicates that a much larger impedance change of about 7% may occur with DC or very-low-frequency excitation. Difficulties with this approach include a low permissive current level and high electrode impedance. We constructed a prototype system employing square wave excitation at 5 Hz to evaluate such problems. It was tested in a saline-filled tank, recording 4000 frames s-1 at a current level of 50 microA. After averaging 100 sets of frames, the signal to noise ratio was 40-50 dB, and reciprocity errors were mostly 10-20%. Images of discrete resistivity changes of less than 10% could be obtained, but with significant systematic errors. While our prototype would not be suitable for neurophysiological imaging as it stands, it has enabled us to determine the modifications that would be required to construct a system for this application.
The drive on respiration mediated by the peripheral arterial chemoreceptors was assessed by the hyperoxic test in 3-day-old rat pups. They accounted for 22.5 +/- 8.8% during control conditions, but only for 6.9 +/- 10.0% after nicotine exposure, an effect counteracted by blockade of peripheral dopamine type 2 receptors (DA2Rs). Furthermore, nicotine reduced dopamine (DA) content and increased the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in the carotid bodies, further suggesting that DA mediates the acute effect of nicotine on arterial chemoreceptor function. During postnatal development TH and DA2R mRNA levels in the carotid bodies decreased. Thus, nicotine from smoking may also interfere with the postnatal resetting of the oxygen sensitivity of the peripheral arterial chemoreceptors by increasing carotid body TH mRNA, as well as DA release in this period. Collectively these effects of nicotine on the peripheral arterial chemoreceptors may increase the vulnerability to hypoxic episodes and attenuate the protective chemoreflex response. These mechanisms may underlie the well-known relation between maternal smoking and sudden infant death syndrome.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated neurotoxicity may depend, in part, on the generation of nitric oxide (NO.) and superoxide anion (O2.-), which react to form peroxynitrite (OONO-). This form of neurotoxicity is thought to contribute to a final common pathway of injury in a wide variety of acute and chronic neurologic disorders, including focal ischemia, trauma, epilepsy, Huntington disease, Alzheimer disease, amyotrophic lateral scelerosis, AIDS dementia, and other neurodegenerative diseases. Here, we report that exposure of cortical neurons to relatively short durations or low concentrations of NMDA, S-nitrosocysteine, or 3-morpholinosydnonimine, which generate low levels of peroxynitrite, induces a delayed form of neurotoxicity predominated by apoptotic features. Pretreatment with superoxide dismutase and catalase to scavenge O2.- partially prevents the apoptotic process triggered by S-nitrosocysteine or 3-morpholinosydnonimine. In contrast, intense exposure to high concentrations of NMDA or peroxynitrite induces necrotic cell damage characterized by acute swelling and lysis, which cannot be ameliorated by superoxide dismutase and catalase. Thus, depending on the intensity of the initial insult, NMDA or nitric oxide/superoxide can result in either apoptotic or necrotic neuronal cell damage.
The present paper proposes that trophic interplay among cells may represent the final common pathway for both genetic and environmental influences, and hence new criteria for the understanding of central nervous system (CNS) connectivity can be suggested. In particular, trophic signals may make up the common &quot;language&quot; through which genetic and epigenetic influences mold the CNS during development and the adult life. Furthermore, it will put forward the hypothesis that the developmental trophic interplay among cells leads to the formation of trophic units in the adult brain. A trophic unit is defined as the smallest set of cells, within the CNS, which act in a complementary way to support each other's trophism. The trophic units consist of neurons, glial cells, blood vessels, extracellular matrix (ECM). In particular, ECM gives support to the thin elongated cell processes and gives rise to selective chemical bridges between cell surfaces or between cell surfaces and the extracellular milieu. The trophic unit is a plastic device that not only assures neuronal survival, but also operates to adapt neuronal networks to new tasks by controlling extension of neuronal processes, synapse turnover and ECM characteristics. These plastic responses depend on the interplay of all the elements that constitute the trophic units. The concept of trophic unit may help to understand some features of neurodegenerative diseases, for example, the clustering of tangles in the neocortex and in the entorhinal cortex of Alzheimer's patients [corrected].
N-Acetyl aspartate (NAA) is the second most abundant amino acid in the human brain. NAA is synthesized by L-aspartate N-acetyl transferase or by cleavage from N-acetyl aspartyl glutamate by N-acylated alpha-linked L-amino dipeptidase (NAALADase); and it is catabolized to acetate and aspartate by N-acetyl aspartate amino hydrolase (amino acylase II). NAA is localized primarily to neurons, where it is concentrated in the cytosol. Although NAA is devoid of neurophysiological effects, it serves as an acetyl donor, an initiator of protein synthesis or a carbon transfer source across the mitochondrial membrane. The concentration of NAA in human brain increases 3-fold between midgestation and adulthood. In Canavan's Disease, an autosomal recessive disorder due to a null mutation in amino acylase II, NAA levels in brain are markedly increased and disrupt myelination. NAA levels have been found to be reduced in neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's Disease and Huntington's Disease. Since endogenous NAA can be readily detected in human brain by magnetic resonance spectroscopy, it is increasingly being exploited as a marker for functional and structural integrity of neurons in an expanding number of disorders.

The non-selective opioid antagonist naltrexone and the partial agonist buprenorphine have been reported to reduce cocaine self-administration (SA) and relapse in both humans and rhesus monkeys. Data suggesting an involvement of delta-opioid receptors in modulating the conditioned rewarding effects of cocaine were also recently presented. In view of such findings, the present SA and place conditioning studies were conducted to examine the influence of the selective delta-opioid receptor antagonist naltrindole upon the rewarding effects of cocaine. Sprague-Dawley rats were trained to self-administer cocaine (1.0 mg/kg per infusion) on an FR2 schedule of reinforcement. Dose-response and antagonist testing commenced once stable rates of cocaine SA were achieved. For antagonist testing, rats received naltrindole (0.03-10.0 mg/kg, IP) 30 min prior to the start of 2-h SA sessions. SA behavior in response to cocaine delivery (0.25 and 1.0 mg/kg per infusion) was then determined. Naltrindole in doses of 0.03-3.0 mg/kg did not alter the number of cocaine infusions taken by the rats. A higher dose of naltrindole (10.0 mg/kg), which markedly depressed locomotor activity, resulted in a 16% reduction of cocaine (0.25 mg/kg per infusion) SA behavior. When SA sessions were terminated and naltrindole (1.0 mg/kg) was administered repeatedly for 3 days, no alterations in the re-acquisition of cocaine SA were seen. Place conditioning studies also failed to find an effect of naltrindole (0.1-3.0 mg/kg) on cocaine (10 mg/kg)-induced conditioned place preferences. Naltrindole, by itself, did not induce significant place conditioning.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) is the normal reduction in startle reflex that occurs when a startling stimulus is preceded by a weak prepulse. PPI is reduced in patients with schizophrenia and in rats after central dopamine (DA) activation. The DA agonist-induced disruption of PPI in rats may thus model some features of impaired sensorimotor gating in schizophrenia. Ascending DAergic and descending glutamatergic fibers converge within the nucleus accumbens (NAC), and interactions at this DA-glutamate interface have been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. In this study, we examined the role of NAC DA-glutamate interactions in the regulation of PPI in rats. Intra-NAC infusion of the non-NMDA antagonist, CNQX, attenuated the PPI-disruptive effects of d-amphetamine (AMPH), but CNQX did not affect PPI when injected alone, nor did it reverse the PPI-disruptive effects of the direct D2/D3 agonist quinpirole. Intra-NAC infusion of the non-NMDA agonist AMPA significantly reduced PPI. The PPI-disruptive effects of AMPA were blocked by haloperidol and by 6-hydroxydopamine (6OHDA) lesions of the NAC. These data suggest that the PPI-disruptive effects of AMPH are dependent on tonic non-NMDA receptor activation in the NAC, and that non-NMDA receptor activation in the NAC results in a DA-dependent reduction in PPI. The parsimonious interpretation of these data is that non-NMDA glutamate receptors in the NAC facilitate presynaptic DA function, and that this DA-glutamate interaction is a critical regulatory substrate of sensorimotor gating.
In the present studies we investigated the actions of ondansetron, a prototypic 5-hydroxytryptamine3 (5-HT3) receptor antagonist, on performance in a complex spatial navigation/memory task in rats. Specifically, we compared the activity of ondansetron to that of the cholinesterase inhibitor physostigmine in attenuating two distinct cognitive deficits in the Morris water maze. In the first model, rats treated with the muscarinic receptor antagonist atropine (30 mg/kg) had significantly longer latencies to find the submerged platform across two days of testing. Physostigmine (0.03, 0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg) and ondansetron (0.03-1 mg/kg) significantly reduced the latencies to find the submerged platform in atropine-treated animals, suggesting an increase in cognitive performance. There was little evidence of a dose-response relationship for either compound, and a loss of efficacy for ondansetron was seen at 3 mg/kg. In the second model, pre-screened, aged (23 months), cognition-impaired and nonimpaired rats were tested. Ondansetron (0.1 mg/kg), but not physostigmine (0.1 mg/kg), decreased the latencies to find the submerged platform in the aged-impaired rats, while neither compound improved performance of aged-nonimpaired rats. These data suggest that ondansetron may have cognition enhancing properties in animal models of aging and cholinergic hypofunction.
The investigation by means of functional neuroimaging techniques, notably positron emission tomography, of the neural networks involved in perceptual processes is presently carried out according to two different though complementary approaches. In one of them, the relationships between impairments in perceptual processes and alterations in resting brain metabolism are studied in brain-damaged subjects, according to the classic paradigm of neuropsychology, but here the metabolic alterations reflect the functional disruption of neural networks directly or indirectly affected by the focal brain lesion. In the other approach, one records the changes in local synaptic activity in response to a given stimulation or task, as compared to a reference condition; thus far this second approach has been mainly applied to the normal human subject. Though different, both approaches highlight the neural networks involved in a given perceptual or cognitive task, which appear as a set of brain areas more extensive than that revealed by classic neuropsychology as necessary to perform the task. PET activation studies in the healthy subject have allowed to investigate, within each domain of perception, the successive &quot;bottom-up&quot; steps of information processing, from the most elementary ones carried out passively, to the most complex ones involving e.g., the semantic representations. The attentional aspects of perception have also been extensively investigated, notably selective &quot;top-down&quot; attention (which modulates the response of those brain areas that process the given perceptual attribute), sustained vigilance (which activates a parieto-prefrontal network in the non-dominant hemisphere), and mental imagery (which activates in a &quot;top-down&quot; fashion the entire perceptual network, including the primary cortices). The wide-scale application of this approach to brain-damaged subjects will seemingly soon provide important clues regarding the neural mechanisms of impaired perception and recovery therefrom.

Muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA, bursts/min) was recorded microneurographically from the tibial nerve in the control group (8 males and 8 females) and the cerebral infarction group (12 males and 12 females) with ischemic white matter lesions (WMLs) diagnosed on T2-weighted MR imaging. Subjects in the latter group were more hypertensive. A significant positive correlation between age and the MSNA at rest was detected in the control group, but not in the cerebral infarction group. The MSNA at rest was significantly low exclusively in infarcted females. Although the blood pressure did not decrease in either group during a 30 degrees head-up tilt, the MSNA was enhanced in the control group alone. On the cold pressor test, the control group demonstrated a significant pressor response, but not an increase in MSNA. In contrast, the cerebral infarction group showed a significant increase in MSNA, and, within the group, only infarcted females lacked a clear pressor response. These results indicated the existence of an insensitivity in the baroreceptor reflex arc on the part of infarcted males, as already indicated in hypertensive patients. On the other hand, on infarcted females, there were both a hypofunction of the baroreceptor reflex arc and a decline of the vascular reactivity, possibly due to an inadequate development of the sympathetic nervous system and a low level of estrogen. Interestingly mean WMLs%, which was calculated as total WMLs areas x 100/total subdural areas on four horizontal T2-weighted MR images, 10, 20, 30, 40 mm above the bicommisural plane, was significantly larger in infarcted females (8.7 +/- 0.7%, mean +/- S.E.) than males (5.1 +/- 0.7%). This discrepancy may be caused by the above-mentioned difference on the results between them. WMLs are mostly distributed in the watershed zone supplied by the long penetrating arteries. Therefore, the lesions may be produced by wide fluctuations in blood pressure as the result of a dysfunction of the baroreceptor reflex arc and a decrease of the vascular reactivity.
Two of the favorite hypotheses of schizophrenia research-maldevelopment of cerebral cortex and malfunction of brain dopamine systems-have often seemed difficult to reconcile. This article reviews recent research that suggests a heuristically useful reconciliation centered on the functional neuroanatomical concept of prefrontal-temporolimbic cortical connectivity. Anatomical findings from postmortem studies and neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies of brain function in patients with schizophrenia have implicated a developmental 'dysconnection' of temporolimbic-prefrontal cortices. The possibility that such dysconnection can account for the principal phenomenology of the illness, including its delayed onset and its treatment, is suggested by neurologic disease analogies such as metachromatic leukodystrophy and by recent studies in animals with developmental cortical lesions. Studies mapping neuronal gene expression indicate that all antipsychotic drugs modulate DNA transcription in a region of the nucleus accumbens that receives converging inputs from prefrontal and temporolimbic cortices, suggesting that indirect compensation for dysfunctional communication between prefrontal and temporolimbic cortices is a therapeutic mechanism of these drugs. Treatments aimed at direct cortical compensation may be more effective.
Psychiatric case records from Eaton and Weil's 1950-53 study of the Hutterites were rediagnosed using DSM-III-R criteria. The results confirmed that the Hutterites have a very low prevalence of both schizophrenia (0.9 per 1000) and bipolar disorder (0.6 per 1000). Genetic and/or environmental explanations are both possible. Because of their unusual genetics and lifestyle, the Hutterites are an invaluable potential research resource.
In 1991, the costs for manic-depressive illness, which has a lifetime prevalence of 1.3% among adult Americans, totaled $45 billion. Costs were broken down into their direct and indirect components. Direct costs totaling $7 billion consist of expenditures for inpatient and outpatient care, which are treatment related, as well as nontreatment-related expenditures such as those for the criminal justice system used by individuals with manic-depressive illness. Indirect costs, which were $38 billion, include the lost productivity of both wage-earners ($17 billion) and homemakers ($3 billion), individuals who are in institutions ($3 billion) or who have committed suicide ($8 billion), and caregivers who take care of manic-depressive family members ($6 billion). The method for determining each expenditure is provided, and the implications of these staggering costs are discussed. These calculations rely heavily on methods and data bases that were developed for the accompanying paper on the costs of schizophrenia.
In 1991, the costs for schizophrenia, which has a lifetime prevalence of 1.5% among adult Americans, totaled $65 billion. Costs were broken down into their direct and indirect components. Direct costs, which totaled $19 billion dollars, consisted of treatment-related expenditures such as those for inpatients and outpatients, as well as nontreatment-related expenditures such as those for the criminal justice system used by individuals with schizophrenia. The direct costs were fairly similar to those of other recent estimates of the cost of schizophrenia. Indirect costs, which were $46 billion dollars, included the lost productivity of both wage earners ($24 billion) and homemakers ($4.5 billion), individuals who were in institutions ($4.5 billion) or who had committed suicide ($7 billion), and caregivers who took care of schizophrenic family members ($7 billion). Our method for calculating the indirect costs was slightly different than methods used in prior studies, which may account for our estimates being higher. The method for determining each expenditure is provided, and the implications of these staggering costs are discussed.

The distribution of the D3 and D2 dopamine receptor subtypes in forebrain regions of the basal ganglia and mesocorticolimbic system was determined. This was assessed through combined fluorescent visualization of subtype selective anti-peptide antibodies for these cloned receptors and detection of their ligand recognition sites using the D2 subfamily antagonist,N-(p-aminophenethyl) spiperone (NAPS fluoroprobe). The double-labeling technique enabled direct comparison of the cloned receptor proteins and NAPS fluoroprobe binding in vitro. The application of these two methods together produced results comparable to single-labeling paradigms. Functional D3 receptors, defined as the coincident fluorescence of the D3 receptor antisera and fluoroprobe binding, were detected in the core region of the nucleus accumbens and exhibited a laminated expression pattern in the frontal cortex. D3 receptor protein was expressed robustly in neurons of the dorsolateral striatum, but showed an intense neuropil reaction in the globus pallidus. Functional D2 receptors, defined as the coincident fluorescence of the D2 receptor antisera and fluoroprobe binding, were detected in the frontal cortex and the medial shell of the nucleus accumbens. Thus, heterogeneities occurred in the cellular expression of functional D3 and D2 receptors in forebrain dopaminoceptive areas. D3 appears more related to basal ganglia and structures involved with motoric behavior, while D2 was associated with regions associated with cognitive/affective functions.
Pyramidal neurons in the rat hippocampal CA1 area contain mineralocorticoid (MRs) and glucocorticoid (GRs) receptors for corticosterone. Previous current clamp experiments showed that depolarizations evoked by carbachol (1-3 microM) depend on relative MR/GR occupation: carbachol responses are small with predominant MR-activation and larger when both receptor types are occupied. Multiple K-conductances underlie the carbachol-induced depolarization. In the present study we used the single electrode voltage clamp technique to examine which K-conductances modulated by carbachol are sensitive to corticosteroid treatment in vitro. We observed that 1 microM carbachol significantly reduced the IK,Leak while the IM was hardly affected; carbachol effects on the IK,Leak were significantly reduced under conditions of predominant MR activation compared to simultaneous activation of MRs and GRs. With a higher (10 microM) carbachol dose, steroid modulation of the IK,Leak showed a similar tendency. The amplitude of the IM was largely reduced by 10 microM carbachol but appeared to be not affected by steroid treatment. We conclude that the previously described suppression of the carbachol-induced depolarization with predominant activation MRs is caused by an attenuation of the carbachol action on the IK,Leak.

Perinatal exposure to polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) mixtures or to certain ortho-substituted PCB congeners dramatically reduces circulating thyroxine (T4) concentrations. It is not clear whether perinatal exposure to coplanar PCBs or 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) has a similar effect. In this study, time-mated Sprague-Dawley rats were dosed with 2 or 8 mg/kg/day PCB 77 (3,3',4,4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl), 0.25 or 1.00 micrograms/kg/day PCB 126 (3,3',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl), 0.025 or 0.10 microgram/kg/day TCDD, or corn oil vehicle orally on gestation days 10-16. At weaning, plasma total T4 concentrations in PCB 77 and TCDD high-dose female pups were significantly depressed, but the changes were modest (84.4 and 79.6% of control, respectively). T4 concentrations in PCB 126 high-dose females and all high-dose males were also depressed slightly, but the changes were not statistically significant. UDP-Glucuronosyl transferase (UDP-GT) activity towards 4-nitrophenol was increased in all high-dose groups. Thus, the modest decreases in T4 could be due in part to increased T4 glucuronidation by UDP-GT. Triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) concentrations were unchanged in all groups. In contrast to the minor changes in thyroid hormone status, liver microsomal ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) was markedly induced in all exposure groups and thymus weights were depressed in the high-dose groups. Because doses of coplanar PCBs or TCDD that caused marked induction of EROD activity had only minor effects on T4, we conclude that changes in thyroid hormone status at weaning are not among the more sensitive effects of perinatal exposure to these compounds.
Normal diploid cells, by definition, have a limited life span: they senesce after a set number of divisions both in vivo and in culture. It has been hypothesized that the molecular mechanism that measures the life span of a cell probably involves the shortening of telomeres that occurs with each round of DNA replication. This loss of telomeres is thought to induce antiproliferative signals that result in the induction of cellular senescence. In this article, Woodring Wright and Jerry Shay present a hypothesis for the mechanisms by which telomere shortening regulates cellular physiology and argue that cellular senescence is not only an anticancer mechanism but is also the cause of many of the degenerative changes of aging.
To interpret the projected image of a moving object, the visual system must integrate motion signals across different image regions. Traditionally, researchers have examined this process by focusing on the integration of equally ambiguous motion signals. However, when the motions of complex, multi-featured images are measured through spatially limited receptive fields, the resulting motion measurements have varying degrees of ambiguity. In a series of experiments, we examine how human observers interpret images containing motion signals of differing degrees of ambiguity. Subjects judged the perceived coherence of images consisting of an ambiguously translating grating and an unambiguously translating random dot pattern. Perceived coherence of the dotted grating depended upon the degree of concurrence between the velocities of the grating terminators and dots. Depth relationships also played a critical role in the motion integration process. When terminators were suppressed with occlusion cues, coherence increased. When dots and gratings were presented at different depth planes, coherence decreased. We use these results to outline the conditions under which the visual system uses unambiguous motion signals to interpret object motion.
Agonist-induced high-affinity GTPase activity was investigated using the crude membrane preparation from rat striatum. High-affinity GTPase activity was stimulated by dopamine and carbachol in a Mg(2+)-dependent manner and with possible optimum NaCl concentrations of 50-100 mM to detect the percent increase induced by each agonist. Dopamine and selective (as well as non-selective) D2 receptor agonists, but not selective D1 receptor agonists, stimulated activity in a concentration-dependent manner, with affinities which were significantly correlated with those for adenylate cyclase inhibition as previously reported in the literature. Maximal percent stimulation above basal high-affinity GTPase activity was 9.8 +/- 0.6% and 4.4-7.6% for dopamine and other synthetic dopamine D2 receptor agonists, respectively. Dopamine-stimulated activity was inhibited by several dopamine receptor antagonists with the following rank order of potency: (+)-butaclamol &gt; spiperone &gt; raclopride &gt; S(-)-sulpiride; but not by (-)-butaclamol or SCH 23390. High-affinity GTPase activity was also stimulated by carbachol and acetylcholine through the pirenzepine-insensitive muscarinic receptors. Preincubation of the membranes with AS/7, a specific antiserum to Gi1 and Gi2, appeared to attenuate dopamine-sensitive activity, suggesting that Gi1 and/or Gi2 may be at least partially involved. These results indicate that high-affinity GTPase activity in rat striatal membranes is activated through dopamine D2-like receptors and pirenzepine-insensitive muscarinic receptors, both of which are negatively coupled to adenylate cyclase via Gi proteins.
Opioid peptides, including leu-enkephalin (LE), are important neuromodulators in the hippocampal formation where they may play a role in learning and memory as well as epileptogenesis. We examined the cellular substrates that underlie the function of LE in each lamina of the rat hippocampal formation by immunocytochemistry at the electron microscopic level in single section analysis. LE-like immunoreactivity (LE-LI) was primarily associated with large dense-core vesicles (80-100 nm), usually found in axons and axon terminals, but was also observed in perikarya and occasionally in dendrites. The morphology and synaptic associations of LE-LI-containing terminals were strikingly distinct in each region of the hippocampal formation. In the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, terminals with LE-LI were typically small (0.6 microns) and formed primarily asymmetric (excitatory type) synapses on single dendritic spines, which is consistent with the presence of LE in the lateral perforant path. In the hilus of the dentate gyrus, two types of LE-containing terminals were present: (1) small round terminals that were heterogeneous in size (0.4-1 microns) and in type of contact formed and (2) larger (3-5 microns) terminals exhibiting the characteristic morphology of mossy fiber boutons that formed asymmetric synapses on spines. This variation in morphology and the type of contact suggests LE may have a heterogeneous influence on diverse hilar interneurons. In the CA3 region of the hippocampus, LE-LI was localized to large mossy fiber boutons (3-7 microns) that formed multiple asymmetric synapses on complex spiny dendritic processes and often formed puncta adherentia with the shafts of large CA3 pyramidal cell dendrites, indicating that this peptide may be directly released onto pyramidal cells. At the border of stratum radiatum and lacunosum moleculare in the CA1 region of the hippocampus, LE-labeled terminals averaged 0.8 microns in diameter and often formed symmetric (inhibitory type) synapses on dendritic shafts, which is consistent with a role in disinhibition. In conclusion, these heterogeneous cellular interactions indicate that LE has diverse functional roles and mechanisms of action within each lamina of the hippocampal formation and may directly and indirectly modulate hippocampal cell activity.
We examined the effects of the benzodiazepine antagonist, flumazenil, on epileptiform discharges evoked in the hippocampal CA1 region in vitro. Application of 100 nM flumazenil did not affect normal synaptic responses; however, flumazenil did depress epileptiform discharges induced by 8 mM [K+]o. Epileptiform discharges induced by the GABAA channel antagonist picrotoxin or by the K+ channel blocker 4-aminopyridine were unaffected. Application of the high-affinity, low-efficacy benzodiazepine partial inverse agonist, Ro 19-4603, blocked the anticonvulsant effect of flumazenil, indicating that this action of flumazenil is mediated at a benzodiazepine binding site located on the GABAA receptor. A likely explanation of the present results is that flumazenil antagonizes the action of an endogenous benzodiazepine inverse agonist, which is released during epileptiform discharges evoked in high K+ ACSF.
Narcolepsy is characterized by excessive sleepiness and episodes of cataplexy brought on by emotional excitation. Cataplexy and sleep paralysis have been hypothesized to be produced by the triggering during waking of brain stem cholinergic mechanisms normally acting to induce atonia in REM sleep. We hypothesized that narcoleptics have an abnormal number of LDT and/or PPN cholinergic neurons. A comparison was made of cholinergic cell numbers in the brain stems of normal and narcoleptic canines. Cholinergic neurons were identified by NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry. We found increased numbers of cholinergic neurons at the R6-R7 level of the LDT and PPN in narcoleptic canines. This abnormality can explain alterations in cholinergic receptor number, acetylcholine release, and the occurrence of cataplexy and sleep paralysis that characterize narcolepsy.
Chronic dialytic intrastriatal co-administration of quinolinic acid (QUIN) and four concentrations of the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor NG nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) produced variable results. Low concentrations of L-NAME (1 microM and 50 microM) co-administered with 15 mM QUIN produced lesions not significantly different from those produced by 15 mM QUIN alone. In contrast, higher concentrations of L-NAME (1 mM and 100 mM) co-administered with 15 mM QUIN produced striatal lesions significantly larger than those produced by 15 mM QUIN alone. Administered by itself, 100 mM L-NAME produced little striatal damage. These findings suggest that low levels of NOS inhibition have little or no effect on NMDA neurotoxicity in the striatum, whereas high levels of NOS inhibition increase NMDA-induced striatal lesion volume.

Salivary secretions modulate taste perception. Taste buds in the circumvallate and foliate papillae are bathed in secretions of unique lingual salivary glands, von Ebner's glands (VEG). We have identified a rat cDNA encoding a novel protein of 1290 amino acids, Ebnerin, that is specifically expressed in VEG and released onto the tongue surface along the apical region of taste buds in the clefts of circumvallate papillae. Ebnerin possesses a putative single transmembrane domain at the C terminus with 17 amino acids in the cytoplasmic area. The extracellular region of Ebnerin contains a number of repeated domains with homology to the scavenger receptor cysteine-rich domain and to a repeated domain of bone morphogenetic protein-I and other related proteins. Western blot analysis reveals that Ebnerin exists in particulate and soluble forms in VEG and is present in secretions from VEG. In situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry demonstrate that Ebnerin is located in secretory duct epithelial cells of VEG and is released onto the tongue surface along the apical region of taste buds in the clefts of circumvallate papillae. The unique structure and localization of Ebnerin suggest that it may function as a binding protein in saliva for the regulation of taste sensation.
Family history, a risk factor for psychiatric disorders, is infrequently assessed in epidemiologic studies due to time and cost constraints. We designed a brief computer-scorable instrument, the Family History Screen for Epidemiologic Studies (FHE), which collects a pedigree and screens for 15 DSM-III diagnoses in an informant and in his family members. The FHE was administered to one informant in 77 families in which we had collected pedigrees, interviewed 77 informants and 239 relatives using the Lifetime Anxiety version of the schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia or the Epidemiologic version of the Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia for School-Aged Children, and performed best-estimate diagnoses. We evaluated the accuracy with which the FHE predicted best-estimate diagnoses. For adults reporting on themselves, the FHE demonstrated high levels of sensitivity and specificity for depression (67.4, 75.0) and panic (92.5, 89.2), and low sensitivity and high specificity for substance abuse (33.3, 93.6). For informants reporting on adult relatives, sensitivity was low and specificity was high for depression (35.2, 84.9), panic (20.0, 91.7), and substance abuse (42.1, 93.4). For informants reporting on children, perhaps due to lower prevalence, sensitivity and specificity were poor. The FHE is a good screen for psychiatric disorders in adult informants, but it is not useful for family history. It may be useful in primary care medical settings as a screen for psychiatric history.
Multivariate discriminant analysis of brain volumes obtained from semiautomated magnetic resonance image (MRI) quantification was used in an attempt to identify demented patients very early in the course of the disease. Temporal and posterior frontal brain volumes were quantified from MRIs in a cross-sectional study of 31 male and female patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) and 29 age- and sex-matched healthy comparison subjects. Mean scores on the Folstein Mini-Mental State Examination (MMS) were in the mild range for the DAT group (20 +/- 6.6), but patients with moderate and severe dementia were also included (MMS range of entire DAT group = 4-28). Significant mean differences in frontal and temporal lobe brain volumes were found between the DAT group and the age- and sex-matched healthy comparison group, but the sensitivity of any single measure was limited to 87% with a specificity of 83%. Initial multivariate discriminant analysis revealed significant gender differences among the healthy subjects, but not the DAT patients. The large group size allowed for subsequent discriminant analyses to be performed by gender. All healthy subjects and DAT patients were correctly classified by gender-specific discriminant functions. The male discriminant variables included brain volume, age, and temporal lobe measures. Inclusion of age in the male discriminant function accounted for age-related brain atrophy, a finding that may have emerged as a consequence of the broad age range of the male DAT population (50-81 years). The male discriminant function was also successfully applied to an independent group of mildly demented subjects that included patients for whom the diagnosis of dementia was uncertain but verified by follow-up clinical evaluations. Measures of temporal lobe brain matter and temporal lobe cerebrospinal fluid volumes were the significant discriminator variables for the women. Quantitative MRI and multivariate discriminant analysis showed promise in distinguishing the dementing process from healthy aging in a group of 60 subjects. Moreover, while not diagnostic of DAT, the approach appeared to offer additional information about the probability of a diagnosis being later confirmed in patients with very mild dementia for whom the clinical identification of DAT is uncertain.
Intracerebral microdialysis of awake rats was used to monitor the possible release of neurotrophic factors from brain cells in response to injury and excitation. Perfusates were tested with ganglia bioassays and enzyme immunoassay. Trophic activity was released after implantation of the microdialysis probe into the hippocampus but not into the striatum, as assessed by increased nerve fiber outgrowth from Remak's ganglion. Kainic acid treatment significantly increased the release of trophic activity from hippocampal sites. These findings suggest that the brain responds to mechanical injury as well as to certain excitatory stimuli by regional extracellular release of neurotrophic activity that is not identical to the actions of known neurotrophic factors.
The influence of the kappa-opioid receptor agonist, enadoline, on endogenous glutamate release was investigated in rat and marmoset striatal synaptosomes. Enadoline decreased 4-aminopyridine (2 mM)-stimulated glutamate release (rat: IC50 approximately 8.7 microM, marmoset: IC50 approximately 2.9 microM). The effect of enadoline was reversed by nor-binaltorphimine (5 microM). These data indicate that, in the striatum of the rat and marmoset, kappa-opioid receptor agonists can modulate glutamate release. These findings may have implications for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
The effect of pretreatment with an AMPA receptor antagonist, NBQX, on MK-801-induced alterations in glucose use was examined using [14C]-2-deoxyglucose autoradiography. NBQX (7 mg/kg) had minimal effect on glucose utilisation in all anatomical regions examined. The intravenous administration of MK-801 (0.2 mg/kg) induced increases in glucose use in the limbic system and cingulate cortex. MK-801 reduced glucose utilisation in the sensory motor and auditory cortices. Pretreatment with NBQX attenuated the MK-801-induced hypermetabolism in the posterior cingulate cortex. The decreases in glucose utilisation induced by MK-801 were not exacerbated by the pretreatment with NBQX. The interaction between NBQX and MK-801 suggests a possible method of attenuating some of the adverse effects of the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonists in the posterior cingulate cortex.
Evidence is presented for occurrence of opiate alkaloid-selective, opioid-peptide-insensitive receptor binding sites, labeled with [3H]morphine, in primary cultures of cat microglia and cat astrocytes, as well as on highly purified preparations of rat Kupffer cells. These receptors have been designated mu3 on the basis of their close similarity to receptors first found to be present on human peripheral blood monocytes. Exposure of the microglia to morphine and etorphine caused marked quantifiable changes in cellular morphology, including assumption of a more rounded shape and retraction of cytoplasmic processes; in contrast, several opioid peptides were without effect on morphology. The effects of morphine on microglial morphology were blocked by the opiate antagonist naloxone. These effects of drugs on morphology were as predicted for action via the mu3 receptor. Opiate alkaloid binding sites previously detected on the rat C6 glioma cell line were also characterized here as of the mu3 receptor subtype. It is proposed that mu3 receptors have broad distribution in different macrophage cell types of bone marrow lineage, including microglia and Kupffer cells. Furthermore, these receptors are not restricted to cells of bone marrow lineage, since they are also present on astrocytes.
4-Aminopyridine increased the release of [3H]noradrenaline from dorsal hippocampus slices in vitro in a concentration-dependent manner. When the slices were exposed to 4-aminopyridine for 5 min, the overflow of radioactivity returned to pre-exposure values within 20-25 min. When the exposure of the slices was continued, a sustained enhancement of the release of [3H]noradrenaline was observed for the duration of the exposure. 4-Aminopyridine, 10(-4) M, had an effect of similar magnitude, or an even more pronounced effect, on the release of [3H]catecholamine from cortex, septum, periaqueductal gray and striatum slices. The effects of the compound on the release of [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine and [14C]acetylcholine were less pronounced. At this concentration 4-aminopyridine had no effect on the release of [3H]D-aspartate from hippocampus or septum slices, whereas the effect on the release of this transmitter in striatal slices was marginal. The effect of 4-aminopyridine on the release of [3H]noradrenaline in hippocampus slices was largely dependent on the presence of Ca2+ in the superfusion medium. This was also the case for the effect on the release of [3H]noradrenaline from preloaded dorsal hippocampus synaptosomes. In the presence of nitrendipine the effect of 4-aminopyridine was dose-dependently reduced, but the maximal reduction, at a nitrendipine concentration of 10(-4) M, was only 40%. Cd2+ completely abolished the effect of 4-aminopyridine on the release of [3H]noradrenaline. These results confirm that the enhancing effect of 4-aminopyridine on the release of [3H]noradrenaline depends on the entry of extracellular Ca2+ into the nerve terminals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The localization of TrkB, a signal transducing receptor for brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-4, was studied in the rat mandibular molar pulp during development and following nerve injury. Sections were incubated with rabbit polyclonal antiserum against the catalytic part of the TrkB receptor, thus only binding to full-length TrkB receptors, and examined by immunofluorescence microscopy and EM immunocytochemistry. At embryonic day 17, strongly TrkB-positive fibers were located in mandibular nerve trunks, in nerve fibers of deeper mesenchyme in close spatial relation to sites of future tooth development and in subepithelial nerve plexa. At postnatal days 1-12 intensely TrkB-positive nerve fibers surrounded and eventually invaded the developing dental papillae and pulps. In the normal adult pulp TrkB-immunoreactive axons were seen extending through the radicular pulp into the coronal areas. Double labelling demonstrated a considerable overlap between TrkB-like immunoreactivity and low affinity neurotrophin receptor-like immunoreactivity in the pulp, although some low affinity neurotrophin receptor-positive nerve fibers lacked TrkB-like immunoreactivity. Immunogold electron microscopy showed TrkB-like immunoreactivity in myelinated as well as in unmyelinated axons. One week following inferior alveolar nerve injury there was a dramatic decrease in the level of TrkB-like immunoreactivity labelling in the pulp, which paralleled an increase in the expression of Schwann cell low affinity neurotrophin receptor-like immunoreactivity. The first signs of regenerating TrkB-positive nerve fibers were found at 4 weeks post-operative, and at 9 weeks the distribution of pulpal TrkB-like immunoreactivity had returned to normal. These data indicate that brain-derived neurotrophic factor and/or neurotrophin-4 could be target-derived factors involved in sensory trigeminal tooth pulp nerve fiber development, differentiation or regeneration.
A degenerate PCR strategy was used to isolate a fragment of the acetylcholinesterase gene (Ace) homolog from Aedes aegypti and screen for a cDNA clone containing the complete open reading frame of the gene. The predicted amino acid sequence of the Aedes gene shares 64% identity with Ace from Drosophila and 87% identity with the acetylcholinesterase gene from another mosquito species Anopheles stephensi. High levels of expression of the Aedes gene were achieved by infection of Sf21 cells with a recombinant baculovirus containing the Aedes Ace cDNA. The catalytic properties and sensitivity of the recombinant enzyme to insecticide inhibition are described and discussed in relation to the role of insensitive AChE in conferring resistance to organophosphorus and carbamate insecticides.
The interaural difference in the level of sounds is an important cue for the localization of the sound's source. In the barn owl, a keen auditory predator, this binaural cue is first computed in the nucleus ventralis lemnisci laterale, pars posterior (VLVp), a cell group found within the fibers of the lateral lemniscus. Its neurons are excited by inputs from the contralateral ear and inhibited by inputs to the ipsilateral ear and are therefore sensitive indicators of interaural level difference. The excitation arrives by a direct input from the contralateral nucleus angularis, a cochlear nucleus, and the inhibition is mediated by a commissural projection that interconnects the VLVps of the two sides. The dorsally located neurons in the VLVp are more heavily inhibited than those found more ventrally, thus giving rise to a gradient of inhibition. This inhibitory gradient plays a central role in recent models of VLVp function. We present evidence based on standard anterograde tracing methods that this gradient of inhibition is mediated by a dorsoventral gradient in the density of synaptic inputs from the contralateral VLVp, the source of inhibition. Specifically, injection of tracers into one VLVp, regardless of the position of the injection within the nucleus, produced a vertically oriented field of label that was densest along the dorsal margin of the contralateral VLVp and became sparser a more ventral levels. Furthermore, we found that injections into the medial and lateral aspects of the nucleus produced this dorsoventrally graded field of label along the medial and lateral aspects of the contralateral VLVp, respectively. Finally, we confirmed an earlier observation suggesting that the anterior and posterior aspects of one VLVp project to the anterior and posterior aspects of the contralateral nucleus, respectively.
Agmatine, a clonidine displacing substance and imidazoline receptor agonist, was recently isolated from bovine brain and shown to be present in the rat hypothalamus. Since clonidine can stimulate the release of pituitary luteinizing hormone (LH), we tested the hypothesis that agmatine may similarly act in the rat to stimulate the hypothalamic luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH)-pituitary LH axis. Administration of agmatine intracerebroventricularly rapidly augmented the release of LH in a dose-related fashion in ovariectomized, ovarian steroid-primed rats. Additionally, agmatine enhanced the in vitro efflux of LH releasing hormone from the median eminence-arcuate nucleus of the hypothalami of rats similarly pretreated with steroids. These studies imply that the endogenous imidazoline receptor agonist, agmatine, may serve as an excitatory neurotransmitter/neuromodulator in the hypothalamic control of LH release and we suggest that the previously reported excitatory effects of clonidine on LH release may be attributed to stimulation by clonidine of imidazoline receptors.
In chicken forebrain the two phases of synapse development, formation and maturation, are temporally well separated. We have used this model system to determine the developmental profile of glutaminergic activation of phosphoinositidase C. Stimulation of [3H]inositol-loaded forebrain prisms by quisqualic acid (QA; 30 microM), or the metabotropic agonist 1-aminocyclopentane-trans-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (trans-ACPD; 30 microM), significantly increased [3H]inositol phosphate production. This response progressively decreased with developmental age, with the largest (approximately 3-fold) decrease occurring between 21 days and adult (&gt; 10 weeks). In contrast, QA (30 microM) stimulated a quite distinct developmental profile for 45Ca2+ accumulation, with the response being maximal between 7 and 14 days before declining sharply to adult levels by 21-25 days. These results demonstrate that there is a major decrease in metabotropic glutamate receptor activation of phosphoinositidase C during the maturation phase of synapse development.
We have previously reported increased somatostatin levels in the cerebral cortex of rats housed in impoverished environment and subsequently subjected to a behavioural testing procedure, consisting of open-field exposure and spatial learning. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the degree of neurochemical specificity of the activation of somatostatin neurotransmission and to examine whether the altered levels were due to learning stimulation. Adult rats, previously housed individually for 30 days, were exposed to repeated sessions of a spatial learning task (2 days or 14 days) or repeated sessions of free swimming (14 days). The training sessions of the 14 day group consisted in recurrently changed position of the platform in a learning-set paradigm. Our data showed increased somatostatin immunoreactivity, and unchanged substance P immunoreactivity in the posterior part of the cerebral cortex. However, somatostatin levels increased to a similar extent following 14 days of repeated spatial learning sessions as free swimming sessions. We conclude that the activity of the cortical somatostatin system appears to be sensitive to environmentally induced sensorimotor stimulation in general, rather than learning per se. Thus, external stimulation of early clinical dementia patients with preserved sensorimotor receptivity, in an attempt to restore cognitive function, might be associated with altered somatostatin levels.

We have previously identified a novel rat neuronal member of the pentraxin family (neuronal pentraxin) that may mediate the uptake of synaptic material and the presynaptic snake venom toxin, taipoxin. Here we report human cDNA and genomic sequences of a second neuronal pentraxin. This pentraxin, which we propose to name neuronal pentraxin II (NPII; gene symbol NPTX2), shows 54% amino acid identity to rat neuronal pentraxin (NPI) with 69% identity over the carboxyl-terminal half of NPI and is 88% identical to a newly identified sperm acrosomal pentraxin p50/apexin. Northern blot analysis reveals that NPII message is present in brain, testis, pancreas, liver, heart, and skeletal muscle, so, unlike NPI, NPII is not exclusively localized to neurons. Like NPI, NPII has potential N-linked glycosylation sites. The human NPII gene is 11 kb in length, contains four introns, and is localized to chromosome 7q21.3-q22.1. These data demonstrate the existence of a family of pentraxin proteins that are expressed in the brain and other tissues and that may play important roles in the uptake of extracellular material.
We have studied the promoter utilization and parental imprinting status of human IGF2 in three genetically informative hepatoblastomas from patients ranging in age from 9 months to 3 years. In all three cases, there is a downregulation of promoter P1 in the tumor tissues while the P2 and P3 promoters are upregulated compared to the normal liver. One of three patients displayed loss of imprinting (LOI) of IGF2 in the tumor tissue. We also investigated the expression of the H19 gene in all three cases and the methylation pattern in H19 from the patient with LOI of IGF2. The expression of H19 was greatly reduced in all tumors. Monoallelic H19 expression however, was retained even in the case which showed LOI of IGF2. Unlike the situation in Wilms' tumor, no differences in the methylation pattern between the normal liver and tumor tissues were observed in the H19 promoter or 3' region, using HpII analysis. We show here, that in contrast to the situation in Wilms' tumor, H19 expression is not a prerequisite for maintaining a monoallelic IGF2 expression.
We have cloned two inwardly rectifying K+ channels that occur selectively in neurons in the brain and are designated BIRK (brain inwardly rectifying K+) channels. BIRK1 mRNA is extremely abundant and is enriched in specific brainstem nuclei, BIRK1 displays a consensus phosphate-binding loop, and expression in Xenopus oocytes has shown that its conductance is inhibited by ATP and adenosine 5'-[gamma-thio]triphosphate. BIRK2 is far less abundant and is selectively localized in telencephalic neurons. BIRK2 has a consensus sequence for cAMP-dependent phosphorylation.
In previous studies, we found multiple copies of inducible nitric oxide synthase gene (NOS2)-like sequences in the human genome and mapped them to the pericentric region of chromosome 17. Here, we describe the cloning and sequencing of exon22 regions from three of these NOS2-like sequences. We have also mapped another NOS2-like sequence to human chromosome 14. Since there are multiple NOS2-like sequences present in the human genome, we have also carried out Zoo Blot hybridisation analysis using a NOS2 cDNA probe. Our data suggest that duplication of NOS2-like sequences occurred very recently in primate evolution.
We have discovered a cryptic cell-adhesion domain in non-muscle myosin II heavy chain. A 205 kDa cell-adhesion-promoting polypeptide (p205) was extracted from BHK cells by Nonidet P-40 or Dounce homogenization. Adhesion to p205 was specifically inhibited by the peptide Gly-Arg-Gly-Asp-Ser-Pro, indicating a role for the Arg-Gly-Asp cell-adhesion motif. Purified p205 was identified as non-muscle myosin II heavy chain, based on sequence analysis and on the cross-reactivity of p205 with anti-(bovine trachea myosin) antibodies. Further experiments showed that the heavy chain of purified myosin II has cell-adhesion-promoting activity in a cell-blotting assay, and cross-reacted with anti-p205 antibodies. Finally, the adhesion domain was located in the tail portion of myosin II heavy chain, where an Arg-Gly-Asp-containing sequence can be found.
1. The effects of amino acids on cytosolic free calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) were measured, using fura-2 fluorescence imaging, in mouse pancreatic islets of Langerhans. 2. Slow [Ca2+]i oscillations appeared when isolated islets were incubated with a solution containing a mixture of amino acids and glucose at concentrations found in the plasma of fed animals. 3. In the presence of 11 mM glucose, alanine (5 mM) and arginine (10 mM) induced a transient rise in [Ca2+]i followed by an oscillatory pattern, while leucine (3 mM) and isoleucine (10 mM) triggered the appearance of slow [Ca2+]i oscillations. 4. Also in the presence of glucose (11 mM), tolbutamide (10 microM) increased the duration of the glucose-induced [Ca2+]i oscillations. While tolbutamide (10 microM) did not modify the leucine-induced slow oscillatory pattern, addition of diazoxide (10 microM) resulted in the gradual appearance of [Ca2+]i oscillations which resembled the glucose-induced fast oscillations. 5. Like stimulatory glucose concentrations (11 mM), glyceraldehyde (10 mM) induced fast oscillations of [Ca2+]i. 6. Fluoroacetate (2 mM) transformed leucine-induced slow [Ca2]i oscillations into fast [Ca2+]i oscillations. Iodoacetate (1 mM) completely inhibited any oscillatory pattern. 7. It is suggested that mitochondrially generated signals, derived from amino acid oxidative metabolism, acting in conjunction with glucose-signalled messengers, are very effective at closing ATP-dependent K+ channels (KATP+). 8. We propose that metabolic regulation of KATP+ channels is one of the mechanisms underlying the modulation of the oscillatory [Ca2+]i response to nutrient secretagogues.
We have previously shown that synapse elimination occurring in the climbing fiber (CF)-Purkinje cell (PC) relationships during normal postnatal development is likely involved in the refinement of vibrissae projections onto the cerebellar cortex. In normal adult rats, CF-mediated vibrissae projections onto cerebellar Purkinje cells of the vermis of lobule VII are strictly contralateral and located in a narrow microzone whereas they are widely distributed in rats whose PCs remained multiply innervated by CFs due to postnatal irradiation. Given the proximity of this microzone to the midline, the question arose as to whether this synapse elimination process could participate in the segregation of ipsilateral and contralateral projections. In the present study, we compared the topographical map of the ipsilateral and contralateral CF-mediated projections of the third row of vibrissae onto the vermal PCs of lobule VII in adult normal rats and in polyinnervated rats. Using intracellular electrophysiological recordings, we examined the responsiveness of PCs to mechanical stimulation of vibrissae, and positioned responsive cells on an averaged planar map of lobule VII. In normal rats no ipsilateral responses were found, while in irradiated rats ipsilateral responses were distributed evenly from the midline to 700 microns apart. These results suggest that synapse elimination participates in the segregation of ipsi and contralateral mystacial inputs to the vermis.
In order to develop a clearer understanding of the role of aberrant protein turnover in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders, the effect of a series of potentially neurotoxic metal ions on a wide range of proteases (lysosomal and cytoplasmic proteinases and peptidases) from human cerebral cortex was determined in vitro. The response of lysosomal and cytoplasmic proteases to inhibition by metal ion species (0.05-5 mmol/l) was broadly similar; Sr2+, Mg2+, Ba2+ or Ca2+ showed little inhibitory effect at any concentration for most protease types, whilst Cu2+, Cd2+, Pb2+, Mg2+ or Zn2+ showed a substantial degree of inhibition, depending on metal ion concentration and enzyme type. Ca2+ activated neutral proteinases were no more susceptible to general metal ion inhibition than most other protease types. Some proteases showed marked activation of activity in the presence of several metal ion species. Both lysosomal and cytoplasmic proteases were relatively insensitive to inhibition by Al3+, compared with that obtained with other metal ion species. It is of note that cathepsin D was particularly resistant to inhibition by most metal ion species, whilst pyroglutamyl aminopeptidase was particularly susceptible to inhibition by low concentrations of many metal ions. The above data suggest that in considering the potential role of neurotoxic metal ions in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders of the CNS (via protease inhibition in the intracellular protein degradation pathway), attention should be focused on the interactions between a wide range of metal ion species and protease types, rather than be restricted to the Al3+/calpain system (as is presently the case in Alzheimer's disease research). In particular, the potential role of pyroglutamyl aminopeptidase in intracellular protein degradation (in addition to more specialized functions such as neurotransmitter processing) and the pathological consequences of the susceptibility of this enzyme to inhibition by neurotoxic metal ions requires further investigation.
Administration of a single dose (10 mg/kg i.p.) of 3,4-methylenedioxy-methamphetamine (MDMA or 'ecstasy') produced a 40% loss of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and its metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in cortex and hippocampus of Dark Agouti rats 7 days later. Binding of [3H]paroxetine to the presynaptic 5-HT nerve terminals in cortex was decreased by approximately 30%. Injection of the spin trap reagent alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (PBN; 150 mg/kg i.p.) 10 min prior and 120 min post MDMA administration totally prevented the loss in [3H]paroxetine binding in the cortex and attenuated the loss of 5-HT and 5-HIAA in both brain regions. PBN alone had no effect on [3H]paroxetine binding or brain 5-HT content. These data suggest that MDMA produces neurodegeneration of 5-HT neurones because of reactive free radical formation.
Conus peptides, including omega-conotoxins and alpha-conotoxins (targeting calcium channels and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, respectively) have been useful ligands in neuroscience. In this report, we describe a new family of sodium channel ligands, the mu-O-conotoxins. The two peptides characterized, mu-O-conotoxins MrVIA and MrVIB from Conus marmoreus potently block the sodium conductance in Aplysia neurons. This is in marked contrast to standard sodium channel blockers that are relatively ineffective in this system. The sequences of the peptides are as follows. mu-O-conotoxin MrVIA: ACRKKWEYCIVPIIGFIYCCPGLICGPFVCV mu-O-conotoxin MrVIB: ACSKKWEYCIVPILGFVYCCPGLICGPFVCV mu-O-conotoxin MrVIA was chemically synthesized and proved indistinguishable from the natural product. Surprisingly, the mu-O-conotoxins show no sequence similarity to the mu-O-conotoxins. However, ananalysis of cDNA clones encoding the mu-O-conotoxin MrVIB demonstrated striking sequence similarity to omega- and delta-conotoxin precursors. Together, the omega-, delta-, and mu-O-conotoxins define the O-superfamily of Conus peptides. The probable biological role and evolutionary affinities of these peptides are discussed.
The aim of this study was to examine the effects of 4-week lithium (Li+) food supplementation on neuropeptide mRNA expression in the rat brain. In situ hybridisation was used to determine the effects on the expression of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and somatostatin (SS) mRNA. Increases in NPY mRNA levels were seen in the hippocampus, layers II-III of the entorhinal cortex, nucleus accumbens shell and in the medial caudate-putamen. Increases in SS mRNA expression were seen in the layers IV-VI of the entorhinal cortex and in the lateral caudate putamen. Thus, Li+ appears to affect discrete populations of NPY and SS mRNA expressing neurons, with possible relevance to beneficial effects of Li+ in affective disorders.
The potential use of bFGF immortalized cells as hosts for delivering foreign genes into nervous tissue led us to examine the effect of maintaining, E-18 hippocampal neurons for extended periods in bFGF culture prior to transfer into a standard, serum-containing, medium. We found: (1) many, if not most, precursors seen in bFGF, mature into glia and not into primary neurons after medium exchange; (2) the electrophysiology of the neurons which do mature after medium transfer and replating, is similar to that of neurons in standard cultures; (3) extended culture in bFGF prior to cell harvesting and replating into standard medium generates neurons from the precursors that possess proper neuronal polarization, morphology, and electrophysiology; and (4) extended bFGF also induces the expression, on transfer into standard medium, of an additional cell type with a distinct non-neuronal morphology that stains with the neuronal marker MAP-2. These results illustrate the need for additional characterization of long-term growth factor effects on maintained progenitor cells prior to their use in gene therapy and transplantation.
Long-term adrenalectomy results in loss of neurones in the hippocampal formation of the adult rat. The effects of long-term adrenalectomy on spatial learning and exploratory behaviour in adrenalectomized (ADX), adrenalectomized normal weight gain (ADXNW), sham operated and naive control male Sprague-Dawley rats were investigated in this study. The ADX rats had significantly longer latencies in the Morris maze task compared to the other groups. In the open-field situation, as a novel finding, the ADX rats showed significantly lower rearing scores compared to other groups. These data indicate that long-term adrenalectomy causes impairment in spatial learning and explorative behaviour in the rat.
We sought to determine if smooth muscle and endothelial cells of blood vessels express imidazoline receptors. Membranes of cultured smooth muscle cells specifically bind with high affinity to alpha 2-adrenergic ligands, [3H]p-aminoclonidine, [3H]rauwolscine, and [3H]idazoxan. All of [3H]rauwolscine and [3H]p-aminoclonidine but less than 10% of [3H]idazoxan binding was displaced by 10 microM epinephrine, indicating a nonadrenergic binding site for [3H]idazoxan. [3H]Idazoxan binding was inhibited with a rank order of potency: cirazoline &gt; idazoxan &gt; naphazoline &gt; guanabenz &gt; amiloride &gt; clonidine = phentolamine. Agmatine, an endogenous ligand for I-receptors, inhibited binding with a Ki of 240 +/- 25 nM. The binding of [3H]idazoxan to membranes of pulmonary artery endothelial cells was to both alpha 2-adrenergic and imidazoline receptors. Cultured smooth muscle cells, as well as rat carotid arterioles, were specifically immunostained by antibodies to an I-receptor-associated protein. We conclude that vascular smooth muscle and endothelial cells express not only alpha 2-adrenergic receptors but also I-receptors of the I2 subclass with high affinity for agmatine. Since serum contains an endogenous ligand for I-receptors, possibly agmatine, the results suggest the presence of a novel receptor mechanism on vascular smooth muscle which may regulate vascular tone.



1. There are several endogenous ligands that bind to I-receptors of both the I1 and I2 subclass. These include: (a) classic CDS, a partially purified entity isolated by the criteria that it displaces binding ligands to alpha 2- and I-receptors; (b) immunoreactive (ir)-CDS, a moiety that binds to antibodies raised against clonidine, para-amino-clonidine, or idazoxan; and (c) agmatine. 2. Classic-CDS, not yet defined structurally, binds to I1, I2, and alpha 2-adrenergic receptors, is neither a peptide nor a catecholamine, and has purportedly a molecular weight of 588 Da. By ligand binding assays, it was found in brain, serum, CSF, and placenta and in a neural-glial cell line. Partially purified classic CDS is bioactive. Like clonidine, it contracts aorta and vas deferens and inhibits platelet aggregation, effects largely attributable to agonism at alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. Unlike clonidine, it contracts rat gastric fundus and releases catecholamines from chromaffin cells, effects attributable to actions at I-receptors. Injected into the RVL, classic CDS alters arterial pressure, but the direction of change of pressure has differed between groups of investigators. However, in the absence of structure, it is possible that ligand binding and bioactivity may be attributable to different molecules. 3. Ir-CDS, also of unknown structure, is a material(s) that binds to antibodies raised against clonidine, PAC, or idazoxan. Ir-CDS, measured by radioimmunoassay, is unevenly distributed in brain with highest concentrations in the hypothalamus, midbrain, and dorsal medulla. It is contained in the gastric fundus, adrenal gland, heart, kidney, and serum in amounts substantially higher than found in brain. Ir-CDS may be elevated in the serum of some patients with hypertension and in the CSF of patients with structural brain disease. The concentration of ir-CDS and bioactivity on gastric fundus directly correlates, suggesting that it may share similarities with classic-CDS. However, until the structure of classic and ir-CDS is determined, the possibility that ligand binding and antibody recognition are properties of different molecules must be considered. 4. Agmatine (decarboxylated arginine) is the only endogenous molecule that, like CDS, binds to alpha 2- and I-receptors of both classes. It and its biosynthetic enzyme arginine decarboxylase are present in brain, and agmatine is widely distributed throughout the body. However, the distribution of agmatine and ir-CDS differs, whereas the biological actions of agmatine do not mimic those of classic CDS. Its presence raises the possibility of an alternative pathway for polyamine biosynthesis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

I-receptors can be localized immunocytochemically in rat nervous system with polyclonal antibodies to an IRBP. I-receptors are cytoplasmic and detected in neuronal perikarya, processes, and glia. Labeled neuronal perikarya in the CNS are uncommon and localized to the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus. I-receptors are heavily represented in primary sensory systems including: somatosensory systems (spinal and trigeminal) and visceral afferent systems (NTS), in central networks subserving autonomic regulation, neuroendocrine control and emotional behaviors, in circumventricular (neurohaemal) organs and in nonneuronal cells including astrocytes with regional densities paralleling neuronal innervation. The distributions of I-receptors and alpha 2-adrenergic receptors partially differ. I-receptors in the CNS appear to relate broadly to the visceral brain and its afferent inputs, particularly pain. Its functions may relate to regulation of integrative behaviors related to stress.
The administration of glucose has been shown to improve memory for various learning tasks in rodents. In humans, glucose also increases declarative memory performance in elderly people and in some patients with mild Alzheimer's disease. One of the possible physiological bases for the effect of glucose on memory processes is a facilitation of cholinergic function through increased synthesis. In support of this hypothesis, glucose was shown to attenuate the amnesia induced by scopolamine and, in similar conditions, glucose increased extracellular levels of acetylcholine following a scopolamine injection. To further examine the interaction between glucose and cholinergic function, the present experiment measured the effects of combined injections of glucose and scopolamine on hippocampal sodium-dependent high-affinity choline uptake, an indirect index of cholinergic activity. Results showed that the injection of 3 g/kg glucose enhanced the increase in high affinity choline uptake in hippocampal synaptosomes produced by scopolamine. A regression analysis revealed the existence of a positive correlation between plasma blood glucose level and hippocampal choline uptake particularly in the animals receiving a combined injection of scopolamine and glucose. These data further support the hypothesis that glucose administration can facilitate acetylcholine synthesis under certain conditions and that this action could explain how glucose attenuates scopolamine-induced amnesia.
In this study, we demonstrate that 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) can be used to produce a lesion of dopamine (DA) terminals in medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) while sparing the noradrenergic innervation in this region. Furthermore, we determined the impact of these lesions on both extracellular DA in neostriatum, using in vivo microdialysis, and locomotor activity. Our results demonstrate that, whereas higher doses of 6-OHDA (&gt; or = 4 micrograms) depleted both DA and norepinephrine (NE) in mPFC, 1 micrograms 6-OHDA produced a depletion of DA (-79%) without significantly affecting NE content (-13%). Selective depletion of DA content in mPFC did not alter basal levels of extracellular DA in neostriatum determined 14 days after the lesion. The lesion also did not alter the ability of acute tail pressure (30 min) to increase extracellular DA in neostriatum or to stimulate locomotor activity. Depletion of DA in mPFC did not alter the ability of d-amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg, i.p.) to increase intracellular DA in neostriatum. In contrast, the maximum amphetamine-induced increase in locomotor activity was attenuated in lesioned rats as compared with control rats (670 and 280 locomotor counts/15 min, respectively). These data suggest that in the intact system, DA terminals in mPFC do not regulate extracellular DA in neostriatum. In addition, these data confirm that DA terminals in mPFC can influence stimulant-induced locomotion.
Reduced turn-over of tau by calpains is a possible mechanism to facilitate the incorporation into paired helical filaments (PHFs) in Alzheimer's disease. The present study shows that the differently phosphorylated fetal tau isoforms are all rapidly proteolysed to an equal extent by human brain m-calpain. This result argues against the hypothesis that this type of fetal phosphorylation is involved in reducing tau turn-over by calpain in Alzheimer's disease. Adult and fetal tau fragments in vitro generated by m-calpain, but not trypsin, cathepsin D or chymotrypsin resemble the post-mortem in situ degradation patterns, suggesting a possible role for calpains in tau metabolism in vivo. Tau incorporated into PHFs was considerably more resistant to proteolysis by calpain which can help to explain the persistence of these structures in Alzheimer's disease.
Vibrissal follicle-sinus complexes (F-SCs) in the mystacial pad of rodents are heavily innervated by different types of sensory nerve endings. One site in mystacial F-SCs, the inner conical body (ICB), is uniquely well innervated only in those species, such as the rat, that rhythmically whisk their mystacial vibrissae. In this study, we examined the innervation of rat nonmystacial F-SCs, which are not whisked. Supraorbital, posteroorbital, lateral cervical, median cervical, submental, and carpal forelimb F-SCs were cut on a cryostat and were either prepared for anti-human protein gene product (PGP 9.5) immunofluorescence or stained using the Winkelmann silver technique. Much of the innervation of the nonmystacial F-SCs is similar to that of mystacial F-SCs. All are innervated by a large deep vibrissal nerve (DVN) and several smaller superficial vibrissal nerves (SVNs). As in the mystacial pad, the SVNs show a distribution of Merkel and free nerve endings qualitatively similar to the rete ridge collar of all the nonmystacial F-SCs as well as provide circumferentially oriented endings to the ICBs to all but median-cervical and carpal F-SCs. Not only was the ICB innervation relatively sparse in median-cervical and carpal F-SCs, but a large portion of the carpal ICB innervation also ascended from the DVNs, which make only a small ICB contribution in other locations. Similar to mystacial pad F-SCs, the DVNs provided Merkel and lanceolate endings to the level of the ring sinus as well as reticular and irregular lanceolate-like endings to the level of the cavernous sinus. However, all but the posteroorbital F-SCs have relatively few lanceolate endings. Carpal F-SCs also have relatively few ring-sinus Merkel endings, which are diffusely distributed, are limited to the superficial portion of the outer root sheath. They also lack reticular and irregular lanceolate-like endings in the cavernous sinus. However, carpal F-SCs have a unique set of corpuscular endings in the ICB, ring sinus, and cavernous sinus that are rarely seen in other F-SCs. PGP 9.5 immunofluorescence also revealed two sets of fine-caliber profiles at the level of the ICB and ring sinus that were not previously seen in mystacial F-SCs. Although there was no correlation between ICB innervation and whisking, the regional variations in F-SC innervation suggest that functional differences may exist between vibrissae at different locations in the body.
Recent evidence suggests that serotonin may function to regulate the sensitivity of the circadian clock to the resetting effect of environmental light. Here we report that systemic administration of NAN-190, a drug that acts at both postsynaptic and somatodendritic serotonin receptors, potentiates light-induced phase shifts by as much as 250%. The effects of the drug are dose-related and are significant at light intensities between 0.2 and 200 lux. It is proposed that drugs with pharmacological properties similar to NAN-190 may prove useful as chronobiologics to adjust the sensitivity of the circadian system to natural 'zeitgebers'.
We studied 12 normal volunteers who were asked to imagine and plan their behavior in emotional and nonemotional situations while their regional cerebral blood flow was measured with positron emission tomography. The dorsolateral prefrontal and posterior temporal cortex were more activated during the nonemotional situation whereas the medial prefrontal cortex and anterior temporal cortex were more activated during the emotional situation. These results demonstrate that distinctive regions of the prefrontal and temporal cortex used to imagine and plan behavior are activated during the expression of emotional and non-emotional plans.
The auditory response of locus coeruleus (LC) neurones evoked by novel tones was investigated in anaesthetized and awake rats. Recording the single unit activity of LC neurones, responses to auditory stimuli are found under anaesthesia as well as in the awake animal. There are three types of LC responses to tone: first and by far the most frequent, a burst of several spikes at onset of the tone; second, a burst at tone offset and lastly, a total inhibition to the tone. All responses present a rapid habituation after the first few presentations of the stimulus. The results support the view that the LC plays a role in mediating responses to environmental changes.
The effects of flesinoxan, a selective 5-HT1A receptor agonist, were studied under basal non-stress conditions and in the shock-probe burying paradigm. Flesinoxan (1 and 3 mg/kg s.c.) significantly reduced burying and freezing behaviour, indicating clear anxiolytic properties. Under non-stress conditions, injection of 3 mg/kg flesinoxan significantly enhanced plasma corticosterone and glucose levels, whereas prolactin secretion was significantly enhanced after both 1 mg/kg and 3 mg/kg flesinoxan. Flesinoxan (1 and 3 mg/kg) did not suppress shock-probe stress-induced rises in plasma corticosterone and glucose levels. The enhanced plasma prolactin levels induced by flesinoxan were not further affected by shock-probe exposure. Our data show that the anxiolytic effects of flesinoxan in the shock-probe burying paradigm are not related to increases in plasma corticosterone and glucose levels.
Induction of neuronal Fos-like immunoreactivity (IR) in the rat brain by cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) and the dopamine (DA) D2 receptor antagonist raclopride was demonstrated. In vivo treatment with the CCK-8 (0.01, 0.1 and 1 nmol/rat, i.c.v.) or the D2 antagonist raclopride (0.1, 0.5 and 1 mg/kg, i.p.) alone increased in a dose-dependent way the Fos-like ir profiles in the shell part of the rat nucleus accumbens (AcbSh). Combined treatment with CCK-8 (0.1 nmol/rat) and raclopride (0.5 mg/kg) caused significant additive increases in the Fos-like ir profiles in the AcbSh. In the central caudate-putamen, the medial olfactory tubercle, and the frontal cerebral cortex where either compound alone was weakly active or inactive, the combined treatment with both compounds led to a significant induction of neuronal Fos-like ir profiles. These results suggest that the blockade of D2 and activation of CCK transduction lines can induce Fos-like IR via different mechanisms. They may produce additive effects in AcbSh and synergistic effects in the caudate-putamen and the olfactory tubercle on the induction of neuronal Fos-like IR and thus on long-term regulation of gene expression in the striatum.
We raised a monoclonal antibody, MA0, which reacts with A0, a 94-kDa rabbit skeletal muscle dystrophin-associated protein (DAP) bound to the syntrophin-binding domain of dystrophin. The antibody also reacted with the 62-kDa DAP which was moved to the locus close to beta-syntrophins by 2-dimensional PAGE, but the DAP did not coincide with any known beta-syntrophins. We have cloned a fragment of cDNA which codes the protein reacting with MA0 from a neonatal rabbit heart cDNA library. Based on the coincidence of cDNA sequences and the similarity in molecular mass, we concluded that the proteins reacting with MA0 are rabbit homologues of the Torpedo 87K protein.
Expression of the liver-type isopeptides of cytochrome c oxidase is regulated post-transcriptionally. An RNA-binding activity has been found in only those cells where the liver-type subunits are detected. This binding protein, termed COLBP, recognises sequences or structures within the 3'-untranslated regions of transcripts encoding these liver-type isopeptides and has been implicated in the modulation of mRNA expression. We now show by subcellular fractionation, immunocompetition, UV-crosslinking and shift-Western studies that the metabolic enzyme glutamate dehydrogenase, previously reported as being able to bind RNA, is the cytochrome c oxidase transcript-binding protein, COLBP.
Certain dextran coated iron oxides such as MION (monocrystalline iron oxide nanocompound) coupled to wheat germ agglutinin (MION-WGA) have been shown to exhibit i) neuronal uptake ii) axonal transport and iii) strong magnetic effects on tissues (superparamagnetism) in which they are localized. In the current study, we utilized such an agent to visualize axonal transport in the facial nerve in vivo by magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. Following injection of the compound into the facial nerves of guinea pigs, MR images were obtained at multiple time points (1, 3 and 5 days) and the imaged tissues were processed for subsequent histological examination. In nerves that had been injected with MION-WGA, the entire nerve appeared as a uniformly hypointense structure with a calculated transport rate of 5 mm/day. By 3 days, the agent within the facial nerve was traceable by MRI from a site of injection in the buccal branch to the stylomastoid foramen. Fluorescence and autoradiography studies confirmed axonal transport. These results show that MION-based magnetopharmaceuticals can be used to demonstrate slow axonal transport, and thereby visualize functional peripheral nerves in vivo by MR imaging. The method holds promise for developmental neuroscience research as well as a method to detect neural abnormalities by MR imaging.
Concentrations of the four major brain gangliosides, GM1, GD1a, GD1b and GT1b, biochemical markers of neuronal membranes, were determined in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 20 children with autism and in 25 controls. In addition, the gangliosides were determined in children with different forms of non-progressive neurological disorders lacking clinical features of autism. GM1, GD1a, GD1b and GT1b were significantly increased in patients with autism compared with age-matched controls and children with non-progressive neurological disorders. The gangliosides have previously been shown to have a function in synaptic transmission and increased synaptic activity leads to added release of gangliosides. Our finding of increased CSF levels of gangliosides in autism suggests increased synaptic activity in this disorder.
Machado-Joseph disease (MJD) is associated with the expansion of a CAG trinucleotide repeat in a novel gene on 14q32.1. We confirmed the presence of this expansion in 156 MJD patients from 33 families of different geographic origins: 15 Portuguese Azorean, 2 Brazilian, and 16 North American of Portuguese Azorean descent. Normal chromosomes contain between 12 and 37 CAG repeats in the MJD gene, whereas MJD gene carriers have alleles within the expanded range of 62-84 CAG units. The distribution of expanded alleles and the gap between normal and expanded allele sizes is either inconsistent with a premutation hypothesis or most (if not all) of the alleles we studied descend from a common ancestor. There is a strong correlation between the expanded repeat size and the age at onset of the disease as well as the clinical presentation. There is mild instability of the CAG tract length with transmission of the expanded alleles; both increase and decrease in size between parents and progeny occur, with larger variations in male than in female transmissions. Together, these effects can partly explain the variability of age at onset and of phenotypic features in MJD; however, other modifying factors must exist.
The outcome of acoustic neuroma (vestibular schwannoma) surgery continues to improve rapidly. Advances can be attributed to several fields, but the most important contributions have arisen from the identification of the genes responsible for the dominant inheritance of neurofibromatosis types 1 (NF1) and 2 (NF2) and the development of magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium enhancement for the early anatomic confirmation of the pathognomonic, bilateral vestibular schwannomas in NF2. These advances enable early diagnosis and treatment when the tumors are small in virtually all subjects at risk for NF2. The authors suggest that advising young NF2 patients to wait until complications develop, especially hearing loss, before diagnosing and operating for bilateral eighth nerve schwannomas may not always be in the best interest of the patient. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first reported case of preservation of both auditory and vestibular function in a patient after bilateral vestibular schwannoma excision.
Research suggests that the regulation of the function of the immune system by the central nervous system (CNS) involves the integrative responses of multiple neural systems that affect neuroendocrine and sympathetic nervous systems. To determine whether prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) is involved in the modulatory mechanisms of immune system function, it was administered intracerebroventricularly (ICV) to conscious male rats. One hour later, spleen and peripheral blood lymphocytes were collected for culture with nonspecific mitogens. ICV administration of PGE2 decreased blood lymphocyte proliferative responses to the T-cell mitogens phytohemagglutinin and concanavalin A and decreased spleen lymphocyte proliferative responses to phytohemagglutinin and lipopolysaccharide (a B-lymphocyte mitogen). ICV administered PGE2 also stimulated the activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, as reflected by increased plasma concentrations of adrenocorticotropic hormone and corticosterone. Thus PGE2 may act in the CNS as a hormonal modulator of immune system function.
A temporal profile of lateral and fourth ventricle rat choroid plexus (LVCP and 4VCP, respectively) tissue injury and recovery was determined using alterations in K, Na, and H2O content and ultrastructure after 10 min of transient forebrain ischemia (TFI). At 0.5 h postischemia the LVCP displayed a maximum reduction in K content by 32% and a significant increase in Na content by 85% and H2O content by 22%. LVCP tissue K, Na, and H2O content returned to sham values by 24 h postischemia. Ultrastructural changes appeared more severe between 0.5 and 12 h postischemia, whereas by 24 h, normal ultrastructure was restored. Elevations in 4VCP tissue Na (P &lt; 0.05) and H2O content, which were less than those in LVCP, gradually reached a maximum by 24 h compared with sham. No change in 4VCP tissue ultrastructure was observed. These results indicate that the LVCP tissue is more vulnerable than 4VCP in the bilateral carotid artery occlusion model but that it recovers in a timely manner after TFI. Furthermore, the ability of the LVCP tissue to rapidly recover suggests its functional importance in helping to restore brain homeostasis.
An atomic force microscope was used to image the morphology and structural reorganization of rat NIH/3T3 fibroblasts and PC-12 cells growing in petri dishes. NIH/3T3 fibroblasts had a uniform morphology and an extensive cytoskeletal network. Cell thickness varied from approximately 2-3 microns above the nucleus to approximately 20-30 nm over the distal processes, and cytoskeletal fibers as small as 30 nm wide were observed. Imaging over an extended period of time showed a limited degree of cytoskeletal reorganization. Localized force dissection did not induce significant retraction of cellular processes and immediate cell death. Differentiating PC-12 cells with a neuronal phenotype had a nonuniform morphology, abundant cytoskeletal elements, neuritic processes, and growth cones. The cell thickness varied from approximately 5-8 microns over the nucleus to approximately 100-500 nm over the neuritic processes; growth cones approximately 50-700 nm wide and end structures approximately 30-150 nm wide were visible. Repeated imaging showed reorganization of the growth cone, especially the appearance and disappearance of beadlike features and fibrous organization. Thus an atomic force microscope can be used for high-resolution real-time studies of the dynamic subcellular mechanisms that drive cell behavior.
Eye movements have attracted an unusually large number of researchers from many disparate fields, especially over the past 35 years. The lure of this system stemmed from its apparent simplicity of description, measurement, and analysis, as well as the promise of providing a &quot;window in the mind.&quot; Investigators in areas ranging from biological control systems and neurological diagnosis to applications in advertising and flight simulation expected eye movements to provide clear indicators of what the sensory-motor system was accomplishing and what the brain found to be of interest. The parallels between compensatory eye movements and perception of spatial orientation have been a subject for active study in visual-vestibular interaction, where substantial knowledge has accumulated through experiments largely guided by the challenge of proving or disproving model predictions. Even though oculomotor control has arguably benefited more from systems theory than any other branch of motor control, many of the original goals remain largely unfulfilled. This paper considers some of the promising potential benefits of eye movement research and compares accomplishments with anticipated results. Four topics are considered in greater detail: (i) the definition of oculomotor system input and output, (ii) optimization of the eye movement system, (iii) the relationship between compensatory eye movements and spatial orientation through the &quot;internal model,&quot; and (iv) the significance of eye movements as measured in (outer) space.

Saccadic eye movements, fixation, and smooth pursuit were recorded in 17 subjects with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and 11 age-matched controls using a magnetic scleral search coil. Reflexive, remembered and antisaccades, and smooth pursuit at four target velocities were studied. Subjects with ALS showed significantly elevated error rates (distractibility) and latency in the antisaccade and remembered saccade paradigms but no abnormality of reflexive saccades. The frequency of small saccades that intruded on steady fixation (square-wave jerks) was also increased in ALS subjects. Peak velocity gain of smooth pursuit and performance on the Wisconsin Card Sort Test did not differ significantly between the two groups. These findings are consistent with prefrontal dysfunction in ALS and provide an independent source of support for the thesis that the pathology of this condition invades frontal cortex.
Cisplatin, a widely used chemotherapeutic agent, induces a sensory neuropathy with selective loss of vibration sense and proprioception. Here we demonstrate that neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), a member of the nerve growth factor family of neurotrophic factors, restored to normal levels the reduced H-reflex-related sensory nerve conduction velocity induced by cisplatin in rats. NT-3 treatment corrected an abnormal cytoplasmic distribution of neurofilament protein in large sensory neurons in dorsal root ganglia and the reduction in the numbers of myelinated fibers in sural nerves caused by cisplatin. The NT-3-dependent reversal of cisplatin neurotoxicity thus suggests the possible use of NT-3 in the treatment of peripheral sensory neuropathy.
The diagnosis of dementia disorders can be made in several steps. The symptomatology, severity and course of the illness must be considered. Memory disturbances must be present. Ante-mortem classification of dementias is based on known or assumed etiology. The final step is the post-mortem diagnosis. Of the primary dementias, Alzheimer-type dementia is the most important group. Accumulating data indicate that this form can be divided into subgroups. The concept of multi-infarct dementia (MID) should not be used synonymously with vascular dementia, which is a broader concept. Vascular dementias can also be divided into subgroups. Dementia is an advanced stage of a brain disorder. It seems important to identify brain disorders before they have reached the advanced level of dementia. A name for such disorders is dysmentia.

The generation of human locomotion was examined by linking computational neuroscience with biomechanics from the perspective of nonlinear dynamical theory. We constructed a model of human locomotion, which includes a musculo-skeletal system with 8 segments and 20 muscles, a neural rhythm generator composed of 7 pairs of neural oscillators, and mechanisms for processing and transporting sensory and motor signals. Using a computer simulation, we found that locomotion emerged as a stable limit cycle that was generated by the global entrainment between the musculo-skeletal system, the neural system, and the environment. Moreover, the walking movements of the model could be compared quantitatively with those of experimental studies in humans.
The dopamine metabolite, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), was found to be decreased in the anterior cingulate cortex of individuals with schizophrenia compared with normal controls. The finding does not appear to be solely related to the presence of antipsychotic medications, age, postmortem interval, or freezer time. No changes in norepinephrine and its metabolites were found.

1. Sympathetic nerve stimulation causes contraction of the dilator muscle and the large arterioles of the iris via the activation of alpha 1B-adrenoceptors. We have investigated whether increases in adenosine 3': 5'-cyclic monophosphate (cyclic AMP) and the activation of receptors in these tissues can modulate these nerve-mediated contractions. 2. Increasing intracellular cyclic AMP with dibutyryl cyclic AMP (1 mM), forskolin (50 microM) or isobutylmethylxanthine (100 microM) produced relaxation of both the dilator and the arterioles, abolished the nerve-mediated constriction of the arterioles, but potentiated the nerve-mediated contraction of the iris dilator. 3. Pretreatment of the preparations with cholera toxin, to activate Gs permanently, caused a dilatation of the arterioles and abolished the nerve-mediated constriction but had no effect on the dilator muscle. 4. The beta-adrenoceptor agonist, isoprenaline (1 microM), the adenosine-A1,-A2 agonist, N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine NECA (100 nM), in the presence of the A1-selective antagonist, 8-cyclopentyl-1, 3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX, 10 nM), and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP, 10 nM) all separately caused a dilatation of the arterioles and abolished the nerve-mediated constriction, while only isoprenaline (1 microM) produced an effect on the dilator, i.e. a relaxation but a potentiation of the nerve-mediated contraction. These results suggest the presence of at least 3 types of receptor linked to Gs and an increase in cyclic AMP in the arterioles, i.e. beta-adrenoceptor, adenosine-A2 and CGRP, but only 1 Gs-linked receptor, i.e. beta-adrenoceptors, on the dilator muscle cells.2+ '
A 5-year-old girl with Aicardi syndrome, choroid plexus papilloma and multiple gastric hyperplastic polyps is reported. Gastric polyposis is unusual in the pediatric age group and has not previously been reported in a patient with Aicardi syndrome. A variety of uncommon benign and malignant tumors have been associated with Aicardi syndrome; this literature is briefly reviewed. The increased frequency of tumors in Aicardi syndrome should be kept in mind when evaluating these patients.
Ludwig Merzbacher (1875-1942) is widely known for his seminal work on the pathology of the dysmyelinating CNS disease named for the clinician Friedrich Pelizaeus and himself. Yet his training, his scientific achievements and his list of publications suggest a scientist with broad interests in neuropathology, neuroscience, neurology and psychiatry. Among several studies in experimental and clinical neuropathology, Merzbacher's work on scavenger cells is the most outstanding. While working in Alois Alzheimer's laboratory in Munich in 1906/1907, Ludwig Merzbacher analyzed in great detail the reaction patterns of these cells, which are nowadays known as reactive microglia, and already attempted to elucidate their function in brain pathology.
These experiments were designed to investigate the role of the noradrenergic system in promoting investigation of novelty in rats. Behavior was monitored in a hole board equipped with photoelectric cells strategically placed so that locomotor activity, rearing and investigation of each of the holes could be quantified independently. Specially designed computer software permitted recording of the sequence and cumulative duration of the visits to specific holes throughout the session. Dose-response curves of the sedative effect of the alpha 2 adrenergic receptor agonist clonidine were established, a sedative effect being defined as a decrease in overall horizontal displacements, rearings and hole visits. After a one week interval, the rats were rerun in the holeboard, with novel objects placed in four of the nine holes. Previous experiments had shown that rats spend significantly more time investigating holes containing objects than empty holes in this apparatus and this was replicated here. Doses of clonidine which were below threshold for inducing any sedative effect (10 micrograms/kg) totally eliminated preference for holes with objects while having no effect on total time investigating the holes. A subsequent experiment showed that the beta receptor antagonist propranolol (10 mg/kg) produced a similar effect. These results suggest that the noradrenergic system is implicated in stimulus seeking behavior and the post-synaptic beta receptors are involved in mediating the behavior.
The distribution of the mRNAs encoding the dopamine D1, D2 and D5 receptors was determined in brain tissues obtained from intact female rhesus monkeys, using a ribonuclease protection assay. Tissue blocks from the frontal cortex, striatum, thalamus, hippocampus and substantia nigra were dissected and total RNA was extracted. Dopamine D2 and D5 receptor DNA fragments were generated from rhesus monkey genomic DNA using polymerase chain reaction. To generate dopamine receptor subtype-specific cRNA probes, DNA fragments corresponding to the carboxy terminus of the rhesus monkey D1 and D2 receptor genes and to the putative transmembrane domain regions (IV-VI) of the D5 receptor gene, were subcloned into the pGEM3Z/4Z vectors. Expression of D1 receptor mRNA exhibited significant regional differences: striatum &gt; &gt; &gt; cerebral cortex &gt; or = hippocampus &gt; or = lateral thalamus. D1 receptor mRNA was found in low quantities in the medial thalamus, but was not consistently expressed in the substantia nigra area. In contrast, D2 receptor mRNA was detected in all regions that were studied: striatum &gt; &gt; &gt; substantia nigra &gt; &gt; hippocampus &gt; or = cerebral cortex &gt; or = medial thalamus &gt; or = lateral thalamus. D5 receptor mRNA was also expressed in all regions, with highest levels in the cerebral cortex, striatum and lateral thalamus, and moderate levels in the substantia nigra, medial thalamus and the hippocampus. The D5 receptor mRNA appears to be widely distributed in the monkey brain. Most interesting is the expression of D5 receptor mRNA in tissues of the substantia nigra area.
The aim of this study was to determine the effect of repeated electroconvulsive stimulation (ECS) on the expression of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and somatostatin (SS) mRNA in the rat brain. For that purpose, quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry and RNA blot analysis were used. In the hippocampal formation the prevalence of NPY mRNA positive neurons increased in the hilus of the dentate gyrus and the CA3 while a decrease was seen in layers II-III of the entorhinal cortex. In contrast, SS mRNA was increased in the granule cells of the dentate gyrus and in most neurons of the outer parts of the layer III in the entorhinal cortex with cell bodies of perforant pathway projections to the hippocampal CA1 region. Both NPY and SS mRNA expressing neurons were increased in numerical density in the prefrontal cortex with similar amounts of mRNA in individual NPY positive neurons after the stimulations while SS mRNA levels decreased in hybridization positive neurons. In the striatum the only observed significant effect was an increased prevalence of NPY mRNA positive neurons in the caudal nucleus accumbens. Our results provide an outline of a complex functional anatomy of ECS in the rat brain. This type of investigations contributes to map the neuronal systems involved in the action of ECT used in the treatment of affective and schizophrenic disorders.
To investigate the molecular changes underlying kindling epileptogenesis in the rat hippocampus, the expression levels of the genes encoding for 13 different gamma-aminobutyric acid type-A receptor (GABAAR) subunits were measured in hippocampal principal neurons using in situ hybridization techniques and semi-quantitative analysis of the autoradiograms. Schaffer collateral-commissural pathway kindled rats were investigated at three different stages of kindling acquisition, at 24 h after the last seizure and at long-term (28 days) after termination of kindling stimulations. Changes were distinct for the different subunits in the three analyzed regions (CA1, CA3, fascia dentata) and also different for the various kindling stages. In all hippocampal areas at the early phases of kindling epileptogenesis, before the appearance of generalized seizures, an increase was found of those transcripts that constituted the majority of the expressed variants in control animals (alpha 1, alpha 2, alpha 4, beta 1, beta 2, beta 3, gamma 2/gamma 2L mRNA). In these stages, the increased levels of different variants in the granular neurons of the fascia dentata were more pronounced when compared to the pattern of changes in pyramidal cells of CA1 and CA3. In fully kindled animals, the expression levels of several subunits returned to control levels, whereas beta 3 and gamma 2/gamma 2L mRNA expression was still significantly enhanced in all areas. At long-term, few changes were encountered. The long-splice variant of gamma 2 was decreased within pyramidal and granular neurons while the total level of gamma 2 mRNA was not different from controls. The increased GABAAR subunit expression in the fascia dentata may underly the reported increased GABAAR ligand binding and the increased GABA mediated inhibition. However, the decreased GABAAR binding and the attenuation of GABAergic inhibition in CA1, could not be explained by a decrement of receptor subunit expression.
Previously we reported that a single injection of nicotine decreased AP-1 DNA binding activity in adrenal medullae, although chronic bidaily nicotine (and saline) injections increased this binding activity [15]. Repeated acute nicotine injections (3 mg/kg i.p., 7 injections equi-spaced over a 3 h period) effectively increased adrenal tyrosine hydroxylase [3] and [Met5]enkephalin levels and also profoundly decreased adrenal medulla AP-1 DNA binding activity for over 8 h.
Surgical treatment of infantile hydrocephalus by shunt implantation may result in suboptimal intracranial pressure. Major neurological impairments and death are usually prevented by shunt treatment, but minor sequelae may persist or develop. The introduction of adjustable shunts has improved the possibilities of optimizing shunt function and minimizing the risk of such impairments. However, it is still impossible to determine the intracranial pressure without invasive measurements. Clinical findings and procedures such as computed tomography (CT) are not always enough to allow a conclusion as to whether a child's signs and symptoms are the result of suboptimal intracranial pressure (shunt dysfunction) or are of another etiology. With the aim of reducing the number of invasive pressure measurements and CT scans, we investigated the effect of increased intracranial pressure on the visual evoked response (VER). Binocular light flash stimuli of supramaximal intensity were used and VER recordings were performed from Oz and Cz. The VER results from a group of 31 infants and children with hydrocephalus and 2 children with pseudotumor cerebri were compared with responses from a control group of 35 healthy children. The results show that a subpotential, P' (P-prime), usually just preceding P1 (P100), had an increased latency ( &gt; 96 ms) in all hydrocephalic children before surgery. The P' latency in this group was usually even above 110 ms. The latencies of other VER potentials were also increased but not as consistently as P'. After surgical intervention the VER latencies decreased and usually normalized. The P' latency in four children in the control group was just above the borderline latency, but was less than 110 ms.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Clenbuterol (4mg/kg in diet for 21 days) had no statistically significant effect on whole body growth. It did cause a significant increase (18.2%) in wet weight of the fast twitch muscle extensor digitorum longus (EDL) and a corresponding 14.9% increase in total muscle protein. In transverse sections through dystrophic muscle fibre sizes were more variable than in normal muscle. Clenbuterol treatment resulted in a reduction in the proportion of small diameter fibres, and therefore an increase in mean fibre diameter, in dystrophic EDL. Clenbuterol had no significant effect upon the slow twitch muscle soleus.
Wavelet representation is a recent development in the analysis of non-stationary signals. Its possibilities for use in the description of time-frequency characteristics of both transients in spontaneous EEG and time-varying rhythms in event related brain activity are explored here. By way of illustration, multiresolution decompositions of a wide variety of EEG transients are carried out in this work, including spike-and-waves, single spikes, sharp waves, blink artifacts, frontal intermittent rhythmic delta activity (FIRDA) and paroxysmal delta activity. Also, the application of the wavelet representation to study related spectra perturbations is illustrated with data from psychophysical experiments on the perception of image motion. The results demonstrate the capabilities of the wavelet transform, as an alternative to the Fourier transform, for the representation and analysis of non-stationary EEG signals.

To understand the cellular context of neuronal differentiation in the vertebrate retina, we analyzed the behavior of a class of progenitor cells in the outer nuclear layer of the teleost retina which divide throughout the animal's life and generate only rod photoreceptors. We present evidence that these progenitors reside adjacent to the outer limiting membrane of the retina during all phases of cell cycle. After final cell division, postmitotic cells move inward, toward the vitreal boundary of the outer nuclear layer, before they give rise to new rods. This movement is remarkable because it occurs in the mature, functioning retina. We hypothesize that only one of the two progenitor daughter cells moves while the other remains adjacent to the outer limiting membrane to divide again.
To understand the hierarchy of developmental controls underlying axis specification in vertebrate embryos, it is helpful to identify relationships between regulatory molecules and the genes that give axial cells their differentiated phenotypes. This work reports the cloning and expression pattern of one of these differentiation genes, a type II collagen (col2a1) gene from the zebrafish Danio rerio. Along the embryonic axis, col2a1 is expressed dynamically in three rows that are each a single cell wide: the notochord and the rows of cells immediately dorsal and ventral to it--the floor plate of the central nervous system, and the hypochord. In addition, col2a1 is expressed in the pharyngeal arches, the epithelium of the otic capsule, and in the mesenchyme of the neurocranium. Experiments probed the expression pattern of col2a1 relative to that of known or potential regulators of axis development, including axial, sonic hedgehog, twist, and cyclops. The results showed that the spatial and temporal pattern of col2a1 expression in axial mesoderm follows the expression of twist closer than other genes tested. In cyclops embryos, which lack an intact floor plate, col2a1 expression was usually low, but not missing in cells in the ventral spinal cord. Because col2a1 expression reveals abnormalities in the notochord of cyclopsb16 embryos, and less col2a1-expressing mesenchyme accumulates rostral to the notochord in cyclops embryos, the effects of the cyclopsb16 mutation are not confined to the central nervous system.
We describe a series of stages for development of the embryo of the zebrafish, Danio (Brachydanio) rerio. We define seven broad periods of embryogenesis--the zygote, cleavage, blastula, gastrula, segmentation, pharyngula, and hatching periods. These divisions highlight the changing spectrum of major developmental processes that occur during the first 3 days after fertilization, and we review some of what is known about morphogenesis and other significant events that occur during each of the periods. Stages subdivide the periods. Stages are named, not numbered as in most other series, providing for flexibility and continued evolution of the staging series as we learn more about development in this species. The stages, and their names, are based on morphological features, generally readily identified by examination of the live embryo with the dissecting stereomicroscope. The descriptions also fully utilize the optical transparancy of the live embryo, which provides for visibility of even very deep structures when the embryo is examined with the compound microscope and Nomarski interference contrast illumination. Photomicrographs and composite camera lucida line drawings characterize the stages pictorially. Other figures chart the development of distinctive characters used as staging aid signposts.
The effect of unilateral lesions of the claustrum was examined in cats treated with D,L-allylglycine. Prior to the lesion, intermittent light stimulation (ILS) induced (a) myoclonic jerking associated with generalized spike, or polyspike and wave discharge, maximal in the subcortical structures monitored and the cortical visual area, and (b) bisymmetrical generalized-onset tonic-clonic convulsions associated with sustained spike discharge in the motor cortex bilaterally. Subsequent to a unilateral lesion of the claustrum, ILS-induced electro-clinical manifestations of myoclonic jerking remained unchanged. However, the bisymmetrical convulsive pattern transformed into a partial onset secondarily generalized convulsive pattern beginning in the intact hemisphere. It is concluded that the claustrum plays an important role for access of visual afferents to the motor mechanism responsible for ILS-induced convulsive seizure.
A semi-structured interview based upon Coddington's life event questionnaire was revised and modified to measure life changes in children of possible importance for the development of physical and mental illness. A normal population of 193 children was investigated in 1981-83 and followed up after six years. The life events during the intervening period are described and correlated to child behavioural symptom load and family function before and after. Both the life event load and the adjustment ability of the child make significant contributions to the prediction of child disturbance in the follow-up.
Ingestion of food can result in an acute decline of serum thyrotropin (TSH) concentrations, but it is not known whether meal composition and/or stomach distension are influential. Normal men and women were given a normocaloric or hypocaloric, isobulk meal at lunch and at dinner in a randomized design. The normocaloric, but not the isobulk, meal resulted in a significant decline in serum TSH at both lunch and dinner; thyroid hormones and cortisol were not affected significantly. These findings suggest that meal composition is influential in the acute postprandial decline of serum TSH in man. A possible mechanism is food-induced elevation of somatostatin and consequent suppression of TSH secretion.
Messenger RNA for brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is distributed in many brain regions and regulated by excitatory neuronal activity. Despite numerous studies of BDNF mRNA, the distribution and regulation of BDNF protein are poorly understood because of the difficulty of its quantitative measurement. We have established a two-site enzyme immunoassay that detects trace amounts of BDNF protein (&gt; 1 pg/assay) but not other neurotrophins or growth factors. The highest levels of BDNF in adult rat brain were found in the hippocampus, followed by the hypothalamus, neocortex, cerebellum, thalamus and striatum. This pattern is similar, but not identical, to the distribution of BDNF mRNA. A similar disparity between BDNF protein and mRNA levels was observed in their changes after hilus lesion-induced limbic seizures. In limbic structures, BDNF concentrations remained elevated 4 days after seizure onset, whereas BDNF mRNA has been reported previously to return to basal levels within 46 h. The temporal and spatial differences between the dynamics of protein and mRNA levels suggest the importance of post-translational and/or subcellular processes for BDNF production. The persistence of the increases in BDNF content was also reflected in its biological activity, e.g. peptidergic differentiation activity. After limbic seizures, neuropeptide Y content was most markedly and persistently elevated in the entorhinal/amygdaloid region, where the most sustained up-regulation of BDNF protein was observed. These results suggest that the sustained increase of BDNF protein in these limbic structures is involved in prolonged post-seizure phenomena, including peptidergic alterations.
As a result of the limited spatial resolution of positron emission tomographic scanners, the measurements of physiological parameters are compromised by tissue heterogeneity. The effect of tissue heterogeneity on a number of parameters was studied by simulation and an analytical method. Five common tracer models were assessed. The input and tissue response functions were assumed to be free from noise and systematic errors. The kinetic model was assumed to be perfect. Two components with different kinetics were mixed in different proportions and contrast with respect to the model parameters. Different experimental protocols were investigated. Of three methods investigated for the measurement of cerebral blood flow (CBF) (steady state, dynamic, integral), the second one was least sensitive to errors caused by tissue heterogeneity and the main effect was an underestimation of the distribution volume. With the steady state method, errors in oxygen extraction fraction caused by tissue heterogeneity were always found to be less than the corresponding errors in CBF. For myocardial blood flow the steady state method was found to perform better than the bolus method. The net accumulation of substrate (i.e. rCMRglc in the case of glucose analogs) was found to be comparatively insensitive to tissue heterogeneity. Individual rate constants such as k2 and k3 for efflux and metabolism of the substrate in the pool of unmetabolized substrate in the tissue, respectively, were found to be more sensitive. In studies of radioligand binding, using only tracer doses, the effect of tissue heterogeneity on the parameter kon.Bmax could be considerable. In studies of radioligand binding using a protocol with two experiments, one with high and one with low specific activity, Bmax was found to be insensitive while Kd was very sensitive to tissue heterogeneity.
Previous studies in urodeles (Holder et al., 1982, J. Physiol. 326:371; Holder et al., 1984, Proc. R. Soc. Lond. B 222:477; Aaronson et al., 1995, Neuroscience 66:201) have shown that regenerating axons of peripheral nerves tend to grow toward distal nerve stumps, which is consistent with the hypothesis that axonal growth may be stimulated by factors released from degenerating nerves. In the present study we used two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and autoradiography to compare the incorporation of radiolabeled methionine into proteins which are synthesized and released in vitro by segments of normal and previously cut axolotl sciatic nerves, within the isoelectric point range 2.4-10.6 and molecular weight range 3.6-200 kDa. In the distal portion of nerves cut 7 days previously in vivo, the synthesis of at least six secreted proteins was significantly greater than in undamaged nerves. The possible cellular sources of these proteins was assessed by comparing protein release from normal nerves with nerve segments maintained in culture for 7 days (in which the contribution from recruited macrophages would be expected to be minimal) and segments of nerve which had been frozen and then replaced in situ for 7 days (in which the contribution from sheath cells would be expected to be minimal).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Focal cerebral ischemia results in increased in vivo binding of calcium channel antagonists to both the L-type voltage sensitive calcium channel (VSCC) and the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-linked calcium channel. It was the aim of this study to investigate the effect of focal cerebral ischemia on the in vitro binding of calcium channel antagonists to rat brain. Quantitative autoradiography was used to measure regional in vitro binding of the L-type VSCC antagonist [3H]nimodipine and the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist [3H]CGS-19755 to rat brain following 4 h of irreversible focal cerebral ischemia. [3H]Nimodipine binding to the nonischemic hemisphere was characterized by one binding site with regional binding affinity (KD) estimates ranging from 221 to 482 pM and maximal binding site densities (BMAX) ranging from 13.2 (9.6-17.5) pmol/g tissue (estimate and 95% confidence interval) in CA1 to 32.5 (26.5-39.9) pmol/g tissue in dentate. [3H]CGS-19755 binding to the nonischemic hemisphere was characterized by KD estimates ranging from 59 to 97 nM and BMAX values ranging from 143 (108-192) pmol/g tissue in cortex to 569 (515-641) pmol/g tissue in CA1. For [3H]CGS-19755 a model of two binding sites was applicable in several brain regions. No difference in binding site densities or binding affinities between ischemic and paired nonischemic structures (cortex and striatum) was observed with either ligand. In vitro binding of [3H]nimodipine and [3H]CGS-19755 to ischemic brain failed to identify ischemic-induced changes in calcium channel function previously reported by in vivo binding methods.
The search for trophic factors that can support injured dopaminergic neurons and can enhance dopaminergic graft survival and outgrowth for therapeutic uses in Parkinson's disease has lately focused on members of the transforming growth factor (TGF) beta super-family. In this paper we have studied the effects of a member of the TGB beta family, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), on immature and mature ventral mesencephalic tissue grafted to the anterior chamber of the eye. The results confirm that GDNF increases survival of TH-positive neurons and enhances TH-immunoreactive nerve fiber formation when the grafts are treated during their development. The distribution of nerve terminals is densest within the area of TH-immunoreactive neurons and at the surface of the grafts. However, there is no change in the number of calcium-binding protein (CaBP)-positive neurons, suggesting that the subpopulation of TH-positive neurons that is increased are the CaBP-negative neurons of the ventral tier of pars compacta. Terminals from those neurons form the striatal patches during normal development. When the grafts are treated with GDNF after maturation, no change in TH-positive cell survival is seen but an increase of nerve terminals is still found within the cell dense area of the graft. Potassium-evoked dopamine release, measured using in vivo chronoamperometry, revealed significantly increased extracellular overflow in transplants treated with GDNF during development. The dopamine uptake blocker nomifensine significantly increased the time for clearance of the released dopamine. These data suggest that GDNF treatment of immature grafts enhances survival of TH-positive neurons, which would have innervated the striatal patches, and also increases TH-immunoreactive nerve fiber formation and dopamine release. Furthermore, GDNF treatment of mature grafts also increases dopamine fiber formation within the TH-positive neuronal area, indicating that adult dopaminergic neurons are also responsive to this agent.
Previous studies have shown that goldfish retinal axons regenerating in vivo transport increased radioactivity in the glycosaminoglycan (GAG) components of proteoglycans (PGs). During this enhanced transport, the ratio of chondroitin sulfate (CS) to heparan sulfate (HS) was 60/40. In the present investigation, PG synthesis was inhibited during in vitro axon growth from regenerating goldfish retinal explants. Explants growing on either poly-L-lysine (PLYS) or poly-L-lysine + laminin (PLYS + LN) incorporated 35SO4 into proteoglycan-bound CS and HS in an approximate 2/1 ratio. Addition of 4-methylumbelliferyl beta-D-xyloside (beta-xyloside) to the culture medium reduced the sulfate radioactivity in proteoglycan-bound CS and HS by 89 and 71%, respectively, on PLYS and by 89 and 72% on PLYS + LN. Morphological evaluation of explants revealed that beta-xyloside treatment reduced both the number of retinal axons per explant and their growth rate on PLYS; on PLYS + LN this treatment reduced the number of axons, but had no effect on growth rate. This study suggests that retinal ganglion cell PGs containing CS and/or HS GAG chains are required for both the initiation and the maintenance of axonal outgrowth on artificial polycationic substrata such as PLYS, but only for the initiation of outgrowth on laminin.
With the use of four independent cell markers and Brd-U birthdating we have charted the earliest stages of neuronal differentiation and migration in the developing rat central nervous system, including the cortex, spinal cord, and retina. One of the markers, the monoclonal antibody 2G12, labeled a large subpopulation of differentiating cells that uniformly lined the ventricles throughout these CNS regions at unexpectedly early ages. Immunocytochemistry demonstrated that, in cortex, the 2G12 antigen could appear in cells during mitosis. More mature looking 2G12-positive cell types initially had a primitive radial morphology and were axonless. However, in strict spatio-temporal sequences, the most mature looking 2G12-positive cells had the ability to sprout GAP-43-positive axons before or after the cell body left the ventricular surface and before or after detachment of their pial or ventricular endfoot processes. Double label experiments with 2G12 and Brd-U showed that none of these three 2G12-positive cell types incorporated Brd-U after a short pulse. The primitive neuroepithelial shape of the immature neurons was verified with a polyclonal GAP-43 antibody, a type III beta tubulin antibody, and DiI labeling from a distal portion of the axon. In the cortex and retina, the 2G12 marker persisted in cells that had reached prospective neuronal layers. However, in all CNS regions observed, 2G12 immunoreactivity disappeared from the cell body as the axon extended from the young neuron. Based on the smooth progression of changing 2G12-positive cell shapes, but also because of the transient nature of this label, we can only speculate that the 2G12 epitope may be marking a continuum of neuronal cell states throughout the earliest period of differentiation and migration. Thus, our hypothesis suggests that many of the youngest CNS neurons may have a widespread distribution and may begin their differentiation, and even remain axonless for a time, while retaining a neuroepithelial morphology. Once differentiation resumes, a major mode of transformation into mature neurons during the earliest stages of development could occur via translocation of the cell soma into the pial process. Importantly, these markers have verified at later stages, and especially in cortex, that multiple mechanisms exist for neuronal migration in the CNS depending on the region and stage of development.

Defects of the mitochondrial genome are increasingly being recognised as important causes of disease. Patients may present at any age and the symptoms vary from fatal lactic acidosis in infancy to muscle disease in adults. For most patients there is no satisfactory treatment and there is a gradual deterioration leading to severe disability and death. In the absence of any biochemical treatment, gene therapy must be considered for these patients. This review addresses the unique problems associated with the treatment of defects of the mitochondrial genome by gene therapy, and discusses the approaches which we believe may be of value.
The proliferative activity, the organization and the corticosterone expression of adrenocortical cells in an experimental adrenal regeneration process after the transplantation of neonatal adrenal glands to adult hosts was investigated. Three days after transplantation, the medullar and the innermost adrenocortical cells of the neonatal adrenal glands showed degenerative and necrotic changes due to the lack of vascular supply. The remaining outermost adrenocortical cells did not display any PCNA immunoreaction. The first PCNA expression, pointing out the beginning of the proliferative cycle, was observed in a 45.4% of the adrenocortical cells, one week after transplantation. After three weeks, several regenerated adrenocortical nodules with a bigger size than the one observed in the previous periods were seen. In these nodules, while the outermost adrenocortical cells were disposed in parallel to the capsule or in rounded groups, the bulk of the regenerated mass width was composed of cells forming longitudinal cords. PCNA immunoreaction was almost exclusively restricted to subcapsular cells (62.5%) and to cells of the outermost portion of the cords (32.5%), the global percentage of PCNA immunopositive cells being 18.4%. Twelve weeks after transplantation, regenerated adrenocortical cells were arranged in three layers: glomerulosa, fasciculata and reticularis. Only 1.85% of the adrenocortical cells were PCNA immunopositive. Although in the early stages of the regeneration process, all the adrenocortical cells, both proliferating and non proliferating cells expressed corticosterone, a restriction of this immunoreactivity to the zonae fasciculata and reticularis was observed when cell zonation was apparent.
A brain microstate is defined as a functional/physiological state of the brain during which specific neural computations are performed. It is characterized uniquely by a fixed spatial distribution of active neuronal generators with time varying intensity. Brain electrical activity is modeled as being composed of a time sequence of nonoverlapping microstates with variable duration. A precise mathematical formulation of the model for evoked potential recordings is presented, where the microstates are represented as normalized vectors constituted by scalp electric potentials due to the underlying generators. An algorithm is developed for estimating the microstates, based on a modified version of the classical k-means clustering method, in which cluster orientations are estimated. Consequently, each instantaneous multichannel evoked potential measurement is classified as belonging to some microstate, thus producing a natural segmentation of brain activity. Use is made of statistical image segmentation techniques for obtaining smooth continuous segments. Time varying intensities are estimated by projecting the measurements onto their corresponding microstates. A goodness of fit statistic for the model is presented. Finally, a method is introduced for estimating the number of microstates, based on nonparametric data-driven statistical resampling techniques.
The inborn errors of GM2 ganglioside metabolism cause GM2 ganglioside to accumulate within the lysosomes of the nerve cells. The majority of the patients are infants with the Tay-Sachs form of the disease associated with a severe deficiency of beta-N-Acetylhexosaminidase A (hexosaminidase A). Both Hexosaminidase A and B are deficient in Sandhoff disease. The serum total hexosaminidase and the percentage of hexosaminidase A and B were estimated in 449 patients who presented with progressive mental-motor retardation. Three cases of Tay-Sachs disease and two cases of Sandhoff disease were detected. They presented with exaggerated startle response to acoustic stimuli, seizures, optic atrophy and retinal cherry red spots in addition to psychomotor retardation. One case of Sandhoff disease had hepatosplenomegaly and skeletal deformities.



The present study was designed to clarify the in vivo function of trkA as an NGF receptor in mammalian neurons. Using the rat sciatic nerve as a model system, we examined whether trkA is retrogradely transported and whether transport is influenced by physiological manipulations. Following nerve ligation, trkA protein accumulates distal to the ligation site as shown by Western blot analysis. The distally accumulating trkA species were tyrosine phosphorylated. The trkA retrograde transport and phosphorylation were enhanced by injecting an excess of NGF in the footpad and were abolished by blocking endogenous NGF with specific antibodies. These results provide evidence that, upon NGF binding, trkA is internalized and retrogradely transported in a phosphorylated state, possibly together with the neurotrophin. Furthermore, our results suggest that trkA is a primary retrograde NGF signal in mammalian neurons in vivo.
Serotonin-containing nerve fibres innervate cerebral blood vessels, but the source of this innervation and the physiological effects of perivascular serotonin release remain controversial. The purpose of the present study was to examine the effects of central serotonergic depletion upon the relationship between CBF and glucose utilization under both normo- and hypercapnic conditions. To induce the loss of serotonergic terminals, rats were injected twice daily for 4 consecutive days with 20 mg/kg of the specific serotonergic neurotoxin methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA). Between 4 and 6 weeks later, local CBF and glucose utilization were measured using the fully quantitative [14C]iodoantipyrine and [14C]2-deoxyglucose autoradiographic techniques, respectively, and the efficacy of the lesioning protocol was assessed using [3H]paroxetine radioligand binding analysis. In all animals treated with MDA, there was a significant decrease in serotonin uptake sites throughout the brain, falling from 223 +/- 20 to 40 +/- 16 fmol/mg tissue in parietal cortex, for example, although the raphe nuclei themselves were unaffected (300 +/- 20 fmol/mg tissue in controls and 291 +/- 18 in MDA-treated rats). In normocapnic rats, the effects of MDA pretreatment upon blood flow and glucose use were slight and focally concentrated. However, when the animals were rendered hypercapnic, CBF was significantly higher in MDA-treated rats than in normal controls, for example, increasing from 356 +/- 22 ml 100 g-1 min-1 in frontal cortex of hypercapnic controls to 700 +/- 81 ml 100 g-1 min-1 in MDA-pretreated rats with similar levels of hypercapnia. In some brain areas of hypercapnic MDA-pretreated rats, blood flows were too high (&gt; 800 ml 100 g-1 min-1) to be accurately quantified.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To investigate hormonal changes occurring in male puberty, we measured LH, FSH, testosterone, and alpha-inhibin immunoactivity in serum samples drawn every 10 min for 8 h (2100-0500 h) from each of 50 normal prepubertal and pubertal boys, aged 8.4-18.8 yr. We measured gonadotropins with ultrasensitive immunofluorometric assays, and testosterone and alpha-inhibin with RIAs. Unlike previous studies, which indexed pubertal development with Tanner stages, we used testicular volume, a more finely graduated indicator of development, to reveal patterns that were obscured when subjects were grouped by Tanner stage. The overnight mean concentration of each hormone increased with testis volume, but the rate of increase on a logarithmic scale slowed as testes grew. Log LH rose precipitously in the late prepubertal and early pubertal periods and plateaued during mid- and late puberty. Based on fitted regression curves, LH increased about 20-fold (from 0.11 IU/L) between testis volumes of 1 and 10 mL, but only an additional 1.5-fold by 30 mL. The developmental trajectory of log testosterone was like that of log LH, but rose less steeply early in puberty. From 0.14 micrograms/L at a testis volume of 1 mL, testosterone increased about 8.5-fold by 10 mL and an additional 3-fold by 30 mL. In contrast, logarithms of overnight mean FSH and alpha-inhibin concentrations rose at a more nearly constant rate throughout puberty. From 0.62 IU/L at a testis volume of 1 mL, the FSH concentration doubled by 10 mL and increased an additional 1.7-fold by 30 mL. From 270 ng/L at a testis volume of 1 mL, inhibin increased 1.5-fold by 10 mL and an additional 1.3-fold by 30 mL. Overnight pulse amplitudes exhibited developmental trajectories similar to those of the corresponding overnight mean concentrations. The number of LH and testosterone pulses during the sampling period averaged 2.2 and 2.1, respectively, at Tanner stage 1 and increased to 4.5 and 3.2, respectively, at Tanner stage 5. The number of FSH and inhibin pulses remained constant throughout puberty, averaging 3.3 and 3.5, respectively. Pairwise correlations among hormone concentrations were strong, reflecting common increasing trends through puberty; however, after accounting for developmental trends, FSH, LH, and testosterone concentrations remained correlated, whereas inhibin was uncorrelated with each of the other three hormones. Measuring gonadotropins with ultrasensitive assays and analyzing the results on a logarithmic scale as a function of testis volume made clear the dramatic hormonal changes that begin before the clinical changes of puberty.
Immunocytochemical analysis revealed the presence of acetylated endorphins in both melanotropes and corticotropes of the pituitary gland of Xenopus laevis. Chemical acetylation studies to determine the steady-state level of acetylated versus non-acetylated endorphins showed that virtually all endorphins are acetylated in both melanotropes and corticotropes. Apparently Xenopus is unique among vertebrates as non-acetylated endorphins are major end-products in the distal lobe of all other vertebrate species studied thus far. The dynamics of endorphin biosynthesis in melanotrope cells using pulse-chase analysis coupled to immunoaffinity chromatography revealed that processing of pro-opiomelanocortin to produce N-terminal-acetylated endorphins is very rapid. To determine the effect of long-term background adaptation on acetylation status of endorphins and alpha-MSH-related peptides, Xenopus laevis were adapted for 3 or 6 weeks to either a black or a white background. In both physiological states the major intracellular form of alpha-MSH-related peptides in melanotropes was desacetyl alpha-MSH while the major endorphin-related peptide was alpha, N-acetyl-beta-endorphin[1-8]. In the medium of superfused neuro-intermediate lobes of black background-adapted animals the major form of secreted melanotropins and endorphins was alpha-MSH and alpha, N-acetyl-beta-endorphin[1-8] respectively. We conclude that there is a marked spatio-temporal difference in acetylation of melanotropin and endorphins, with rapid intracellular acetylation of endorphins while melanotropin is acetylated at the time of its exocytosis. In the medium of superfused neurointermediate lobes of white background-adapted animals the amount of desacetyl alpha-MSH was much higher than in the medium of lobes of black-adapted animals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To assess the potential therapeutic effects of zidovudine, rhesus macaques were inoculated with simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) strain SMM/B670 at birth and infused either continuously or intermittently with zidovudine for 6-7 months. Zidovudine did not prevent infection but did significantly increase survival time, which was associated with lower serum p26 viral core antigen levels, a lower virus burden in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and lower CSF quinolinic acid levels than in untreated monkeys. Two of 5 infected, untreated monkeys developed motor impairment within 6 months following infection, whereas motor impairments did not occur in infected, zidovudine-treated monkeys until after the drug was discontinued. Zidovudine treatment was well tolerated by rhesus infants with minimal, transient side effects. These results demonstrate that zidovudine treatment significantly decreases virus load within the central nervous system (CNS) and delays the onset of CNS dysfunction and immune disease in rhesus monkeys perinatally infected with SIV.
In vitro cell culture model systems for investigating the biochemical mechanisms involved in the neurodegenerative actions of beta-amyloid peptide (beta-AP) have been established. Using rat pheochromocytoma PC12 or human epitheloid HeLa cell lines, submicromolar concentrations of the beta-AP fragments beta 1-40, beta 1-39, and beta 25-35, but not beta 1-28, were found to inhibit the reduction of the redox dye 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT). In both cell lines, the beta-AP-sensitive component represented approximately 70% of total cellular MTT reduction. When the reduction of a series of structurally related dyes was compared with that of MTT, the reduction of 3 alpha-naphthyl-2-phenyl-5-(4-nitrophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium chloride (NTV) was also found to be sensitive to beta 25-35, but that of seven other redox dyes was not. A property common to MTT and NTV is that they are both readily taken up into PC12 and HeLa cells and do not require an artificial electron coupling agent to be reduced. Microscopic analysis of MTT-formazan product formation in PC12 and HeLa cells following beta 25-35 treatment revealed that it was the intracellular component of the reduction of this dye that was abolished. These results support the hypothesis that the cellular reduction of MTT represents a specific indicator of the initial events underlying the mechanism of beta-AP toxicity.
The somatodendritic release of dopamine in substantia nigra previously has been suggested to be nonvesicular in nature and thus to differ from the classical, exocytotic release of dopamine described for the dopaminergic nerve terminal in striatum. We have compared the effects of reserpine, a compound that disrupts vesicular sequestration of monoamines, on the storage and release of dopamine in substantia nigra and striatum of rats. Reserpine administration (5 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly decreased the tissue level of dopamine in substantia nigra pars reticulata, substantia nigra pars compacta, and striatum. In these brain areas, reserpine-induced reductions in tissue dopamine level occurred within 2 h and persisted at 24 h postdrug. In vivo measurements using microdialysis revealed that reserpine administration rapidly decreased the extracellular dopamine concentration to nondetectable levels in substantia nigra as well as in striatum. In both structures, it was observed that reserpine treatment significantly attenuated the release of dopamine evoked by a high dose of amphetamine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) given 2 h later. In contrast, dopamine efflux in response to a low dose of amphetamine (2 mg/kg, i.p.) was not altered by reserpine pretreatment either in substantia nigra or in striatum. The present data suggest the existence, both at the somatodendritic and at the nerve terminal level, of a vesicular pool of dopamine that is the primary site of transmitter storage and that can be displaced by high but not low doses of amphetamine. The physiological release of dopamine in substantia nigra and in striatum is dependent on the integrity of this vesicular store.
GT1-7 cells, a clonal line derived from specific tumours of gonadotropin-releasing hormone-secreting neurons from mouse hypothalamus, were used as a model system to investigate the cellular mechanisms underlying the histamine H1 receptor-mediated desensitisation. GT1-7 cells contain H1 receptors, acute stimulation of which leads to the desensitisation of histamine-mediated calcium mobilisation and is manifest as a concurrent reduction in both the magnitude of the calcium transient and of the sustained phase. Acute pretreatment of the cells with the phorbol ester, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, can also ablate the histamine-stimulated calcium mobilisation. In addition, acute H1-receptor stimulation and acute phorbol ester treatment result in the attenuation of histamine-mediated inositol phosphate production. Receptor desensitisation resulting from acute stimulation with histamine is not affected by inhibiting protein kinase C (PKC) activity with Ro 31-7549 or staurosporine. In contrast, the desensitisation of H1-receptor responses induced by direct activation of protein kinase C is preventable by PKC inhibitors. Thus, these results imply that a PKC-dependent mechanism and PKC-independent mechanism are involved in the H1-receptor desensitisation cascade in GT1-7 cells and do not support the involvement of PKC in the receptor-mediated desensitisation of H1 receptor-stimulated calcium and inositol phosphate responses.
Noradrenergic and dopaminergic projections converge in the medial prefrontal cortex and there is evidence of an interaction between dopamine (DA) and norepinephrine (NE) terminals in this region. We have examined the influence of drugs known to alter extracellular NE on extracellular NE and DA in medial prefrontal cortex using in vivo microdialysis. Local application of the NE uptake inhibitor desipramine (1.0 microM) delivered through a microdialysis probe increased extracellular DA (+149%) as well as NE (+201%) in medial prefrontal cortex. Furthermore, desipramine potentiated the tail shock-induced increase in both extracellular DA (stress alone, +64%; stress + desipramine, +584%) and NE (stress alone, +55%; stress + desipramine, +443%). In contrast, local application of desipramine did not affect extracellular DA in striatum, indicating that this drug does not influence DA efflux directly. Local application of the alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan (0.1 or 5.0 mM) increased extracellular NE and DA in medial prefrontal cortex. Conversely, the alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine (0.2 mg/kg; i.p.) decreased extracellular NE and DA in medial prefrontal cortex. These results support the hypothesis that NE terminals in medial prefrontal cortex regulate extracellular DA in this region. This regulation may be achieved by mechanisms involving an action of NE on receptors that regulate DA release (heteroreceptor regulation) and/or transport of DA into noradrenergic terminals (heterotransporter regulation).
Cooperation in the action of agonists suggests that there are multiple binding sites on 5-hydroxytryptamine3 (5-HT3) receptors. The purpose of this study was to characterize these binding sites and their interactions on both native and cloned 5-HT3 receptors. The affinities of competitive 5-HT3 receptor antagonists were similar regardless of whether the receptors were labeled with [3H]RS-42358, [3H]granisetron, or 1-(m-[3H]chlorophenyl)biguanide ([3H]mCPG). By contrast, the affinities of the agonists 5-HT, mCPG, and phenylbiguanide were approximately 10-fold higher when the receptors were labeled with [3H]mCPG. The dissociation of [3H]mCPG, [3H]RS-42358, and [3H]RS-25259, but not [3H]granisetron, from both cloned and native 5-HT3 receptors was markedly slower in the presence of 5-HT or 2-methyl-5-HT than in the presence of antagonists such as RS-42358. This suggests that the binding of these agonists to unoccupied sites on the receptor can increase the receptor's affinity for prebound ligands and thereby slow their dissociation. These data support previous indications of positive cooperation among multiple binding sites on both native and cloned 5-HT3 receptors, and they extend this idea by demonstrating that agonists can modify the interaction of some, but not all, antagonists with the receptor.
Antibodies to the plant glycoprotein horseradish peroxidase (HRP) are used extensively to identify neurons in Drosophila and other insects. We are interested in characterizing the gene product(s) recognized by anti-HRP antibodies because it may be important for nervous system function and/or development. Here we identify and purify from adult Drosophila heads an anti-HRP-reactive Mr 42K glycoprotein that is likely to be the major contributor to neuronal specific anti-HRP staining. Several different monoclonal antibodies to the purified 42K glycoprotein recognize up to three proteins with distinct mobilities between Mr 38K and 42K that vary as a function of developmental age. We have collectively named these components Nervana (nerve antigen), because the monoclonal antibodies also specifically stain cultured neurons and embryonic nervous system with a pattern indistinguishable from anti-HRP staining. Western blots indicate the presence of immunologically similar proteins in a wide variety of insect species and in nac (neurally altered carbohydrate) mutant Drosophila flies that lack anti-HRP staining in adult nervous system. It should now be possible to undertake a full biochemical and functional characterization of Nervana in Drosophila.
It has been shown that nitric oxide (NO) regulates NO synthase (NOS) activity through negative feedback in cytosolic enzyme preparations in various cell types. We compared the effects of the NO-generating compounds S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP), 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1), and sodium nitroprusside (SNP) on NOS activity in intact neuroblastoma N1E-115 cells and in the cytosol obtained from the same cells. Enzyme activity was measured by the conversion of L-[3H]arginine into L-[3H]citrulline. At concentrations that elicit almost complete inhibition of NOS activity in cytosolic enzyme preparations of these cells, SIN-1 and SNP did not cause significant attenuation of enzyme activity measured at 45 min in intact cells. It is surprising that SIN-1 and SNP markedly stimulated L-[3H]citrulline formation in a time- and concentration-dependent manner when cells were incubated with the compounds for &gt; 1.5 h. Neither inhibitory nor stimulatory effects of SNAP on NOS were observed in intact N1E-115 cells. This is in contrast to the inhibitory effects of SNAP in cytosolic preparations of the enzyme. The increased NOS activity by SIN-1 or SNP in intact cells was dependent on the presence of extracellular Ca2+, suggesting that it might be due to increased Ca2+ influx. On the other hand, measurements of the activity of lactate dehydrogenase showed that there was no generalized increase in cell permeability in response to SIN-1 or SNP. There was no agreement in the rank order of potencies of these compounds in activating guanylate cyclase and in affecting NOS activity, both in broken-cell preparations and in intact cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
HIV-1 expression in monocytes/macrophages can be controlled by transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta 1). TGF-beta 1 is present in astrocytes surrounding HIV-1-infected monocyte/macrophages in brain tissue from patients with AIDS but not from seronegative, normal individuals. We sought to determine whether or not production of TGF-beta 1 can be directly stimulated by HIV-1 in astrocytes. Astrocytes from neonatal rat cortex grown in primary culture were exposed to HIV-1 virions for 24 h. One day later, TGF-beta 1 was measured in culture supernatants by a biological assay. HIV-1 caused 1.7-2.1-fold increase in extracellular concentration of TGF-beta 1. TGF beta 1 production also was stimulated by recombinant HIV-1 proteins gp120, p66 and p24. Gp120 labeled with fluorescein was visualized inside astrocytes and its stimulatory effect was not blocked by antibodies against rat CD4. The effect was not specific to HIV-1 and its proteins, because non-opsonized Latex particles and leucine methyl ester (LME) (known to be phagocytosed and endocytosed, respectively, by astrocytes) also stimulated TGF-beta 1 production. The effect was inhibited by two inhibitors of the phago/endocytotic pathway, chloroquine and leupeptin. These results may be relevant to the neuropathogenesis of HIV-1 infection.

Patients described in previous reports who have undergone corpus callostomy for control of seizures have been left hemisphere dominant for language. To determine the hemispheric localisation (and possible coexistence) of language and traditional right hemisphere skills in reversed dominance, the first right hemisphere dominant corpus callostomy patient was studied. Localisation of callosal functions was also investigated, as MRI showed 1.5 cm of spared callosal body. The patient, KO, a 15 year old girl with familial left handedness, underwent two stage callosotomy in 1988. Lateralised visually presented stimuli requiring same or different comparisons between visual fields showed chance performance. Oral naming and reading showed better performance by the right hemisphere than the left, whereas both hemispheres were proficient in auditory comprehension. Active voice syntax was above chance only in the right hemisphere. Face recognition was significantly better in the right hemisphere than in the left. Tasks requiring tactile comparisons between hands showed above chance performance except in the instance in which the non-dominant right hand was stimulated first in a point localisation task between hands. This case showed hemispheric coexistence of language and traditional right hemispheric skills in a corpus callosotomy patient with reversed language dominance. Tactile transfer was localised to the mid-posterior callosal body.
1. The activation and desensitization properties of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) channels were examined in acutely isolated medial habenula (MHb) neurons using whole cell patch-clamp recordings. nAChR-mediated currents were evoked by applying known concentrations of nicotinic agonists using rapid solution exchange techniques. 2. At a membrane potential of -60 mV, nAChR currents were observed above a concentration of approximately 100 mM nicotine. The peak current amplitude at low doses of agonist was proportional to the square of the concentration of nicotine, indicating that at least two molecules of agonist were required for channel opening. The concentration of nicotine required for half-maximal nAChR activation was estimated as 77 microM from a complete concentration-response curve. 3. During the continuous activation (2-5 s) of nAChRs by high concentrations of nicotine (300 microM), the current desensitized rapidly and extensively. The desensitization phase was described by the sum of two exponentials, with time constants of 210 and 1,435 ms. The fast component comprised 74% of the desensitizing phase of the current. Recovery from desensitization induced by 2- s applications of 300 microM nicotine was also fast and could be reasonably well described by a single exponential with a time constant of approximately 800 ms. Both the time courses of desensitization and recovery from desensitization were slightly slower at positive membrane potentials. 4. Incubation of neurons with low concentrations of nicotine (100 nM-10 microM) caused a slowly developing but pronounced desensitization of the nAChRs. In these cases desensitization was assessed from the reduction in the amplitude of the peak nicotinic current induced by repetitively applied pulses of a higher test concentration of agonist. A 5-min continuous exposure to 1 microM nicotine reduced the amplitude of the acetylcholine (30 microM, 1 s) test response to &lt; 30% of its control value. As with higher concentrations of nicotine, the onset of the desensitization induced by 1 microM nicotine was biexponential, with fast and slow time constants of 15 s and 1.74 min, respectively. Recovery from the desensitization induced by these longer applications of nicotine was much slower than that observed with the brief pulses of high concentrations of nicotine. The concentration required for half-maximal desensitization after a 5-min incubation was approximately 300 nM. 5. Peak nAChR currents were approximately 85% smaller at +40 mV compared with -40 mV. The receptors that do not open at positive potentials desensitize almost as well as they would at negative potentials after channel opening.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We have studied vertical synaptic pathways in two cytoarchitectonically distinct areas of rat neocortex--the granular primary somatosensory (SI) area and the agranular primary motor (MI) area--and tested their propensity to generate long-term potentiation (LTP), long-term depression (LTD), and related forms of synaptic plasticity. Extracellular and intracellular responses were recorded in layer II/III of slices in vitro while stimulating in middle cortical layers (in or around layer IV). Under control conditions, 5 Hz theta-burst stimulation produced LTP in the granular area, but not in the agranular area. Agranular cortex did generate short-term potentiation that decayed within 20 min. Varying the inter-burst frequency from 2 Hz to 10 Hz reliably yielded LTP of 21-34% above control levels in granular cortex, but no lasting changes were induced in agranular cortex. However, the agranular cortex was capable of generating LTP if a GABAA receptor antagonist was applied locally at the recording site during the induction phase. In contrast to LTP, an identical form of homosynaptic LTD could be induced in both granular and agranular areas by applying low frequency stimulation (1 Hz for 15 min) to the middle layers. Under control conditions, both LTP and LTD were synapse-specific; theta-burst or low-frequency stimulation in the vertical pathway did not induce changes in responses to stimulation of a layer II/III horizontal pathway. Application of the NMDA receptor antagonist D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (AP5) blocked the induction of both LTP and LTD in granular and agranular cortex. In the presence of AP5, low-frequency conditioning stimuli yielded a short-term depression in both areas that decayed within 10-15 min. Nifedipine, which blocks L-type, voltage-sensitive calcium channels, slightly depressed the magnitudes of LTP and LTD but did not abolish them. Synaptic responses evoked during theta-burst stimulation were strikingly different in granular and agranular areas. Responses in granular cortex were progressively facilitated during each sequence of 10 theta-bursts, and from sequence-to-sequence; in contrast, responses in agranular cortex were stable during an entire theta-burst tetanus. The results suggest that vertical pathways in primary somatosensory cortex and primary motor cortex express several forms of synaptic plasticity. They were equally capable of generating LTD, but the pathways in somatosensory cortex much more reliably generated LTP, unless inhibition was reduced. LTP may be more easily produced in sensory cortex because of the pronounced synaptic facilitation that occurs there during repetitive stimulation of the induction phase.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Cerebellar long-term depression (LTD) is a model system of information storage in which a persistent attenuation of the parallel fiber-Purkinje neuron (PN) synapse is induced by conjunctive stimulation of parallel fiber and climbing fiber inputs at low frequency. As some studies have suggested that release of the gaseous second messenger, nitric oxide (NO), in the molecular layer and the consequent activation of soluble guanylate cyclase and cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG) in the PN, is necessary for LTD induction, we have further examined this hypothesis using a cell culture protocol. In cerebellar cultures made from transgenic mice in which the gene for neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) has been rendered null, LTD induced by glutamate/depolarization conjunctive stimulation was indistinguishable from that in cultures from wild-type mice in terms of amplitude, rate of onset, and duration. Bath application of cGMP analogs produced a large (80%), transient attenuation of glutamate-gated inward currents. However, application of an activator of soluble guanylate cyclase or an inhibitor of type V cGMP-phosphodiesterase did not mimic the effect of cGMP analogs, and inclusion of cGMP analogs in the patch pipette did not give rise to a slowly developing attenuation, suggesting that these compounds exert their effects at the cell surface. Free Ca was measured in the distal dendritic arbor of single PNs by fura-2 microfluorimetry.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Destruction of spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs) induced by injury and toxins is one of the major causes for hearing loss. Here we report that neurotrophin-4/5 (NT-4/5), a member of the nerve growth factor family, promoted survival of postnatal rat SGNs up to threefold in dissociated cell cultures. The survival-promoting potency of NT-4/5 was equivalent to that of BDNF and stronger than that of NT-3. In contrast, NGF showed no detectable effects. Immunohistochemistry, with TrkB and TrkA antisera, revealed that these neurons produced TrkB protein, the functional receptor for NT-4/5 and BDNF, but not TrkA protein, the high-affinity receptor for NGF. The survival-promoting activity of NT-4/5 was completely inhibited by TrkB-IgG fusion protein. These results suggest that NT-4/5 is a specific survival factor for SGNs. In addition, NT-4/5 protected the SGNs from neurotoxic effects of the anti-cancer drug, cisplatin. Thus, NT-4/5 may have therapeutic value in preventing hearing impairment caused by damage to primary auditory afferent neurons.
We developed a modified monoclonal hybridoma technique that combines two conventional methods: a conventional immunosuppression method with cyclophosphamide treatment and an in vitro immunization method. This technique is advantageous over conventional methodologies because it requires a shorter period for immunization of mice and a smaller quantity of antigen, and gives rise to antibody-secreting hybridomas with higher efficiency. One monoclonal hybridoma line, designated as BG5, was established by this technique after activation of lymphocytes with muramyl dipeptide and with the immunogen obtained from human entorhinal cortex. Western blot analysis showed a relatively high expression of BG5 antigen in human entorhinal cortex. Our results suggest that this modified hybridoma technique may rapidly facilitate the acquisition of brain region-specific antibodies. We call this technique 'suppression immunization followed by in vitro stimulation procedure' (SOFISTIC).
We describe an experimental model to study regeneration of lesioned corticospinal tract (CST) fibers in the adult rat spinal cord. After transection of all CST fibers at mid-thoracic level the gap is grafted with a sterile, cell-free collagen matrix. Two methods of collagen-application are used: 1) injection of a fluid collagen solution into the lesioned area which self-assembles in situ and 2) implantation of a solid collagen gel. At 4 weeks post-implantation CST axons are anterogradely labelled with horseradish-peroxidase (HRP). The collagen implant is evaluated for ingrowth of CST axons. The histopathological reaction (gliotic response) around the lesion and within the matrix is also studied. After application of a fluid collagen solution into the lesion area HRP-labelled CST axons can be visualized within the implant. In addition, astroglial and reactive microglial cells invade the collagen-matrix. On the other hand, if collagen is implanted as an already self-assembled gel, no ingrowth of labelled CST axons nor of astroglial/reactive microglial cells is observed. Both methods of collagen-application result in a considerable reduction of the gliotic response as compared to the ungrafted animals. We conclude that the method of application of collagen (i.e., fluid or gel) considerably affects the response of lesioned CST axons. The application of a fluid collagen graft which in situ self-assembles is beneficial for the regrowth of lesioned CST axons in rat spinal cord. In this respect the formation of an astroglial scaffolding structure within the (fluid) collagen, probably due to optimal integration between host and graft, is very important. The inability of injured CST fibers to enter the solid collagen graft may be related to the absence of an astroglial scaffolding structure within the implant.
A decrease of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) concentration has been reported in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). The present study further examined the role of CRF in an animal model of parkinsonism induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Results indicated that both subchronic (2 days) and chronic (7 days) MPTP treatments decreased the number of CRF immunoreactive neurons in both the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus and the central nuelcus of the amygdala (ACN). This effect lasted for almost a month after withdrawal of chronic MPTP injections. In addition, nomifensine pretreatment protected against MPTP's toxicity on DA neurons, as assessed by tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in the substantia nigra. However, the same treatment did not prevent the toxicity of MPTP on CRF neurons. Further, no significant difference was notable in the number of CRF immunoreactive neurons between normal young adult and normal middle-aged rats in both the PVN and the ACN. These results suggest that MPTP also produces a neurotoxicity on CRF neurons, and this effect is not secondary to MPTP's effect on DA neurons. Besides, altered CRF neuronal activity is involved in the process of pathological ageing, but not physiological ageing. Further, reduced CRF immunoreactivity in the PVN and ACN may imply alterations of neuroendocrine, autonomic as well as central functions caused by MPTP.

The high-affinity GTP hydrolyzing activity stimulated by 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) receptor agonists was pharmacologically characterized in rat hippocampal membranes. The addition of 100 microM 5-HT increased significantly the Vmax of high-affinity GTPase activity with an apparent Km of 0.37 microM in a Mg(++)-dependent fashion. 5-HT receptor agonists, except for the selective 5-HT2 receptor agonists, (+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-bromophenyl)-2-aminopropane and (+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane, stimulated the activity in a concentration-dependent manner, with affinities indicative of the 5-HT1A receptor involvement. 2-(2,6-Dimethoxyphenoxyethyl)aminomethyl-1,4-benzodioxane, buspirone, ipsapirone, metergoline and (+/-)-8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin showed activities characterizing these as partial agonists. The drug 1-(2-methoxyphenyl)-4-[4-(2-phthalimido)butyl]piperazine was also characterized as a weak partial agonist. 5-HT (100 nM)-stimulated activity was potently antagonized by metitepine (also called methiothepin) and spiperone (with a Kb value of 37 nM in a competitive manner) but not by ketanserin. The affinities of the agonists obtained in this study correlated well with those for the 5-HT1A receptor-mediated inhibition of forskolin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity in guinea pig and rat hippocampal membranes reported in a previous article. The 5-HT-mediated activation of high-affinity GTPase in rat hippocampal membranes can be used to investigate a functional interaction between the 5-HT1A receptors and G proteins, in particular the Gi subfamily, associated with adenylyl cyclase inhibition.

Neglecting the eccentric position of the eyes in the head can lead to erroneous interpretation of ocular motor data, particularly for near targets. We discuss the geometric effects that eye eccentricity has on the processing of target-directed eye and head movement data, and we highlight two approaches to processing and interpreting such data. The first approach involves determining the true position of the target with respect to the location of the eyes in space for evaluating the efficacy of gaze, and it allows calculation of retinal error directly from measured eye, head, and target data. The second approach effectively eliminates eye eccentricity effects by adjusting measured eye movement data to yield equivalent responses relative to a specified reference location (such as the center of head rotation). This latter technique can be used to standardize measured eye movement signals, enabling waveforms collected under different experimental conditions to be directly compared, both with the measured target signals and with each other. Mathematical relationships describing these approaches are presented for horizontal and vertical rotations, for both tangential and circumferential display screens, and efforts are made to describe the sensitivity of parameter variations on the calculated results.
The purpose of this study is threefold: (1) to describe a method of integration of pharmacology subject matter with other disciplines, in a problem-based learning (PBL) curriculum employed at the Northwest Center for Medical Education (NWCME), Indiana University School of Medicine; (2) to present various evaluation methods employed to assess students' learning of pharmacology knowledge; and (3) to compare the academic performance of students who underwent a traditional curriculum versus the PBL curriculum in terms of class evaluations and the standard national board medical licensure examinations. The PBL curriculum is designed for the first 2 years of medical education and consists of six sequential steps: steps 1 and 2 deal with biochemistry and anatomy respectively; steps 3, 4 and 5 deal with physiology, neuroscience and general pathology/microbiology respectively; and step 6 is a multidisciplinary step, which integrates basic science subjects with clinical medicine, emphasizing the mechanism of disease in an organ-system approach. In the PBL curriculum students start learning pharmacology within 6 months of admission. The content and process of pharmacology are spread across the first and in the second year. The pharmacology content is divided into three segments, each of which is integrated with other basic science subjects that have maximum mutual relevance. The three segments are as follows: the general and systemic pharmacology (50%) was included in step 3; the neuropharmacology and toxicology (35%) part was included in step 4; the third segment consisted of antimicrobial agents, anticancer and antiinflammatory agents (15%) and was included in step 5. The class evaluation of student performance in the PBL curriculum consisted of two elements, the content examinations and the process evaluations, which include the tutorial and the triple-jump evaluations of problem-solving skills. In order to assess the overall academic performance of the PBL curriculum and traditional curriculum groups, three classes of students who took the PBLC were compared with three classes of students who underwent a TC for performance in terms of class grades and scores of National Board examinations (NBMEI and/or USMLE I). The PBL curriculum students performed as well as or better than the TC students as measured by the NMBEI and/or USMLE I. The gain in pharmacology knowledge of PBL students is accompanied by the presence of a positive experience that learning pharmacology is enjoyable. Our experience suggests that the segmental integration approach of instruction coupled with a system of content (internal and external examinations) and process (tutorial and triple-jump) evaluations, as outlined in this paper is a contextualized learning method that offers an effective way of imparting pharmacology knowledge to medical students.
Event-related potentials were used to study how parsing of German relative clauses is influenced by semantic information. Subjects read well-formed sentences containing either a subject or an object relative clause and answered questions concerning the thematic roles expressed in those sentences. Half of the sentences contained past participles that on grounds of semantic plausibility biased either a subject or an object relative reading; the other half contained past participles that provided no semantic information favoring either reading. The past participle elicited an N400 component, larger in amplitude for neutral than for semantically biased verbs, but this occurred only in the case of subject relative clauses. More specific effects were obtained only for a subgroup of subjects, when these were grouped into fast and slow comprehenders on the basis of their question-answering reaction times. Fast comprehenders showed larger N400 amplitudes for neutral than for semantically biased past participles in general and larger N400s for the latter when there was a bias for an object relative reading as opposed to a subject relative reading. Syntactic ambiguity resolution, indicated by an auxiliary in sentence final position, was associated in this subgroup with a positive component (P345), larger in amplitude for auxiliaries indicating an object relative reading than for those indicating a subject relative reading. The latter component was independent of semantically biasing information given by a preceding past participle. Implications of these findings for models of language comprehension are considered.

Motor neurone disease is a rapidly progressive neurodegenerative disorder, characterized by muscular weakness and wasting with fasciculation and by spasticity. While most cases are sporadic, approximately 10% are inherited in an autosomal dominant mode. Recently, mutations in the gene encoding the free-radical scavenging enzyme superoxide dismutase-1 have been found to segregate with the disorder in 20% of familial cases. This is an exciting development, as free radical damage has long been implicated in the pathogenesis of motor neurone disease and it raises the possibility of novel therapeutic approaches in this otherwise fatal condition.
Between the anatomy and physiology of neurons on the one hand, and the study of perception and personality on the other, there is a vast gap in our understanding. Although, today, most neuroscientists say it is axiomatic that the phenomena of mind result from the operation of the brain, they could not tell you how.
The mouse adrenocortical Y-1 cell line has been found to express high affinity binding sites for neuropeptide Y (NPY). Pharmacological studies have shown that these NPY binding sites are of the Y1 type. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction using primers specific for the rat Y1 receptor revealed that the NPY Y1 receptor mRNA is present in Y-1 cells. The Kd of the receptor for NPY was found to be 1.75 +/- 0.20 nM and the Bmax was 265 +/- 18 fmol/mg. The NPY Y1 receptors in this adrenocortical cell line were shown to be coupled to pertussis toxin-sensitive G proteins. Stimulation of Y1 receptors resulted in the inhibition of forskolin- and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-stimulated cAMP synthesis. NPY had no effect on basal steroid release from the Y-1 cells. At an ACTH concentration of 0.1 microM, NPY did not affect ACTH-stimulated steroid release, although NPY did inhibit cAMP production under the same hormonal conditions. cAMP profoundly affected the density of the NPY receptors in Y-1 cells. Treatment of the cells with N6,2'-O-dibutyryl-cAMP or ACTH reduced the Y1 receptor density by &gt; 50%. On the other hand the steroid dexamethasone increased the density of Y1 receptors by 35%. Although additional detailed studies are necessary, these results may have interesting implications for the functions of ACTH, steroids, and NPY in the pituitary-adrenocortical axis.
Utilizing prolonged axonal stimulation single fiber EMG, neuromuscular transmission becomes a time-series of interpotential intervals (IPIs). In this form, the underlying processes of neuromuscular transmission can be studied using standard numerical techniques to determine whether these processes can be described by a simple mathematical model. In particular, neuromuscular transmission jitter can be examined in this way. In this article, we attempt to determine whether healthy jitter is noise or deterministic chaos. The presence of deterministic chaos was assessed by analysis of the IPI time-series using visual inspection of both phase-space plots and their principal component dimensions, and using the Grassberger-Procaccia algorithm to determine the correlation dimension of the time-series dynamics. These graphical and mathematical techniques provided little evidence for the existence of deterministic chaos. Linear autoregression time-series prediction also failed to account for the variability of the data and IPI histograms exhibited simple gaussian distributions. These results suggest normal neuromuscular transmission jitter is the result of intrinsic noise.

Age-related changes of hippocampal alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenoceptors were investigated using intraocular hippocampal transplants combined with 3H-prazocin and 3H-para-aminoclonidine (3H-PAC) autoradiography. Young hippocampal grafts in young hosts and old grafts in old hosts innervated by noradrenergic sympathetic fibers were studied. In addition, young and old hippocampal grafts were examined following noradrenergic denervation by superior cervical ganglion removal. The 3H-PAC binding was significantly reduced in aged grafts as compared to young grafts whereas the 3H-prazocin binding did not change with age. After sympathetic denervation, both 3H-PAC and 3H-prazocin binding increased significantly in young grafts. In aged adrenergically denervated grafts, alpha 2-receptor binding was again significantly reduced whereas alpha 1-receptor binding was not significantly different from that in young denervated grafts. Taken together, these results indicate a selective age-related reduction in hippocampal postsynaptic alpha 2-receptors which is intrinsically determined.
Fifteen patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 16 age-matched controls underwent skin vessel reactivity tests employing three vasodilating substances with different modes of action: acetylcholine (ACh), nitroprusside, and isoprenaline. The substances were iontophoresed into the skin and the results were mapped through a newly developed laser Doppler perfusion imager. The skin vascular responses of the patients to ACh and isoprenaline but not nitroprusside were significantly attenuated compared to those of the controls. The differences between patient and control groups concerning skin vessel reactivity might be due to receptor/signal transduction abnormalities but might in addition indicate an attenuated endothelium-dependent vasodilation in AD. The results of this study support the hypothesis that AD might be a systemic disease. They suggest that tests of skin vessel reactivity might be of help in the antemortem diagnosis of AD.
In the present study we observed that while platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-BB is exclusively expressed by neurons in the human brain, PDGF-AA is expressed in neurons and blood vessels. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), antibodies against PDGF-BB (but not PDGF-AA) recognized the neurofibrillary alterations of this disease. The levels of PDGF-BB correlated with the patterns of synaptic loss and sprouting while PDGF-AA immunostaining of the vessels was correlated with glial proliferation. Immunostaining was completely abolished when the antibodies were preincubated with their respective purified recombinant PDGF. Western blot analysis showed that antibodies against PDGF recognized a 31 kDa protein that was mildly increased in AD. These data suggest that PDGF, as well as other neurotrophic factors, play an important role in the mechanisms of neurofibrillary pathology in AD.
Concentration changes of methionine enkephalin-like immunoreactivity (ME-li) and beta-endorphin-like immunoreactivity (BE-li) in the rat pituitary following diffuse brain injury were studied. Closed head injury was induced by a weight-drop trauma device (450 g x 2 m). The level of closed head injury used in this study altered the pituitary opioid peptide concentrations. The level of ME-li did not change in the experimental groups 3 hours, 10 hours, 24 hours, and 3 days after the trauma, but significantly increased by 34% 10 days after the trauma. BE-li remained constant 3 hours and 10 hours following the injury, increased by 48% at 24 hours, and remained at this level for 10 days after the trauma (44% at 3 days, and 40% at 10 days). The levels of ME-li and BE-li in the control sham-operated rats did not change during these times. The present measurements of BE-li and ME-li in the pituitary indicate that the opioid peptides that derive from two different neuropeptidergic systems, proopiomelanocortin (POMC) and preproenkephalin A, respectively, may participate in the pathophysiology of a closed head injury.
Phenytoin (DPH) is a widely used anticonvulsant drug but a conclusive mode of action is not yet clear. This study was undertaken to assess the effects of chronic administration of DPH on monoamine levels. DPH (50 mg/kg body weight) was administered to adult male Wistar rats by intraperitoneal injections for 45 days and the regional brain levels of norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) were assayed using high performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method. The experimental rats revealed no behavioral deficits of any kind nor body and brain weight deficits were observed. Increased NE levels were observed after DPH administration in motor cortex (P &lt; 0.05), striatum-accumbens (P &lt; 0.01) and hippocampus (P &lt; 0.01), whereas, NE level was decreased in brain stem (P &lt; 0.05). DA levels were increased in striatum-accumbens (P &lt; 0.05), hypothalamus (P &lt; 0.001) and cerebellum (P &lt; 0.001) but decreased in brainstem (P &lt; 0.01). In DPH treated rats, 5-HT levels were increased in motor cortex (P &lt; 0.001) but decreased in cerebellum (P &lt; 0.001) when compared to control group of rats. The present study suggest that chronic administration of DPH induces alterations in monoamine levels in specific brain regions. DPH seems to mediate its anticonvulsant action by selectively altering the monoamine levels in different brain regions.
Observations in experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE), a model for multiple sclerosis (MS), have indicated that a low activity of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) system is accompanied by a high susceptibility for EAE in rat strains and that elevated corticosteroid levels are necessary for spontaneous recovery from EAE. The HPA axis activity is regulated by both corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and arginine vasopressin (AVP). Both types of neurons are localized in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus. We determined the number of immunocytochemically identified CRH-immunoreactive (CRH-IR) and AVP-immunoreactive (AVP-IR) neurons in the PVN of the human hypothalamus of 8 MS patients, aged 34-63 years, and 8 age-matched control subjects without any primary neurological or psychiatric disorders, aged 30-59 years. In addition, the number of oxytocin (OXT) immunoreactive (OXT-IR) neurons was determined, since these neurons innervate brain stem nuclei and might thus be related to autonomic disturbances in MS. In MS the staining intensity for AVP was clearly lower and for OXT slightly lower. For CRH, the staining intensity was similar in both groups, and, moreover, in MS patients the number of CRH-IR cells in the PVN was found to be about 2.4 times higher than that in the control group. The number of OXT-IR or AVP-IR cells in the PVN of MS patients was not significantly different from that of the control group. Our results point to an activation of the neuroendocrine HPA axis which may be compatible with the idea that the HPA axis is involved in recovery from MS.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Midbrain dopaminergic neurons, whose loss in adults results in Parkinson's disease, can be specified during embryonic development by a contact-dependent signal from floor plate cells. Here we show that the amino-terminal product of Sonic hedgehog autoproteolysis (SHH-N), an inductive signal expressed by floor plate cells, can induce dopaminergic neurons in vitro. We show further that manipulations to increase the activity of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase A, which is known to antagonize hedgehog signaling, can block dopaminergic neuron induction by floor plate cells. Our results and those of other studies indicate that SHH-N can function in a dose-dependent manner to induce different cell types within the neural tube. Our results also provide the basis for a potential cell transplantation therapy for Parkinson's disease.
Genetic evidence suggests a role for apolipoprotein E (apoE) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) amyloidogenesis. Here, amyloid-associated apoE from 32 AD patients was purified and characterized. We found that brain amyloid-associated apoE apparently exists not as free molecules but as complexes with polymers of the amyloid beta peptide (A beta). Brain A beta-apoE complexes were detected irrespective of the apoE genotype, and similar complexes could be mimicked in vitro. The fine structure of purified A beta-apoE complexes was fibrillar, and immunogold labeling revealed apoE immunoreactivity along the fibrils. Thus, we conclude that A beta-apoE complexes are principal components of AD-associated brain amyloid and that the data presented here support a role for apoE in the pathogenesis of AD.
The amplitudes and kinetics of miniature excitatory synaptic currents (MESCs) in mammalian central neurons vary widely. It is unclear whether this variability occurs at each synapse or arises from differences among a heterogeneous population of synapses. Furthermore, it is not known how variability in these currents would affect their associated postsynaptic Ca2+ transients. To address these questions, we conducted simultaneous Ca2+ imaging and patch-clamp recordings from cultured cortical neurons and mapped individual MESCs to identified synapses displaying coincident dendritic miniature synaptic Ca2+ transients (MSCTs). Measurements of MSCTs at dendritic sites that displayed multiple events revealed that MSCT amplitude varied considerably at each site. Simultaneous measurement of MESCs and MSCTs at these sites indicated that variability in coincident synaptic currents contributes to the differences in Ca2+ transient amplitude. The ability of single synapses to exhibit variable output may enable them to engage intracellular signaling pathways at different levels of intracellular Ca2+.


The therapeutic molecular sites of action for the mood-stabilizing medications are unknown. Myo-inositol monophosphatase (E.C. 3.1.3.25) is a major enzyme of the inositol signaling system that has previously been shown to be inhibited by clinically relevant concentrations of lithium, implicating this enzyme as a potential therapeutic site of action in manic-depressive disorder. Inhibition of myo-inositol monophosphatase (IMPase), which converts myo-inositol monophosphates to myo-inositol, results in increased levels of myo-inositol monophosphates and decreased myo-inositol available for the resynthesis of inositol phospholipids. In addition to lithium, carbamazepine and valproate are also used medically to treat manic-depressive disorder. It is of considerable interest to determine whether inhibition of IMPase activity is a common unifying mechanism for mood-stabilizing medications. Using a partially purified myo-inositol monophosphatase preparation derived from bovine brain, we examined the effects of lithium, carbamazepine, and valproate on the IMPase reaction. These results demonstrate that (1) lithium inhibited IMPase activity in the low millimolar range, (2) carbamazepine stimulated the IMPase reaction beginning in the low-micromolar range, and (3) valproate did not demonstrate any stimulation or inhibition of IMPase. We conclude that inhibition of IMPase is not a common neurochemical mechanism for mood-stabilizing medications.

The aim of this study was to define the temporal appearance and regional distribution of angiotensinogen in the fetal and neonatal rat brain. This was done by immunocytochemical localization of angiotensinogen in brains from embryonic day 16 to postnatal day 12. Immunostaining was first observed on embryonic day 18, and persisted to postnatal day 2, in the choroid plexus and ependymal cells lining the third ventricle. This initial expression of angiotensinogen at embryonic day 18 was followed at postnatal day 20 by a rapid progression of angiotensinogen staining appearing in astrocytes in the paraventricular nucleus, medial preoptic area, ventromedial and arcuate hypothalamic nuclei; these areas showed the highest astrocyte staining intensity in the brain. This was followed sequentially by staining in areas of the thalamus, midbrain, forebrain and brainstem. In general, neuroglial staining was higher in regions proximal to the cerebral ventricles and cerebral aqueduct. Neuronal angiotensinogen was observed at day postnatal day 0 and later. The most consistent immunopositive areas were in the forebrain and thalamus; in particular, the hippocampus, anterior and posterior cingulate cortex, basal and lateral amygdala, the caudate-putamen, globus pallidus, lateral septum, medial habenular nuclei and lateral thalamic nuclei. Most of the immunopositive cells in the hypothalamus and brainstem were astrocytes, while those in the cortex were almost exclusively neurons. Staining in thalamic regions was both neuronal and neuroglial. From the intensity of staining and cell density, it was determined that a rapid increase in angiotensinogen occurs between embryonic day 20 and postnatal day 0, followed by further, smaller increases postnatally. In conclusion, this study has shown that angiotensinogen, the protein from which angiotensin II is generated, is present in the rat fetal brain. The timing of its appearance supports the establishment of a renin-angiotensin system by late gestation. Its predominance in fetal hypothalamic nuclei and in thalamic, cerebellar and cortical neurons suggests major roles in prenatal fluid and electrolyte balance, in sensorimotor development and in brain maturation.
The expression of the proto-oncogene c-fos was used as a cellular marker of spinal cord neurons activated by microinjection of kainic acid into the medullary nucleus raphe magnus of awake and drug-free Sprague-Dawley rats. The c-FOS protein was detected by immunocytochemistry. We found increased immunoreactivity bilaterally in laminae I-VI of the dorsal horn. The strongest c-FOS expression was observed within the inner layer of lamina II near its border with lamina III. In the ventral horn no c-FOS immunoreactivity was observed. Thus, the present results provide evidence for a descending excitation of neurons predominantly in inner lamina II, possibly mediating nucleus raphe magnus-induced inhibition of neurons in other laminae.
Effects of ionophoretic application of serotonin and of one of its agonists were tested on responses of dorsal horn dorsal spinocerebellar tract neurons evoked by electrical stimulation of peripheral nerves. Both drugs depressed monosynaptically evoked actions of group II muscle afferents; they decreased the number and/or increased the latency of spike potentials evoked by these afferents. In contrast, synaptic actions of low-threshold cutaneous afferents (mono- or oligosynaptic) were facilitated in the majority of the neurons, as judged by decrease in the latency of spike potentials evoked by stimulation of a cutaneous nerve and/or an increase in the number of these potentials. It is proposed that facilitatory actions assist in maintaining tonic discharges of dorsal spinocerebellar tract neurons in some movements and that the selective control of group II input is used to correlate activity of spinal and supraspinal neurons. Both actions may be subserved by tight contacts between serotoninergic nerve fibres and dorsal spinocerebellar tract neurons, which have been revealed in a parallel study.
A recently developed technique of immunoautoradiography on nitrocellulose transfers of serial frozen sections was used to determine tryptophan hydroxylase concentration in selected areas of the adult rat brain following neonatal 6-hydroxydopamine destruction of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons. Particular attention was paid to the neostriatum, known to be serotonin-hyperinnervated under these conditions, and to the nucleus raphe dorsalis, containing the cell bodies of origin for these nerve terminals. The hippocampus was also investigated as a territory of structurally intact serotonin innervation arising primarily from the nucleus raphe medianus. Tryptophan hydroxylase protein was measured at successive transverse levels across the entire caudorostral extent of all these regions. Similar measurements of tyrosine hydroxylase protein across the substantia nigra and the neostriatum verified the disappearance of the nigrostriatal dopamine neurons. The average tryptophan hydroxylase tissue concentration in the dorsal third of the serotonin-hyperinnervated neostriatum was up by 36% above control, i.e. significantly less than the number of its serotonin axon terminals or varicosities. This was therefore indicative of a lowering of the tryptophan hydroxylase protein content per serotonin ending. Interestingly, a tight correlation between the respective level-by-level concentrations of tryptophan hydroxylase and tyrosine hydroxylase protein in the control neostriatum allowed the prediction the tryptophan hydroxylase concentration after dopamine denervation with a serotonin hyperinnervation. Tryptophan hydroxylase concentration was also significantly reduced in both the nucleus raphe dorsalis and nucleus raphe medianus, notably at those raphe dorsalis levels known to give rise to the serotonin hyperinnervation of neostriatum. It is hypothesized that the lower steady-state level of tryptophan hydroxylase inside the terminals and cell bodies of hyperinnervating serotonin neurons was the result of a feedback inhibition of the synthesis of the enzyme by its end-product, presumably because of the increased amount of serotonin in these terminals.
The present study was devoted to the long-term effects of seizures induced by pentylenetetrazol in immature rats on cerebral metabolic rates in young adult animals. Seizures were induced by repetitive intraperitoneal injections of subconvulsive doses of pentylenetetrazol either in 10- (P10) or in 21- (P21) day-old rats. The long-term metabolic effects of the seizures were studied at P60 in 54 cerebral structures by means of the [14C]deoxyglucose method. At P60, metabolic activity was decreased in 10 brain regions of rats exposed to pentylenetetrazol at P10 and in 29 structures in rats exposed to seizures at P21. Among the structures whose metabolic activity was reduced at P60 by seizures occurring either at P10 or at P21 were mainly sensory, cortical and hippocampal regions plus mammillary body, i.e. all the structures metabolically characterized as most vulnerable to pentylenetetrazol-induced status epilepticus in our previous study [Pereira de Vasconcelos A. et al. (1992) Devl Brain Res. 69, 243-259]. In the animals exposed to seizures at P21, metabolic activity was also reduced at P60 in additional sensory and cortical regions, as well as in limbic, thalamic and hypothalamic nuclei, also considered as highly sensitive to short-term pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures [Pereira de Vasconcelos A. et. al. (1992)]. Rates of glucose utilization were also reduced in a few additional areas such as the monoaminergic cell groupings. In conclusion, there are some parallels between the structures metabolically most sensitive during pentylenetetrazol-induced status epilepticus in immature rats and the long-term regional metabolic decreases recorded at P60. Our data also confirm the well-known higher sensitivity to seizures during the third postnatal week in rodents.
The human brainstem is especially susceptible to hypoxia-ischemia in early life. To test the hypothesis that the period of vulnerability of the developing human brainstem to hypoxia-ischemia correlates with a transient elevation in kainate receptor binding, we compared the quantitative distribution of [3H]kainate binding in brainstem nuclei between four fetuses (19-26 gestational weeks), four infants (one to nine months), and three &quot;mature&quot; individuals (one child and two adults) without neurological disease. Quantitative tissues autoradiography was used. [3H]Kainate binding decreased in all brainstem regions from early life to maturity with the most significant decreases occurring in nuclei thought to be especially vulnerable to perinatal hypoxia-ischemia (e.g. principal inferior olive, griseum pontis, inferior colliculus and reticular core). The highest binding in the fetal and infant period was found primarily in the major cerebellar-relay nuclei. In the inferior olive and arcuate nucleus, binding increased from the fetal to the infant period, and then fell 50-61% to low mature levels. In the griseum pontis, binding decreased 60% between the fetal and mature periods. In the reticular formation, binding fell 67-78% from the fetal to mature period. These data support a correlation between the period of brainstem vulnerability to hypoxia-ischemia in early life to transient elevation in kainate binding, and are particularly relevant to the topographic brainstem patterns in perinatal hypoxia-ischemia of infantile olivary gliosis, pontosubicular necrosis and reticular core damage. Striking localization of [3H]kainate binding to rhombic lip derivatives further suggests that kainate receptors may be involved in the development and function of human brainstem-cerebellar circuitry.
The distribution of rat vasoactive intestinal peptide2 (VIP2) receptor messenger RNA in the brain and the pituitary gland was examined by in situ hybridization and by ribonuclease protection assay. labelled cells were found chiefly in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, the central nucleus of the amygdala and the thalamus (the lateral geniculate nucleus, and the paraventricular, mediodorsal and ventral nuclei of the thalamus). The distribution of the VIP2 receptor overlaps only in part with that of the VIP1 receptor, for example in the hippocampus, where VIP2 receptor messenger RNA was found in the pyramidal cells of the CA1-CA3 subfields and in the granule cells of the dentate gyrus. Small numbers of neurons containing high concentrations of VIP2 receptor messenger RNA were present in the brainstem in the principal sensory trigeminal nucleus and in the substantia gelatinosa of the spinal cord, suggesting a role for the VIP2 receptor in the processing of sensory information. The presence of the VIP2 receptor in the suprachiasmatic nucleus suggests that it is this receptor subtype which is involved in the control of circadian rhythms.
The activity of subthalamic neurons was recorded extracellularly in anaesthetized rats after stimulation, inhibition or lesioning of the parafascicular nucleus. Electrical stimulation of the parafascicular nucleus evoked a complex response with two excitatory phases. The first response was correlated with a monosynaptically-driven excitation via a parafascicular input to the subthalamic nucleus. Since the second phase was observed even when the early excitation was not recorded and was eliminated by lesion of the globus pallidus, we suggest that it is not generated by a mechanism intrinsic to the subthalamic nucleus and is due to a disinhibitory effect originating from the globus pallidus. Microinjection of carbachol into the parafascicular nucleus enhanced by 119% the discharge rate of the neurons in the ipsilateral subthalamic nucleus and that of muscimol decreased the discharge rate by 91%. Opposite changes, a decrease of the discharge rate of 49% after microinjection of carbachol and an increase of 47% after muscimol, occurred in the contralateral subthalamic nucleus. In contrast to the above results, the unilateral excitotoxic lesion of the parafascicular nucleus, performed one week before recording, decreased the discharge rate by 69% of the ipsilateral subthalamic nucleus neurons and by 34% that of the contralateral neurons. We suggest that the parafascicular input to the subthalamic nucleus is an excitatory pathway which can tonically drive the neuronal activity in this structure. The opposite changes recorded in the ipsi- and contralateral subthalamic nucleus during unilateral microinjection of excitatory or inhibitory drugs in the parafascicular nucleus emphasize the importance of this thalamic structure in the bilateral regulation of basal ganglia activity via the subthalamic nucleus.
We have studied biochemical and behavioral effects of chronic corticosterone administration in two inbred rat stains (Fischer 344 and Lewis), known to differ in their hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and in their behavioral responses to drugs of abuse. First, we studied corticosterone regulation of phosphoproteins in the ventral tegmental area of sham- and corticosterone-treated Fischer and Lewis rats, by means of back-phosphorylation and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and Western blotting analysis. Corticosterone administration upregulated tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity and decreased glial-fibrillary acidic protein phosphorylation state in the ventral tegmental area of Fischer rats only, with no changes seen in Lewis rats. We also studied corticosterone effects on locomotor sensitization to cocaine, a behavior known to be regulated by the ventral tegmental area. In Fischer rats, chronic corticosterone pretreatment resulted in development of cocaine sensitization, which was absent in sham-pretreated Fischer rats. In contrast, Lewis rats developed cocaine sensitization either with or without corticosterone pretreatment. Thus, both biochemical and behavioral effects of corticosterone observed in Fischer rats were absent in Lewis rats. We next studied the possibility that certain transcription factors, thought to play a role in tyrosine hydroxylase expression, could be involved in these strain-selective effects of corticosterone. Corticosterone treatment decreased levels of glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity in the ventral tegmental area of Lewis rats, but not of Fischer rats. In addition, drug-naive Fischer rats showed higher ventral tegmental area levels of immunoreactivity of cyclic AMP response element binding protein than Lewis rats, with no effect of corticosterone observed in either strain. These findings suggest that hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis modulation of responses to drugs of abuse is a genetically determined characteristic seen in Fischer rats, but absent in Lewis rats. We propose that corticosterone administration down-regulates the glucocorticoid receptor in the ventral tegmental area of Lewis rats, and thereby prevents other adaptations to corticosterone treatment, while in the ventral tegmental area of Fischer rats the lack of glucocorticoid receptor down-regulation and the high basal levels of cyclic AMP response element binding protein could facilitate the transcriptional, biochemical and behavioral actions of glucocorticoids.
The ubiquitous inducibility of the immediate-early gene c-fos in the central nervous system has led to the search for downstream genes which are regulated by its product, Fos. Recent evidence suggests that c-fos induction by a single injection of the classical antipsychotic haloperidol may contribute to the subsequent increase in neurotensin gene expression in the rodent striatum. Consistent with this proposal, in the present study haloperidol-induced Fos-like immunoreactivity and neurotensin/neuromedin N messenger RNA were found to be expressed by the same population of striatal neurons. Moreover, inhibition of haloperidol-induced c-fos expression by intrastriatal injection of antisense phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotides complimentary either to bases 109-126 or 127-144 of c-fos attenuated the subsequent increase in neurotensin/neuromedin N messenger RNA. However, injection of a sense phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotide corresponding to bases 127-144 of c-fos did not reduce haloperidol-induced c-fos or neurotensin/neuromedin N expression. Furthermore, constitutive expression of Jun-like immunoreactivity in the striatum was not reduced by either the sense or antisense phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotides. Similarly, the sense and antisense phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotide failed to reduce proenkephalin messenger RNA, which is located in the same striatal neurons that express haloperidol-induced neurotensin/neuromedin N messenger RNA, which is located in the same striatal neurons that express haloperidol-induced neurotensin/neuromedin N messenger RNA. Lastly, haloperidol-induced increases in nerve growth factor I-A-, JunB- and FosB-like immunoreactivity and fosB messenger RNA were not decreased by intrastriatal injection of either the sense or antisense phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotides. These results indicate that the antisense phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotides attenuated haloperidol-induced neurotensin/neuromedin N expression by selectively reducing c-fos expression and emphasize the potential importance of immediate-early gene induction in the mechanism of action of this antipsychotic drug.
The neostriatum and its major afferent transmitters, dopamine and glutamate, play a critical role in behavior, but relatively little information is available on their postsynaptic effects in behaving animals. As a first step in addressing this shortcoming, single-unit electrophysiology was combined with iontophoresis in the neostriatum of awake, unrestrained rats. Relative to periods of quiet rest, most neurons (58 of 77) changed discharge rate in close temporal association with movement, while the remainder showed no such relationship. When animals resumed a resting posture, iontophoretic current-response curves were established for dopamine and glutamate as well as for ascorbate, a modulator of neostriatal function released from glutamatergic terminals. Application of either glutamate or ascorbate produced current-dependent increases in activity in all neurons, although this effect was somewhat less pronounced for nonmotor cells. In both types of neurons, the excitatory effect of ascorbate either diminished or shifted to an inhibition at high ejection currents. Dopamine, on the other hand, routinely excited motor-related, but inhibited nonmotor-related neurons. Further assessment of motor-related neurons revealed that in most cases the excitatory effects of either glutamate or dopamine alone were supra-additive when these compounds were either administered together or co-administered with ascorbate. Our results suggest that the response of neostriatal neurons to glutamate or dopamine depends, at least in part, on the motor responsiveness of these cells. Motor-related neurons, moreover, respond to the co-administration of glutamate and dopamine with synergistic increases in firing rate. Ascorbate also influences neostriatal activity, but the postsynaptic action of this substance cannot be explained as a simple interaction with either glutamatergic or dopaminergic mechanisms.
Recent evidence suggests that the supramammillary nucleus of the posterior hypothalamus serves as an important relay in a brainstem to septum/hippocampus pathway involved in the generation of hippocampal theta rhythm. In order to examine the role of the supramammillary nucleus as a possible relay/mediator of hippocampal theta rhythm, electrolytic lesions and procaine injections were administered to the supramammillary nucleus of freely moving and urethane-anesthetized rats, respectively. In the urethane-anesthetized rat, it was found that procaine injections attenuated both the frequency and amplitude of theta rhythm elicited by stimulation of the pontine reticular formation. These data suggest that the pontine reticular elicitation of hippocampal theta rhythm is mediated through connections with the supramammillary nucleus. However, it was found that lesions of the supramammillary nucleus failed to produce significant changes in the hippocampal electroencephalogram of freely moving animals. Several explanations concerning this apparent discrepancy are discussed. The most compelling is that multiple brainstem to septum/hippocampus pathways may serve to generate or facilitate the generation of theta rhythm in the freely moving animal. The present report demonstrates that the supramammillary nucleus plays a questionable role in the mediation of hippocampal electroencephalogram signals which are thought to be important for mnemonic processes.
The nicotinic antagonists d-tubocurarine and trimethaphan camsylate competitively inhibit GABA-induced currents. Hexamethonium, mecamylamine and dihydro-beta-erythroidine, other nicotinic antagonists, do not affect GABA-elicited currents. The trimethaphan effect is completely reversed by a putative convulsant receptor antagonist, alpha-isopropyl-alpha-methyl-gamma-butyrolactone, which implies that the trimethaphan binding site may be closely associated with the convulsant site. However, nicotine was ineffective in competing for either the d-tubocurarine or trimethaphan effect at the GABAA receptor. From these observations, we propose that the nicotinic and GABAA receptor ionophore complexes share similar configurational patterns that accommodate some of the same molecules. Possible mechanisms for the trimethaphan and d-tubocurarine blockades are discussed.
Aged Long-Evans rats (24-25 months old) were classified into cognitively impaired or unimpaired subgroups based on their performances in the Morris Swim Maze task compared to young controls. Using quantitative in vitro receptor autoradiography, we investigated the status of various cholinergic markers in these two groups and in young adults (six months) animals. The apparent density of [3H]pirenzepine (muscarinic M1) sites was similar in the three groups of rats in various cortical areas, subfields of the hippocampus, medial septum and striatum. Similarly, choline acetyltransferase activity and the density of [3H]hemicholinium-3 (high-affinity choline uptake) and [3H]cytisine (nicotinic) binding sites were also unchanged in the brain regions studied between the aged cognitively impaired, unimpaired and young adult rats. In contrast, significant increases in [3H]AF-DX 384 (muscarinic M2) binding density were observed in various cortical areas and in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus of aged cognitively impaired versus unimpaired rats and in few cortical regions of old as compared to young animals. Therefore, a selective alteration in the regulation of putative M2 receptor sites is apparent, particularly in the aged cognitively impaired rats. Increases in M2 binding sites could lead to a decrease in the capacity to release acetylcholine, as some of the M2 receptors are believed to act as negative autoreceptors. This could influence cognitive functions as selective M2 blockers have recently been reported to facilitate spatial memory in aged impaired rats [Doods et al. (1993) Life Sci. 52, 497-503: Quirion et al. (1995) J. Neurosci. 15, 1455-1462.
Monkeys with bilateral lesions of the CA1 field of the hippocampus produced by the injection of neurotoxin diagonally along the length of the hippocampus were found to have a severe impairment on the retention of a conditional task learnt prior to surgery and on the new acquisition of several types of this task. They were equally impaired on conditional tasks that required a spatial response or an object choice in response to either visual or spatial cues. They were not impaired on simple visual discrimination tasks, simple spatial discrimination tasks or reversal learning of these tasks. This patterns of impairment resembles that seen in the same species with neurotoxic lesions within the vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca or transection of the fornix. Monkeys with subtotal lesions of the adjacent medial temporal area were not consistently impaired on any of these tasks. The results suggest that hippocampal lesions produce anterograde and retrograde amnesia for information other than reward association.
Contacts between serotoninergic nerve fibres and dorsal horn dorsal spinocerebellar tract neurons were analysed in order to investigate the morphological basis of actions of serotonin upon dorsal spinocerebellar tract neurons. In a series of experiments dorsal spinocerebellar tract neurons were labelled with intracellularly injected rhodamine-dextran in the cat. The neurons were monosynaptically excited by group II muscle afferents and cutaneous afferents and were identified by antidromic activation following stimuli applied in the cerebellum. In the second series of experiments dorsal spinocerebellar tract neurons were labelled by retrograde transport of Fluorogold injected into the cerebellum in the rat. In both series, serotoninergic fibres were labelled by using a specific anti-serotonin antiserum and were revealed by immunofluorescence. Appositions between the serotoninergic fibres and the cells were inspected with a dual channel confocal microscope. The merged images obtained with the two channels of the microscope were viewed in single optical planes 2 microns apart and in rotated three-dimensional reconstructions. Serotoninergic nerve fibres were found in apposition to cell bodies of all feline dorsal spinocerebellar tract neurons (n = 7) and of 75% of rat dorsal spinocerebellar tract neurons (n = 90). The numbers of putative contacts on cell bodies varied between less than 100 and nearly 300 (mean 160) in the cat and between about five and 30 in the rat. Contacts with dendrites of feline neurons were seen on 96% of 72 dendrites within 300 microns from soma and on 91% of 23 dendrites at distances of 300-500 microns. The number of such contacts varied from less than five to 150 on a single dendrite within these ranges of distances. Their total number within 100 microns from the soma was comparable or exceeded the number of contacts on the soma.
Glutamate can play a number of roles in the developing brain, including modulation of gene expression, cell motility, neurite growth and neuronal survival, all critical for the final organization and function of the mature brain. These functions are dependent on the early expression of glutamate receptors and on glutamate release in developing neurons. This subject has received little attention in the hypothalamus, despite glutamate's critical role as an excitatory transmitter in hypothalamic control of circadian rhythms, endocrine secretion, temperature regulation, and autonomic control. A total of 10,922 rat hypothalamic neurons were studied with digital Ca2+ imaging with the ratiometric dye fura-2 to examine their responses to glutamate receptor agonists and antagonists during embryonic development and maturation in vitro. Functional glutamate receptors were found very early in development (embryonic day 15-E15) with both Ca2+ imaging and with patch clamp recording. This is a time when the hypothalamus is beginning to undergo neurogenesis. Ca2+ responses from N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors developed later than those from non-N-methyl-D-aspartate ionotropic receptors that responded to kainate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazoleproprionate. The responses of immature E15 cells after one day in vitro were compared with more mature cells after six days in vitro to examine the response to repeated 3 min applications of 100 microM kainate (n = 108). Immature cells showed similar Ca2+ rises (+232nM Ca2+) with each kainate stimulation. In contrast, more mature cells showed an initial Ca2+ rise of 307 nM, with the second rise only to 147 nM above the initial baseline. Immature cells more quickly returned to their pre-kainate baseline than did older cells. The expression of metabotropic glutamate receptors was studied with the selective agonist trans-1-amino-cyclopentyl-1,3-dicarboxylic acid and with glutamate stimulation in the absence of extracellular Ca2+ and presence of 1 mM EGTA. After five days in vitro. E16 astrocytes showed a greater response than did neurons to conditions that would activate the metabotropic glutamate receptor. A dramatic increase in the percentage of cells that responded to N-methyl-D-aspartate was found after only a few days in culture. Only a small number of E15 cells studied on the day of culture (4% of 694 cells) showed a response to 100 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate. Thirty-eight percent of 120 E18 cells cultured for one day in vitro showed an N-methyl-D-aspartate response.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The present studies utilized extracellular single-unit recordings in chloral hydrate-anesthetized rats to evaluate the contribution of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and (R,S)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) subtypes of glutamate receptors to the excitatory effects of glutamate on substantia nigra dopamine neurons. Iontophoretic administration of NMDA, AMPA and glutamate increased the firing rate and amount of burst-firing of dopamine neurons. Iontophoretic application of the NMDA antagonist (+/-)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-l-phosphonic acid (CPP) inhibited the excitatory effect of NMDA and glutamate, but not that of AMPA. Iontophoretic application of the AMPA antagonist 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(f)-quinoxaline (NBQX), inhibited the excitatory effect of AMPA and glutamate, but not that of NMDA. CPP produced a greater antagonism of the glutamate excitation than did NBQX. In addition, CPP, but not NBQX, reduced the firing rate and burst-firing of a subpopulation of DA neurons. These data indicate that both NMDA and AMPA receptors are present on substantia nigra dopamine neurons and suggest that NMDA receptors may be more sensitive than AMPA receptors to endogenous glutamate and that a tonic glutamate tone, acting via NMDA receptor stimulation, may modulate the firing rate and burst-firing activity of some dopamine neurons.
Neurons containing reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) diaphorase and acetylcholinesterase in the striatum are spared in Huntington's disease. It has been claimed that these neurons are also spared after intrastriatal injection of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonist, quinolinic acid. In the present study the effects of intrastriatal injection of quinolinic acid (15, 30 and 60 nmol) on neurons containing NADPH diaphorase and acetylcholinesterase were examined in rats. Neurons identified histochemically were counted in whole striatal sections at the level of the injection site and at 400 microns intervals anterior and posterior to the injection site. There was a dose-related reduction in the total number of NADPH diaphorase-containing neurons counted in these levels, but only a mild loss of acetylcholinesterase-containing neurons. Acetylcholinesterase-positive neurons were observed near the injection site following administration of all doses. The effects of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (50 mg/kg, i.p. twice daily for seven days), on quinolinic acid (30 nmol. day 5)-induced toxicity were also investigated. Striatal sections were stained for NADPH diaphorase-, nitric oxide synthase- and acetylcholinesterase-containing neurons and cells were counted in whole striatal sections at the level of the injection site and at four levels posterior to the injection site. Nitric oxide synthase activity was measured in striatal homogenates. NG-Nitro-L-arginine methyl ester did not protect against or potentiate the loss of NADPH diaphorase-, nitric oxide synthase- or acetylcholinesterase-containing neurons or the loss in nitric oxide synthase activity. Acute intrastriatal injection of quinolinic acid may not be a suitable model for Huntington's disease and a role for nitric oxide in quinolinic acid-induced toxicity is not supported in this model.
Nitric oxide, a gaseous inter- and intracellular messenger, is thought to mediate neurotoxicity via excitatory amino acid receptors which may contribute to the pathogenesis of a variety of neuronal diseases. Excitotoxin lesions induced by quinolinic acid were made unilaterally in the rat striatum to study biochemically, light- and electron microscopically the possible involvement of the nitric oxide synthesizing enzyme nitric oxide synthase in degeneration processes. 5 days after quinolinic acid injection nitric oxide synthase activity in the striatum was elevated to 196.5% (P &lt; 0.005% as compared to controls). There was no requirement of Ca2+ for the enzyme activity measured indicating that the elevation is due to the inducible isoform of nitric oxide synthase. Parallel to the depletion of neurons by quinolinic acid a massive gliosis was seen. Whereas quiescent astroglial cells in the normal striatum did not show any light microscopically detectable nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase reaction, reactive astroglia revealed a substantial labeling distributed over the cell body and their stellar processes. Within the lesion and, particularly, close to the needle tract the number of microglia/macrophages labeled by isolectin B4 increased dramatically. Reactive microglial cells macrophages, situated along the needle tract and characterized by a pseudopodic or a globular shape, contained highest staining activity. At the ultrastructural level only disintegrated, if any, neuronal perikarya were seen five days after quinolinic acid injection while numerous reactive glial cells were observed. Reactive astroglia showed nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase activity by displaying a substantial labeling of the nuclear envelope and endoplasmic membranes. Occasionally stained mitochondria were encountered. Globular-shaped (ameboidal) microglia near the needle tract were rich in phagocytotic debris and, apart from formazan-positive endomembranes, their plasmalemma was often nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase stained. Additionally, in those cells regions of highly electron-dense puncta were seen which differ sharply from other cytoplasmic areas. Such sand-like accumulations of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase positive grains have never been observed in other cell types, indicating a special type of nitric oxide synthase representation, possibly that of the inducible isoform.
We have proposed that L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) is a neurotransmitter in the central nervous system [Y. Misu et al. (1995) Adv. Pharmac. 32, 427-459]. L-DOPA as a probable neurotransmitter for the primary baroreceptor afferents tonically functions to mediate cardiodepressor control in the nucleus tractus solitarii and also tonically functions to mediate cardiopressor control in the rostral ventrolateral medulla of rats. We further attempted to clarify whether a transmitter-like L-DOPA system is altered in these areas of adult spontaneously hypertensive rats. By microdialysis in the left nucleus tractus solitarii area, the basal L-DOPA release was lower in spontaneously hypertensive rats than that in Wistar-Kyoto rats. This release was partially reduced by tetrodotoxin (1 microM) to the same absolute levels in the two strains. Tonic neuronal L-DOPA release is impaired in this nucleus of spontaneously hypertensive rats. This impairment is not secondarily due to decrease in formation or increase in decarboxylation of L-DOPA, since tyrosine hydroxylase activity was increased in spontaneously hypertensive rats, compared to Wistar-Kyoto rats, while no difference of L-aromatic amino acid decarboxylase activity was seen in the caudal dorsomedial medulla including the nucleus. L-DOPA (10-300 ng) microinjected into the nucleus produced dose-dependent hypotension and bradycardia. A maximum depressor response of spontaneously hypertensive rats to L-DOPA at higher doses was slightly greater than that of Wistar-Kyoto rats. On the other hand, in the left rostral ventrolateral medulla, the basal L-DOPA release was higher in spontaneously hypertensive rats than that in Wistar-Kyoto rats. This release was also partially reduced by tetrodotoxin to the same absolute levels in the two strains. Tonic neuronal L-DOPA release is enhanced in spontaneously hypertensive rats. This enhancement seems to include partially a decrease in decarboxylation of L-DOPA, since L-aromatic amino acid decarboxylase activity was decreased in spontaneously hypertensive rats compared to Wistar-Kyoto rats, while no difference in tyrosine hydroxylase activity was seen. L-DOPA (10-600 ng) produced dose-dependent hypertension and tachycardia. Importantly, a pressor response of spontaneously hypertensive rats to L-DOPA at lower doses was slightly greater than that of Wistar-Kyoto rats. L-DOPA seems to play a transmitter-like role in blood pressure regulation at levels of the nucleus tractus solitarii and rostral ventrolateral medulla in rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The distribution of alpha 7 messenger RNA expression was characterized in developing rat cortex and thalamus. Northern blot analysis of neonatal and adult cortex revealed a single messenger RNA transcript of 5.7 kb. Using in situ hybridization with both full length and short 35S-labeled alpha 7 riboprobes, a distinct transient expression of messenger RNA within sensory cortex and thalamus, during early postnatal development, was observed. alpha 7 transcripts were expressed in low levels as early as embryonic day 13 in the ventricular zone of the neocortex, and as early as embryonic day 15 in the thalamic neuroepithelium. A marked increase in messenger RNA levels was observed during the late prenatal period in both sensory and non-sensory regions of the cortex and thalamus. Moderate to high levels of messenger RNA were maintained into the first postnatal week, followed by a decline into adulthood. alpha 7 messenger RNA expression was significantly higher in the anterodorsal, lateral dorsal, ventral posterior medial and ventral posterior lateral thalamic nuclei of postnatal day 7 pups than in adult brains. Expression of messenger RNA within dorsal lateral geniculate, ventral lateral geniculate and medial geniculate did not show a significant reduction with age. Within the developing cortex, messenger RNA expression delineated the primary somatosensory, auditory and visual cortices in a unique laminar pattern that was consistently and significantly higher than in the adult in superficial layer VI. Higher levels of expression were also observed in retrosplenial cortex at postnatal day 7 than in the adult. Tangential sections through postnatal day 7 cortex revealed low levels of alpha 7 messenger RNA expression delineating the primary sensory areas in layer IV, corresponding to acetylcholinesterase-labeled thalamocortical afferents. However, these sensory areas exhibited higher levels of alpha 7 messenger RNA expression and were more clearly defined in layer VI, but not by acetylcholinesterase staining. The distribution of alpha 7 messenger RNA within the developing thalamocortical system parallels the distribution of alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites and suggests that the receptor is localized on both thalamic cells and their cortical target neurons. This transient and distinct pattern of distribution of the alpha 7 neuronal nicotinic receptor, which coincides with the major phase of thalamocortical development, suggests that it may play a functional role in the development of cortical circuitry.
Tetanic stimulation of afferents in the stratum radiatum of the CA1 area of the rat hippocampus results in long-term potentiation of excitatory synaptic responses in pyramidal cells. Previous studies have reported a greater increase in the population spike amplitude following the induction of long-term potentiation than could be accounted for by the increase of the slope of the population excitatory postsynaptic potential. Two hypotheses have been proposed to explain this phenomenon (called excitatory postsynaptic potential/spike potentiation): a modification of the firing threshold and/or a modification of the inhibitory drive. Previous studies have not, however, addressed the question of possible changes in spike threshold in association with long-term depression. This paper examines whether the concomitant long-term potentiation of pharmacologically isolated N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic potentials, reported previously, is also associated with a change in spike threshold. When the amplitude of the population spike is plotted as a function of the slope of the population excitatory postsynaptic potential (excitatory postsynaptic potential/spike curve), excitatory postsynaptic potential/spike potentiation (depression) is seen as a shift of the excitatory postsynaptic potential/spike curve to the left (right) following a conditioning stimulus. In this study, using kainic acid lesioned hippocampus, we have shown that tetanic stimulation produced excitatory postsynaptic potential/spike potentiation of the control synaptic response and excitatory postsynaptic potential/spike depression of the isolated N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated responses.
Postnatal development of the primate cerebral cortex involves an initial proliferation and the subsequent attrition of cortical synapses. Although these maturational changes in synaptic density have been observed across the cortical mantle, little is known about the precise time course of developmental refinements in synaptic inputs to specific populations of cortical neurons. We examined the postnatal development of two markers of excitatory and inhibitory inputs to a subpopulation of layer III pyramidal neurons in area 9 and 46 of rhesus monkey prefrontal cortex. These neurons are of particular interest because they play a major role in the flow of information both within and between cortical regions. Quantitative reconstructions of Golgi-impregnated mid-layer III pyramidal neurons revealed substantial developmental changes in the relative density of dendritic spines, the major site of excitatory inputs to these neurons. Relative spine density on both the apical and basilar dendritic trees increased by 50% during the first two postnatal months, remained at a plateau through 1.5 years of age, and then decreased over the peripubertal age range until stable adult levels were achieved. As a measure of the postnatal changes in inhibitory input to the axon initial segment of these pyramidal neurons, we determined the density of parvalbumin-immunoreactive axon terminals belonging to the chandelier class of local circuit neurons. The density of these distinctive axon terminals (cartridges) exhibited a temporal pattern of change that exactly paralleled the changes in dendritic spine density. These results suggest that subpopulations of cortical neurons may be regulated by dynamic interactions between excitatory and inhibitory inputs during development and, in concert with other data, they emphasize the cellular specificity of postnatal refinements in cortical circuitry.
An increased frequency of apolipoprotein E E4 allele has been reported in patients with late onset Alzheimer's disease. Apolipoprotein E participates in the transport of cholesterol and other lipids and interferes with the growth and regeneration of both peripheral and central nervous system tissues during development and after injury. Apolipoprotein E is also implicated in synaptogenesis. Apolipoprotein E isoforms differ in binding to amyloid-beta-protein and tau protein in vitro. Here, we wanted to study the effect of apolipoprotein E genotype on the magnitude of damage in the hippocampus, where a marked synapse loss exists in Alzheimer's disease. We measured by magnetic resonance imaging the volumes of the hippocampus, amygdala, and frontal lobes in the three Alzheimer subgroups: patients with 2, 1 or 0 E4 alleles. We also investigated the profile of deficits on tests assessing memory, language, visuospatial, executive, and praxic functions of these Alzheimer subgroups. All Alzheimer patients were at early stage of the disease. We found that Alzheimer patients with E4/4 genotype (N = 5) had smaller volumes of the hippocampus and the amygdala than those with E3/4 (N = 9) and those with E3/3 or E2/3 (N = 12). The difference was significant for the right hippocampus (-54% of control) and the right amygdala (-37% of control). The volumes of the frontal lobes were similar across the Alzheimer subgroups. The patients with E4/4 also showed lowest scores on delayed memory tests and differed from E3/3, 3/2 patients in the list learning test (&lt; 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The study have investigated the effect of a conditioned emotional response using a contextual cue on dopamine release in the rat nucleus accumbens, measured with in vivo microdialysis, and its inhibition by N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist dizocilpine maleate. The extracellular level of dopamine in the medial nucleus accumbens markedly increased for up to 40 min when rats were given mild footshock in the testing box. When the rats were returned to the testing box, but not given footshock (conditioned emotional response), there was an immediate and long-lasting (80 min) increase in extracellular dopamine. Dizocilpine maleate (50 mumol/l) administered into the nucleus accumbens through the dialysis probe had no significant effect on the immediate increase in dopamine induced by conditioned emotional response but completely prevented the later phase. Dizocilpine maleate had no effect on basal dopamine release in control rats but decreased basal dopamine in rats exposed to footshock 2 h previously. The alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazoleproprionate/kainate antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinnoxaline-2,3-dione (100 mumol/l) had no effect on the increase in dopamine release in response to conditioned emotional response. The results indicate that the acquisition of conditioned emotional response causes long-lasting changes in the mechanisms involved in the glutamatergic control of dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens. Furthermore glutamate inputs into the nucleus accumbens may also regulate the delayed phase of conditioned dopamine release during expression of conditioned emotional response to a contextural cue through activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors.
The induction of the early-gene c-fos after administration of the adenosine A2a receptor agonist CGS 21680, was studied in the striatum of normal rats or in rats with a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons. CGS 21680 (2.25 mg/kg) induces c-fos expression in the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned striatum, while up to 40 mg/kg fails to induce c-fos in the intact striatum or in the striatum of normal rats. Blockade of muscarine receptors by scopolamine (5 mg/kg) partially prevents, and stimulation of dopamine D2 receptors by quinpirole (0.5 mg/kg) completely reverses, CGS 21680-induced c-fos expression in the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned striatum. In turn, CGS 21680 partially reverses c-fos expression induced by quinpirole in the lesioned globus pallidus. CGS 21680, in addition, dose-dependently reduces the turning behavior induced by quinpirole (0.5 mg/kg) in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. The results suggest that CGS 21680 induces c-fos expression in the striatum through direct and indirect mechanisms related to the ability of A2a receptors to stimulate cyclic AMP formation or acetylcholine release which in turn would activate c-fos through muscarinic receptors.
Messenger RNAs for the D1 dopamine receptor and dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein of relative mass 32,000 (DARPP-32) were examined by in situ hybridization in the cynomolgus monkey brain. The messenger RNA distribution was compared to the distribution of D1 dopamine receptors using [3H]SCH 23390 autoradiography. In the caudate nucleus and putamen, D1 dopamine receptor messenger RNA-positive cells were unevenly distributed. Clusters of cells with an approximately three-fold higher intensity of labeling, as compared to surrounding regions, were found. Some of these D1 dopamine receptor messenger RNA intensive cell clusters in the caudate nucleus appeared to some extent to be matched to regions of higher intensity of [3H]SCH 23390 binding. The distribution of cells expressing DARPP-32 messenger RNA in the caudate nucleus and putamen was found to be non-clustered. In neocortical regions, cells of different sizes expressing D1 dopamine receptor messenger RNA were present in layers II-VI. D1 dopamine receptor messenger RNA-positive cells were most abundant in layer V. Unexpectedly, no DARPP-32 messenger RNA signal was detected in neocortex. Chronic SCH 23390 administration did not change the relative levels of messenger RNAs for the D1 dopamine receptor and DARPP-32 or [3H]SCH 23390 binding as measured by quantitative image analysis. The clustered distribution of D1 dopamine receptor messenger RNA is in contrast to that of DARPP-32 messenger RNA. This suggests that D1 dopamine receptors may play a more significant role in regulating DARPP-32 function in patch regions as compared to matrix regions. D1 dopamine receptor messenger RNA-expressing cells could also be visualized in several layers of the primate neocortex, implying that dopamine acts through D1 dopamine receptors within functionally different neuronal circuits of the neocortex.
The localization of N-cadherin in the normal, and regenerating nerve fibers was investigated by immunocytochemistry in the chicken sciatic nerve. The normal unmyelinated fibers exhibited N-cadherin immunoreactivity on the plasma membranes of axons and Schwann cells where they were in contact with each other, while myelinated fibers displayed no immunoreactivity except at the mesaxon where Schwann cell plasma membranes were attached to each other. In the regenerating nerves, intense immunoreactivity was demonstrated on the surface of plasma membranes of axons and Schwann cells where axon-axon and axon-Schwann cell contacts were made. No immunoreactivity was observed on the plasma membranes where regenerating axons or Schwann cells were in touch with the basal lamina. In addition, it was revealed that some vesicles in the growth cones had distinct N-cadherin immunoreactivity at the inner limiting membrane surface. These findings indicate that N-cadherin may be involved in the axon-axon and axon-Schwann cell adhesion in the normal unmyelinated as well as regenerating nerve fibers, and also in the attachment of Schwann cell processes at the mesaxon of myelinated fibers. In addition, these findings suggest that N-cadherin might be, at least in part, supplied by fusion of growth cone vesicles with the surface plasma membranes in growing axons.
Sympathetic vasoconstrictor neurons that had previously innervated blood vessels in hairy skin were made to reinnervate the vasculature of the hairless skin of the paw pad by suturing the central stump of the cut sural nerve to the distal stump of the cut tibial nerve. After allowing sufficient time for the reinnervation, electrical stimulation of the vasoconstrictor pathway in the lumbar sympathetic trunk produced a reduction of the blood flow that was significantly greater than in control animals. There was also a clear sign of a &quot;denervation supersensitivity&quot; of the blood vessels as evidenced by a significantly increased vasoconstriction that followed the systemic application of the alpha 1-adrenoceptor specific agonist phenylephrine. Neurogenic vasodilation evoked by antidromic excitation of small diameter primary afferent neurones was significantly impaired although myelinated and unmyelinated primary afferents had re-grown into the target tissue. Electrical stimulation of the intact tibial nerve (containing sympathetic vasoconstrictor axons and nociceptive primary afferent fibres) in control animals, always produced vasodilatation indicating that the neurogenic vasodilatation can override the sympathetic vasoconstrictor response. By contrast, electrical stimulation of cross-unioned nerves consistently produced a robust vasoconstriction. We conclude that sympathetic vasoconstrictor neurons have a high capacity to functionally reinnervate autonomic effector organs in the adult cat. Despite this functional recovery, the blood vessels exhibited stronger than normal responses to an alpha 1-adrenoceptor agonist. The impaired neurogenic vasodilatation mediated by small diameter afferents may be due to their poor ability to re-establish their efferent vasodilatory function. Alternatively it may be masked by the strong vasoconstriction.
Acidic solutions and capsaicin are selective chemical stimuli for nociceptive neurons. The effect of these stimuli on intracellular calcium concentration was analysed in cultured trigeminal neurons of newborn rabbits. Rapid reductions in pH (from 7.4 to 5) evoked a transient rise in intracellular calcium concentration of 270% on average over the basal level (162.5 +/- 3.5 nM; n = 174) in 86% of the neurons. Maximal responses were found at pH 5.5. Proton-induced transients were diminished or abolished by 20 mM CaCl2, by zero CaCl2 and by 1 microM Ruthenium Red. In response to 1 microM capsaicin, 40% of the cells that were sensitive to protons also increased their intracellular calcium concentration to 218% of control. Capsaicin-induced intracellular calcium concentration rises were composed of an initial peak followed by a second, slower intracellular calcium concentration elevation. The capsaicin response was completely blocked by 1 microM Ruthenium Red, and disappeared in zero calcium, but was augmented in high extracellular calcium. Intracellular calcium concentration responses to capsaicin were still observed in neurons whose response to protons was desensitized by sustained exposure to low pH (pH 6.5). Cells surviving a 10-24h capsaicin (10 microM) treatment, still displayed responses to pH reductions. These results suggest that intracellular calcium concentration rises induced by moderate reductions in pH0 and capsaicin occur through different mechanisms.
A large brain-specific chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan, identified with monoclonal antibody 6B4 (6B4 proteoglycan/phosphacan), was isolated from rat brain. Soluble proteoglycans in the phosphate-buffered saline extract from 20-day-old rat whole brain were fractionated by anion exchange chromatography and CsCl density gradient centrifugation. 6B4 proteoglycan was further purified by gel filtration and additional ion exchange chromatography. The molecular mass of 6B4 proteoglycan shifted from 800 to 300 x 10(3) mol. wt after chondroitinase ABC digestion. The core protein was substituted with chondroitin sulfate chains with an average molecular weight of 21,000, keratan sulfate and HNK-1 carbohydrates. Glycosidase digestion of 6B4 proteoglycan with O-glycanase, N-glycanase, endo-beta-galactosidase, or keratanase did not remove the HNK-1 epitopes. The expression of 6B4 proteoglycan was developmentally regulated in the rat cerebral cortex; appearing first at embryonic day 14, peaking at postnatal day 0, and persisting throughout adulthood at a lower level. Immunohistochemical analysis indicated that 6B4 proteoglycan was distributed along the radial glial fibers and on the migrating neurons in the embryonal rar cerebrum. The radial glial fibers were stained intensely all along their length, but the neurons in the cortical plate were not stained in contrast to the moderate staining of the migrating neurons in the intermediate zone and the subplate. From postnatal day 5 to postnatal day 20, 6B4 proteoglycan was present throughout the cortex. After postnatal day 30, staining of the neuropil was weakened, and the expression of 6B4 proteoglycan was restricted around subsets of neurons. The positive neurons were mostly non-pyramidal cells (&gt; 95%) and were relatively concentrated in layers IV and VI of the primary somatosensory cortex. Immunohistochemical analysis of the dissociated cortical neurons indicated that 6B4 proteoglycan was distributed on the cell bodies and neurites. 6B4 proteoglycan strikingly promoted neurite extension of cortical neurons from embryonic day-16 rat embryos when coated on coverslips as a substrate. 6B4 proteoglycan is a brain-specific chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan which carries keratan sulfate and HNK-1 carbohydrates. The spatiotemporal expression profile and effects on the dissociated cerebral neurons suggest that 6B4 proteoglycan plays important roles in the migration and differentiation of neurons in the immature cortex, and also in the maintenance of subsets of neurons in the mature cortex.
Spinal recurrent inhibition influences the discharge patterns of motoneurons and spinal interneurons. The precise pattern of this influence depends on the static and dynamic characteristics of this feedback system. It is thus of importance to quantify its characteristics as well as possible. We here compare nonlinear features (hysteresis) in Renshaw cells and recurrent inhibition in response to cyclic stimulation of motor axons. In pentobarbitone-anaesthetized or decerebrate cats, intracellular recordings were obtained from 26 hindlimb muscle nerves skeleto-motoneurons and extracellular recordings from nine Renshaw cells. Various hindlimb muscle nerves (dorsal roots cut) or ventral roots (dorsal roots intact) were prepared for electrical stimulation to elicit recurrent inhibition in motoneurons or discharges in Renshaw cells. Stimulus patterns consisted of repetitive pulse trains whose rates varied cyclically between around 10 pulses/s and several tens of pulses/s, at modulation frequencies between 0.1 and 1.0 Hz, in one of two waveforms: triangular or sinusoidal. Recurrent inhibitory potentials in motoneurons and discharge patterns of Renshaw cells were averaged with respect to triggers (cycle-triggers) marking a fixed phase in the stimulation cycle. In another two experiments, motor axons to hindlimb muscles (soleus and medial gastrocnemius) were stimulated with sinusoidal and distorted temporal patterns to show their effects on force production. Most often the cycle-averaged motoneuron membrane potential changed in a temporally asymmetrical way, i.e. it fairly rapidly hyperpolarized early in the stimulus cycle (during increasing rate) and then depolarized more slowly throughout the rest.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The microinjection of carbachol into the nucleus pontis oralis produces a state which is polygraphically and behaviorally similar to active sleep (rapid eye movement sleep). In the present study, using double-labeling techniques for serotonin and the protein product of c-fos (Fos), we sought to examine whether immunocytochemically identified serotonergic neurons of the raphe nuclei of the cat were activated, as indicated by their expression of c-fos, during this pharmacologically-induced behavioral state (active sleep-carbachol). Compared with control cats, which were injected with saline, active sleep-carbachol cats exhibited a significantly greater number of c-fos-expressing neurons in the raphe dorsalis, magnus and pallidus. Whereas most of the c-fos-expressing neurons in the raphe dorsalis were small, those in the raphe magnus were medium-sized and in the raphe pallidus they were small and medium-sized. The mean number of serotonergic neurons that expressed c-fos (i.e. double-labeled cells) was similar in control and active sleep-carbachol cats. These data indicate that there is an increased number of non-serotonergic, c-fos-expressing neurons in the raphe dorsalis, magnus and pallidus during the carbachol-induced state.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cytochrome oxidase is the terminal enzyme in the mitochondrial respiratory chain engaged in oxidative metabolism and energy production. In mammals, the holoenzyme is composed of 13 subunits encoded by both nuclear and mitochondrial genomes. The goal of the present study was to compare the effect of afferent impulse blockade on the expression of these two genomes at the subunit protein level. It also aimed to determine the correlation between the level of cytochrome oxidase activity and the relative amount of subunit proteins. Relative enzyme activity was analysed histochemically, and relative amounts of subunits IV (nuclear-encoded) and II/III (mitochondrial-derived) proteins were obtained immunohistochemically by anti-subunit IV and anti-subunit II/III antibodies in the lateral geniculate nucleus and the primary visual cortex of adult monkeys. In the normal visual centers, similar staining patterns were found for all three markers. After three and seven days of tetrodotoxin treatment, levels of enzyme activity and subunit proteins declined disproportionately in the deprived laminae of the visual center. Densitometric analysis indicates that changes in enzyme activity and subunit IV proteins were significantly greater than those of subunit II/III proteins (P &lt; 0.01). The finding that nuclear and mitochondrial genomes are disproportionately regulated at subunit protein levels by neuronal activity implies that the two genomes operate under different regulatory mechanisms. Changes in subunit IV paralleled most closely those of cytochrome oxidase activity (coefficient of determination r2 = 0.95). This suggests that nuclear-derived subunit IV protein may play a pivotal role in controlling cytochrome oxidase holoenzyme activity.
Guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory protein stimulation of adenylyl cyclase has been shown to be an important second messenger system for many processes, including mechanical hyperalgesia. Recently, interactions between guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory protein subunits and adenylyl cyclase affecting the level of cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate accumulation have been demonstrated. In this study we evaluated such an interaction by measuring paw-withdrawal thresholds to mechanical stimuli in Sprague-Dawley rats in the presence of two direct-acting hyperalgesic agents, prostaglandin E2 and the adenosine A2-agonist, CGS21680. The effects of two agents expected to liberate inhibitory guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory protein subunits were also studied: [D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly5-ol]enkephalin (a mu-opioid receptor agonist) and N6-cyclopentyladenosine (an A1-adenosine agonist). Injection of [D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly5-ol]enkephalin immediately before prostaglandin E2 or CGS21680 significantly attenuated the hyperalgesia subsequently induced by these agents, i.e. the sensitivity to these hyperalgesic agents was decreased. On the other hand, injection of [D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly5-ol]enkephalin 5 min after prostaglandin E2 or CGS21680 significantly enhanced the hyperalgesia observed. Injection of the adenosine A1-agonist N6-cyclopentyladenosine immediately before and 5 min after prostaglandin E2 or CGS21680 had a similar effect to [D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly5-ol]enkephalin. The decrease in sensitivity to prostaglandin E2- and CGS21680-induced hyperalgesia by preadministration of [D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly5-ol]enkephalin or N6-cyclopentyladenosine and the enhancement by postadministration were all reversed by pertussis toxin, an inhibitor of inhibitory guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory protein, suggesting the involvement of an inhibitory guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory protein.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The patch-clamp technique was used to record whole-cell currents induced by alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-isoxazol-4-propionic acid (AMPA) or kainate in solitary rat retinal ganglion cells (n = 125) in vitro. Two groups of retinal ganglion cells could be distinguished according to their responses to kainate or AMPA in extracellular solutions with Ca2+ as the only permeant cation. The ratio of the steady-state currents evoked by a given concentration of AMPA compared to kainate was low (0.08) in the first group and high (0.61) in the second group of retinal ganglion cells. The Ca2+ permeability through AMPA/kainate receptor-operated channels was low (PCa2+/PCs+ &lt; 0.1) in the first group (n = 74, 59%) and moderate (PCa2+/PCs+ = 0.53) in the second group (n = 51, 41%) of retinal ganglion cells. The fraction of the total current induced by stimulation of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors that is flowing through Ca2+ permeable AMPA/kainate channels in single cells with high Ca2+ permeability was estimated by comparing the current-voltage relationship in extracellular solutions with either Ca2+ or Na+ as the sole charge carrier. The contribution of Ca(2+)-permeable channels to the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor induced whole-cell current in single Ca2+ permeable cells (n = 12) ranged from 40 to 70%, correlating with the intermediate level of Ca2+ permeability (PCa2+/PCs+ = 0.22-0.80) measured by an independent method in these cells. Thus, single Ca(2+)-permeable cells appear to express at least two types of AMPA/kainate receptor-operated channels with high or low Ca2+ permeability. Using the polymerase chain reaction, transcripts for the glutamate receptor subunits 1-4, including their &quot;flip&quot; and &quot;flop&quot; versions, were identified in retinal ganglion cells. Together, these findings suggest that among rat retinal ganglion cells there are differences in the pattern of expression of AMPA/kainate receptor-operated channels. Moreover, individual cells co-express multiple heterologous non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors with distinct functional properties. The functional diversity of these receptors may play an important role in controlling Ca2+ entry into neurons. We speculate that the low Ca2+ permeability and the preference for kainate in one group of retinal ganglion cells may be due to the predominant expression of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors containing the edited form of the glutamate receptor subunit 2 flop splice variant.
Stimulation of mammalian motor neurons can elicit Ca(2+)-dependent regenerative release of acetylcholine and prolonged endplate depolarization when the enzymatic degradation of the neurotransmitter is inhibited. Unlike physiological phasic release of acetylcholine, the regenerative release is sensitive to L-type Ca2+ channel blockers. We studied the effects of vesamicol (an inhibitor of active transport of acetylcholine into synaptic vesicles) and omega-agatoxin IVA (a blocker of the motor nerve P-type Ca2+ channel) on these two types of acetylcholine release to compare the vesicle pools and Ca2+ channels responsible for the release. When coupled with repetitive stimulations, vesamicol decreased mean amplitude of miniature endplate potentials, resulting in a skewed distribution to lower amplitude, reduced quantal content of endplate potentials and decreased immediate available pool of acetylcholine. omega-Agatoxin IVA had no effect on miniature endplate potential but inhibited quantal content of endplate potential. The mean inhibitory concentration was around 5-10 nM. Vesamicol and omega-agatoxin IVA decreased the probability of triggering regenerative release. However, the magnitude and duration of regenerative release, once triggered, were not depressed by either agent. It appears that the majority of Ca2+ necessary for regenerative release is translocated via omega-agatoxin IVA-insensitive Ca2+ channels, which can be activated by prolonged depolarization of nerve terminals induced by accumulated acetylcholine. The results suggest that different Ca2+ channels are activated in the regenerative (L-type) and phasic (P-type) acetylcholine release, which utilize different pools of synaptic vesicles.
No attempt has been made so far to classify the subtypes of presynaptic inhibitory adenosine receptors located in the myenteric plexus and to localize ecto-ATPase and 5'-nucleotidase in the intestine. The release of [3H]acetylcholine and smooth muscle responses to acetylcholine were measured and the effect of selective adenosine receptor ligands was studied using field-stimulated isolated longitudinal muscle strips of guinea-pig ileum. Release of ATP and its hydrolysis rate were also measured using the luciferin-luciferase technique. A histochemical method combined with electron microscopy was used for localization of ecto-ATPase and 5'-nucleotidase, enzymes responsible for destruction of extracellular ATP, ADP and AMP. Subtype-selective A1-receptor agonists and antagonists inhibited and enhanced, respectively, the release of acetylcholine associated with neuronal activity. A significant amount of ATP was released in response to electrical stimulation and administration of carbamylcholine. The release of ATP was inhibited by atropine and 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine methiodide, an M3-receptor antagonist. Hydrolysis of ATP was rapid and resulted in an accumulation of extracellular adenosine involved in presynaptic A1-receptor-mediated inhibition of acetylcholine release. While the inhibitory effect of adenosine and ATP was significantly potentiated by dipyridamol, an adenosine uptake blocker, that of 2-ms ATP was not. The effect of ATP was not competitively antagonized by 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine, a selective A1-receptor antagonist. In conclusion, axon terminals of cholinergic interneurons are equipped with inhibitory A1- and P2 gamma-receptors. Therefore, both adenosine and ATP control the release of acetylcholine through these receptors. ATP is mainly released from the smooth muscle in response to stimulation of M3-muscarinic receptors by endogenous acetylcholine (cascade transmission [Vizi E. S. et al. (1992) Neuroscience 50, 455-465]) and is rapidly hydrolysed by ecto-ATPase localized on the surface of the smooth muscle and axon terminals producing ADP and AMP, and by 5'-nucleotidase present only on the surface of smooth muscle cells producing adenosine.
The effects of the membrane-permeable cGMP analogue, 8-bromoguanosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate on acetylcholine-evoked catecholamine secretion and cytosolic calcium increases were studied in chromaffin cells from the bovine adrenal gland. Preincubation with 100 microM 8-bromoguanosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate during 10 and 30 min decreased the acetylcholine-evoked catecholamine release by 16 +/- 3% and 27 /+- 5%, respectively. The cytosolic calcium increases triggered by acetylcholine and 30 mM KCl were also inhibited by 30 min of preincubation with this compound by 27 +/- 4 and 34 /+- 12%, respectively. Changes in membrane potential induced by acetylcholine and KCl were not affected by preincubation with 8-bromoguanosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate. The cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase inhibitor N-[2-(methylamino)ethyl]-5-isoquinoline sulfonamide dihydrochloride-at l micron abolished the inhibitory effect of 8-bromoguanosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate on acetylcholine-evoked calcium increase. By contrast, a potent and selective inhibitor against cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase, N-[2-(p-bromocinnamylamino)ethyl]-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide did not block the 8-bromoguanosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate effect. Additionally, 8-bromoguanosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate stimulated histone F2b phosphorylation by a partial purified cGMP-dependent protein kinase from chromaffin cells. The extent of histone phosphorylation was reduced by N-[2-(methylamino)ethyl]-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide dihydrochloride and 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-guanosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphorothioate, Rp-isomer, a specific inhibitor against cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase, whereas it was not modified by N-[2-(p-bromocinnamylamino)ethyl]-5-isoquinoline sulfonamide. The results suggest that the inhibitory effects of 8-bromoguanosine 3':5' cyclic monophosphate on chromaffin cells are mediated through the activation of cGMP-dependent protein kinase.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Angiotensin II (250 pmol) infused into the cerebral ventricles of male rats induces the expression of c-fos in the subfornical organ, supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei of the hypothalamus, as well as in the lateral parabrachial nucleus, locus coeruleus and the nucleus of the solitary tract in the brainstem. Electrolytic lesions of the anteroventral third ventricle, principally the subcommissural (ventral) median preoptic nucleus, inhibited the dipsogenic response to i.c.v. angiotensin II and also suppressed c-fos expression in supraoptic nucleus, paraventricular nucleus, lateral parabrachial nucleus, locus coeruleus and nucleus of the solitary tract but not in the subfornical organ or dorsal median preoptic nucleus. The stimulating effect of i.c.v. angiotensin II on corticosterone was also reduced. Median preoptic nucleus lesions also suppressed the expression of c-fos following i.v. infusions of 6 micrograms angiotensin II in supraoptic nucleus and paraventricular nucleus but not in subfornical organ, dorsal median preoptic nucleus, lateral parabrachial nucleus, locus coeruleus and nucleus of the solitary tract. Median preoptic nucleus lesions reduced the dipsogenic effects of an intragastric infusion of hypertonic (1.5 M) saline and suppressed c-fos expression in supraoptic nucleus and paraventricular nucleus compared to sham-lesioned rats. However, c-fos expression was unaltered in subfornical organ, dorsal median preoptic nucleus lesions had no effect on the increased corticosterone induced by hypertonic saline. Subfornical organ lesions did not alter dipsogenic responses to i.c.v. angiotensin II, nor was the i.c.v. angiotensin II-induced expression of c-fos suppressed in the basal forebrain. These experiments show that the ventral median preoptic nucleus (but not the subfornical organ), part of the anteroventral third ventricle, is critical for the expression of c-fos in more caudal areas of the brain following i.c.v. angiotensin II. c-fos expression in supraoptic nucleus and paraventricular nucleus following i.v. angiotensin II is also dependent on an intact median preoptic nucleus, suggesting that supraoptic nucleus and paraventricular nucleus activation may be dependent on the median preoptic nucleus, and that suppression following i.c.v. infusions is not due to mechanical obstruction to infused peptide. However, there is a clear separation of the effects of i.c.v. and i.v. angiotensin II on brainstem structures. The median preoptic nucleus (but not the subfornical organ) seems essential for activation following the former but not the latter, suggesting alternative mechanisms for the effect of i.v. angiotension II on the brainstem.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We have investigated the pattern of glutamate-like immunoreactivity in the superficial layers of the rat superior colliculus by means of postembedding immunocytochemical methods for light and electron microscopy. At the light microscopic level, labelling was faintly to moderately intense in most perikarya of the stratum zonale, stratum griseum superficiale and stratum opticum. Furthermore, strong glutamate-immunoreactive terminal-like elements were accumulated most densely in stratum zonale, stratum griseum superficiale and stratum opticum. At the electron microscopic level, a postembedding immunogold method revealed that the vast majority of those labelled elements corresponded to retinal and visual cortical terminals. These profiles were about twice as heavily labelled as their postsynaptic partners. To determine the contribution of retinal and cortical afferents to the pattern of glutamate-like immunoreactivity, rats were subjected to right retinal ablation, left cortical ablation or combined right retinal and left cortical ablations. After retinal ablation, strongly labelled perikarya were observed in the retinorecipient layers. Furthermore, a prominent loss of glutamate-immunoreactive terminal-like elements occurred in stratum zonale and stratum griseum superficiale. Ipsilateral superior colliculus to cortical ablation exhibited subtle changes characterized by a moderate increase in perikaryal immunostaining in stratum zonale, stratum griseum superficiale and stratum opticum and by an apparent discrete reduction of labelled dots in stratum griseum superficiale and stratum opticum. In cases with combined lesions, strongly immunoreactive cell bodies and dendrites were accompanied by a massive disappearance of labelled terminal-like elements in stratum zonale, stratum griseum superficiale and stratum opticum. The effect of retinal and visual cortical ablations on the pattern of glutamate-like immunoreactivity suggests that these afferents are the major sources for glutamate-immunoreactive terminals in the rat superior colliculus. In addition, these findings provide further evidence for glutamate as neurotransmitter in the visual pathways studied.
Previous studies in anaesthetized animals have shown that the baroreflex control of sympathetic vasomotor activity is mediated to a large extent by inhibitory inputs to sympathoexcitatory pressor neurons in the rostral part of the ventrolateral medulla. The aim of this study was to determine, in conscious rabbits, the distribution of neurons within the brain that have two properties characteristic of interneurons conveying baroreceptor signals to the rostral ventrolateral medulla: (i) they are activated by an increase in arterial pressure; and (ii) they project specifically to the rostral ventrolateral medulla pressor region. In a preliminary operation, an injection of the retrogradely transported tracer, fluorescent-labelled microspheres, was made into the physiologically identified pressor region in the rostral ventrolateral medulla. After a waiting period of one to eight weeks, hypertension was produced in the conscious rabbit by continuous intravenous infusion of phenylephrine at a rate sufficient to increase arterial pressure by approximately 20 mmHg, maintained for a period of 60 min. A control group of animals was infused with the vehicle solution alone. In confirmation of our previous study, hypertension produced by phenylephrine resulted in the neuronal expression of Fos (a marker of neuronal activation) in the nucleus of the solitary tract, area postrema, the intermediate and caudal parts of the ventrolateral medulla parabrachial complex, and in the central nucleus of the amygdala. Approximately 50% of the Fos-immunoreactive neurons in both the caudal and intermediate parts of the ventrolateral medulla were also retrogradely labelled from the rostral ventrolateral medulla pressor region; such double-labelled neurons were confined to a discrete longitudinal column located just ventrolateral to the nucleus ambiguus. Significant numbers of double-labelled neurons were also found in the nucleus of the solitary tract and area postrema, although these represented a much lower proportion (13-16%) of the total number of Fos-immunoreactive neurons in these regions. In the parabrachial complex, Fos-immunoreactive and retrogradely labelled neurons were largely separate populations, while in the amygdala they were entirely separate populations. In the control group of rabbits, virtually no double-labelled neurons were found in any of these regions. The results indicate that putative baroreceptor interneurons that project to the pressor region of the rostral ventrolateral medulla are virtually confined to the lower brainstem. In particular, they support the results of previous studies in anaesthetized animals indicating that neurons in the intermediate and caudal ventrolateral medulla convey baroreceptor signals to the rostral ventrolateral medulla pressor region, and extend them by demonstrating the precise anatomical distribution of these neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Nitric oxide synthase which is constitutively expressed in some neurons can be induced in other neurons by pathological conditions. For example, sciatic nerve or pelvic nerve transection induced nitric oxide synthase expression in lumbosacral dorsal root ganglion cells. This occurred in small to medium sized dorsal root ganglion neurons suggesting that this change might be limited to, or most prominent in, C-fiber afferents. These afferents are also very sensitive to the neurotoxin, capsaicin, which can deplete neuropeptide stores in C-fibers and in high doses cause degeneration of C-fiber afferent pathways. The present study was undertaken to determine if a chemically induced injury elicited in small diameter afferent neurons by systemic administration of capsaicin can induce a change in nitric oxide synthase expression similar to that elicited by peripheral nerve injury. Following capsaicin pretreatment (three days) a significant increase in the number of nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive cells was detected in dorsal root ganglia. The increase was most prominent (34-63 fold) in the L5-S1 dorsal root ganglia but also substantial (2-17 fold) in cervical, caudal thoracic and rostral lumbar dorsal root ganglia. These results indicate that the expression of nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactivity in afferent neurons in the dorsal root ganglia is plastic and can be upregulated in response to chemical stimulation and/or injury. It is possible that nitric oxide formed by enhanced expression of nitric oxide synthase may play a role in capsaicin-induced neurotoxicity.

Flowmotion (blood flow changes due to vasomotion) in the skin over a risk area for pressure sores, the sacrum, and a non-risk area, the gluteus muscle, was evaluated by laser Doppler fluxmetry during resting conditions and post-occlusive reactive hyperaemia (PRH) response. Measurements were made in healthy younger subjects and in two risk groups for pressure sores-spinal cord injured (SCI) and the elderly. The SCI were divided into two subgroups, one with and one without distinct flowmotion seen on the original recordings over the sacrum. The Prony spectral line estimation (PSLE) method was used to determine the power spectrum of the flowmotion activity. During the PRH, flowmotion frequencies were found in two separated bands, 5.4-6.6 cpm (cycles min-1) and 7.8-9.0 cpm. In the subgroup without distinct flowmotion, the PSLE method found flowmotion frequencies similar to the other groups. During the PRH, the flowmotion power pattern over the sacrum was similar within all groups, but the power was extremely low in one subgroup of SCI subjects. To conclude, flowmotion (vasomotion) was present in the two skin areas and increased during the PRH response, reaching a maximum within 50 s. This study shows that the flowmotion frequencies might be locally driven, whereas the power might be centrally mediated. Disturbances in microcirculatory flowmotion can be a part of the mechanisms leading to skin ischaemia and pressure sores. A new method has been developed for analysing differences in flowmotion behaviour such that statistical comparisons can be made.
In conclusion, NMDA antagonists as anticonvulsants are especially active in preventing the generalization of the behavioural and electrical seizures and display a typical spectrum of in vitro antiepileptiform activities. In addition, based on in vitro and in vivo limbic kindled studies, the drugs should be regarded more as an antiepileptiform than as an anticonvulsant drugs. As neuroprotective drugs, NMDA antagonists are effective against many types of neuronal injury and show a window of activity which does not exceed 1-2 h, thus suggesting an influence of NMDA receptors in the 'early' or 'acute' mechanisms of brain damage. Among NMDA antagonists, glycine antagonists or the morphinans dextromethorphan and dextrorphan showed a spectrum of antiepileptiform and neuroprotective activities broader than other NMDA antagonists. The primary pharmacological activities of NMDA antagonists are accompanied by some effects including perturbation of many sensory, psychological or motor processes. Typical behavioural and EEG changes were also induced by the drugs. In spite of the side-effects elicited by the drugs, differential effects detected among the various classes of NMDA antagonists (i.e. lack of induction of typical EEG-behavioural effects and of typical cortical neurotoxicity) might render some of these suitable for full clinical application as anticonvulsant-neuroprotective drugs.
Rats with a bilateral lesion of the olfactory bulb are permanently anosmic. However, this lesion also produces nonspecific behavioral effects that recover over time. In this study olfactory bulb-lesioned animals are given a spatial orientation task--the Morris maze--which supposedly relies on visual and not olfactory cues. In exp. 1 this assumption was verified by subjecting animals with peripherally induced anosmia to the Morris maze (olfactory neurons in the nasal mucosae were destroyed by flushing the nose with ZnSO4). Anosmia did not affect the acquisition rate of the animals. In exp. 2 anosmia was produced by a central lesion to the bulbus olfactorius. Two weeks after lesioning the Morris maze performance is severely impaired. Interestingly, chronic administration (10 micrograms/48 h/rat, during these 14 days, SC) of the ACTH(4-9) analog ORG 2766 diminished the impairment in performance. In exp. 3 olfactory bulb-lesioned animals were allowed 6 wk to recover before Morris maze testing began, to investigate if spontaneous recovery of performance occurred. No difference was seen in the acquisition performance of lesioned animals when compared to sham animals at this timepoint. The effect of the peptide is discussed in the context of an acceleration of the recovery of nonspecific consequences of brain lesioning.
To investigate the relationship between energy demand, ovarian hormones and behavioral thermoregulation, we measured nestbuilding of female Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) under conditions where energy demand and circulating ovarian hormone levels varied. Hamsters increased nestbuilding under conditions of chronically elevated estradiol and progesterone levels (late gestation; ovariectomized animals treated with estradiol +/- progesterone) and increased energy demand (late gestation or cold exposure). When hormone treatments were withdrawn, hamsters gained weight and reduced nestbuilding activity. Nestbuilding was not affected by lactation (characterized by low ovarian steroid levels and high energy demand) or by estrous cycle phase (characterized by relatively transient changes in ovarian steroid levels and subtle changes in energy demand). Thus, nestbuilding in Syrian hamsters was responsive to increased energy demand from cold exposure, late gestation, and to ovarian hormones. However, during lactation and estrous cycles, nestbuilding did not always change predictably according to known changes in energy expenditure and steroid hormone levels. Thus, levels of nestbuilding are influenced by factors in addition to ovarian hormones and energy expenditure under some circumstances.
The effects of light level and familiarity to the testing environment on social behaviors related and unrelated to play were investigated in juvenile rats accustomed to dim light conditions. Pinning, a measure characteristic for social play in rats, was completely suppressed under intense light conditions. Following/chasing and boxing/wrestling, social behaviors related to play, were also decreased under intense light. Of the measures of social behavior not related to play, contact behavior was decreased under intense light whereas social exploration was hardly affected. Levels of social exploration and following/chasing gradually declined during the 15-min test period. Frequency of contact behavior decreased, whereas duration increased with time. Under dim light conditions, unfamiliarity to the test cage suppressed pinning and boxing/wrestling but not the other social behaviors in the first part of the test period. These findings show that social behavior in juvenile rats, as in adult rats, can be influenced by light level and familiarity to the test cage. Social behaviors related and unrelated to play seem to be differentially influenced by environmental stimuli.

The effect of post-ethanol administration of NMDA and non-NMDA receptor antagonists on the development of environment-dependent ethanol tolerance was studied in C57B1 mice. Ethanol tolerance was produced by daily injections of ethanol (3.5 g/kg, IP) in the same experimental environment and measured as ethanol-produced &quot;sleep-time&quot; during 5 consecutive days. The non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, dizocilpine (MK-801; 0.1 mg/kg, IP), and the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, CGP 39551 (5 mg/kg, IP), both given 120 min after the administration of ethanol, inhibited the development of tolerance to the hypnotic actions of ethanol. In contrast, the development of ethanol tolerance was not altered by administration of the specific AMPA/KA receptor blocking agents, NBQX (10 mg/kg, IP), and LY326325 (2.5 mg/kg, IP), respectively. Modulation of NMDA receptor activity by drugs like NMDA, d-cycloserine, and milacemide, which are known to enhance learning and memory in rodents, had no significant effect on the development of ethanol tolerance. Our present data confirm and extend previous findings which indicate that NMDA, but not non-NMDA, glutamate receptors may play an important role in the neuroadaptive processes associated with the development of ethanol tolerance.
The human startle reflex is reliably modulated by the affective valence of foreground pictures, with larger reflexes elicited when viewing unpleasant relative to pleasant scenes. If this modulation is due to priming of the defensive startle reflex by an aversive foreground, a different pattern should occur for a reflex that is not inherently defensive in nature. In the current study, affective modulation was investigated using the spinal tendinous (T) reflex, which is well documented as sensitive to differences in arousal and is involved in actions that are both appetitively defensively motivated. As such, T reflexes elicited during unpleasant pictures were not expected to be augmented relative to those elicited in the context of pleasant pictures. Results showed that T reflexes were facilitated during processing of arousing stimuli-either pleasant or unpleasant relative to low-arousal neutral materials. These effects of emotional stimuli on T-reflex amplitude are consistent with hypothesis that motivational priming underlies affective reflex modulation.
This study was designed to investigate relationships between serum thyroid hormone levels and the severity of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms in a group of 65 male Vietnam combat veterans who participated as members of cohorts in an elective inpatient treatment program. Thyroid hormone measures included serum free and total triiodothyronine (T3), free and total thyroxine (T4), and thyroxine-binding globulin. To estimate symptom severity, the Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale (CAPS-2), based on DSM-III-R diagnostic criteria for PTSD, was used. Significant positive correlations were observed between free T3, total T3, total T4, and the &quot;hyperarousal&quot; frequency subscale score and the CAPS-2 frequency sum score. Patients with increased thyroid hormone levels and increased hyperarousal symptoms might constitute a clinically significant subtype among patients with PTSD. Alternatively, increased thyroid activity and hyperarousal symptoms may be associated with phase-related characteristics in PTSD. Research strategies for further evaluation of these preliminary findings are discussed.

Radiosurgery is a discipline that has evolved and continues to evolve. For certain conditions there are increasing indications for its use. Arteriovenous malformations, acoustic neuroma, meningioma, and pituitary adenomas are among the most commonly treated, and the cases where the most experience has been gained. Use will likely expand to other areas, such as metastatic brain tumors, base of skull lesions, and ocular melanomas. Radiosurgery for functional conditions, such as pain control, parkinsonism, or epilepsy may well develop. New equipment and techniques will allow for the expansion of utilization, as will increasing understanding of the radiobiology involved. Increased cooperation between radiation oncologists and neurosurgeons will facilitate the growth of this field because its most effective application requires aspects form both specialties.
The Gamma Knife (Leksell Gamma Unit; Elekta Radiosurgery, Inc, Atlanta, GA) and specially adapted linear accelerators are the systems most commonly used for intracranial stereotactic external beam irradiation. Both systems deliver collimated radiation to a treatment isocenter and a stereotactic head frame is required to align each target or portion of the target with this isocenter. Image acquisition and treatment planning define how the target is to be treated using one or more treatment positions. Diagnostic images are required to link the target volume with the stereotactic frame coordinate system. The number of diagnostic imaging modalities and the corresponding diagnostic technique(s) selected for optimum target localization are determined by the nature of the target and surrounding structures. The diagnostic modalities presented in this article include magnetic resonance imaging, magnetic resonance angiography, computerized tomography, and x-ray angiography. This review covers the fundamentals of radiosurgical treatment planning using the Gamma Knife as the system of reference.
As a new technique for sampling the extracellular fluid in vivo, the microdialysis is recently attractive to neuroscientists. Coupled with high sensitivity techniques for chemical microanalysis, it has been successfully used for monitoring chemical changes in extracellular environment of intact brain, and applied to some fields of neuroscience studies. In this article, its principle and some methodological aspects were described systematically, and a brief overview of its applications in neurosciences and some new advances was also given. Besides, the scope and limitations of microdialysis was discussed in the light of our own experience.
The goal of the present study was to evaluate the first-night effect in psychiatric inpatients using large subject samples (n &gt; 30) in order to obtain a good statistical evaluation. Thirty-two normal subjects and 94 psychiatric inpatients (38 depressives and 56 insomniacs) were studied for three consecutive nights in the hospital sleep laboratory. Our results showed clearly that there was a first-night effect in normal subjects, similar to that reported in previously published data, characterized by a longer rapid eye movement (REM) sleep latency (p &lt; 0.05), increased wakefulness (p &lt; 0.01) and total sleep time (p &lt; 0.02) and a decreased sleep efficiency (p &lt; 0.01). REM sleep latency and stage REM in the first third of the night were still altered in the second night. Both clinical groups had a less marked first-night effect than normal subjects, showing alterations only observed in REM sleep (p &lt; 0.01) (decreased REM sleep, longer REM sleep latency, increased REM sleep gravity center). However, the first-night effect was more pronounced in insomniacs than in depressed patients. No statistical differences between the second and third nights' recordings were found in sleep parameters. It is suggested that first-night data should not be simply discarded but could be used in subsequent analyses.


The variability of D2-dopamine receptor binding parameters in man was determined using Positron Emission Tomography (PET) and [11C]raclopride. A saturation analysis based on five PET-experiments was performed in each of ten men and ten women. The mean density of D2-dopamine receptors (Bmax) was 28 +/- 6.9 pmol/ml (mean +/- S.D.) and the apparent affinity (Kdapp) 9.1 +/- 1.9 pmol/ml. The Hill coefficient was in all subjects close to unity (nH: 0.999 +/- 0.020), thereby indicating binding to a homogeneous class of receptors. No significant differences between males and females were found in Bmax or Kdapp. The interindividual difference in Bmax was statistically significant (alpha = 0.01). The difference in Kdapp was not significant. Upregulation of the receptor density (Bmax) has been widely discussed as a mechanism for increased dopaminergic neurotransmission in schizophrenia. This study indicates that receptor density varies considerably in a group of healthy subjects.
The chasm that formerly separated evolutionary biology from the research of physiologists and developmental biologists has been partially bridged in recent years. An increasing amount of research in the neurosciences makes explicit reference to issues in evolutionary biology. Much of this research is an attempt to understand structures and functions of the brain as adaptations to an animal's physical and social environment. In addition, however, some of this research at the interface of evolutionary biology and neurobiology provides information on internal evolutionary factors and the way they may constrain evolution by natural selection.
Molecularly diverse forms of the NMDA-receptor subunit NRI are formed by alternative RNA splicing. Differential splicing of three exons generates as many as eight NRI splice variants, seven of which have been identified in cDNA libraries. The alternatively spliced exons encode a 21 amino acid sequence in the N-terminus domain (termed NI), and adjacent sequences of 37 and 38 amino acids in the C-terminus domain (termed C1 and C2, respectively). Splicing out the exon segment that encodes the C2 cassette removes the first stop codon, resulting in a new open reading frame that encodes an unrelated sequence of 22 amino acids (C2') before a second stop codon is reached. Differential RNA splicing alters the structural, physiological and pharmacological properties of receptors that comprise NRI subunits. Diversity of NMDA receptors is also caused by differential association with members of the NR2 gene family. The finding of cell-specific expression and developmental regulation of NRI splice variants, and of the NR2 subunits, provides an explanation for the diversity of properties of NMDA receptors in different neuronal populations.
Neurons containing catecholamine, indoleamine, and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) were identified by immunohistochemistry in the chameleon retina. Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and serotonin (5HT) were observed mostly in two subtypes of orthotopic amacrine cells differing in their soma size and process distribution within the IPL. Some labelled cells were displaced either to the IPL (5HT) or the GCL (TH and 5HT). A multiplicity of retinal cell types contained GABA including cones, horizontal, amacrine, and ganglion cells. Our results confirmed those obtained in the retinas of other lizards except for the presence of interstitial and displaced amacrine cells containing TH or 5HT of which this is the first report.
Ganglion cells of the cat retina that are neither alpha nor beta cells are often lumped for convenience into a single anatomical group--the gamma cells (Boycott &amp; Wssle, 1974; Stone, 1983; Wssle &amp; Boycott, 1991). Defined in this way, gamma cells are the morphological counterpart to the physiological W-cell class, which includes all ganglion cells that are neither Y (alpha) nor X (beta) cells. We have estimated the retinal distribution of gamma cells by using retrograde transport to label ganglion cells innervating the superior colliculus and by assuming that these included virtually all gamma cells and no beta cells. We excluded labeled alpha cells on the basis of soma size. Our data suggest that gamma cells represent just under half of the ganglion cells in most of the nasal retina, but only about a third of those in the area centralis and temporal retina. Gamma cells do not appear to be more highly concentrated in the nasal visual streak than are other ganglion cells. In the temporal retina, gamma cells with crossed projections to the brain are apparently at least twice as common as those with uncrossed projections.
Sensory representations in the brain exhibit topographic variations in magnification. These variations have been thought to reflect regional differences in the density of innervation at the sensory receptor surface. In the primate visual cortex, for example, local magnification factors have been reported to be proportional to the corresponding densities of retinal ganglion cells. We sought to learn whether this principle also operates in a second major retinofugal pathway--the projection to the superior colliculus. In cats, we first used retrograde transport to determine the retinal distributions of the ganglion cells that project to the colliculus. Then, we compared the numbers of colliculopetal ganglion cells in selected retinal sectors to the areas of the corresponding collicular representations. Collicular areal magnification was not simply proportional to the density of afferent ganglion cells, being instead at least 5-fold greater than expected in the representation of the central visual field. These data imply that incoming retinal afferents are more widely spaced in the central regions of the tectal map than in the map's periphery. Such variations in afferent density appear to play as large a role as the distribution of ganglion cells in determining the metric of the collicular map.
Angiotensin II (Ag II) and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the subfornical organ have been implicated in drinking and cardiovascular responses to changes in circulating hormones. We combined immunogold silver labeling of Ag II with immunoperoxidase detection of GABA to determine whether there might be common cellular sites for their physiological actions in this circumventricular region. Electron microscopy showed that numerous terminals in central portions of the rat subfornical organ contained both Ag II and GABA immunoreactivity. These terminals as well as others exclusively labeled for AgII or GABA formed mainly symmetric, inhibitory type synapses with unlabeled dendrites. Immunogold-silver aggregates recognizing AgII were often detected near non-synaptic portions of the plasma membrane with or without apparent association with large dense core vesicles. In contrast, the GABA immunoperoxidase labeling was most intensely localized to membranes of small clear vesicles which were aggregated near the presynaptic junction. Our results indicate that in rat subfornical organ, neuronal AgII may modulate the inhibitory postsynaptic responses to GABA following release from single axon terminals.
Amyloid beta-protein, the major constituent of Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain amyloid deposits, is encoded by several alternatively spliced amyloid precursor protein (APP) mRNAs. The well-established associated in Down's syndrome (DS) between APP overproduction and premature development of AD, as well as the recent demonstration of an increase in APP transcripts from lymphoblastoid cells of familial AD cases, suggest aberrant transcriptional regulation of some genes in AD. We assayed steady-state expression of the APP gene transcripts in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of AD and DS patients using quantitative polymerase chain reaction of reverse-transcribed mRNAs, and we compared their levels of PBMC APP expression with those of young and age-matched healthy controls. Results indicate APP mRNAs were of comparable abundance in PBMC obtained from 9 AD patients, 7 young controls and 12 age-matched controls. These data suggest regulation of APP mRNAs is normal in AD and DS PBMC.
The activity of the polyamine interconversion pathway was investigated in the hippocampus and piriform cortex after systemic KA administration in juvenile rats. Pretreatment of 7-day-old rats with the polyamine oxidase inhibitor, MDL 72527, induced a similar accumulation of N-acetylspermidine and N-acetylspermine in control and kainate-treated animals. The results indicate that KA-induced seizure activity has no effect on the polyamine interconversion pathway in developing rat brain.
Capsaicin, a selective neurotoxin of unmyelinated C-fibers, was administered to neonatal rat pups at birth. Following a recovery period of 10 days, pups were injected with 2-deoxy-glucose (2DG) and subjected to repetitive mechanical stimulation to the left whiskerpad. Their brains were then harvested for autoradiography. The observed changes in 2DG uptake in the somatosensory cortex of capsaicin-treated rats were compared to vehicle-treated rats. The cross-sectional area and density of 2DG uptake by the primary and the secondary somatosensory cortex (SSI and SSII, respectively) were measured. Capsaicin-treated rats significantly exhibited a reduction in area of activation and a decrease of 2DG uptake in both structures. The present data indicates that neonatal capsaicin affects the functional activity of the rat somatosensory cortex. It is suggested that unmyelinated sensory afferents play a role in the development of the rat somatosensory system.
The survival and maturation of differentiating cerebellar granule cells in culture are known to be promoted by excitatory amino acids (EAAs) which, however, compromise the survival of mature cells. In contrast to the trophic effect, the toxic effect of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxasolepropiate (AMPA) could only be elicited when the desensitisation of AMPA receptors was blocked, cyclothiazide being used in this study. Nevertheless, even under these conditions, toxicity induced by AMPA in contrast to kainate was, at 9 DIV, only half of the maximal toxicity attained by 13-16 DIV. Since cellular responses to AMPA depend so dramatically on the maturational stage of granule cells, we examined here whether this characteristic is related to developmental changes in AMPA receptor properties, which may result from changes in the subunit composition of the receptor. In contrast to toxicity, AMPA-induced 45Ca2+ influx (determined in the presence of cyclothiazide and the NMDA receptor blocker MK-801) reached a maximum already at 9 DIV. This also applied to a fraction of the 45Ca2+ uptake which persisted either after Cd2+ application or under Na(+)-free conditions and therefore presumably was mediated directly through AMPA receptor channels. Quantitative analysis of Western blots showed that the amounts of GluR4 and to a lesser extent GluR2/3/4c are substantial already at 2 DIV, remaining fairly constant until 9 DIV, followed by an increase by 16 DIV. However GluR1, which is hardly detectable in granule cells in vivo and is also low early in vitro, increased almost linearly with cultivation time.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Free radicals and oxidative damage have been proposed as underlying factors in aging, in chronic and degenerative diseases of aging and in acute clinical conditions. To test involvement of free-radicals in such processes, spin trapping agents which quench more reactive radicals to produce long-lived stable radical adducts have been used as an experimental strategy. Spin traps protect against oxidatively induced injury in numerous in vitro and in vivo model systems involving different organs. A model system for mammalian aging is afforded by the senescence accelerated mouse (SAM-P8), which exhibits many features characteristic of mammalian aging but with a much shortened lifespan. Daily intraperitoneal injection of the spin trap N-tert-alpha-phenyl-butylnitrone (PBN) was administered to male or female mice after they reached maturity at 3 months of age. PBN treated animals as compared with control sham injected animals revealed a remarkable extension of the mean life span in both male and female populations. Overall, a 50% mean survival rate was found of 42 weeks for control as compared to 56 weeks for the PBN administered groups. These results show that the spin trap PBN can prolong lifespan and support the free radical theory of aging.
Exposure to toluene (40-320 ppm; 4 weeks, 6 h/day, 5 days/week), followed by a postexposure period of 29-40 days, decreased the wet weight of the caudate-putamen and of the subcortical limbic area (maximal effect of 10% attained at 80 ppm toluene) of the male rat. Furthermore, toluene exposure decreased the IC50 values (significant effects attained at 80 ppm), the KH, the KL, and the RH% values of dopamine on [3H]raclopride-binding in the caudate-putamen. Toluene exposure did not significantly affect either the body weights, the wet weights of the whole brain, the serum prolactin levels, the KD or the Bmax values of [3H]raclopride-binding in the caudate-putamen and the subcortical limbic area, or the IC50 values of dopamine at [3H]raclopride-binding sites in the subcortical limbic area. Exposure to xylene or styrene (80 and 40 ppm, respectively; 4 weeks, 6 h/day, 5 days/week), followed by a postexposure period of 26-32 days, had no effect on the parameters described above (prolactin levels were not analyzed). The present study indicates that long-term exposure to low concentrations of toluene (&gt; or = 80 ppm), but not xylene (80 ppm) or styrene (40 ppm), leads to persistent increases in the affinity of dopamine D2 agonist binding in the rat caudate-putamen.
The reflex changes in skin blood flow which occur in response to various non-thermal stimuli (e.g., deep inspiratory gasps, arousing or painful stimuli, emotional stress) are profoundly influenced by the thermoregulatory state. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the involvement of arteriovenous anastomoses in the thermoregulatory modulation of skin vasomotor reflexes elicited by painful intraneural electrical stimulation and emotional stress (forced arithmetics), respectively. Vasomotor responses were recorded with laser Doppler flowmeters (LDF) placed on glabrous skin containing arteriovenous anastomoses (3rd finger and thenar eminence) and hairy skin which lack them (dorsal side of the first metacarpal bone). In some experiments, a laser Doppler flowmeter emitting laser light of two different wavelengths (infrared and green light) into the same skin site was used to record skin perfusion at different depths of glabrous skin on the thenar eminence. 40 subjects were investigated, both in the cold state (finger skin temperatures below 25 degrees C) and after subsequent warming (finger skin temperatures above 30 degrees C). Thermoregulatory modulation of electrical stimulation- or stress-induced vasomotor reflexes occurred both in glabrous and hairy skin, but hairy skin differed from glabrous skin by showing no significant vasoconstrictions. Relative perfusion changes were most marked in laser Doppler flowmeter recordings using the deeper penetrating infrared light. The results suggest that arteriovenous anastomoses are major contributors to the vasoconstrictor component of vasomotor reflexes in glabrous skin of warm subjects. The reflex increase in perfusion, on the other hand, which occurs in both glabrous and hairy skin of cold subjects may be mediated by resistance vessels.
Muscle sympathetic activity is inhibited during the second half of phasic lung inflation associated with normal (negative pressure) breathing or artificial ventilation with intermittent positive-pressure, and this inspiratory inhibition appears unrelated to the associated changes in arterial pressure. In this present study we tested the hypothesis that a static inflation of the lungs would cause a sustained inhibition of muscle sympathetic activity. Microneurographic techniques were used to record muscle sympathetic activity from the peroneal nerve, and arterial pressure was monitored continuously by finger-pulse photoplethysmography (Finapres). In nine subjects static lung inflation, brought about either actively or passively, caused a pronounced and sustained increase in sympathetic activity (not the predicted decrease) that could not be explained by changes in arterial pressure. When delivered at the end of a voluntary end-expiratory apnoea, static lung inflation caused an initial inhibition of the large chemoreceptor-induced sympathetic bursts and a subsequent excitation that was sustained for the duration of the lung inflation. These observations indicate that respiration can affect muscle sympathetic activity in humans in two opposing ways: inhibition during phasic increases in lung volume, and excitation during large static increases in lung volume. Neither phenomenon depends on changes in arterial pressure, and hence influences of carotid arterial and aortic (high-pressure) baroreceptors can be excluded. We suggest that the initial inhibition is evoked from lung or chest-wall receptors and the static exitation from unloading of cardiopulmonary (low pressure) baroreceptors.
Respiratory modulation of muscle sympathetic activity was compared in relaxed subjects breathing spontaneously and in anaesthetized and non-anaesthetized subjects ventilated artificially with intermittent positive pressure. Muscle sympathetic activity was recorded directly from the peroneal nerve using the microneurographic technique. Arterial pressure was monitored continuously either by finger-pulse photoplethysmography (Finapres) or intraarterially. Respiratory modulation of sympathetic activity, heart rate and arterial pressure was measured by averaging consecutive breaths to the ECG R-wave closest to the onset of inspiration. In relaxed subjects (n = 15) breathing quietly the averaged sympathetic activity was greatest during late expiration and the first half of inspiration and minimal after the peak of inspiration, after correcting for delays within the baroreflex loop. Systolic and diastolic pressures fell during inspiration. In anaesthetized or awake subjects ventilated artificially at normal tidal volumes the pattern of respiratory modulation of sympathetic activity was preserved but the changes in arterial pressure were reversed and respiratory sinus arrhythmia abolished. Ventilation with positive end-expiratory pressure (20 cmH2O) increased the overall level of sympathetic activity and enhanced the breath-to-breath modulation. We conclude that, although baroreceptors provide potent modulation of muscle sympathetic activity in humans, the inspiratory inhibition of sympathetic activity does not depend on an increase in arterial pressure and hence an increase in baroreceptor input.
The aim of this work was to investigate the direct involvement of the fronto-parietal cortex in the control of spinal autonomic centers eliciting electrodermal activity (EDA). This autonomic response, linked with the activity of sweat glands, was recorded as skin potential responses (SPRs) from forepaws in the cat. Animals were paralyzed by gallamine and SPRs were obtained under halothane anaesthesia. For each animal, a transection of the medulla sparing only pyramidal tracts was carried out. SPRs were elicited by direct electrical stimulation of pericruciate and posterior parietal cortical areas before and after such a transection. Results showed that in intact preparations, stimulation of the pericruciate cortex evoked SPRs at lower thresholds than the posterior parietal cortex. After the bulbar transection, only the stimulation of pericruciate areas still elicited SPRs at low intensities. Results are interpreted as indicating that fronto-parietal control of EDA is probably mediated by a double descending system: one involving corticoreticulospinal pathways and a direct corticospinal one. We hypothesized that the somatic motor cortex initiates descending programs to autonomic centers at bulbar and spinal levels, and that these centers are involved in autonomic adjustments to somatomotor movements.

It is generally assumed that the overall results of a clinical trial are generalisable to all patients in the trial and all similar future patients; in other words, that the relative treatment effect in individual patients is similar to the overall trial result. Although this assumption underpins the application of trial results to clinical practice, it has rarely been tested. By independently derived prognostic models, the results of the European Carotid Surgery Trial and the UK-TIA Aspirin Trial were reanalysed to find out whether relative treatment effect varied with absolute baseline risk of stroke. There was significant heterogeneity of relative treatment effect in both trials, resulting in substantial variation in absolute treatment effect with predicted baseline risk. Although, on average, the application of overall trial results to all patients will do more good than harm, a knowledge of the association between relative treatment effect and absolute baseline risk will increase the cost-effectiveness of healthcare interventions by identifying those patients in whom treatment is ineffective and those patients who are most likely to benefit.
Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) catalyzes the COOH-terminal alpha-amidation of neural and endocrine peptides via a two-step reaction carried out in sequence by the monooxygenase and lyase domains contained in this bifunctional protein. Peptide alpha-amidation is thought to take place primarily in the secretory granules in which mature bioactive peptides are stored, and it is not known where in the secretory compartment newly synthesized PAM protein becomes enzymatically active. To address this question, PAM-3, a soluble bifunctional protein, was modified by addition of the KDEL endoplasmic reticulum (ER) retention/retrieval signal to its COOH terminus. PAM-3-KDEL protein stably expressed in hEK-293 cells or in AtT-20 cells was efficiently retained in the ER based on immunocytochemistry, pulse-chase experiments, and maintained endoglycosidase H sensitivity. The effect of the KDEL sequence was specific since PAM-3 with an inactive ER retention/retrieval signal (PAM-3-KDEV) moved through the secretory pathway like wild type PAM-3. In AtT-20 cells, PAM-3-KDEL was not subjected to the COOH-terminal endoproteolytic cleavage that generates a 75-kDa PAM protein from PAM-3 and PAM-3-KDEV. PAM-3-KDEL protein exhibited both monooxygenase and lyase activities with specific activities similar to those of the wild type PAM-3 and PAM-3-KDEV proteins. Thus, although PAM catalyzes a reaction that occurs primarily in the secretory granules, newly synthesized PAM protein becomes enzymatically competent in the ER.
Using immunocytochemical techniques the seasonal variation in NPY immunoreactive fibers was investigated in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of both male and female jerboas. During the period of sexual quiescence (autumn), the amount of NPY immunoreactive fibers in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of both male and female jerboas was higher than in the period of sexual activity (spring-middle of summer). Compared with the respective control groups, castration during the period of sexual activity and testosterone or estrogen supplementation in sexually inactive animals did not affect NPY immunolabeling. These results indicate that the seasonal variation observed in NPY immunoreactivity in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the jerboa is independent of circulating levels of steroid hormones. The possible influence of another hormonal system or a direct influence of an external factor such as photoperiod on NPY content in the suprachiasmatic nucleus remains to be determined.
The nucleus tuberalis lateralis (NTL) and tuberomamillary nucleus (TM), which are located close together in the tuberal region of the human hypothalamus, are differentially affected by Alzheimer's disease (AD), In the AD, the NTL shows only early cytoskeletal alterations, i.e. pre-tangle stages, while the TM is characterised by advanced Alzheimer's changes, e.g. neurofibrillary degeneration, senile plaques and amyloid deposition. Earlier we showed that the early cytoskeletal alterations in the NTL are not accompanied by changes in protein synthetic activity. The present study was carried out in order to measure the protein synthetic activity of the neighbouring area, the TM, which is severely affected by advanced Alzheimer changes. A polyclonal antibody against MG-160, a conserved membrane sialoglycoprotein of the Golgi apparatus, was used to stain this organelle and using an image analysis system, the size of the Golgi apparatus was measured as an index for synthetic and secretory activity in 15 Alzheimer patients and 21 controls. A significant decrease in the size of the Golgi apparatus was found in the TM neurons in AD, although the cell profile area remained unchanged. These data suggest that the protein synthetic and secretory activity of TM neurons is indeed decreased in AD.
Voluntary hand movements in humans involve the primary motor cortex (M1). A functional magnetic resonance imaging method that measures relative cerebral blood flow was used to identify a distributed, overlapping pattern of hand movement representation within the posterior precentral gyrus, which contains M1. The observed pattern resembles those reported in nonhuman primates and differs from a somatotopically organized plan typically used to portray human motor cortex organization. Finger and wrist movements activated a wide expanse of the posterior precentral gyrus, and representations for different finger movements overlapped each other and the wrist representation. Multiple sites of activation occurred in the precentral gyrus for all movements. The overlapping representations may mediate motor and cognitive functions requiring coordinated neural processing for finger and wrist actions rather than discrete control implied by somatotopic maps.

Bombesin is a tetradecapeptide originally isolated from frog skin and demonstrated to have a wide range of actions in mammals. Based on structural homology and similar biological activities, gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) has been considered the mammalian equivalent of bombesin. We previously reported that frogs have both GRP and bombesin, which therefore are distinct peptides. We now report the cloning of a bombesin receptor subtype (BB4) that has higher affinity for bombesin than GRP. PCR was used to amplify cDNAs related to the known bombesin receptors from frog brain. Sequence analysis of the amplified cDNAs revealed 3 classes of receptor subtypes. Based on amino acid homology, two classes were clearly the amphibian homologs of the GRP and neuromedin B receptors. The third class was unusual and a full-length clone was isolated from a Bombina orientalis brain cDNA library. Expression of the receptor in Xenopus oocytes demonstrated that the receptor responded to picomolar concentrations of [Phe13]-bombesin, the form of bombesin most prevalent in frog brain. The relative rank potency of bombesin-like peptides for this receptor was [Phe13]bombesin &gt; [Leu13]bombesin &gt; GRP &gt; neuromedin B. In contrast, the rank potency for the GRP receptor is GRP &gt; [Leu13]bombesin &gt; [Phe13]bombesin &gt; neuromedin B. Transient expression in CHOP cells gave a Ki for [Phe13]bombesin of 0.2 nM versus a Ki of 2.1 nM for GRP. Distribution analysis showed that this receptor was expressed only in brain, consistent with the distribution of [Phe13]-bombesin. Thus, based on distribution and affinity, this bombesin receptor is the receptor for [Phe13]bombesin. Phylogenetic analysis suggests that this receptor separated prior to separation of the GRP and neuromedin B receptors; thus, BB4 receptors and their cognate ligands may also exist in mammals.
The functional influence of the frontal cortex (FC) on the noradrenergic nucleus locus coeruleus (LC) was studied in the rat under ketamine anesthesia. The FC was inactivated by local infusion of lidocaine or ice-cold Ringer's solution while recording neuronal activity simultaneously in FC and LC. Lidocaine produced a transient increase in activity in FC, accompanied by a decrease in LC unit and multiunit activity. This was followed by a total inactivation of FC and a sustained increase in firing rate of LC neurons. Subsequent experiments revealed antidromic responses in the FC when stimulation was applied to the LC region. The antidromic responses in FC were found in a population of neurons (about 8%) restricted to the dorsomedial area, FR2. The results indicate that there is a strong inhibitory influence of FC on the tonic activity of LC neurons. The antidromic responses in FC to stimulation of the LC region suggest that this influence is locally mediated, perhaps through interneurons within the nucleus or neighboring the LC.
It is a familiar experience that we tend to close our eyes or divert our gaze when concentrating attention on cognitively demanding tasks. We report on the brain activity correlates of directing attention away from potentially competing visual processing and toward processing in another sensory modality. Results are reported from a series of positron-emission tomography studies of the human brain engaged in somatosensory tasks, in both &quot;eyes open&quot; and &quot;eyes closed&quot; conditions. During these tasks, there was a significant decrease in the regional cerebral blood flow in the visual cortex, which occurred irrespective of whether subjects had to close their eyes or were instructed to keep their eyes open. These task-related deactivations of the association areas belonging to the nonrelevant sensory modality were interpreted as being due to decreased metabolic activity. Previous research has clearly demonstrated selective activation of cortical regions involved in attention-demanding modality-specific tasks; however, the other side of this story appears to be one of selective deactivation of unattended areas.

The proband is a 24-year-old woman who developed symptoms of a spinocerebellar degeneration in early childhood. Neurological examination revealed normal cognitive function, optic atrophy, dysarthria, titubation, action tremors, increased deep tendon reflexes, Babinski's signs, and a spastic scissoring gait. The magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed an abnormal increased signal on long TR images involving white matter throughout the cerebral hemispheres, most striking in the subcortical white matter, and to a lesser degree in the brainstem, compatible with diffuse hypomyelinating or dysmyelinating diseases. Metabolic and chromosomal studies were normal. Her 49-year-old mother developed similar symptoms in her 20s and is now wheelchair-bound. Findings on neurological examination and MRI were similar to her daughter but more severe. The proband's maternal grandfather had a female cousin who had a neurological illness beginning in her 20s with similar symptoms and signs and died at the age of 44 years. Spinocerebellar degenerations are a group of syndromes with similar clinical manifestations but heterogeneous etiology. We report a family with spinocerebellar degeneration with distinct MRI findings compatible with hypomyelination or dysmyelination which has not heretofore been described. This family may represent a new spinocerebellar syndrome due to an abnormality of as yet an undetermined gene.
Monocular deprivation was used to examine the experience-dependent structural plasticity of astrocytes in Oc1M and Oc1B visual cortex of young and adult rats. Stereological techniques were employed to assess the numerical density (Nv) of cells and surface density (Sv) of processes immunoreactive for glial fibrillary acidic protein in laminae II/III, IV, V and VI in the hemisphere opposite the deprived eye. In one group of pups eyelids were sutured on postnatal day 12 (P12) and maintained until P80 (MD), while a second group had the sutures removed at P75 followed by 5 days of light exposure (MD + L). An unoperated light experienced group was used for comparisons (L). The Sv of astrocytic processes in lamina IV but not laminae II/III, V and VI was significantly decreased in the MD group. The ratio of Sv to the Nv of neurons, an estimate of the amount of astrocytic membrane per neuron, was also significantly decreased in layer IV. The Nv of astrocytes was not significantly different among the three groups. In adults that were monocularly deprived for 5, 10 and 30 days the Nv of astrocytes and Sv of their processes were not significantly altered in layer IV. There was however an increase in the Nv of all types of glial cells combined in layer IV following 10 and 30 days. These results indicate that the structure of astrocytes is influenced by visual experience during development whereas merely altering the level of visually-driven activity in the adult was not sufficient to induce astrocytic structural change.
Projections of the entorhinal cortex to the hippocampus are well known from the classical studies of Cajal (Ramon y Cajal, 1904) and Lorente de N (1933). Projections from the entorhinal cortex to neocortical areas are less well understood. Such connectivity is likely to underlie the consolidation of long-term declarative memory in neocortical sites. In the present study, a projection arising in layer V of the entorhinal cortex and terminating in a polymodal association area of the superior temporal gyrus has been identified with the use of retrograde tracing. The dendritic arbors of neurons giving rise to this projection were further investigated by cell filling and confocal microscopy with computer reconstruction. This analysis demonstrated that the dendritic arbor of identified projection neurons was largely confined to layer V, with the exception of a solitary, simple apical dendrite occasionally ascending to superficial laminae but often confined to the lamina dissecans (layer IV). Finally, immunoreactivity for glutamate-receptor subunit proteins GluR 5/6/7 of the dendritic arbor of identified entorhinal projection neurons was examined. The solitary apical dendrite of identified entorhinal projection neurons was prominently immunolabeled for GluR 5/6/7, as was the dendritic arbor of basilar dendrites of these neurons. The restriction of the large bulk of the dendritic arbor of identified entorhinal projection neurons to layer V implies that these neurons are likely to be heavily influenced by hippocampal output arriving in the deep layers of the entorhinal cortex. Immunoreactivity for GluR 5/6/7 throughout the dendritic arbor of such neurons indicates that this class of glutamate receptor is in a position to play a prominent role in mediating excitatory neurotransmission within hippocampal-entorhinal circuits.
Dissociated cultures of rat hypothalamic cells showed spontaneous oscillations in intracellular Ca2+ with periods of 5-8 s (ultradian rhythm). Replacement of H2O by deuterium oxide in the culture medium lengthened the period of this oscillation, while tetrodotoxin did not inhibit the deuterium oxide sensitive Ca2+ oscillation. Since these characteristics resemble those of the mammalian circadian pacemaker, the ultradian Ca2+ rhythms may be involved in the circadian rhythm or have a similar rhythm generation mechanism. The gap junction inhibitor, halothane, stopped this oscillation. Gap junctions may be necessary in order to generate rhythmic oscillations.
BALB/c mice were trained in a partial acquisition session of an appetitive bar-pressing task. They then received an immediate post-acquisition i.p. injection of either saline or apamin 0.2 mg kg-1. Each group was submitted to a retention test that was delayed either 25, 85 or 180 min after initial acquisition. In saline-injected groups retention of the original training was a U-shaped function of intersession interval with a significant drop in performance (Kamin-like effect) at the 85 min time interval. In contrast, at this same time, apamin injected subjects made significantly more reinforced responses than control animals. The suppression of the Kamin-like effect by apamin could be a consequence of an acceleration of the neuronal mechanisms implicated in consolidation and long-term memory storage processes.
The effects of NGF, BDNF, NT-3, BDNF plus NT-3 and LIF on substance P (SP) mRNA levels were analysed in axotomized dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) in vivo by quantitative in situ hybridization. The growth factors were applied on to the transected sciatic nerve. SP mRNA levels were decreased significantly 3 days after axotomy. NGF (1 microgram) fully counteracted the down-regulation of SP mRNA. Neither BDNF (10 micrograms) nor NT-3 (10 micrograms) alone had any effect. However, co-administration of BDNF together with NT-3 (10 micrograms) distinctly reversed the decrease in SP mRNA. A similar effect was seen with a high (1.5 micrograms) but not a low dose of LIF (0.15 microgram). Our data suggest that the present method of delivering growth factors to the transected sciatic nerve is a valid way to study in vivo effects of growth factors on peptide expression in DRGs. Moreover, SP expression is regulated by several growth factors in vivo such as NGF, BDNF plus NT-3 as well as the neuroimmune factor LIF.
The rodent fibroblast clonal cell line, 3T3, was retrovirally transfected with the rat nerve growth factor (NGF) gene and selected for NGF synthesis. This study tested the hypothesis that transplanted 3T3 cells, transfected to secrete nerve growth factor (3T3NGF+), change motor behavioral indices created by striatal denervation in a dose-dependent fashion. 3T3NGF+ cells were transplanted into the lateral ventricle of rats following ipsilateral lesions of the substantia nigra pars compacta by stereotaxic injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (10 micrograms), an established lesion model. Control groups included vehicle injections and transplanted untransfected cells. The extent of the lesions was measured by determining rotational behavior before and two weeks after transplantation. Immediately prior to transplantation, cells were incubated with the fluorescent dye marker, Dil. To assess cell viability, whole brains were cryosectioned and examined for Dil-labeled 3T3 cells using fluorescent microscopy. The number of Dil-labeled profiles in five animals per group were counted in at least five noncontiguous sections per animal. From these data a statistically derived estimate of viable, transplanted 3T3 cells was obtained. The number of surviving transplanted cells correlated with the behavioral changes measured. The 3T3NGF+ transplants reduced rotational behavior, while control 3T3 transplants exacerbated rotational behavior. Thus, while NGF delivery was found to be beneficial, it was apparent that naive 3T3 had detrimental effects. These results underscore the importance of making dose-response measurements when attempting transplant-based modifications of CNS behavior.
NB2/dl neuroblastoma cells acquire a neuronal phenotype in response to several differentiating agents, including dibutyryl cAMP (dbcAMP) and the withdrawal of serum. As shown previously, antibodies to the growth-associated protein, GAP-43, introduced intracellularly using a lipid carrier, blocked the differentiation induced by dbcAMP. Antibodies to GAP-43, at a low concentration, also blocked neurite outgrowth induced by serum withdrawal when cells were grown on a relatively unadhesive substrate. On more adhesive substrates such as poly-L-lysine and laminin, however, anti-GAP-43 antibodies had less of an effect on neurite outgrowth. Previous studies have shown that the increased adhesivity of laminin allows a small but significant population of neurites to grow from serum-deprived cells, even in the presence of the microtubule-depolymerizing drug, colchicine. The outgrowth of this population of neurites was blocked by antibodies to GAP-43. These results are in conformity with recent studies showing that the requirement for GAP-43 in neuritogenesis may be related to membrane adhesiveness, and may contribute to an understanding of some of the apparent discrepancies in the literature concerning the involvement of GAP-43 in neuronal differentiation.
1. The hypothesis that activation of GABAB receptors inhibits evoked synaptic transmission by reducing the presynaptic Ca2+ influx was tested using a recently developed technique for simultaneously recording the presynaptic Ca2+ transient ([Ca2+]t) and the field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP) evoked by a single electrical stimulus at CA3 to CA1 synapses of guinea-pig hippocampus. 2. The GABAB receptor agonist baclofen reversibly blocked, in a dose-dependant manner, both the fEPSP and the presynaptic [Ca2+]t with similar time courses. During application of baclofen, the fEPSP was proportional to about the fourth power of the presynaptic [Ca2+]t, and the presynaptic fibre volley and the resting Ca2+ level did not change. These results are similar to those we previously observed following application of several voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel blockers, suggesting that baclofen inhibits the fEPSP by blocking the presynaptic Ca2+ influx. 3. The inhibition by baclofen of both the fEPSP and the presynaptic [Ca2+]t was blocked by the GABAB receptor antagonist CGP 35348, consistent with the causal relationship between the GABAB receptor-mediated presynaptic inhibition of the [Ca2+]t and the fEPSP. 4. The inhibition by baclofen of the [Ca2+]t was partially occluded by application of the voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel blocker omega-conotoxin-GVIA (omega-CgTX-GVIA), but not omega-agatoxin-IVA (omega-AgaTX-IVA), suggesting that baclofen reduces the presynaptic [Ca2+]t by blocking Ca2+ channels including the omega-CgTX-GVIA-sensitive type. 5. We conclude that baclofen inhibits evoked transmitter release by reducing presynaptic Ca2+ influx.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The addition of plasma membrane proteins to a growing axon could occur by preferential insertion at the tip (the growth cone), by uniform insertion along the axon, or by insertion at the cell body and bulk flow along the axon. To differentiate between these possibilities we used a defective herpesvirus vector to express an exogenous protein, the lymphocyte transmembrane protein CD8 alpha, in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. The newly synthesized protein first appeared on the axonal surface almost exclusively at the growth cone. Preferential addition at the growth cone was also observed in minor processes (immature dendrites), but not in mature dendrites. Over several hours, CD8 alpha reached a uniform distribution over the entire neuronal surface, presumably by diffusion within the membrane and possibly endocytic recycling. As well as providing materials for axonal growth, the selective addition of membrane vesicles at the growth cone may contribute to the polarized distribution of axonal surface molecules.
Peptides representing the N-terminal domain (Ia) of the cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum protein phospholamban (residues 1-25 [PLB(1-25)] and a phosphorylated form [pPLB(1-25)]) were synthesized and their conformations examined using circular dichroism and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. In aqueous solution, both PLB(1-25) and pPLB(1-25) adopt a primarily disordered conformation. In 30% trifluoroethanol/10 mM phosphate, PLB(1-25) exhibits a CD spectrum consistent with 60% helical structure. This value decreases to 27% for the phosphorylated peptide. CD spectra in 2% SDS indicate 40% alpha-helix for PLB(1-25) and 20% for pPLB(1-25). Full chemical shift assignments were obtained by conventional homonuclear NMR methodologies for both PLB(1-25) and pPLB(1-25) in 30% trifluoroethanol/water and 300 mM SDS. The solution structure of PLB(1-25) in 30% TFE/water was determined from distance geometry calculations using 54 NOE distance constraints and 17 torsion angle constraints. In the family of 20 calculated conformers, the root mean square deviation from the mean structure is 0.79 A for backbone heavy atoms of residues 1-17. The structure comprises a regular alpha-helix extending from M1 to S16 with the remaining C-terminal residues disordered. The calculated structure is supported by analysis of C alpha H secondary shifts which are significantly negative for residues 1-16. Chemical shift degeneracy is substantially more extensive in the phospho form and precludes a direct comparison of calculated structures. However, the magnitudes of upfield secondary shifts are decreased by 20% in residues 1-11 and are not significantly helical for residues 12-16 according to the criteria of Wishart et al. [(1992) Biochemistry 31, 1647-1651]. 3JHN alpha coupling constants measured for I12, R13, A15, and S16 also suggest that residues 12-16 undergo a local unwinding of the helix upon phosphorylation. Similar results are obtained for PLB(1-25) and pPLB(1-25) in 300 mM perdeuterated sodium dodecyl sulfate except that differences in backbone dynamics for the helical and nonhelical regions of the peptide are evident in the DQF-COSY line shapes for fingerprint cross-peaks. This disruption of structure at the C-terminus of the helix suggests a model for phosphorylation-induced dissociation of the PLB/Ca(2+)-ATPase complex.

The distribution of Fos protein was mapped in rat brain following a single non-focal convulsive seizure. Single seizures were induced with intravenous picrotoxin in unhandled animals housed in isolation. Different convulsive behaviours occurred unpredictably. The least severe seizures were predominantly localised to the face, head and forelimbs, without loss of posture control (restricted seizures). The most extensive seizures affected all limbs and trunk, sometimes with falling (generalised seizures). There was a correlation between seizure behaviour and distribution of Fos induction. After restricted seizures, Fos was induced at highest levels in neocortex and piriform cortex and was prominent in entorhinal cortex, caudal-ventral caudate-putamen and amygdala. Regions of thalamus were consistently and lightly labelled, but Fos induction did not occur in hippocampus. After generalised seizures, there was Fos induction in cortex but less than after restricted seizures and, in three of four animals, also in dentate gyrus, hippocampus and subiculum. There was occasional or variable labelling of thalamus, basolateral amygdala and caudate-putamen. One animal with generalised seizures showed no hippocampal Fos induction. The findings indicate that picrotoxin induces seizures with at least two different patterns of neuronal involvement. The cortex, part of the caudate-putamen, amygdala and thalamus are involved in restricted seizures while the hippocampus, cortex and thalamus are involved in generalised seizures. The results do not support the view that generalised seizures are a progression from restricted forms. Cortical Fos involvement is entirely consistent with the participation of cortex in non-focal epilepsy. In these non-focal seizures, the dentate-hippocampus may be a source of excitation to cortex in the generalised group while the cortex appears to be the predominant site of excitation in the restricted group.
Experiments were performed in unanaesthetized rabbits and rats to investigate the distribution, within the medulla oblongata, of neurons activated during the Bezold-Jarisch reflex. Repeated intravenous injections of phenylbiguanide evoked depressor and bradycardic responses in both rabbits and rats. Fos-positive neurons were present in the nucleus tractus solitarius and in the caudal ventrolateral medulla oblongata. Double-label tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunohistochemical studies in the ventrolateral medulla showed that most Fos-positive neurons in the caudal ventrolateral medulla were TH-negative neurons scattered between A1 noradrenaline cells, in the rabbit and in the rat. Approximately 20% of neurons in the caudal ventrolateral medulla in rabbits, and 50% in rats, were immunoreactive for both Fos and TH. Some Fos-positive, TH-negative neurons in the caudal ventrolateral medulla were retrogradely labelled with cholera toxin B-Gold after injection of this tracer into the sympathoexcitatory region of the rostral ventrolateral medulla. Our data suggests that neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarius, and rostrally projecting TH-negative neurons in the caudal ventrolateral medulla, are part of the pathway by which stimulation of cardiopulmonary receptors inhibits sympathetic vasomotor tone to decrease blood pressure during the Bezold-Jarisch reflex.
Lewis rats are more likely to self-administer various drugs of abuse than Fischer rats. Here these two strains of rats were compared with regard to basal brain opioid peptide levels and the response to chronic morphine treatment and to naloxone-precipitated withdrawal. Lewis rats had lower basal dynorphin peptides in the substantia nigra, striatum (not Leu-enkephalinArg6) and VTA (not dynorphin B) and the pituitary gland. Leu-enkephalinArg6 levels were also lower in these structures (with the exception of striatum which had higher levels) and in the nucleus accumbens. There were also strain differences in the response to chronic morphine treatment; in the nucleus accumbens, morphine treatment increased dynorphin A levels in Fischer rats only, in the ventral tegmental area effects were opposite with increased dynorphin levels in Fischer and decreased levels in Lewis rats, in the hippocampus dynorphin levels were markedly reduced in Lewis rats only. In Fischer rats, chronic morphine strongly affected peptide levels in the substantia nigra and striatum, whereas Lewis rats responded less in these areas. Leu-enkephalin, which derives from both prodynorphin and proenkephalin, and Met-enkephalin, which derives from proenkephalin, were affected by chronic morphine mainly in Fischer rats, increasing levels in most of the brain areas examined. The results in this study show (1) strain differences in basal levels of prodynorphin-derived opioid peptides, (2) the prodynorphin system to be differently influenced by morphine in Lewis rats than in Fischer rats and 3) the proenkephalin system to be influenced by chronic morphine in brain areas related to reward processes only in Fischer rats.
Parkinson's disease is characterized by an increased excitatory amino acid transmission in the internal segment of the globus pallidus and the substantia nigra pars reticulata. The effects of the kappa receptor agonist enadoline (CI-977) on glutamate transmission were investigated in vitro. Enadoline reduced the K(+)-evoked release of glutamate from slices of substantia nigra in a concentration-dependent manner (maximum effect: 78% inhibition at 200 microM). This effect was blocked by the selective kappa receptor antagonist nor-binaltorphimine. The endogenous ligand for kappa receptors is thought to be dynorphin. Dynorphin released from terminals of striato-pallidal and striato-nigral pathways might thus act as an endogenous modulatory agent on glutamatergic transmission in the basal ganglia. In vivo experiments were carried out in rodent and primate models of Parkinson's disease to assess the potential of manipulating kappa receptors as a potential treatment for Parkinson's disease. Enadoline reduced reserpine-induced akinesia when injected in the entopeduncular nucleus of the rat. Similarly, injections of CI-977 in the internal segment of globus pallidus (GPi) of the MPTP-treated marmoset alleviated parkinsonian symptoms and allowed the animal to recover its locomotor activity. This suggest that reducing the overactive glutamatergic transmission in the output regions of the basal ganglia by activating kappa receptors might potentially form the basis of a novel anti-parkinsonian therapy.
To investigate the significance of endogenous, neuroleptic-like gamma-type endorphins and their putative receptors, polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies against gamma-type endorphins, which may bio-inactivate the ligands for the receptors, and monoclonal anti-idiotype antibodies, which presumably bind to the receptors, were injected into the nucleus accumbens of the rat brain. The desenkephalin-gamma-endorphin-induced antagonism of the hypomotility response elicited by challenge with apomorphine injected into the nucleus accumbens was used as test system. Both the anti-desenkephalin-gamma-endorphin antibodies and anti-idiotype antibodies blocked the action of exogenous desenkephalin-gamma-endorphin. Thus, the anti-idiotype antibodies may serve as receptor antagonists. Chronic treatment (injection into the nucleus accumbens) with the anti-idiotype antibodies induced sustained hypermotility, decreased habituation and impaired passive avoidance behavior. In such treated animals local treatment with apomorphine did not elicit hypomotility. It is suggested that gamma-type endorphins influence the setpoint for feedback regulation in dopaminergic neurons equipped with gamma-type endorphin receptor systems.
The effects of the non-NMDA receptor antagonists, the new alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid (AMPA)-selective receptor antagonist, LY326325, and the AMPA/kainate-selective receptor antagonist, NBQX (6-nitro-7-sulfamoylbenzo(f)quinoxaline-2,3-(1H,4H)dione), on plus-maze behavior and locomotor activity were examined. LY326325 induced a dose-dependent decrease in the per cent time spent in open arms as well as in the per cent entries into the open arms. NBQX caused a dose-dependent reduction in the per cent time spent in open arms but had no effect on the per cent entries into the open arms. The behavioral actions of the AMPA receptor antagonists were observed at doses which had no influence on the locomotor activity of the animals. Based upon the current findings it is suggested that AMPA receptor antagonists produce a dose-dependent increase of anxiogenic behavior in the plus-maze test situation.
The gracile axonal dystrophy (gad) mouse, which shows hereditary sensory ataxia and motor paresis, has been morphologically characterized by the dying back type of axonal degeneration in the nerve terminals of dorsal root ganglion cells and motor neurons. In the present study, using an intraspecific backcross between gad and C57BL/6J mice, the gracile axonal dystrophy (gad) gene was mapped to a region between D5Mit197 and D5Mit113. Estimated distances between gad and D5Mit197 and between gad and D5Mit113 are 0.4 +/- 0.3 and 5.0 +/- 1.0 cM, respectively. The gene order was defined: centromere-D5Mit81-D5Mit233-D5Mit184/D5Mit254- D5Mit256-D5Mit197-gad-D5Mit113-D5Mit7. The mouse map location of the gad locus appears to be in a region homologous to human 4p15-p16. Our present data suggest that the nearest flanking marker D5Mit197 provides a useful anchor for the isolation of the gad gene in a yeast artificial chromosome contig.
The phosphorylation state of two identified neuralspecific protein kinase C substrates (the presynaptic protein B-50 and the postsynaptic protein neurogranin) was monitored after the induction of long term potentiation in the CA1 field of rat hippocampus slices by quantitative immunoprecipitation following 32Pi labeling in the recording chamber. B-50 phosphorylation was increased from 10 to 60 min, but no longer at 90 min after long term potentiation had been induced, neurogranin phosphorylation only at 60 min. Increased phosphorylation was not found when long term potentiation was blocked with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, when only low frequency stimulation was applied or tetanic stimulation failed to induce long term-potentiation. Our data show that both B-50 and neurogranin phosphorylation are increased following the induction of long term potentiation, thus providing strong evidence for pre- and postsynaptic protein kinase C activation during narrow, partially overlapping, time windows after the induction of long term potentiation.
Almost all of the existing known antagonists at the glycine site of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor have a low propensity for crossing the blood-brain barrier. It has been suggested that in many cases this may be due to the presence of a carboxylic acid which is a common feature of most of the potent full antagonists at this receptor. In this study, 2-aryl-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-c]quinoline-1,4(2H)-diones were found to have high-affinity binding at the glycine receptor. In particular, structure-activity studies identified 7-chloro-3,5-dihydro-2-(4-methoxyphenyl)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-c]quinoline- 1,4(2H)-dione as the most potent of a series of analogues with an IC50 of 3.3 nM. The measured pKa values in this class of compounds (typically 4.0) indicate they are of equivalent acidity to carboxylic acids. Functional antagonism was demonstrated by inhibition of NMDA-evoked responses in rat cortical slices. Anticonvulsant activity in DBA/2 mice was achieved after dosing by direct injection into the cerebral ventricles, but no activity was seen after systemic administration, suggesting low brain penetration with this class of antagonists.
A decrease in the latency for the overt display of limbic seizures following the systemic injection of lithium and pilocarpine is weakly associated with enhanced global geomagnetic activity (in nanoTesla; nT). To determine the optimal threshold in global geomagnetic activity that is required for this effect, the seizure onset times for over 300 rats were dichotomized according to successive 5 nT increments. The results suggested that the seizure process occurred about 12% more quickly when the average daily global geomagnetic activity exceeded 20-25 nT and is commensurate with the observations by other researchers.
Among clinically effective antidepressant drugs, the action mechanism of mianserin has recently been related to variations in corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) levels in the rat locus coeruleus. We describe a specific effect on CRF levels after chronic treatment with different antidepressants: mianserin (10 mg/kg), imipramine (20 mg/kg), both for 21 days, or L-sulpiride (1 mg/kg) for 15 days. While all antidepressants used greatly decreased CRF concentrations in the hypothalamus, only mianserin decreased CRF concentrations by 40% in extrahypothalamic sites. Acute treatments failed to modify CRF levels. Chronic treatment with mianserin did not affect CRF density either in the hypothalamus or the extrahypothalamic areas. This new finding may add another facet to the therapeutic action of certain antidepressants and in particular to the atypical profile of mianserin.
The aim of the present study was to determine the frequency of suicidal ideas and death wish among 296 women from urban, rural, industrial and college populations. Suicidal ideas and/or death wish during premenstrual period were reported by 30 (10%) subjects, more so among college students and industrial working women and less among housewives. Premenstrual symptoms, like depression, irritability, mood swings, sense of losing control and water retention, were significantly more often reported by women who had suicidal ideas as compared with women without suicidal ideas.
Nerve terminals are unique among cellular secretory systems in that they can sustain vesicular release at a high rate. Although little is known about the mechanisms that account for the distinctive features of neurotransmitter release, it can be assumed that neuron-specific proteins are involved. One such protein family, the synapsins, are believed to regulate neurotransmitter release through phosphorylation-dependent interactions with synaptic vesicles and cytoskeletal elements. Here we show that clusters of vesicles at synaptic release sites are composed of two pools, a distal pool containing synapsin and a proximal pool devoid of synapsin and located adjacent to the presynaptic membrane. Presynaptic injection of synapsin antibodies resulted in the loss of the distal pool, without any apparent effect on the proximal pool. Depletion of this distal pool was associated with a marked depression of neurotransmitter release evoked by high-frequency (18-20 Hz) but not by low-frequency (0.2 Hz) stimulation. Thus the availability of the synapsin-associated pool of vesicles seems to be required to sustain release of neurotransmitter in response to high-frequency bursts of impulses.
The cholinergic system plays a crucial role in learning and memory. Lesions of cholinergic nuclei, pharmacological manipulations of cholinergic systems, intracerebral transplantation of fetal tissue and anatomical changes in cholinergic pathways during ageing have all been correlated with altered cognitive behaviour. However, it has not been proved that regional acetylcholine is causally required for learning and memory. Here we describe how we achieved a permanent and selective impairment of learning and memory by damaging the nucleus basalis magnocellularis, a nucleus that provides the major cholinergic innervation of the neocortex, in adult rats. To test the hypothesis that acetylcholine is essential for restoration of cognitive function, we implanted genetically modified cells that produce acetylcholine into denervated neocortical target regions. After grafting, rats with increased neocortical acetylcholine levels showed a significant improvement in a spatial navigation task. Acetylcholine is thus not only necessary for learning and memory, as previously argued, but its presence within the neocortex is also sufficient to ameliorate learning deficits and restore memory following damage to the nucleus basalis.
In the present experiments we have used morphological techniques to study the neuropathological profile of the brain of rats after intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of recombinant HIV-1 gp 120. Using brain cryostat sections (10 microns) from rats treated with a single, daily dose of gp120 (100 ng/rat) given for 7 and 14 consecutive days, in situ DNA fragmentation was revealed in the neocortex but not in the hippocampus by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end-labelling (TUNEL). In these rats, dark degenerating neurones were observed in the neocortex but not in the hippocampus. Treatment with bovine serum albumin (300 ng/rat, i.c.v.) for up to 14 days did not produce DNA fragmentation nor did it yield neuropathological lesions of the neocortex or hippocampus. In conclusion, the present data demonstrate that gp 120 given i.c.v. produced DNA fragmentation in the neocortex, thus suggesting that apoptosis is the mechanism through which neurones of the neocortex are killed.
A nervous system-specific glycoprotein antigen from adult Drosophila heads, designated Nervana (Nrv), has been purified on the basis of reactivity of its carbohydrate epitope(s) with anti-horseradish peroxidase (HRP) antibodies that are specific markers for Drosophila neurons. Anti-Nrv monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), specific for the protein moiety of Nrv, were used to screen a Drosophila embryo cDNA expression library. Three cDNA clones (designated Nrv1, Nrv2.1, and Nrv2.2) were isolated that code for proteins recognized by anti-Nrv mAbs on Western blots. DNA sequencing and Southern blot analyses established that the cDNA clones are derived from two different genes. In situ hybridization to Drosophila polytene chromosomes showed that the cDNA clones map to the third chromosome near 92C-D. Nrv1 and Nrv2.1/2.2 have open reading frames of 309 and 322/323 amino acids, respectively, and they are 43.4% identical at the amino acid level. The proteins deduced from these clones exhibit significant homology in both primary sequence and predicted topology to the beta subunit of Na+,K(+)-ATPase. Immunoaffinity-purified Nrv is associated with a protein (M(r) 100,000) recognized on Western blots by anti-ATPase alpha-subunit mAb. Our results suggest that the Drosophila nervous system-specific antigens Nrv1 and -2 are neuronal forms of the beta subunit of Na+,K(+)-ATPase.
The pathogenesis of brain dysfunction in a canine model of juvenile Batten disease was studied with techniques designed to determine sequential changes in mitochondrial morphology and cytochrome oxidase (CO) activity, and in neurons and synapses using gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) as a neurotransmitter. Histochemical and immunocytochemical methods were employed. Mitochondrial alterations were found in a select population of nonpyramidal neurons in neocortex and claustrum, and in cerebellar basket cells. Proportions of affected neurons at any one time remained constant over the disease course, with morphologically-abnormal mitochondria first being recognized at age 6 months. Enlarged mitochondria were readily identifiable at the light microscope (LM) level as large CO-positive or mitochondrial antibody-positive granular structures. Colabelling with antibodies to GABA or to parvalbumin (PV) indicated that most of these cells were GABAergic. Ultrastructurally, atypical mitochondria were characterized by globular enlargement, intramitochondrial membranous inclusions, and disorganized internal structure. CO activity in all other cell somata and in neuropil was diminished compared with normal, age-matched tissue. Glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), PV, and GABA studies demonstrated loss of GABAergic neurons and synapses in cortex and cerebellum of affected dogs. These results indicate that abnormal mitochondria are present in neurons in Batten disease, and suggest that suboptimal mitochondrial function may play a role in the pathogenic mechanisms of brain dysfunction in this disorder.
Animal models of Batten disease and other neuronal storage disorders offer important opportunities to study the pathogenesis of brain dysfunction in this family of diseases. Although all of these conditions exhibit progressive intraneuronal storage, we have found that other aspects of the cellular pathology of Batten disease differ markedly from those of storage disorders caused by lysosomal hydrolase deficiencies. Likewise, lysosomal of cerebral cortex and other select brain regions, a prominent characteristic of Batten disease, does not occur in most other storage disorders. Our studies indicate that Batten disease has findings in common with human neurodegenerative diseases and that neuron death may be caused by excitotoxicity occurring secondary to the combined effects of suboptimal mitochondrial function and GABAergic (inhibitory) cell loss.
The effect of midsagittal bisection of the brainstem (the midbrain to the pons) on amygdala (AM) kindling at the primary and the secondary sites was examined in rats. It was found that the kindling rate was not affected at either primary or secondary sites regardless of the extent of bisection. However, seizure progression beyond stage 4 bilateral clonus did not occur with extensive dorsal bisection. The findings suggest that the dorsal midline brainstem structure bisected in this study participates in the mechanism of stage 5 seizure but is not involved in the transhemispheric positive transfer mechanism in rodent AM kindling.
The ventral tegmental area receives a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) innervation from the nucleus accumbens and contains GABA immunoreactive neurons believed to be interneurons. We combined the immunocytochemical detection of retrogradely transported Fluoro-Gold (FG) from the nucleus accumbens (Acb) with the detection of GABA within the same section of tissue in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of the rat brain to determine whether there might also be reciprocal GABAergic projections in the mesolimbic pathway. Immunoperoxidase labeling for FG and immunogold-silver labeling for GABA were most readily distinguished within perikarya and dendrites in sections examined by electron microscopy. Ultrastructural observations indicated that 36% (n = 110) of the FG-labeled perikarya and dendrites also contained GABA immunoreactivity. The present results provide the first evidence that GABA is contained in a subpopulation of neurons in the mesolimbic pathway from the VTA to the Acb. The reciprocity of this circuitry may provide an important feedback loop thus facilitating inhibition of motor activity.
The present study examined single neuron activity in the medial nucleus of the medial geniculate (mMG) and amygdaloid central nucleus (ACe) simultaneously across several phases of differential heart rate conditioning (habituation, acquisition, and extinction). Within the same animals, the magnitude of mMG and ACe unit responses to two tone conditioned stimuli (CS) exhibited habituation, differential acquisition, and extinction. Neurons in each area developed a differential response latency to the CSs during acquisition, suggesting that mMG and ACe may be involved in changes of synaptic efficacy. Units in both areas rapidly developed a differential response magnitude to the CSs (&lt; 6 acquisition trials), however, mMG units responded to the CSs with a shorter latency than ACe units across all phases of training. This suggests that unlearned and learned CS information may access mMG before ACe. These results are consistent with the notion that conditioning-induced plasticity which occurs in mMG may influence the conditioning-induced plasticity that occurs further downstream in the amygdala.
To study the potential interaction between cytokine and serotonin (5-HT) signal transduction, we evaluated the effect of interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) on the 5-HT2 receptor-mediated mobilization of intracellular Ca2+ in cultured rat C6BU-1 glioma cells. Pretreatment of cells with IL-1 beta significantly inhibited the 5-HT-induced mobilization of Ca2+ in a dose (30-1000 U/ml)- and time (12-24 h)-dependent manner. Inhibition was observed when cells were stimulated with concentrations of 5-HT of &gt; or = 1 microM, which induced the maximal 5-HT response. Lipopolysaccharide (1 microgram/ml) also inhibited 5-HT-induced Ca2+ mobilization, but heat-inactivated IL-1 beta as well as interferon-alpha (1000 U/ml), interferon-gamma (1000 U/ml), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (2000 U/ml) did not. The inhibitory effects of IL-1 beta and LPS were significantly prevented by genistein, a selective tyrosine kinase antagonist, and by H7, a potent inhibitor of protein kinase C. These results indicate that IL-1 beta and LPS inhibit 5-HT2 receptor-mediated Ca2+ mobilization via pathways that include the activation of a tyrosine kinase and protein kinase C. The interaction between cytokines (IL-1 beta) and monoamines (5-HT) may serve to modulate signal transduction in the central nervous system.
The growth-associated protein B-50/GAP-43 is thought to play a crucial role in axonal growth. We investigated, by quantitative immunoelectron microscopy, whether there are differences in the subcellular distribution of B-50 in unmyelinated and myelinated axons of intact and regenerating sciatic nerves. Adult rats received an unilateral sciatic nerve crush and were euthanized 8 days later. Nerve pieces proximal from the crush site were embedded, and B-50 was visualized by specific B-50 antibodies and immunogold detection in ultrathin sections. The density of B-50 at the plasma membrane of unmyelinated axon shafts was significantly increased in the ipsilateral regenerating nerve in comparison to that of the contralateral intact nerve. In contrast, there was no significant difference in the B-50 density at the axolemma of myelinated regenerating and intact axon shafts. In the contralateral intact nerve, more B-50 was associated with the axolemma of unmyelinated axons than with the plasma membrane of myelinated axons. The density of axoplasmic B-50 was similar in intact unmyelinated and myelinated axon shafts, but was higher in regenerating nerve than in intact nerve. This suggests that enhanced axonal transport of B-50 occurs during axon outgrowth. Our study demonstrates a differential subcellular distribution of B-50 in unmyelinated and myelinated axon shafts in both the intact and regenerating sciatic nerve, indicating a differential inducible capacity for remodeling of the axon shafts.
Although there is considerable evidence that primary afferent-derived substance P contributes to the transmission of nociceptive messages at the spinal cord level, the population of neurons that expresses the substance P receptor, and thus are likely to respond to substance P, has not been completely characterized. To address this question, we used an antibody directed against the C-terminal portion of the rat substance P receptor to examine the cellular distribution of the receptor in spinal cord neurons. In a previous study, we reported that the substance P receptor decorates almost the entire dendritic and somatic surface of a subpopulation of spinal cord neurons. In the present study we have taken advantage of this labeling pattern to identify morphologically distinct subpopulations of substance P receptor-immunoreactive neurons throughout the rostral-caudal extent of the spinal cord. We observed a dense population of fusiform substance P receptor-immunoreactive neurons in lamina I at all segmental levels. Despite having the highest concentration of substance P terminals, the substantia gelatinosa (lamina II) contained almost no substance P receptor-immunoreactive neurons. Several distinct populations of substance P receptor-immunoreactive neurons were located in laminae III-V; many of these had a large, dorsally directed dendritic arbor that traversed the substantia gelatinosa to reach the marginal layer. Extensive labeling was also found in neurons of the intermediolateral cell column. In the ventral horn, we found that labeling was associated with clusters of motoneurons, notably those in Onuf's nucleus in the sacral spinal cord. Finally, we found no evidence that primary afferent fibers express the substance P receptor. These results indicate that relatively few, but morphologically distinct, subclasses of spinal cord neurons express the substance P receptor. The majority, but not all, of these neurons are located in regions that contain neurons that respond to noxious stimulation.


Experiments have been carried out in isolated distal colon of young normal and mdx dystrophic mice, the animal homologous of Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Intraluminal pressure, longitudinal displacement, ejected fluid volume and changes in morphology during peristaltic events were recorded. In both male and female normal animals, pressure waves were observed to be generally regular in shape, amplitude (14.19 +/- 2.45 (SD) cm H2O), frequency (54.00 +/- 10.78 h-1) and duration (31.12 +/- 3.47 s). The propulsive activity resulted in orthograde transport of intraluminal content. Mdx mice exhibited great changes in relation to sex, since clear and more marked dysfunctions were recorded in female mice. In male mdx animals, an increase of intraluminal pressure (22%) and ejected fluid volume (38%) were recorded. In females, a remarkable significant (P &lt; 0.001) increase (78%) of intraluminal pressure was observed. Simultaneous anterograde and retrograde propulsive activity also occurred. Localized annular constrictions in proximal, central and distal portions of colonic segment were observed. The implications of the results are discussed in terms of injury of myogenic and nervous pathways controlling mdx colonic smooth muscle.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS), including hydrogen peroxide, are supposed to be involved in the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease. The potential role of astrocytes against neurotoxic effects of ROS was studied in cocultures of rat mesencephalic neurons and rat striatal or cortical astrocytes. Neuronal [3H]dopamine uptake, a marker of dopaminergic neuron integrity, was enhanced by striatal astrocytes, but not by cortical astrocytes, compared to uptake in mesencephalic neurons cultured alone. Whereas hydrogen peroxide at concentrations up to 100 microM reduced the [3H]dopamine uptake in neuronal cultures, no reduction of the uptake was observed in cocultures, regardless of the origin of the supporting astrocytes. These results suggest that astrocyte mediated protection of neurons against hydrogen peroxide induced toxicity is not directly related to a region-specific neurotrophic effect.
This research addresses preferences and theoretical leanings of present-day psychiatrists along the continuum defined at one end by biology and at the other by psychology. A questionnaire was devised and sent to 5,702 randomly selected members of the American Psychiatric Association in 1990. The response rate was 307%. The results were analyzed for two groups: psychiatrists with fewer than 15 years of practice since residency and psychiatrists with more than 15 years of practice since graduation. Although the great majority of psychiatrists in both groups equally valued psychology and biology, the senior group attributed a greater importance to psychological methods, whereas the younger group stressed equally the importance of biology and psychology. This suggests that psychiatry has evolved over the years from a predominantly psychological practice to one with a more equal emphasis on psychology and biology. Recent advances in neuroscience may have shifted the pendulum toward a more balanced willingness of clinicians to consider the broad armamentarium of psychosocial and biological treatments. The results point to the need for further conceptualization into the relationship between biology and psychology and its incorporation into the psychiatric residency curriculum.
Neurobehavioral and pathological data indicate that the central nervous system (CNS) becomes infected with HIV-1 soon after the virus enters the body. However, neuropathogenesis of HIV-1 infection is difficult to investigate because the brain parenchyma is not accessible to sampling during the course of AIDS. The second compartment of the CNS, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), is accessible to sampling but how changes in the CSF relate to the changes in the parenchyma is poorly understood. Thus, knowledge of the neuropathogenesis of HIV-1 infection predominantly stems from either postmortem or in vitro studies. This raises the need for animal models of HIV infection of the CNS. Such models have been developed and are briefly reviewed here. The models faithfully recapitulate some aspects of the HIV/CNS disease. Appropriate neuropathological changes and neurobehavioral dysfunction (e.g., cognitive and motor deficits) occur in SIV-infected macaques. Central sensory electrophysiological changes and sleep disturbances occur in FIV-infected cats. Infection of the brain and behavioral changes comparable to some of the changes seen in humans occur in mice infected with a mixture of murine leukemia viruses. Genetically immunodeficient mice (e.g., SCID) accept HIV-infected human organs and or cell grafts. Evidence summarized here indicates that these HuSCID animals undergo neuropathological changes similar to those observed in brains of individuals who died with AIDS. Thus, presently available animal models provide an opportunity to investigate HIV/CNS disease, and to develop and test therapeutic interventions to prevent or cure the disease.
The combination of prenatal ethanol exposure and footshock stress was investigated for its effects on brain beta-endorphin levels. Subjects were offspring of rats that received 1 of 3 prenatal dietary treatments: an ethanol-containing liquid diet, a identical liquid diet with ethanol substituted isocalorically with maltose-dextrin (pair-fed group), and standard laboratory rat chow (chow-fed group). Two different stress paradigms were used: a short (30-sec) footshock stress paradigm and a prolonged (180-sec) footshock stress paradigm. Levels of beta-endorphin were measured with radioimmunoassay in eight brain regions of unstressed (baseline) rats, and of stressed rats at 3 and 30 min following termination of the stress. Seven brain regions containing high densities of beta-endorphin axons and terminals were chosen, as well as the arcuate region of the hypothalamus, the only brain region where both beta-endorphin perikarya and terminals are located. Following the short footshock stress paradigm, there were no changes in beta-endorphin levels, except for a trend toward increased levels in the pair-fed group. After the prolonged stress paradigm, levels of beta-endorphin in both the pair-fed and chow-fed groups tended to be decreased in several brain regions, including the arcuate region, at 3 min after termination of the stress. In contrast, for the prenatally ethanol-exposed group, beta-endorphin levels were increased significantly in the arcuate region, and moderately increased in the septal/preoptic region and medulla/pons at 3 min after the prolonged stress paradigm.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Following the discovery of inhibition of electron transport complex 1 by the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), which produces a parkinsonian syndrome in humans, monkeys, and mice, several laboratories have reported abnormalities of complex I and other electron transport complexes (ETCs) in various tissues from patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Criticism of the significance of these findings in the etiology of PD has centered on whether drug treatments or the debilitation of the disease process itself produced the low ETC activities. We present results from a blinded study of platelet mitochondrial ETC activities in 18 early untreated PD patients and 18 age- and sex-matched controls and in 13 spousal controls. Lower complex I activity in platelet mitochondria of PD patients was seen in early untreated disease and thus cannot be due to debilitation or drug therapy. Home environmental factors seem an unlikely explanation for the reduced complex I activity in PD patients but have not been excluded. Complex II/III activity was also reduced by 20% in PD compared with age-/sex-matched controls. The low complex I and II/III activities in platelet mitochondria appear to be related to the etiology of PD.

The principle of minimum work (PMW) is a parametric optimization model for the growth and adaptation of arterial trees. A balance between energy dissipation due to frictional resistance of laminar flow (shear stress) and the minimum volume of the blood and vessel wall tissue is achieved when the vessel radii are adjusted to the cube root of the volumetric flow. The PMW is known to apply over several magnitudes of vessel calibers, and in many different organs, including the brain, in humans and in animals. Animal studies suggest that blood flow in arteries is approximately proportional to the cube of the vessel radius, and that arteries alter their caliber in response to sustained changes of blood flow according to PMW. Remodelling of the retinal arteriolar network to long-term changes in blood flow was observed in humans. Remodelling of whole arterial networks occurs in the form of increase or diminishing of vessel calibers. Shear stress induced endothelial mediation seems to be the regulating mechanism for the maintenance of this optimum blood flow/vessel diameter relation. Arterial trees are also expected to be nearly space filing. The vascular system is constructed in such a way that, while blood vessels occupy only a small percentage of the body volume leaving the bulk to tissue, they also crisscross organs so tightly that every point in the tissue lies on the boundary between an artery and a vein. This review describes how the energetic optimum principle for least energy cost for blood flow is also compatible with the spatial constraints of arterial networks according to concepts derived from fractal geometry.

Prolonged waiting periods for patients with benign spinal surgical lesions led to the creation of a Dedicated Short Stay Spinal Surgical Unit. This unit was implemented in November, 1992, on a 29 bed Neuroscience Unit in a 1200 bed Acute Care Teaching Hospital. Considerations for implementation were many, including psychological impact of chronic pain for patients on prolonged waiting lists, the increased probability of permanent waiting lists, the increased probability of permanent neurological deficits, and the economic impact to patient, societal and hospital budgets. This paper will focus on explanation of the design of the unit, define the benefits and provide study results of the first 85 patients admitted to the unit.
At least four percent of children have recurrent headaches and migraine is the most frequent cause. Migraine and tension-type headaches may co-exist. A variety of factors, specifically dietary and stressors (at home and at school) have been recognized as triggers. We have reviewed the role of the Neurosciences Nurse Clinician in the management of children with recurrent headaches in our Pediatric Neurology Outpatient Clinic. About 150 children with headache are seen in our clinic annually. The Nurse Clinician complements the Pediatric Neurologist's role in the following ways: 1) Provides educational material and reinforces the benign nature of the headache (i.e. absence of serious cause); 2) Discusses potential role for triggers; 3) Provides and emphasizes the importance of keeping a headache diary: teaches children and caregivers how triggers may be identified; 4) Makes follow-up telephone calls to determine changes in headache frequency/ severity. This approach minimizes the need for prophylactic medication (less than 25% of children we see require such treatment) and reduces the number of follow-up visits to Pediatric Neurologist and other physicians, thus minimizing health care costs.
In a series of experiments with rats, using evoked field potentials, the influence of massed trial training in 2-way shuttle box avoidance and step-through passive avoidance tasks was studied on the synaptic excitability of the lateral septum (LS) neurons and on the induction of long-term potentiation in the lateral septum in vivo. The majority of rats that attained a high performance level in the shuttle box task exhibited, after the shuttle box training, a long-lasting enhancement of synaptic excitability of lateral septum neurons, whereas most of the rats with low performance in the shuttle box showed a long-lasting depression in the LS synaptic excitability. Both types of excitability changes disappeared within 24 h. Neither the first habituation session in the passive avoidance apparatus nor the subsequent one-trial learning in passive avoidance task had a marked influence on lateral septum synaptic excitability. Both high-performance and low-performance rats exhibited a long-term potentiation (LTP)-like potentiation of synaptic excitability of the lateral septum neurons after high frequency stimulation of the fimbria fibers although the amount of LTP in high performance rats was slightly higher than that in low performance animals.
Para-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA) depletes central serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) by inhibiting tryptophan hydroxylase, an enzyme necessary for the synthesis of 5-HT. The effects of a wide range of PCPA doses (150-1000 mg/kg) on spontaneous exploratory locomotor activity in a novel environment, activity in running wheels and a number of sensory-motor capacities were examined. Administration of 1000 mg/kg PCPA reduced whole brain levels of 5-HT and its metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid to 9.4 and 8.2% of control levels, respectively. Treatment with PCPA produced a dose-dependent decrease in exploratory locomotion in an unfamiliar automated open field relative to vehicle-treated animals. Further, all measures of general, horizontal and vertical activity were suppressed by PCPA treatment. In contrast to previous work, hyperactivity of rats chronically housed in cages with running wheel access was not observed. In their home cages, some PCPA-treated rats exhibited hyper-reactivity to cutaneous stimulation. No other sensory-motor deficits were apparent. Previous theories of 5-HT function state that its action may be to inhibit motor activity or promote sleep. The present results challenge this view and suggest that 5-HT, at least in certain environments, may stimulate locomotor activity without directly controlling various sensory-motor capacities in rats.
Rats with medial prefrontal cortical lesions were tested in a modified water maze navigation task. In Stage 1, the rats were trained to locate a hidden platform from a single start location. They were then subjected to a series of trials during which a second start position was used (Stage 2). In Stage 3, the rats had to navigate to a new goal location from the 2 experienced start positions. Stage 4 required the rats to navigate to the same goal as in Stage 3, starting from 4 distinct positions. Finally, a single probe trial with no platform was conducted. Rats with prefrontal lesions were impaired only during Stage 4. This deficit was specific to the 2 start positions newly introduced during this stage, suggesting a dysfunction of planning processes. This impairment might result from a working memory deficit, precluding the animal from forming an adequate representation of the whole course of movements required to reach the platform.
The centrally acting cholinergic antagonist scopolamine (0.025-0.10 mg/kg ip) and the peripherally acting cholinergic antagonist methyl-scopolamine (0.01-0.10 mg/kg) dose dependently impaired discriminability independent of delay in a delayed conditional discrimination task that precludes use of mediating behavior. This indicates that scopolamine does not specifically affect working memory. Drugs that enhance cholinergic transmission neither improved discriminability nor attenuated scopolamine-induced impairments. In a post hoc analysis scopolamine was found to impair discriminability in a delay-dependent manner in rats that performed at a high level in pretest sessions. Methyl-scopolamine impaired performance independently of delay in these rats. The authors suggest that a ceiling effect at short delays produced this Drug x Delay interaction of scopolamine in the best performing rats.
Several lines of research have implicated the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and its dopaminergic (DA) innervation in an animal's response to stress and anxiety. To extend these findings we evaluated the effects of bilateral infusions of DA drugs into the medial PFC of rats, in a modified conflict test, consisting of Reward, Conflict and Time-out components. In experiment 1, the effects of infusions of the DA receptor agonist apomorphine (APO) were compared to the effects of systemic injections of the same drug. APO infusions induced a dose-dependent decrease of responding in the Conflict component, indicative of an anxiogenic-like effect. However, response rates in the Reward component were simultaneously decreased, casting some doubt on the specificity of the effect. In comparison, i.p injections of APO in a second group of animals did not affect responding in the Conflict component, but dose-dependently decreased response rates during Time-out and Reward components. In experiment 2, we evaluated the effects of infusions of APO and the DA receptor antagonist cis-flupenthixol (FLU) into the medial PFC in the conflict test, and in one of its variants, the extinction of conflict test. Although both APO and FLU decreased response rates during Reward components, responding in the Conflict components of both tests was differentially affected. APO infusions decreased Conflict responses, the effect being more pronounced in the extinction of conflict test. In contrast, infusions of FLU increased responding in the Conflict components. The respective pro- and anti-conflict effects of APO and FLU infusions are in favour of a direct involvement of prefrontal DA in anxiety-related behavioural responses.
In order to develop an immunofluorescent technique able to detect the cellular damage induced by lipid peroxidation, we produced rabbit polyclonal antibodies (AbAIP) against malondialdehyde (MDA)-modified lysozyme. These antibodies specifically recognized all the MDA-treated proteins tested, but not native proteins or proteins treated by other aldehydes. Moreover, we showed by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) that the amount of immunoreactive protein in MDA-treated erythrocytes was proportional to the concentration of MDA added, suggesting that this ELISA measurement may represent a quantitative determination of peroxidative protein alterations. In addition, when coupled to an indirect fluorochrome antibody conjugate [fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)], these antibodies permitted precise localization of the modified proteins within the membranes of peroxidized cells.
Aurintricarboxylic acid (ATA) is an endonuclease inhibitor which has been shown to block apoptotic cell death. We have now demonstrated that ATA is also an inhibitor of the Ca(2+)-activated neutral protease (calpain), a class of cytosolic enzyme that may also be activated during apoptosis. The two major calpain isoforms (mu- and m-calpain) were both inhibited by ATA with IC50's of 22 microM and 10 microM, respectively. The autolysis of purified mu-calpain was prevented by ATA in a concentration-dependent manner. Using casein zymography, it was found that the inhibition of mu-calpain by ATA was reversible. Finally, in a fetal rat cerebrocortical culture model of excitotoxicity, pre- and post-treatment of ATA (50 microM) reduced N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced spectrin breakdown and neuronal death, while application of ATA concurrent to NMDA challenge alone had no effect. This pattern of protection could not be explained by simple NMDA receptor antagonism. We thus propose that the neuroprotective effect of ATA could be in part due to its ability to inhibit calpain.


The lateralization of motor speech function to the left hemisphere is supported by multiple lines of evidence, but relatively little is known about the anatomical basis of that specialization. In a preliminary study, we recently reported that area 45 of the left hemisphere (Broca's area) contained a subpopulation of magnopyramidal neurons which were significantly larger than any seen in the homotopic region of the right hemisphere (Hayes &amp; Lewis, 1993a). In the present study we examined a larger sample of cases in order to determine how consistently this difference is present in the population, if it is specific to Broca's area or is a general feature of cortical regions mediating lateralized functions, and whether the subpopulation of large magnopyramidal neurons in left area 45 can be distinguished by their chemical phenotype. In Nissl-stained sections from 19 human brains, the mean (+/- SD) cross-sectional area of the largest layer III pyramidal neurons in area 45 was significantly (p &lt; .0001) greater in the left hemisphere (522.1 +/- 128.3 microns2) than in the right (454.1 +/- 121.5 microns2). This interhemispheric difference appeared to be a unique characteristic of the largest neurons, since the mean size of all layer III pyramids in this area was not significantly different in the left (206.2 +/- 93.5 microns2) and right (213.3 +/- 103.9 microns2) hemispheres. In contrast to area 45, there was no interhemispheric difference in the mean cross-sectional area of the largest layer III pyramids in another lateralized region, primary motor cortex. In addition, in area 46, a region of prefrontal association cortex not known to be functionally lateralized, the mean somal size of the largest layer III pyramidal neurons was significantly (p &lt; .001) smaller in the left hemisphere (402.4 +/- 84.9 microns2) than in the right (437.8 +/- 88.3 microns2). Finally, although the large layer III pyramids in area 45 were immunoreactive for nonphosphorylated neurofilament protein in both hemispheres, the mean cross-sectional area of the largest labeled neurons was significantly larger (p &lt; .002) in the left hemisphere (525.2 +/- 149.0 microns2) than in the right (490.3 +/- 154.1 microns2). These findings demonstrate that layer III of Broca's area contains a distinctive subpopulation of neurons that may play an important role in the specific functional architecture of this region.
Cancer is a multistep process that involves the activation of oncogenes and the inactivation of antioncogenes. Recently, a new putative tumor suppressor, the neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) gene, was mapped to chromosome 22, cloned, and found to encode for a new protein, merlin/schwannomin, a member of the band 4.1 family of proteins. Members of this family have not been implicated previously in tumorigenesis. They possess significant homology in their NH2-terminal domain, which is thought to be important in the binding of the plasma membrane to the underlying actin cytoskeleton. To determine whether schwannomin may affect cell growth, we transfected NIH 3T3 cells with the wild type and an NF2 cDNA lacking 111 amino acids at the NH2 terminus. We observed slowing of growth and changes in cellular morphology only in cells expressing the wild-type NF2 cDNA. This finding suggests that schwannomin can suppress growth directly and confirms its role in tumor suppression. This system will provide a useful assay to identify important functional domains of the protein.
The otoconial matrix (OM) of chicks (Gallus domesticus) inner ear was analyzed. Histochemically the OM was reacted with phosphotungstic acid (PTA) and immunohistochemically with the monoclonal antibody antikeratan sulfate (antiKS). The OM was digested with the enzyme endo-beta-galactosidase (E beta Galase) or separated by 1D and 2D gel electrophoresis. PTA which reacts with glycoproteins precipitated the OM, suggesting that the OM contains glycoproteins. A central core in each crystal had no PTA staining, suggesting that the core lacked glycoproteins. Anti KS antibody stained the OM with increased density in older embryos as determined by color thresholding. E beta Galase, which cleaves the lactosamine repeating units in KS, decreased the immunostain by 30% in the OM and by 20% in the cartilage. The OM from the utricle, saccule and macula lagena contained similar molecular weight bands. Five dense bands in the OM were less dense in tissue and blood controls, suggesting that such bands are enriched in the OM. Isoelectric focusing of the OM showed a negatively charged high molecular weight smear not present in blood and faint in tissue controls. The high affinity of the OM for the cationic PTA stain, the strong immunohistochemical reaction of the OM with anti KS antibody and high molecular weight negative smear in 2D gels taken together suggest that: a) the OM contains large amounts of glycoproteins and glycans, one of which is keratan sulfate, because its immuno stain with antiKS antibody was decreased by the enzyme E beta Galase, b) the utricle, saccule and macula lagena may have similar composition, and c) the concentration of KS may increase gradually until complete mineralization of the OM is reached.
Tolcapone, a catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitor, can interfere with the metabolism of levodopa and dopamine and could prolong the motor effect induced by levodopa in parkinsonian patients. To test this hypothesis, we studied the motor effect induced by three acute administrations of a dose of levodopa-benserazide (Madopar) with either 200 mg or 400 mg of tolcapone or placebo, in a double-blind latin-square design. The duration of the on-phase could be compared in 10 parkinsonian patients suffering from square-shaped motor effect. In comparison to placebo, 200 mg and 400 mg of tolcapone significantly increased the mean duration of the on-phase by 61.7 min ( +/- 19.4 SEM) and by 72.2 min ( +/- 18.5), respectively. This clinical effect is suggested to be related mainly to the increase in levodopa area under the curve and half-life induced by tolcapone. The intensity in dyskinesias was increased by 400 mg of tolcapone. Tolcapone appears to be well tolerated and could be helpful as an adjuvant treatment to levodopa in parkinsonian patients with motor fluctuations.
A tacit assumption since the 19th Century has been that the neocortex serves as the &quot;seat of consciousness.&quot; An unexpected challenge to that assumption arose in 1949 with the discovery that high-frequency EEG activation associated with an alert state requires the intactness of the brainstem reticular formation. This discovery became the impetus for nearly three decades of research on what came to be known as the reticular activating system. By the 1970s, however, methodological and philosophical controversies led to the general abandonment of subcortical theories of attention and consciousness, with a return to an almost exclusive focus upon the cortex. With recent advances in the neurosciences the focus is shifting once more, this time to the unique contributions of cortical, thalamic, and brainstem structures in mediating selective attention and perceptual awareness. This paper offers a nontechnical review of the history of these developments up to contemporary interest in the putative role of oscillatory EEG patterns in the integration of perceptual features of experience. It puts forward the thesis that a key to understanding attention and consciousness is an appreciation of the contributions of the thalamus to these cognitive processes.
Stroop-like manual reaction time tasks were administered to 16 controls and one globally aphasic patient who was unable to match written color words with the corresponding color. Although the patient could not explicitly access the meaning of written color words, he showed a similar pattern of performance in the reaction time tasks as the controls: written words were processed automatically and they interacted with the processing of the color of the letters. Thus, the results of this study suggested that it is possible to process unrecognized words implicitly to a cross-domain semantic level where the processing of words interacts with the processing of colors. The results from this and other studies on implicit language processing indicate that linguistic stimuli can be analysed to relatively high levels without any awareness.
The past year has seen remarkable progress in defining the structure of various ligand-gated ion channels. Images of opened and closed nicotinic acetylcholine receptors at 9 A resolution have now made it easier to identify the conformational changes underlying gating. In addition, recent studies on glutamate receptors have led to a radical revision of their postulated transmembrane topology: models for agonist-binding and allosteric domains now use sites previously thought to lie in cytoplasmic loops. Other areas that are being actively pursued include identification of the amino acids lining the ion channels, accurate measurements of Ca2+ fluxes, and tests of transmembrane topology in kainate receptor subunits.
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy is a viral-induced demyelinating disease of the central nervous system usually occurring in the immunocompromised individual. The incidence of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy has risen sharply over the past decade because of widespread human immunodeficiency virus infection leading to immunodeficiency. This increased incidence of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy may also be due to better recognition of its clinical signs, and more rapid and reliable laboratory diagnosis of JC virus, the etiologic agent. There have also been advances in the molecular detection of the JC virus and the identification of variations in the viral genome sequence that may affect its multiplication cycle in different tissues. Clinical and basic research have resulted in a better understanding of the pathogenesis of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and have provided sufficient information to plan new approaches for treatment.
We have observed sympathetic hyperinnervation and hyperplasia of an unknown cell population within the base of the hearts from transgenic mice in which nerve growth factor (NGF) expression was targeted to cardiac tissue (Hassankhani et al., 1993, 1995). To characterize this ectopic cell population, cells from the base of hearts of 3- to 4-week-old transgenic mice were dissociated and established in tissue culture, and their properties were analyzed using morphological, immunocytochemical, and physiological techniques. Morphological studies of the ectopic cells revealed the temporal expression of two different cellular phenotypes: (i) a spindle-shaped cell type, present by 1 to 2 days in vitro (DIV) and (ii) cells with a fiber-like morphology, detected by 7 DIV. In contrast to transgenic cardiac myocytes that express immunoreactivity to antibodies against sarcomeric myosin, beat spontaneously (approximately 60/min), and are electrically excitable, the ectopic cell types did not stain with an antibody against sarcomeric myosin, never showed contractile activity, and did not manifest membrane excitability. Moreover, these two types of ectopic cells demonstrated other distinctive characteristics. The spindle-shaped subpopulation typically formed small clusters of cells that were immunostained by antibodies to GFAP, vimentin, and low-affinity NGF receptor (LNGFR) and demonstrated a low incidence of dye coupling (30%), whereas the fiber-like cells aligned themselves along their long axes, immunostained for gp140trkA, LNGFR, and anti alpha-smooth muscle actin and showed extensive (100%) and diffuse dye spread to numerous other contiguous fiber-like cells. Dye spread was not observed between the adjacent fiber-like and the spindle-shaped cells and was reversibly blocked between homologous cells after treatment with halothane, a gap junction channel blocking agent. In comparison to cardiac myocytes, macroscopic junctional conductance of the spindle-shaped cells was more voltage-sensitive. At the single channel level, unitary junctional conductances of approximately 60 pS were predominant. Overall, these results indicate that these ectopic cells are likely derived from neural crest. The spindle-shaped cells appear to be immature Schwann cells, whereas the fiber-like cells may be related to the ectomesenchymal cells contributing to the morphogenesis of the cardiac outflow tract.

Mesenchymal cells are required for the induction of epithelial development during mammalian organogenesis. Keratinocyte growth factor (KGF) is a mesenchymally derived mitogen with specific activity for epithelial cells, suggesting that it may play a role in mediating these interactions. To further evaluate this hypothesis, in situ hybridization was used to examine the spatial distribution of KGF and KGF receptor (KGFR) transcripts during organogenesis and limb formation in mouse embryos (days 14.5 through 16.5). To facilitate this aim, mouse KGF cDNA clones were isolated. There was extensive identity between the deduced mouse KGF protein sequence and that of its human and rat cognates, indicating that this gene has been highly conserved during mammalian evolution. In addition, mouse KGF protein was purified from fibroblasts and demonstrated to be structurally and functionally similar to human KGF protein. For organs within the integumental, respiratory, gastrointestinal, and urogenital systems, whose development is dependent upon mesenchymal-epithelial interactions, KGF mRNA was detected in mesenchymal cells, while epithelial cells expressed transcripts for the KGFR, KGF and KGFR mRNA was also expressed in certain other tissues such as perichondrium, cartilage of developing bones, developing skeletal muscle, and visceral smooth muscle whose development is not regulated by mesenchymal-epithelial interactions. KGF expression was also detected in tissues isolated from human embryos, suggesting similar functions for KGF in human development. Taken together, our results suggest that KGF plays an important role in mediating mesenchymal-epithelial interactions during organogenesis, but may also have other developmental functions in tissues not governed by such interactions.
Oligodendrocytes, the myelinating cells of the vertebrate CNS, originally develop from cells of the neuroepithelium. Recent studies suggest that spinal cord oligodendrocyte precursors are initially localized in the region of the ventral ventricular zone and subsequently disperse throughout the spinal cord. The characteristics of these early oligodendrocyte precursors and their subsequent migration has been difficult to assay directly in the rodent spinal cord due to a lack of appropriate reagents. In the developing chick spinal cord, we show that oligodendrocyte precursors can be specifically identified by labeling with O4 monoclonal antibody. In contrast to rodent oligodendrocyte precursors, which express O4 immunoreactivity only during the later stages of maturation, in the chick O4 immunoreactivity appears very early and its expression is retained through cellular maturation. In embryos older than stage 35, O4+ cells represent the most immature, self-renewing, cells of the chick spinal cord oligodendrocyte lineage. In the intact chick spinal cord, the earliest O4+ cells are located at the ventral ventricular zone where they actually contribute to the ventricular lining of the central canal. The subsequent migration of O4+ cells into the dorsal region of the spinal cord temporally correlates with the capacity of isolated dorsal spinal cord to generate oligodendrocytes in vitro. Biochemical analysis suggests O4 labels a POA-like antigen on the surface of chick spinal cord oligodendrocyte precursors. These studies provide direct evidence for the ventral ventricular origin of spinal cord oligodendrocytes, and suggest that this focal source of oligodendrocytes is a general characteristic of vertebrate development.
There have been considerable interlaboratory variations in the reported levels of rat brain microsomal cytochrome P450 and associated monooxygenase activities. To ascertain if the variability could be accountable, at least in part, to different methodologies used for microsome preparation, cytochrome P450 monooxygenase components and activities were directly compared herein using brain microsome prepared by various methods. Rat brain microsome isolated using a calcium aggregation method in the presence of dithiothreitol and glycerol contained approximately 100 pmol of cytochrome P450/mg protein. Considerably lower cytochrome P450 levels (e.g. 20-40 pmol/mg protein) were found in brain microsome prepared in a more conventional manner using Tris or phosphate buffers without glycerol and dithiothreitol. The NADPH cytochrome c reductase activity was consistently approximately 23-25 nmol of cytochrome c reduced/min/mg protein, whatever the method of preparation of the brain microsome. Cytochrome P450-associated monooxygenase activities, namely morphine N-demethylase and ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase, were dependent on the amount of protein in the incubation medium, the length of incubation, and the ratio of the concentration of the substrate to the amount of protein in the incubation mixture. The specific activity of morphine N-demethylase was constant over a range of protein concentration, if the ratio of the concentration of the substrate to the protein was kept constant.
Gracile axonal dystrophy (GAD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disease in the mouse with progressive sensory ataxia and motor paresis. Electromyographic examination was conducted in 25 unanaesthetized GAD mice and 24 controls of the same strain during 6, 9 and 12 wk of postnatal life. Among 9 and 12 wk old mice, about 75% showed resting spontaneous activities--either fibrillation or fasciculation or both. On stimulation of the tibial nerve at ankle, with single pulse, the EMG showed repetitive muscle potentials of large amplitude, following &quot;M&quot; response. The frequency and duration of the train of these stimulus--induced repetitive muscle potentials (SIRMP) were almost constant in a given animal. The SIRMP failed to reappear in response to the second stimulus within 5 s when twin pulses were applied or within 5 min when tetanic stimuli were applied, indicating their fatigability. It is concluded that the SIRMP originate from immature, supplementary motor endplates that develop at ultraterminal nerve sproutings induced by denervation and reinnervation and possibly are due to hyperexcitable trigger points in the peripheral nerve endings. The EMG abnormalities in the GAD mouse are very much similar to those observed in human syndromes with hyperexcitable peripheral nerves that result in sustained muscle activity like neurotonia and hence the GAD mouse is a good model of such motor abnormalities in man.
(R)-N-(4,4-Bis(3-methyl-2-thienyl)but-3-en-1-yl)nipecotic acid (tiagabine) is a potent inhibitor of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) uptake, which maintains its initial anticonvulsant effects when administered to mice for a prolonged period (21 days). In the present study, mice received chronic (21 days) p.o. administration of tiagabine (15 mg/kg, twice daily) or vehicle alone and the densities of GABAA and GABAB receptors and of [3H]tiagabine recognition sites were measured in several brain regions. The following changes were observed following chronic administration of tiagabine as compared to vehicle: significant reduction (18-37%) in [3H]tiagabine binding in the temporal and entorhinal cortex and in the molecular and granular layer of the cerebellar cortex; increases in the number of GABAA sites (22-44%) in various regions of the frontal cortex, in caudate putamen and in the lateral septum; decreases in the numbers of GABAB sites (18-42%) in the motor cortex, the more dorsal parts of cortex, the anteroventral thalamic nucleus, medial geniculate, superior colliculus and the molecular layer of the cerebellar cortex. Such data suggest that the GABAergic system is differentially modulated in a regional specific manner in response to chronic elevation of the extracellular levels of GABA. The significance of these findings in relation to the reported lack of development of tolerance to the anticonvulsant effects of tiagabine is discussed.
Localization of mRNA encoding trkB indicates that two truncated isoforms of trkB, T1trkB and T2trkB, are differentially distributed in the rodent nervous system, and that each of these transcripts is co-expressed with catalytic trkB (TK+trkB) in adult motor neurons. In contrast to the prominent expression of T1trkB by non-neuronal cells, T2trkB expression appeared to be restricted to neurons and demonstrated significant overlap with the pattern of TK+trkB distribution. In developing spinal cord ventral horn, an age-related increase in hybridization was observed for truncated isoforms. These findings suggest that truncated trkB may modulate neuronal responses to neurotrophins which act via trkB.
Activity of single units of the noradrenergic nucleus locus coeruleus was recorded in rats during active exploration of a novel environment. Novelty was controlled by the placement of objects in given holes in a hole board. The basic protocol included a habituation session in which the holes were empty and an object session in which a novel object was placed in one of the two holes. During the habituation session, when the whole environment was unfamiliar, there was a phasic response the first time the rat visited any hole, which habituated after one visit. During the second session, when one of the holes contained an object, the cell fired when the rat encountered the novel object. There was no response to empty holes in this session. The neuronal response was markedly diminished or entirely absent on the second and subsequent visits to object-containing holes, indicative of rapid habituation. In some rats it was possible to run a second object session, when a new object was introduced into a previously empty hole. Visits to this hole elicited a robust response, which again habituated after one single visit. The results show that the responses of locus coeruleus to novelty or change, which has been demonstrated in formal learning situations, occurs in freely behaving rats while they are learning about a new environment. Moreover, the response to novelty and change in the environment is short-lived, rapidly habituating after one or two encounters with the stimulus.
We document a case of a patient who had been treated for a medullary cell carcinoma of the thyroid three years previously and who presented with a three month history of ataxia, weakness and headache. A CT scan showed contrast enhancing lesions in the posterior fossa. An MIBG uptake scan showed that there was some uptake in the cerebellar lesions; however, it was not sufficient to rely on this alone for treatment. The larger of these lesions was therefore surgically resected. Immunocytochemistry, using CAM 5.2, CEA and chromogranin, demonstrated a positive reaction which strongly favoured a diagnosis of metastases from a medullary cell carcinoma of the thyroid. However, absolute confirmation of the diagnosis was obtained using immunocytochemistry with calcitonin. Medullary cell carcinomas of the thyroid usually spread locally and metastasis to the brain has never before been reported.
Endogenous opioid systems have been implicated in the consequences of social isolation and in the regulation of social behavior, although their precise role is not clear. There is not much information on a possible locus in the brain at which opioids exert their effects on social behavior. In an effort to address this issue we analyzed regional opioidergic activity upon social isolation-induced social interaction using in vivo autoradiography. Animals were either socially isolated for 7 days or group housed, and tested singly or in a dyadic encounter. Subsequently, a tracer dose of [3H]diprenorphine was administered and in vivo autoradiographic analysis was performed. Seven days of social isolation caused changes in both social behavior (dyadic encounters) and non-social behavior (singly tested animals). Opioid receptor binding was increased in the medial prefrontal cortex and the parafascicular area in isolates, suggesting that social isolation may evoke an upregulation of opioid receptors in these areas. Social interaction increased opioid binding in the parafascicular area of non-isolated rats. In substantia nigra para compacta and ventral tegmental area binding was increased upon social isolation, and social interaction decreased opioid binding in isolates, but these changes failed to reach significance. These observed local changes in opioid receptor binding suggest a role for opioid systems in discrete areas in the consequences of social isolation and the regulation of social behavior in rats.
Suramin is an experimental chemotherapeutic agent which produces a severe dose-related neuropathy. Suramin inhibits axonal growth from rat dorsal root ganglion neurons. This inhibition is dose dependent and reversed by increasing nerve growth factor concentrations. In this study, myelinating dorsal root ganglion cultures were exposed to various concentrations of suramin and nerve growth factor. Effects were assessed with quantitative light and electron microscopy. Using a systematic sampling technique, suramin was observed to produce dose and time-dependent myelinated fiber degeneration. With 9-day exposure, there was no effect with suramin concentrations of 100 microM or less. At 200 microM, 17% of the myelinated fibers were degenerating at 4 days and 53.3% by 9 days. At 300 microM, 72.7% of the myelinated fibers and at 1316 microM, 88.7% of the myelinated fibers were degenerating at 4 days. It appeared that secondary demyelination was the major process. Large multilamellar inclusion bodies filled Schwann cells, particularly those investing unmyelinated fibers and dorsal root ganglia neuron cell bodies. The size and frequency of these inclusions increased with prolonged exposure to suramin (300 microM). Immunohistochemistry revealed that the inclusions were composed primarily of GM1 ganglioside. These effects were not influenced by increasing nerve growth factor up to 500 ng/ml. We conclude that suramin causes injury to both axons and Schwann cells that is not prevented by NGF and produces and experimental form of GM1 gangliosidosis.
Several indices of free radical generation were determined in limbic structures after kainate (KA)-induced seizure activity in adult and postnatal day (PND) 12 and 17 rats. Superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase activities were measured in piriform cortex and hippocampal subfields at 8, 16, 48 h, and 5 days after KA injection in adults and pups, and also at 3 weeks postinjection in adults. KA-induced seizure activity had no significant effect on enzyme activities in PND 12 and 17 rats. In adults, superoxide dismutase and catalase activities were significantly increased at 5 days after KA administration, and returned to preinjection levels by 3 weeks. Glutathione peroxidase activity was also increased significantly at 5 days postinjection, but remained elevated at 3 weeks. Lipid peroxidation, as indicated by malondialdehyde (MDA) concentration, exhibited an early significant increase at 8 and 16 h, followed at 48 h and 5 days by a significant decrease. At 3 weeks postinjection, MDA levels were still significantly decreased in CA3 and dentate gyrus. KA administration in PND 12 and 17 rats had no significant effect on MDA content. KA-induced seizure activity in adults also resulted in a large and sustained increase in protein oxidation in piriform cortex and hippocampus. The early increase in MDA and protein oxidation in adult rats strongly suggests the involvement of oxygen free radicals in the initial phases of KA-induced pathology, whereas the changes in scavenging enzyme activities and MDA content at 5 days and 3 weeks post KA injection possibly reflect glial proliferation subsequent to neuronal death.
In mammals, the sympathetic neurotransmitter is norepinephrine (NE), and the main adrenomedullary hormone is epinephrine (EPI). The sources and physiological roles of the third endogenous catecholamine, dopamine (DA), outside the brain have been obscure. Several lines of evidence suggest that in the periphery, rather than DA serving only as the precursor for the active compounds, released from sympathetic nerves and the adrenal medulla, DA may also act as an autocrine/paracrine regulator of local organ function. Thus, in the kidneys, most of DA formation appears to be from proximal tubular uptake of plasma DOPA, and binding of locally formed DA to dopaminergic receptors decreases Na/K ATPase activity and thereby accentuates natriuresis. In the gastric mucosa, DA may modulate sodium absorption and acid secretion. Recent clinical and laboratory animal evidence has indicated that the lungs and mesenteric organs contribute substantially to total body production and metabolism of DA. Generation of DA in non-noradrenergic, non-adrenergic cells can explain why human urine contains higher concentrations of DA and its metabolites than of NE and its metabolites. The vast preponderance of plasma DA in humans is sulfoconjugated. Since patients with sympathoneural failure have normal plasma levels of DA sulfate, one may speculate that the sulfoconjugating mechanism is relatively independent of sympathetic nerves and acts to localize DA effects and inactivate DA entering the circulation. These considerations lead to the concept of a third peripheral catecholaminergic system, where DA derived from plasma DOPA acts as an autocrine/paracrine substance and is inactivated by conjugation.
Two machine learning techniques were evaluated for automatic design of a rule-based control of functional electrical stimulation (FES) for locomotion of spinal cord injured humans. The task was to learn the invariant characteristics of the relationship between sensory information and the FES-control signal by using off-line supervised training. Sensory signals were recorded using pressure sensors installed in the insoles of a subject's shoes and goniometers attached across the joints of the affected leg. The FES-control consisted of pulses corresponding to time intervals when the subject pressed on the manual push-button to deliver the stimulation during FES-assisted ambulation. The machine learning techniques used were the adaptive logic network (ALN) [1] and the inductive learning algorithm (IL) [2]. Results to date suggest that, given the same training data, the IL learned faster than the ALN, while both performed the test rapidly. The generalization was estimated by measuring the test errors and it was better with an ALN, especially if past points were used to reflect the time dimension. Both techniques were able to predict future stimulation events. An advantage of the ALN over the IL was that ALN's can be retrained with new data without losing previously collected knowledge. The advantages of the IL over the ALN were that the IL produces small, explicit, comprehensible trees and that the relative importance of each sensory contribution can be quantified.

We examined the effects of interleukin-3 (IL-3) and other hematopoietic cytokines on the neurotransmitters, neurite formation, and differentiation in cholinergic and other types of neurons. IL-3, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), macrophage colony-stimulating factor, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor and erythropoietin (Epo) elevated choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity in septal cholinergic cell line SN6 as well as in primary cultured septal neurons without increasing protein contents of the cells. These effects were dose-dependent and the optimal doses were not different from those for blood cells. IL-3 had neurite-promoting activity but GM-CSF had no such effect. Both IL-3 and GM-CSF decreased intracellular acetylcholine concentration, and elevated glutamic acid decarboxylase and intracellular GABA in septal neuronal cultures. Epo elevated monoamines in PC12 cells. These effects are thought to result from direct action through their specific receptors in neurons, because (i) anti-IL-3-receptor antibody abolished the ChAT activity in septal neurons increased by IL-3; (ii) mRNA and immunoreactivity for beta subunits of IL-3 receptors were expressed in septal cholinergic neurons and (iii) presence of receptors for GM-CSF and Epo in neurons has been reported. Our observation and others strongly support that neural-immune interactions are important not only in the defense mechanism in the nervous system but also in the development, differentiation and function of neurons.
The effects of the proopiomelanocortin-(POMC)-derived peptide gamma 2-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (gamma 2-MSH) on mean arterial blood pressure (BP: MAP), heart rate (HR), internal and total carotid blood flow (BF) (CFint and CFtot, respectively), and regional cerebrocortical blood flow (CBF) were measured in urethane-anesthetized rats after intravenous (i.v.) and intracarotid (i.car.) administration of the peptide. gamma 2-MSH (1.5-100 nmol/kg) administered i.v. and i.car. caused a dose-dependent increase in MAP and HR. Injection of the peptide i.car. in the middose range resulted in a more pronounced pressor effect. Furthermore, the earlier onset of the hemodynamic effects after i.car. injection suggests that forebrain structures play a role in these effects. In addition to the pressor response, gamma 2-MSH produced a strong increase in CFint, CFtot, and CBF after both routes of administration, suggesting an increased intracerebral BF. Whereas the effects of the higher doses of gamma 2-MSH on MAP and CFtot were quantitatively comparable after either the intravenous or intracarotid administration, the effect on regional CBF and CFint was about twice as high after i.car. infusion, indicating a centrally mediated phenomenon underlying this effect on CBF. The increase in CFint cannot in itself be ascribed to a gamma 2-MSH-mediated higher perfusion pressure (i.e., BP), since an equipressor dose of norepinephrine (NE) caused a significant decrease in CFint. The significant and more than twofold higher increase in CBF after intracarotid administration of gamma 2-MSH in comparison with administration of NE by the same route also suggests a central origin for the enhancement of microcirculatory flow due to the peptide.
The sympathetic nervous system and the pituitary-adrenocortical system are two of the body's main stress effector systems. Animal studies have indicated that exogenously administered glucocorticoids inhibit sympathetic outflows and interfere with the function of presynaptic alpha 2-adrenoceptors modulating neuronal norepinephrine (NE) release. The present study tested whether glucocorticoids produce similar effects in humans. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over experiment, 15 healthy subjects took 20 mg prednisone or placebo orally daily each morning for 1 week, followed by the other drug after a 1-week washout. On the last day of each treatment week, blood samples were drawn for assays of plasma levels of catechols and ACTH before and after iv infusion of the alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine (YOH) (0.125 mg/kg bolus, 0.001 mg.kg-1.min-1 infusion). In 7 subjects, directly recorded peroneal skeletal muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) was also measured at baseline and after YOH infusion at the end of both treatment weeks. Prednisone decreased plasma NE levels and MSNA compared with levels after placebo (1.09 +/- 0.11 nmol/L vs. 1.40 +/- 0.13 nmol/L, P &lt; 0.01; 30 +/- 4 bursts/min vs. 36 +/- 3 bursts/min, P &lt; 0.05) without affecting blood pressure or pulse rate. YOH increased mean arterial blood pressure by 12% (P &lt; 0.001) and heart rate by 7% (P &lt; 0.05); prednisone did not alter these effects of YOH. YOH-induced proportionate increments in plasma NE levels averaged about 10 times those in MSNA. Prednisone did not affect the YOH-induced proportionate increments in plasma NE levels (placebo, 243%; prednisone, 237%) or MSNA (placebo, 22%; prednisone, 23%). The decrements in MSNA and plasma NE levels after prednisone treatment indicate that glucocorticoids inhibit sympathoneural outflows in humans. The 10-fold larger NE than MSNA response to YOH confirms substantial inhibitory modulation of NE release by alpha 2-adrenoceptors on noradrenergic terminals, and the similarity of responses to YOH after prednisone or placebo suggests that glucocorticoid-induced sympathoinhibition occurs independently of altered modulatory function of alpha 2-adrenoceptors on noradrenergic terminals.
The metabolism of many neuroleptics cosegregates catalyzed by the polymorphic cytochrome P450 CYP2D6. The population can be phenotyped into extensive metabolizers (EM) and poor metabolizers (PM) with respect to this enzyme's activity. PM are likely to achieve higher than average concentrations of neuroleptic drugs in plasma, with an increased risk of extrapyramidal side effects, possibly including tardive dyskinesia. Sixteen white schizophrenic patients who had developed tardive dyskinesia during long-term neuroleptic treatment were phenotyped with debrisoquine and genotyped by CYP2D6-specific DNA amplification and EcoRI restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. Only 1 (6%) of the 16 patients had a PM genotype, 8 (50%) were homozygous, and 7 (44%) were heterozygous EM. None had a CYP2D6 genotype indicative of ultrarapid debrisoquine hydroxylation capacity. The patients were also phenotyped with mephenytoin, a probe drug for another polymorphic cytochrome P450, CYP2C19. One patient was a PM of S-mephenytoin, which corresponds to the frequency found in healthy white volunteers. In conclusion, there was no overrepresentation of PM of debrisoquine or of S-mephenytoin among the 16 patients with neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesia. However, the PM of debrisoquine had the highest score on the Simpson-Angus Rating Scale and the second highest on the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale, despite a very low neuroleptic dose. Also, the debrisoquine MR correlated significantly with the SARS score (rs = 0.685, p &lt; 0.05, N = 10), indicating a relationship between the degree of impaired CYP2D5 activity and the severity of extrapyramidal side effects during neuroleptic treatment.
Long-term recall memory was assessed using a nonverbal method requiring subjects to reenact a past event from memory (deferred imitation). A large sample of infants (N = 192), evenly divided between 14- and 16-months old, was tested across two experiments. A delay of 2 months was used in Experiment 1 and a delay of 4 months in Experiment 2. In both experiments two treatment groups were used. In one treatment group, motor practice (immediate imitation) was allowed before the delay was imposed; in the other group, subjects were prevented from motor practice before the delay. Age-matched control groups were used to assess the spontaneous production of the target acts in the absence of exposure to the model in both experiments. The results demonstrated significant deferred imitation for both treatment groups at both delay intervals, and moreover showed that infants retained and imitated multiple acts. These findings suggest that infants have a nonverbal declarative memory system that supports the recall of past events across long-term delays. The implications of these findings for the multiple memory system debate in cognitive science and neuroscience and for theories of infantile amnesia are considered.
Visual search tasks in which participants searched for an odd element in a subset of items were investigated. Participants searched for an item of odd orientation in the red subset. The target was a red line of X degree, distractors were green lines of X degree and red lines of Y degree. The orientations, X and Y, changed on every trial. In this task, orientation information was useful only after color had been used to select the relevant subset. Results show that response time (RT) and error data were different from standard color X orientation conjunction searches (Experiment 1). RT x Set Size functions had slopes near 0 ms per item (Experiment 2). The selection of the subset appeared to take 200-300 ms (Experiments 2 and 3). Subset selection was based on properties of the relevant subset, not the irrelevant subset (Experiment 4). It was more difficult (perhaps impossible) to select a subset defined by 2 colors (Experiment 5). Random variation in an irrelevant dimension did not disrupt subset search (Experiment 6).
The effects of Cd2+ on the hyperpolarization-activated K(+)-mediated current called IAB (Araque, A., and W. Buo. 1994. Journal of Neuroscience. 14:399-408.) were studied under two-electrode voltage-clamp in opener muscle fibers of the crayfish Procambarus clarkii. IAB was reversibly reduced by extracellular Cd2+ in a concentration-dependent manner, obeying the Hill equation with IC50 = 0.452 +/- 0.045 mM and a Hill coefficient of 1 (determined from the maximal chord conductance of IAB). Cd2+ decreased the IAB conductance (GAB) and shifted its voltage dependence towards hyperpolarized potentials in a similar degree, without affecting the slope of the voltage dependence. The IAB activation time constant increased, whereas the IAB deactivation time constant was not modified by Cd2+. The IAB equilibrium potential (EAB) was unmodified by Cd2+, indicating that the selective permeability of IAB channels was not altered. IAB was unaffected by intracellular Cd2+. The Cd(2+)-regulation of IAB did not depend on [K+]o, and the effects of [K+]o on IAB were unchanged by Cd2+, indicating that Cd2+ did not compete with K+. Therefore, Cd2+ probably bound to a different site to that involved in the K+ permeability pathway. We conclude that Cd2+ affected the gating of IAB channels, interfering with their opening but not with their closing mechanism. The results can be explained by a kinetic model in which the binding of Cd2+ to the IAB channels would stabilize the gating apparatus at its resting position, increasing the energy barrier for the transition from the closed to the open channel states.
We describe a new method for embedding small specimens in polyethylene glycol (PEG) 4000. This method preserves cell morphology and provides sensitive immunocytochemical labeling with excellent subcellular resolution. Small tissues are embedded in agarose so that they can be grouped together and oriented for sectioning before infiltration with PEG 4000, a water-soluble polymer. Fixation, embedding, sectioning, and staining can be performed in 1 day. Results from immunocytochemical studies localizing actin and tubulin on 0.5-micron sections of PEG-embedded specimens are compared with those obtained on semi-thin sections of araldite-embedded specimens and demonstrate the ease, speed, and increased sensitivity of this embedding method.

During whole-cell patch-clamp recording from normal (nontransformed) human T lymphocytes a chloride current spontaneously activated in &gt; 98% of cells (n &gt; 200) in the absence of applied osmotic or pressure gradients. However, some volume sensitivity was observed, as negative pressure pulses reduced the current. With iso-osmotic bath and pipette solutions the peak amplitude built up (time constant approximately 23 sec at room temperature), a variable-duration plateau phase followed, then the current ran down spontaneously (time constant approximately 280 sec). The anion permeability sequence, calculated from reversal potentials was I-, Br- &gt; NO3-, Cl- &gt; CH3SO3-, HCO3- &gt; CH3COO- &gt; F- &gt; aspartate, gluconate, SO4(2-) and there was no measurable monovalent cation permeability. The Cl- current was independent of time during long voltage steps and there was no evidence of voltage-dependent gating; however, the current showed intrinsic outward rectification in symmetrical Cl- solutions. The conductance of the channels underlying the whole-cell current was calculated from fluctuation analysis, using power-spectral density and variance-vs.-mean analysis. Both methods yielded a single channel conductance of about 0.6 pS at -70 mV (close to the normal resting potential of T lymphocytes). The power spectral density function was best fit by the sum of two Lorentzian functions, with corner frequencies of 30 and 295 Hz, corresponding to mean open times of 0.54 and 5.13 msec. The pharmacological profile included rapid block by external application of flufenamic acid (50 microM), 5-nitro-2-(3-phenylpropylamino)-benzoic acid (NPPB, 100 microM), [6,7-dichloro-2-cyclopentyl-2,3- dihydro-2-methyl-1-oxo-1H-inden-5-yl)oxy] acetic acid (IAA-94, 250 microM) or 100 microM 1,9-dideoxyforskolin. The stilbene derivatives DIDS (4,4'-diisothiocyano-2,2' disulphonic acid stilbene, 500 microM) and SITS (4-acetamido-4'-isothiocyano-2,2'-disulphonic acid stilbene, 500 microM) prevented buildup of Cl- current after a 30-min preincubation at 500 microM. When tested in a mitogenic assay, DIDS, flufenamic acid, NPPB and IAA-94 all inhibited T-cell proliferation, suggesting a physiological function in addition to the observed volume sensitivity.
To gain a better understanding of Ca(2+)-induced Ca2+ release in central neurons, we have studied the increase in intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) induced by application of caffeine to cells cultured from embryonic mouse telencephalon (hippocampus or cortex). The magnitudes and distributions of changes in [Ca2+]i in neuron somata were measured by quantitative video microscopy. We observed that application of caffeine to pyramidally shaped neurons typically initiated an increase in [Ca2+]i in the cytoplasmic region between the nucleus and the base of a major dendrite. [Ca2+] in this region increased over a period of 3 to 6 s and was followed by, with a slight delay, a surge of Ca2+ that moved across the soma and into or over the nucleus. Similar Ca2+ responses to caffeine were observed in Ca(2+)-containing and nominally Ca(2+)-free external solutions, suggesting that caffeine was inducing Ca2+ release from intracellular stores. Ca2+ responses to caffeine were potentiated by inducing a tonic Ca2+ influx through N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptors activated by 0.3 microM glutamate and multiple responses to caffeine could be elicited by using this Ca2+ influx to refill the intracellular stores. Ryanodine inhibition of caffeine-induced Ca2+ release was use- and concentration-dependent; the median effective concentration EC50 for ryanodine declined from 22 microM for the first application of caffeine to 20 nM for the fourth. We conclude, based on these responses to caffeine, that ryanodine-sensitive mechanisms of intracellular Ca2+ release are active in hippocampal and cortical neurons and may be involved in generation of directed Ca2+ waves that engulf the nucleus.
Following peripheral nerve transection, a series of biochemical changes occurs in axons and Schwann cells both at the site of the lesion and distal to it. Macrophages differentiated from monocytes that invade the area in response to transection (elicited macrophages) and, perhaps, also macrophages normally present in the tissue (resident macrophages) play important roles in these changes. In addition, nerve transection produces changes in the cell bodies of axotomized neurons and their surrounding glial cells, located at some distance from the lesion. To determine whether macrophages might play a role in the changes occurring in the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) after axotomy, we examined the presence of macrophages before and after axonal damage. The monoclonal antibodies ED1, ED2, and OX6 were used, each of which recognizes a somewhat different population of macrophages. Ganglia from normal rats contained a population of resident cells that were ED2+ but very few that were ED1+. Within 2 days after the post-ganglionic nerves were transected, the number of ED1+ cells increased substantially, with little change in immunostaining for ED2. These data, in combination with published studies on other tissues, suggest that ED1 in the SCG is selective for elicited macrophages and ED2 for resident macrophages. OX6 immunostaining was prominent in normal ganglia but also increased significantly after axotomy, suggesting that it reflects both macrophage populations. Systemic administration of 6-hydroxydopamine, a neurotoxin that causes the destruction of sympathetic nerve endings, also produced an increase in ED1 immunostaining. Thus, the change in ED1 immunostaining in the SCG does not require surgery, with the attendant severing of local blood vessels and connective tissue, but rather only the disconnection of sympathetic neurons from their end organs. The time course of the invasion of monocytes after axotomy indicates that this process is not required to trigger the biochemical changes occurring in the ganglion within the first 24 h. On the other hand, the existence of a resident population of macrophages raises the possibility that changes in those cells might be involved.
Plasma and CSF concentrations of endogenous L-DOPA, catecholamines, and metabolites of monoamines were assayed in a patient with atypical phenylketonuria due to absent dihydropteridine reductase (DHPR), before and during treatment with folinic acid, Sinemet, and 5-hydroxytryptophan. The patient had low but detectable levels of L-DOPA, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG) in plasma and low but detectable levels of these compounds and of homovanillic acid (HVA) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in CSF, with approximately normal plasma and CSF levels of norepinephrine [noradrenaline (NA)]. Folinic acid treatment approximately doubled plasma levels of L-DOPA, NA, DOPAC, and DHPG, compared with values during dietary phenylalanine restriction alone. Detection of L-DOPA, catecholamines, and monoamine metabolites in this patient indicates that monoamine synthesis in humans does not absolutely require DHPR. The results are consistent with the existence of an alternative biochemical pathway, with folinic acid treatment augmenting activity along this pathway. Low plasma levels of L-DOPA, DOPAC, and DHPG may reflect decreased catecholamine synthesis and turnover in sympathetic nerves, with compensatory increases in exocytotic release normalizing plasma NA levels.
We have investigated the presence and expression of laminin and neuropeptide Y (NPY) in several NG108-15 cell lines transfected with synapsin Ib, IIa, or IIb. The content of laminin, a basal membrane glycoprotein that promotes adhesion and induces neurite out-growth and neuronal differentiation, was increased in all transfected cell lines examined. In cells that were chemically differentiated with prostaglandin E1 plus 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine, laminin levels were increased even further. The content of NPY, suggested to be a neurotransmitter/neuromodulator in peripheral sympathetic neurons as well as in central neurons, was also increased in all transfected cell lines examined. Immunohistochemical analysis combined with confocal laser microscopy showed that NPY staining was granular and very often enriched in neuritic varicosities. The distribution and the staining pattern of NPY were consistent with storage of NPY in large dense-cored vesicles. The results indicate that, in differentiated neurons, the synapsins increase the levels of a neuropeptide transmitter stored in large dense-cored vesicles and of an extracellular matrix protein associated with neuronal maturation.
Muscimol-stimulated radiotracer 36CI- uptake in synaptoneurosomes was used to investigate the function of the GABAA receptor complex in the CA1-3 area and fascia dentata (granular and molecular layers and hilus) of rats kindled by stimulation, twice a day, of the Schaffer collateral fibers. Two kindled groups were studied: (a) 24 h after the last generalized tonic-clonic seizure [fully kindled (FK) stage] and (b) 28 days after the last generalized seizure (long-term stage). Synaptoneurosomes were prepared in parallel from subslices of the CA1-3 area and fascia dentata. In FK animals, the muscimol-stimulated 36CI- uptake was significantly reduced by 21% in the CA1-3 area in comparison with nonstimulated controls, whereas a significant increase of 29% was found in the fascia dentata. Significant changes were no longer present at 4 weeks after the last generalized seizure. The observed changes in muscimol-stimulated 36CI- uptake at the FK stage closely parallel the recently observed changes in [3H]muscimol binding in the CA1 area and fascia dentata. These results indicate that kindling causes a transiently decreased GABAA receptor-mediated function in the CA1-3, in contrast to an increased GABAA receptor-mediated function in the fascia dentata.
Quinolinic acid is an excitatory, neurotoxic tryptophan metabolite proposed to play a role in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy. This involvement was investigated in rat and rabbit models of fulminant hepatic failure at different stages of hepatic encephalopathy. Although plasma and brain tryptophan levels were significantly increased in all stages of hepatic encephalopathy, quinolinic acid levels increased three-to sevenfold only in the plasma, CSF, and brain regions of animals in stage IV hepatic encephalopathy. Plasma-CSF and plasma-brain quinolinic acid levels in rats and rabbits with fulminant hepatic failure were strongly correlated, with CSF and brain concentrations approximately 10% those of plasma levels. Moreover, there was no significant regional difference in brain quinolinic acid concentrations in either model. Extrahepatic indoleamine-2,3-dioxygenase activity was not altered in rats in stage IV hepatic encephalopathy, but hepatic L-tryptophan-2,3-dioxygenase activity was increased. These results suggest that quinolinic acid synthesized in the liver enters the plasma and then accumulates in the CNS after crossing a permeabilized blood-brain barrier in the end stages of liver failure. Furthermore, the observation of low brain concentrations of quinolinic acid only in stage IV encephalopathy suggests that the contribution of quinolinic acid to the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy in these animal models is minor.
Pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF), purified from human fetal retinal pigment epithelium cell culture medium, was shown to potentiate the differentiation of human Y-79 retinoblastoma cells. To investigate potential neurotrophic effects of PEDF on neurons other than those of retinal derivation, we used cultures of cerebellar granule cells. The number of cerebellar granule cells was significantly larger in the presence of PEDF, as demonstrated by an assay for viable cells that uses 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3- carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium, inner salt, conversion, by cell count, and by immunocytochemistry. The effect of PEDF showed a dose-response relationship, with a larger effect in chemically defined medium than in serum-containing medium [ED50 = 30 ng/ml (0.70 nM) in chemically defined medium and 100 ng/ml (2.3 nM) in serum-containing medium]. PEDF had no effect on incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine (cell proliferation) or on neurofilament content (neurite outgrowth) measured by an enzyme-linked immunoadsorbent assay. These results demonstrate that PEDF has a neurotrophic survival effect on cerebellar granule cells in culture and suggest the possibility that it may affect other CNS neurons as well.
Transporters associated with antigen processing and presentation (TAP1 and TAP2) have been considered candidate genes in MS susceptibility based on evidence from experimental animal models confirming antigenic peptide selection by transporter polymorphisms and by the proximity of these transporter genes to the DR- and DQ-associated alleles known to confer disease risk in man. We report here an association study examining the influence of TAP gene polymorphisms on MS susceptibility in a Canadian patient population. Our results do not support a role for the five polymorphisms examined in the etiology of this disease.
The effects of increasing postmortem delay (PMD) times on morphological, immunological and functional characteristics of various brain cells both in situ and in vitro were studied in postmortem brain tissue derived from rats with acute experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE). A decline of the brain tissue structure was first noted after a PMD of 6 h. Radial glia in the cerebellum were frequently interrupted and retractions artifacts appeared around brain cells. However, even after the longest PMD interval of 18 h the quality of the cell and tissue structure was still good enough for immunohistochemical characterization. Immunohistochemical staining of frozen and fixed rat brain tissue sections resulted in an enhancement of the immunoreactivity after a PMD of 4 h, using a panel of mono and polyclonal antibodies directed against glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), basement membranes (laminin), brain macrophage antigens (ED1 and ED2), and various immunologically important surface molecules, such as major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II (Ia) antigen (OX6), CR3 complement receptor (ED8), and leukocyte common antigen (OX1). No increase in staining intensities with the ED1, ED8 and OX6 mAbs specific for macrophage antigens could be detected on brain macrophages that were isolated from brain tissue of rats with EAE obtained after various PMD intervals. Irrespective of the PMD interval, viable astrocyte cell cultures were obtained with comparable staining intensities for GFAP. These cultured astrocytes were capable of ingesting Latex beads and were highly proliferative as measured by BrdU uptake, at all investigated PMDs. Thus, even after long PMD intervals, brain material can be used successfully. Other data suggest that the situation is similar to human brain material, even though the PMD times may be somewhat different.
Patients with typical left unilateral spatial neglect bisected lines after cueing to the left end-point, the fixation point being monitored with an eye camera. They persisted with the point of initial fixation made after cueing and placed the mark there without searching leftwards again. The rightward shift of fixation to the initial point of fixation thus determined the location of the subjective midpoint. We consider that rightward attentional bias increased the amplitude of this shift that was planned on the basis of the perception of the whole line while cueing. This hypothesis may explain smaller but obvious rightward bisection errors found in the cueing condition.

Electromyographic (EMG) activity of orbicularis oculi and levator palpebrae muscles was recorded to study the origin of involuntary eyelid closure in 33 patients. The evoked blink reflex in all patients and in 23 controls was also studied. To examine the excitability of facial motoneurons and bulbar interneurons in individual patients and to compare the results with EMG findings, R1 and R2 recovery indices were calculated in all subjects, as the average of recovery values at 0.5, 0.3, and 0.21 second interstimulus intervals. Based on EMG patterns, the patients were divided into three subclasses: EMG subclass 1, 10 patients with involuntary discharges solely in orbicularis oculi muscle; EMG subclass 2, 20 patients with involuntary discharges in orbicularis oculi and either involuntary levator palpebrae inhibition or a disturbed reciprocal innervation between orbicularis oculi and levator palpebrae; EMG subclass 3, three patients who did not have blepharospasm, but had involuntary levator palpebrae inhibition in association with a basal ganglia disease. The total patient group showed an enhanced recovery of both R1 and R2 components compared with controls. Although 30 out of 33 patients had blepharospasm (EMG subclasses 1 and 2), R1 recovery index was normal in 64% and R2 recovery index was normal in 54%. Patients with an abnormal R2 recovery index had an abnormal R1 recovery index significantly more often. All patients from EMG subclass 1 had an abnormal R2 recovery index, whereas all patients from EMG subclass 3 had normal recovery indices for both R1 and R2 responses. Seventy five per cent of the patients from EMG subclass 2 had normal recovery indices. The results provide further evidence that physiologically blepharospasm is not a homogeneous disease entity, and indicate that different pathophysiological mechanisms at the suprasegmental, or segmental level, or both are involved.
Mutations of mitochondrial DNA have now been identified in the majority of patients with Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON). However, these mutations do not explain all the clinical features of LHON, and other pathogenetic factors are likely to be operating. We have analysed serum from 69 LHON patients and their relatives, 58 controls and 14 patients with ischemic or compressive optic neuropathy. A significant proportion of LHON patients had circulating antibodies to tubulin protein. This finding supports the theory that autoimmunity may play some role in the pathogenesis of LHON.
1. Intracellular recordings, in conjunction with fura-2 fluorescence imaging, were used to evaluate the contribution of the different Ca2+ channel subtypes to the Ca2+ influx induced by back-propagating trains of action potentials. High-threshold channels contributed mainly to Ca2+ influx in pyramidal cell somata and proximal dendrites, whereas low-threshold and other Ni(2+)-sensitive channels played a greater role in more distal dendritic signaling. These data suggest that the different Ca2+ channel types participate in distinct physiological functions; low-threshold channels likely play a greater role in dendritic integration, whereas high-threshold channels are more important for somatic Ca(2+)-dependent processes.
The purpose of this paper is to report a case of medullary ischemia diagnosed by MRI and to determine any MRI characteristics that may be useful for the diagnosis in the light of the published data. The patient was a 60 year-old male with hypertension and diabetes, referred to us for flaccid paraparesis and sphincter disorders of acute onset. Physical examination revealed, beside flaccid paraparesis, both superficial and deep hypoesthesia at L1 level and greater on the right. MRI showed a small area of signal hyperintensity on T2 weighted images and in proton density localized in the posterior part of the spinal cord at the level of T12 body. The patient was treated with oral antidiabetic, antiaggregant and antihypertensive drugs as well as neuromotor rehabilitation, and his clinical conditions improved; a control MRI, six months later, showed disappearance of the previous finding and only mild medullary atrophy at the level of the lesion. Medullary ischemia has been observed in a variety of pathological conditions (inflammatory, neoplastic, traumatic degenerative and iatrogenic), and most frequently involves the dorsal portion of the spinal cord. Four clinical-pathological manifestations of medullary ischemia have been described: infarction from occlusion of the anterior spinal artery; &quot;patchy&quot; or &quot;lacunae infarction&quot;; &quot;transverse ischemic infarction&quot;; selective ischemia in the regions of the posterior spinal arteries. A review of the literature yielded 61 cases of spinal ischemia diagnosed by MRI for a total number of 80 MRI scans, 12 of which were long-term controls.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Only recently has it been appreciated that neuronal nicotinic ACh receptors (NnAChRs) are highly permeable to Ca2+ and are modulated by Ca2+ in a dose-dependent manner. These findings suggest that Ca2+ could have roles in cholinergic synaptic plasticity. We report a possible mechanism for Ca(2+)-initiated synaptic plasticity that differs from the intracellular Ca2+ cascade associated with plasticity of glutamatergic synapses. Rapid changes in external Ca2+ modulate cholinergic spontaneous synaptic currents in superior cervical ganglionic sympathetic neurons. Inhibition of cholinergic currents by chlorisondamine, which blocks only open channels and becomes trapped in the pore, showed that the modulation is not by a mechanism that activates a previously unresponsive population of NnAChRs. Rather, single-channel recordings with ganglionic NnAChRs from chromaffin cells indicated that Ca2+ directly alters the probability of the channels being open. We hypothesize from the results that activity-dependent decreases in external Ca2+, which occur throughout the nervous system, could directly underlie a rapid negative-feedback mechanism that decreases the responsiveness of NnAChRs at synapses. When external Ca2+ is decreased, presynaptic Ca2+ currents and transmitter release also are diminished. Thus, several mechanisms could combine to potently and rapidly depress synaptic nicotinic receptors until the external Ca2+ concentration recovers.
As axons advance to appropriate target tissues during development, their growth cones encounter a variety of cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) and extracellular matrix molecules (ECM molecules). Purified CAMs and ECM molecules influence neurite outgrowth in vitro and are thought to have a similar function in vivo. For example, when retinal ganglion cell (RGC) neurons are grown on different CAM and ECM molecule substrates in vitro, their growth cones display distinctive morphologies (Payne et al., 1992). Similarly, RGC growth cones in vivo have distinctive shapes at different points in the pathway from the eye to the tectum, suggesting the presence of localized cues that determine growth cone behaviors such as pathway selection at choice points. In this report, time-lapse video microscopy was utilized to examine dynamic transformations of RGC growth cones as they progressed from L1/8D9, N-cadherin, or laminin onto a different substrate. Contact made by the leading edge of a growth cone with a new substrate resulted in a rapid and dramatic alteration in growth cone morphology. In some cases, the changes encompassed the entire growth cone including those regions not in direct contact with the new substrate. In addition, the growth cones displayed a variety of behavioral responses that were dependent upon the order of substrate contact. These studies demonstrate that growth cones are actively affected by the substrate, and suggest that abrupt changes in the molecular composition of the growth cone environment are influential during axonal pathfinding.
Potassium channels play major roles in the regulation of many aspects of neuronal excitability. These channels are particularly well suited for such multiplicity of roles since there is a large diversity of channel types. This diversity contributes to the ability of specific neurons (and possibly different regions of the same neuron) to respond uniquely to a given input. Neuronal integration depends on the local response of spatially segregated inputs to the cell and the communication of these integration centers with the axon. Therefore, the functional implications of a given set of K+ channels varies depending on their precise location on the neuronal surface. Site-specific antibodies were utilized to characterize the distribution of KV3.1b, a subunit of voltage-gated K+ channels in CNS neurons. KV3.1b subunits are expressed in specific neuronal populations of the rat brain, such as cerebellar granule cells, projecting neurons of deep cerebellar nuclei, the substantia nigra pars-reticulata, the globus pallidus, and the ventral thalamus (reticular thalamic nucleus, ventral lateral geniculate and zona incerta). The KV3.1b protein is also present in various neuronal populations involved in the processing of auditory signals, including the inferior colliculus, the nuclei of the lateral lemniscus, the superior olive, and some parts of the cochlear nuclei; as well as in several other neuronal groups in the brainstem (e.g., in the oculomotor nucleus, the pontine nuclei, the reticulotegmental nucleus of the pons, trigeminal and vestibular nuclei, and the reticular formation) and subsets of neurons in the neocortex, the hippocampus and the caudate-putamen shown by double staining to correspond to neurons containing parvalbumin. KV3.1b subunits are localized predominantly in somatic and axonal membranes (particularly in axonal terminal fields) but are much less prominent in dendritic arborizations. This distribution is different than that of other subunits of voltage gated K+ channels and is consistent with a role in the modulation of action potentials. KV3.1b proteins have a cellular and subcellular distribution different than the related KV3.2 subunits which express in Xenopus oocytes currents similar to those expressed by KV3.1b.
In this study we recorded voltage gated Ca and K conductances with patch electrodes in hippocampal slices from female rats, which were ovariectomized (OVX) 1 week before the experiment. One experimental group was primed with estradiol at day 3 and 4 after OVX and received progesterone 4 hr before the start of the experiment. The second group was treated with estradiol at day 3 and 4, but received vehicle at the day of the experiment. The third group was not treated with hormones (only vehicle injections). We observed that the amplitude of both sustained and transient Ca currents were significantly enhanced in CA1 pyramidal neurons recorded in tissue from estradiol primed rats receiving progesterone when compared to the nontreated OVX controls; without estradiol priming Ca current amplitudes were small. Current amplitudes in tissue from rats treated with estradiol only, were at intermediate values. The voltage for half-maximal steady state inactivation of the transient Ca current was at a less negative value for the estradiol/progesterone treated group in comparison to the OVX controls. Input resistances of the cells, and voltage or kinetic properties of the currents as recorded under these conditions were comparable for the three groups. Characteristics of two voltage gated K conductances, that is, the transient IA and the delayed rectifier, displayed no consistent differences for the three experimental groups. We conclude that long-term modulation of estradiol and progesterone levels alters the Ca but not the K currents that were tested in CA1 pyramidal neurons. These alterations may be linked to steroid-induced morphological changes in dendrites of CA1 pyramidal cells.
Hypothalamic neurons control a variety of important hormonal and behavioral functions. Little is known, however, about the neurotrophic factors that these neurons may require for survival and/or maintenance of their differentiated functions. We conducted experiments to examine this issue, utilizing a combination of immunohistochemical, in situ hybridization and cell culture approaches. We found that the low affinity receptor for nerve growth factor (p75 NGFR) is present in small subsets of hypothalamic peptidergic neurons identified as such by their content of galanin, luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) and vasointestinal peptide (VIP). More prominently, however, examination of hypothalamic dopaminergic (DA) neurons for the presence of p75 NGFR-like immunoreactivity revealed that the receptor was present on tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons of the zona incerta and periventricular region, but not on neuroendocrine DA neurons of the tuberoinfundibular region. In situ hybridization experiments using a p75 NGFR cRNA confirmed this distribution. Regardless of the presence or absence of p75 NGFR, neither DA group expresses trkA mRNA, indicating that these two major hypothalamic subsets of DNA neurons are NGF-insensitive. A substantial fraction of TH mRNA-positive cells in the zona incerta expresses trkB mRNA, which encodes the receptor for brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF); in turn BDNF supports the in vitro survival of hypothalamic TH neurons bearing p75-NGFR, suggesting that BDNF is trophic for DNA neurons of the zona incerta. In contrast, tuberoinfundibular DA neurons do not express trkB mRNA, but some have trkC mRNA, which encodes the receptor for neurotrophin-3 (NT-3). The in vitro survival of TH neurons devoid of p75-NGFR is supported by NT-3, implying that NT-3 may be trophic for a subset of tuberoinfundibular DA neurons. These results suggest that, in spite of expressing an identical neurotransmitter phenotype, anatomically and functionally segregated DA neurons of the neurodendocrine brain are sustained by different neurotrophic factors.
Cytochrome-oxidase blobs are central to two of the most influential ideas in contemporary visual neuroscience--cortical modularity and parallel processing pathways. In particular, the regular 2D array of cytochrome-oxidase-rich blobs in primate visual cortex is arguably the most compelling evidence for cortical modularity and has been hypothesized to mark a separate processing stream through the visual cortex. Although previously a variety of mammals have been studied, blobs have only been demonstrated in the visual cortex of primates, which has led to the conclusion that blobs represent a primate-specific feature of visual cortical organization. Here we demonstrate the presence of cytochrome-oxidase blobs in a nonprimate species. Throughout the full tangential extent of layers II-III in cat visual cortex the cytochrome-oxidase staining pattern is distinctly patchy, with the darkly stained blobs forming a regular 2D array. In addition, the blobs in cat visual cortex are functionally related to the underlying ocular dominance columns. The presence of cytochrome-oxidase blobs in the cat clearly demonstrates that they no longer can be considered a primate-specific feature of visual cortical organization.
We investigated the role of capsaicin-sensitive small diameter fibers in the development of the thermal and mechanical allodynia in a new rat model for neuropathic pain, produced by transecting some but not all of the nerves innervating the tail. Capsaicin (50 mg/kg, s.c.) injected neonatally prior to the nerve injury produced thermal hypoalgesia in the tail the degree of which was variable across individual rats, presumably as a result of variable degeneration of the small diameter fibers. When subjected to the nerve injury, the animals with moderate thermal hypoalgesia exhibited signs of pain (e.g., tail flick) to normally innocuous mechanical stimuli applied to the tail with von Frey hairs (4.9 mN or 19.6 mN bending force), but not to thermal stimuli given by immersion of the tail into cold (4 degrees C) or warm (40 degrees C) water. The animals with marked thermal hypoalgesia, on the other hand, exhibited no signs of pain either to the mechanical or to the thermal stimuli. These results suggest that the capsaicin-sensitive fibers are critical in the development of both the mechanical and thermal allodynia. It is hypothesized that the destruction of A delta- and C-nociceptive fibers by capsaicin prevented activities induced in these fibers by the nerve injury from producing a central sensitization and thus allodynia.
The hippocampal slice preparation has contributed greatly to analysis of the basic neurophysiology of brain neurons. In addition, because traumatic dissociative procedures are not used, the in vitro slice is particularly well suited for studies of electrophysiological properties of hippocampal neurons in young and aged rodent brain. Using the slice, we have previously observed an aging-dependent enhancement of voltage-activated Ca2+ influx using a combination of intracellular sharp electrode current-clamp and voltage-clamp techniques. The Ca(2+)-dependent afterhyperpolarization as well as the Ca2+ action potential were significantly larger in aged rat neurons. Using the sharp electrode clamp method, similar effects were found for high voltage-activated whole-cell Ca2+ currents. In order to study the mechanistic bases of these aging phenomena at the single-channel level, we have recently focused on recording cell-attached patches from neurons in the partially dissociated hippocampal slice ('zipper' slice). This technique, developed by Gray et al. in 1990, subjects slices to a mild enzymatic treatment resulting in the exposure of individual neurons for patch-clamp procedures. Using this technique, we are currently recording single Ca2+ channel activity in hippocampal slices from 4- to 29-month-old rats.
Henry McIlwain is usually remembered for his major contributions to the discipline of neurochemistry. He also had a profound influence on electrophysiology by inventing and establishing the brain slice technique. This article describes some of his pioneering studies where he devised ways of preparing, both manually and mechanically (using the McIlwain tissue chopper), viable slices of mammalian cortical tissue and showed how these could be maintained in a brain slice chamber. His work with Choh-Luh Li (Li and McIlwain, 1957) on the first intracellular recording from brain slices and his work with Chosaburo Yamamoto (Yamamoto and McIlwain, 1966) describing the first study of synaptic transmission in brain slices are highlighted. In these studies, McIlwain started the use of brain slices to investigate functional anatomy, to study the effects of hypoxia and hypoglycaemia, to perform quantitative pharmacological analyses and to study synaptic plasticity: investigations which continue today to provide important insights into the functioning of the brain in health and disease.
The recent emergence of surgical treatment of childhood epilepsy has led to the accessibility of young human cerebral tissue for electrophysiological studies of the mechanisms involved in epileptogenesis. Intracellular recordings were obtained from neurons in slices prepared from neocortical tissue resected from children (3 months to 15 years) with catastrophic epilepsy. Data from 'least abnormal' versus 'most abnormal' tissue were compared; the evaluation of the degree of abnormality was based on several clinical criteria. Hypotheses concerning NMDA receptors, local synaptic circuits, and epileptiform bursts were tested. The NMDA receptor-mediated component of synaptic responses, which was isolated pharmacologically, had a voltage dependence that was functionally mature by 8-10 months of age and did not appear to be altered even in the most abnormal tissue. Local inhibitory and excitatory synaptic circuits were present as early as 11 months and 8 months, respectively. Local excitatory circuits were sufficiently extensive in young children to initiate and sustain epileptiform activity when synaptic inhibition was suppressed. Bicuculline-induced epileptiform bursts were similar to those in adult human or animal neocortical slices. Burst duration and the presence of after-discharges were unrelated to patient age or tissue abnormality. These data demonstrate that (1) the electrophysiological properties of human neocortical neurons are very similar to those observed in animal experiments, (2) the mechanisms of neuronal communication are qualitatively mature within the first year of life, and (3) synaptic transmission and local neuronal circuits appear qualitatively normal, even in the most abnormal tissue from children with catastrophic epilepsy.
We evaluated concentrations of excitatory amino acids released from slices into the superfusing solution and also evaluated extracellular field potential recordings and histological appearance of slice tissues to evaluate several sodium-channel modulating drugs as potential treatments for ischemia. The selective sodium-channel blocker tetrodotoxin (TTX, 1 microM) reduced glutamate release from deprivation of oxygen and D-glucose, while calcium-channel blockade was ineffective. Thus, during ischemia, we propose that glutamate may be released from the free cytosolic pool ('metabolic' glutamate) rather than by exocytosis. TTX (100-500 nM) and voltage-dependent sodium-channel blockers (phenytoin, 20-100 microM; lidocaine, 2-200 microM) each prevented damage to slices without blocking action potentials. The reduction of cellular depolarization and sodium loading during ischemia may explain the neuroprotective action of several sodium-channel modulating drugs in our in vitro studies and also in animal models.
Rhinocerebral mucormycosis is an acutely fatal fungal infection that usually arises in the ethmoid sinuses, spreads into the orbits and then into the cranial cavity. It is typically seen in diabetic or immunocompromised patients. Therapy includes aggressive surgical debridement, administration of high-dose amphotericin-B and control of underlying predisposing conditions. Adjunctive hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) is another treatment modality that appears to be promising; oxygen in sufficient concentrations is fungicidal and decreases acidosis thereby increasing tissue survival. It is important for the neuroscience nurse to have an understanding of this deadly infection and the role in preparing the patient for HBO therapy to better plan care.
Continuous cerebral blood flow monitors are being used in critically ill neuroscience patients to assess blood flow in vulnerable regions of the brain and to evaluate the effects of treatments on these areas. Neuroscience nurses need to interpret cerebral blood flow values in relation to the many other physiologic parameters which are monitored in this population. Case studies are used to illustrate various patterns of regional blood flow in response to brain insults and therapeutics. Research implications of continuous cerebral blood flow monitoring are explored.
The beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) has been implicated in the etiology of Alzheimer's disease (Kang et al.: Nature 325:733-736, 1987; Selkoe: Science 248:1058-1060, 1990; Selkoe: In Cowan et al. (eds): &quot;Annual Review of Neuroscience.&quot; Palo Alto, CA: Annual Reviews, Inc., pp 489-519, 1994) and numerous studies have shown that beta-amyloid is involved in amyloid plaque formation (Rumble et al.: N Engl J Med 320:1446-1452, 1989; Sisodia et al.: Science 248: 492-495, 1990). Evidence is presented that APP is modified with N-acetylglucosamine linked to cytoplasmic serine or threonine residues (O-GlcNAc). This is the first report of a plasma membrane protein modified with this carbohydrate. It has been postulated that this modification, which is ubiquitous in all organisms studied to date except bacteria (Haltiwanger et al.: Biochem Soc Trans 20:264-269, 1992; Dong et al.: J Biol Chem 268:16679-16687, 1993; Elliot et al.: J Neurosci 13:2424-2429, 1993; Kelly et al.: J Biol Chem 268:10416-10424, 1993), may function as an alternative to phosphorylation (Dong et al., 1993) and is involved in the multimerization of proteins (Haltiwanger et al., 1992; Dong et al., 1993). O-GlcNAc occurs at &quot;PEST&quot; sequences (Rogers et al.: Science 234:364-368, 1986) and it has been suggested that this modification within such a sequence leads to increased proteolytic stability of the molecule (Dong et al., 1993).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In the mammalian central nervous system (CNS), multipotential neural stem cells in the neuroepithelium generate the three major types of neural cells, namely, neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. To explore the molecular mechanisms underlying proliferation and differentiation of these neural stem cells, we established a cell line named MNS-57 from the embryonic day 12 rat neuroepithelium by introducing the mycer fusion gene, in which c-myc can be conditionally activated by adding oestrogen to the culture medium. MNS-57 cells expressed nestin, vimentin, and the RC1 antigen, which are potential markers for neural stem cells. We show that under particular culture conditions, MNS-57 cells can conditionally generate neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes in vitro, indicating that they are likely to originate from multipotential neural stem cells. Incubating MNS-57 cells with either oestrogen, which activates mycer, or growth factors such as basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) stimulated their growth, and the combination of oestrogen and bFGF (or EGF) had a synergistically stronger mitogenic effect than the single factors. Furthermore, both c-myc activation and bFGF appeared to be necessary for the differentiation of MNS-57 cells, and only when stimulated by both signals simultaneously, the cells committed to generating multiple neural cell types. Thus, the property of the cell line is unique in that its differentiation into neurons and glia can be conditionally manipulated in vitro in an exogenous signal-dependent manner. We propose that the cell line described here will provide an useful in vitro model to understand genetic and environmental mechanisms that control the generation of neural cell diversity in the CNS.
The available evidence suggests that daily injections of selective dopamine (DA) D2 receptor agonists to DA depleted rats typically leads to behavioral sensitization, but the effects of repeated treatment with selective DA D1 receptor agonists are more equivocal. In this study we examined the effects of acute and repeated treatment with DA receptor agonists with various D1/D2 receptor selectivities on rotation and striatal c-fos activation in rats with unilateral DA depletions. Lesioned rats were treated daily for 10 d with either the novel, selective DA D1 receptor agonist, A-85653, the DA D2 receptor agonist, quinpirole, a combination of these compounds, or the indirect D1/D2 receptor agonist levodopa (L-DOPA). Over days, rats given A-85653 alone showed behavioral tolerance, whereas those given either quinpirole or L-DOPA demonstrated behavioral sensitization. Repeated A-85653 + quinpirole treatment s lead to an increase in response magnitude early in the testing sessions and this was accompanied by a reduction in response duration over days. Quantitative analysis of striatal c-fos activation was also conducted in lesioned rats treated acutely or repeatedly with A-85653, A-85653 + quinpirole or L-DOPA. Numbers of Fos-immunoreactive nuclei were sharply reduced after the agonist challenge in all animals given repeated, compared to acute, drug treatment, despite enhanced levels of rotation by rats given quinpirole + A-85653 or L-DOPA repeatedly. These results suggest that desensitization may develop at the DA D1 receptor as a consequence of repeated stimulation, and that the behavioral sensitization seen after repeated L-DOPA treatment may primarily involve the DA D2 receptor.
Numerous studies have shown that opioids modulate the proliferative response of mixed splenocytes to T cell mitogens. To identify the T cell subpopulations affected by opioids, splenocytes from C57BL/6 and CD1 mice were separated using a fluorescent activated cell sorter (FACS) to obtain 98 to 99% pure populations of either CD4+ or CD8+ T cells. Cells were stimulated to proliferate in serum-free medium by cross-linking the T cell receptor using plate-coated anti-CD3-epsilon, then 3H-thymidine uptake and cell number were measured at 48 and 72 hr. [D-Ala2]-deltorphin 1 (deltorphin) dose-dependently inhibited the proliferation of C57BL/6 CD4+ T cells by approximately 50%. This effect was maximal when cells were preincubated with deltorphin 60 min before activation, whereas deltorphin was ineffective when added at the time of activation. Similarly, [D-Ala2]-Met-Enkephalinamide (DAME) 10(-11) to 10(-7) M inhibited CD4+ T cell proliferation. Naltrindole 10(-12) M abolished the antiproliferative effect of 10(-7) M deltorphin on CD4+ T cells. Proliferation of CD8+ T cells from C57BL/6 mice also was dose-dependently inhibited by deltorphin. At all concentrations to deltorphin, the antiproliferative effects were greater after 48 compared to 72 hr in culture. The effect of deltorphin and DAME on secretion of the T cell growth factor, IL-2, was determined by ELISA analysis of supernatants obtained from CD4+ T cells after 48-hr culture. Deltorphin showed a biphasic effect: 10(-11) M enhanced IL-2 secretion, whereas higher concentrations (10(-9)-10(-7) M) were inhibitory.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Besides its role in viral assembly, the vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) matrix (M) protein causes cytopathic effects such as cell rounding (D. Blondel, G. G. Harmison, and M. Schubert, J. Virol. 64:1716-1725, 1990). DNA cotransfection assays demonstrated that VSV M protein was able to inhibit the transcription of a reporter gene (B. L. Black and D. S. Lyles, J. Virol. 66:4058-4064, 1992). We have confirmed these observations by using cotransfections with an infectious clone of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) and found that the amino-terminal 32 amino acids of M protein which are essential for viral assembly were not required for this inhibition. For the study of the potential role of M protein in the shutoff of transcription from chromosomal DNA, we have isolated stable HeLa T4 cell lines which encode either a wild-type or a temperature-sensitive (ts) VSV M gene under control of the HIV-1 long terminal repeat promoter. Transcription of the M mRNA was transactivated after HIV-1 infections. A cell line which encodes the wild-type M protein was nonpermissive for either HIV-1 or HIV-2. A cell line that encodes the ts M gene was transfected with the infectious HIV-1 DNA or was infected with HIV-1 or HIV-2. In all cases, at 32 degrees C, the permissive temperature for M protein, the cells were nonpermissive for HIV replication. At 40 degrees C, the ts M protein was nonfunctional and both HIV-1 and HIV-2 were able to replicate at high levels. A comparison of the amounts of proviral HIV-1 DNAs and HIV-1 mRNAs at 10 and 36 h after HIV-1 infection demonstrated that proviral insertion had not been prevented by M protein and that the block in HIV-1 replication was at the level of proviral expression. The severe reduction of HIV-1 proviral transcripts demonstrates that the VSV M protein alone can inhibit expression from chromosomal DNA. These results strongly support the hypothesis that the VSV M protein is involved in the shutoff of host cell transcription. M protein was able to attenuate HIV-1 infections and protect the cell population from HIV-1 pathogenesis. The temperature-dependent switch from a persistent to a lytic HIV-1 infection in the presence of ts M protein could be useful for studies of HIV-1 replication and pathogenesis.



The amiloride-sensitive epithelial sodium channel (ENAC) consists of at least three subunits, alpha, beta, and gamma. Sodium conductance occurs when only the alpha subunit is expressed in Xenopus oocytes, but it is greatly enhanced by coexpression of all three subunits. All three subunits have two transmembrane domains. Whether the amiloride binding site exists in the extracellular portion or a transmembrane domain has not been established. Using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction in rat taste tissues, we have identified two alternatively spliced transcripts of ENAC (alpha ENACa and alpha ENACb) with deletions of nucleotides that introduce a premature stop codon and may result in proteins shortened by 199 and 216 amino acids, respectively, at the carboxyl terminus. Genomic Southern blots indicate that a single gene accounts for alpha ENAC and the alternatively spliced variants. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and RNase protection assays demonstrate that alpha ENACa is expressed to a lesser extent than alpha ENAC in kidney, lung, and taste tissues. alpha ENACa differs from alpha ENAC by a deletion in the second transmembrane domain. Despite this deletion, alpha ENACa expression in transfected human embryonic kidney 293 cells or CV-1 cells augments [3H]phenamil binding. The [3H]phenamil binding of alpha ENACa resembles that of alpha ENAC, being inhibited more potently by phenamil (Kd = 65 nM) than amiloride. Unlike alpha ENAC, expression of alpha ENACa in Xenopus oocytes fails to generate amiloride-sensitive Na+ or Li+ currents. These results suggest that the amiloride binding site resides on the extracellular loop of the alpha subunit of ENAC and not the putative second transmembrane domain, which forms a channel pore. Heterogeneity in alpha ENAC isoforms may contribute to the complexity of multimeric structures and functional variation of ENAC.
IGF2 is expressed in both placental and decidual tissues, enabling an analysis of the parental imprinting over the fetomaternal boundary. Evidence is provided that IGF2 is monoallelically expressed in both placenta and pregnant, as well as nonpregnant, endometrium. These observations suggest that the maternally derived IGF2 allele is inactivated during germline transmission. Comparison of promoter usage in decidua and placental samples shows that the P3 promoter appears to regulated independently of the others. These observations are discussed with respect to current models of IGF2 imprinting and the hypothesized conflict of parental reproductive interests which bears on the phenomenon of parental imprinting.
6-Pyruvoyl tetrahydropterin synthase catalyzes the second step in the biosynthesis of tetrahydrobiopterin. In the present study, the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction technique was used to clone a portion of 6-pyruvoyl tetrahydropterin synthase cDNA from rat pineal gland RNA. The sequence of this cDNA was found to be essentially identical to that previously reported for the rat liver. 6-Pyruvoyl tetrahydropterin synthase mRNA levels in various rat tissues, including the brain, were then analyzed by Northern blot and nuclease protection assay. A single 1.35 kb transcript of 6-pyruvoyl tetrahydropterin synthase mRNA was detected by Northern blot analysis in the rat adrenal gland, brain-stem, and liver. Quantitation by nuclease protection assay demonstrated that 6-pyruvoyl tetrahydropterin synthase mRNA was most abundant in the adrenal gland, kidney, and pineal gland (19.5-25.5 amol/microgram RNA). Relatively homogeneous levels of 6-pyruvoyl tetrahydropterin synthase mRNA were found in various brain regions including the cerebellum, substantia nigra and locus coeruleus (4.12-12 amol/microgram RNA). In the adrenal gland, 6-pyruvoyl tetrahydropterin synthase and tyrosine hydroxylase mRNAs were elevated between 3 and 4-fold 24 h after a single dose of reserpine (10 mg/kg), a treatment known to increase tetrahydrobiopterin levels in this tissue. This result suggests that although 6-pyruvoyl tetrahydropterin synthase is not believed to be rate-limiting in the tetrahydrobiopterin biosynthetic pathway, control of gene expression for this enzyme may play an essential role in regulating the synthesis of this important cofactor.
We examined by morphological methodology the effect of (S)-N-ethyl-3-[(1-dimethyl-amino)ethyl]-N-methyl-phenylcarbamate hydrogentartrate (ENA-713), an acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor, on ischemia-induced neuronal death in the gerbil hippocampus due to a 5-min ligation of bilateral common carotid arteries after light ether anesthesia. Pyramidal cells had been decreased to 27% of sham-operated controls and the number of hypertrophic astrocytes expressing glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) markedly increased in the hippocampal CA1 subfield 14 days after ischemia. However, post-ischemic administration of ENA-713 (three times 0.2 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly ameliorated this ischemia-induced decrease in the number of pyramidal cells by 47% of sham-operated controls, furthermore, it reduced the ischemia-induced accumulation of GFAP-positive astrocyte in the CA1 region. Together with previous results showing that ENA-713 protected against the ischemia-induced cholinergic abnormalities in the gerbil brain and improved cholinergic dysfunctions in the senescent rat brain, our present findings suggest that ENA-713 prove to be useful for treatment with senile dementia such as cerebrovascular dementia.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biochemical markers for Alzheimer's disease (AD) would be of great value, both to improve clinical diagnostic accuracy and to increase our knowledge of the pathogenesis of the disorder. An increase in the CSF-level of 'neuronal thread protein' (pancreatic thread protein (PTP) immunoreactive material in the brain) has been suggested to be just such a biochemical marker. We have studied CSF 'neuronal thread protein'-like immunoreactivity (NTPLI) using a microparticle enzyme immunoassay. CSF-NTPLI did not differ significantly between AD type I (pure AD) and controls, but was significantly higher in AD type II (senile dementia) and vascular dementia (VAD) as compared with controls. Signs of blood-brain barrier (BBB) damage (elevated CSF/S albumin ratio) were found in both AD type II and in VAD, but not in AD type I. In a multiple ANOVA, with age and CSF/S albumin ratio as covariates, no significant difference in CSF-NTPLI between diagnostic groups was noted though both CSF/S albumin ratio and age (P &lt; 0.0001 and P &lt; 0.001 respectively) were found to influence the CSF-NTPLI level. Since BBB function was found to influence the CSF-NTPLI level, we examined whether NTPLI was present in serum. Indeed, serum NTPLI was about 40 times higher than CSF-NTPLI in neurological patients. Moreover, there was a statistically significant correlation between S-NTPLI and CSF-NTPLI. Taken together, present findings suggest that most of NTPLI in CSF comes from the serum, by passage over the BBB.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Due to the finite spatial resolution of digital magnetic resonance images of the brain, and the complexity of anatomical interfaces between brain regions of different tissue type, it is inevitable that some voxels will represent a mixture of two or three different tissue types. Outright assignment of such &quot;bipartial&quot; or &quot;tripartial&quot; voxels to one class or another is more problematic and less reliable than assignment of &quot;full-volume&quot; voxels, wholly representative of a single tissue type. We have developed a computerized system for brain tissue classification of dual echo MR data, which uses a polychotomous logistic model for discriminant analysis, combined with a Bayes allocation rule incorporating differential prior probabilities, and spatial connectivity tests, to assign each voxel in the image to one of four possible classes: gray matter, white matter, cerebrospinal fluid, or unclassified. The system supports automated volumetric analysis of segmented images, has low operational overheads, and compares favorably with previous multivariate or &quot;multispectral&quot; approaches to brain MR image segmentation in terms of both validity (bootstrap misclassification rate = 3.3%) and interoperator reliability (intra-class correlation coefficients for all three tissue classes &gt; 0.9). We argue that these improvements in performance stem from better methodological management of the related problems of non-Normality of MR signal intensity values and partial volume artifact.
This is a rare case of a teratocarcinoma developing at the same site one year after the gross total excision of a mature pineal teratoma. The malignant tumour arose probably from microscopic remnants of the teratoma. This patient also suffered from systemic lupus erythematosus. Autoimmune diseases have been associated with an increased risk of malignancy, and in this case may have contributed to the malignant transformation of the teratoma.
Brain compression of precisely defined degree and duration was produced by means of expansion of a supratentorial epidural balloon in anaesthetized and mechanically ventilated dogs. After deflation of the balloon there was a rebound of the intracranial pressure (ICP) to values in the range 30-89 mm Hg when critical thresholds of time and compression had been exceeded during the period of compression. A time versus cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) graph indicated a CPP threshold of about 50 mm Hg and time threshold of about 6 min. Within these limits the critical CPP varied as a function of time. The ICP rebound had an approximately exponential time course with an initial rapid rise levelling off towards a final plateau in about 30 min. The final value was dependent on the time of compression but independent of the CPP. A transtentorial pressure gradient was induced during the compression phase and reestablished after the decompression when a rebound of ICP developed. Hydrostatic compression by means of infusion of fluid into the subarachnoid space was followed by a rebound of ICP in only 2/21 of the experiments in spite of time and CPP parameters which crossed the critical thresholds defined in the balloon compression experiments. These results support the hypothesis that the rebound phenomenon is related to an ischaemic mechanism. The difference in incidence of rebound in balloon compression and hydrostatic compression can probably be accounted for by a greater depth of ischaemia in the former case because of a direct compressive effect on the vascular bed by the balloon.
Although the pathologic substrate of Tourette's syndrome (TS) is unknown, studies have implicated subtle changes in the basal ganglia. To further investigate structural basal ganglia pathology in TS, we performed morphometric analyses of MRIs of 10 monozygotic twin pairs discordant for severity of TS but concordant for the presence of tic disorders (mean age, 16.3 years; range, 9 to 31 years). Right caudate volume was slightly but significantly reduced in the relatively more severely affected twins as a group compared with the less affected twins (mean difference = 6%, p &lt; 0.01). Most of this difference was attributable to volume reduction in the anterior right caudate (p &lt; 0.02), which was smaller in the more severely affected twin in nine of 10 twin sets. The mean volume of the left lateral ventricle was 16% smaller in the more severely affected twins than in the less severely affected twins (p &lt; 0.01). The normal asymmetry of the lateral ventricles (left greater than right) was not present in the more severely affected twins, who had a trend toward a larger right lateral ventricle. Moreover, the difference within a pair in the degree of loss of the normal ventricular asymmetry correlated with the difference within a pair in the severity of the tic disorder (r = 0.75, p &lt; 0.02). There were no other basal ganglia, ventricular volumetric, or asymmetry abnormalities. These findings partially replicate other MRI studies and suggest that subtle structural abnormalities in the CNS, particularly in the caudate, may play a role in the pathophysiology of TS.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The relative levels and cellular distribution of proinflammatory and regulatory cytokines have been examined by immunohistochemistry in multiple sclerosis (MS) lesions of differing activity and compared with CNS tissue from other neurologic diseases with an inflammatory or noninflammatory component. Results show widespread distribution of cytokines in association with both perivascular inflammatory cells and glial cells in all types of inflammatory lesions. Although no obvious pattern of proinflammatory versus regulatory cytokines could be determined in MS lesions, proinflammatory cytokines were rarely noted in normal and noninflammatory conditions, whereas regulatory cytokines were readily detectable in the same diseases. The possible relevance of these cytokine patterns to adhesion molecule expression and the presence of reactive nitrogen species is also addressed.
Signaling molecules with either attractive or repulsive effects on specific growth cones are likely to play a role in guiding axons to their appropriate targets. A chick brain glycoprotein, collapsin, has been shown to be a good candidate for a repulsive guidance cue. We report here the discovery of four new molecules related to collapsin in chick brains. All contain a semaphorin domain. One is structurally very similar to collapsin but is only 50% identical in its amino acid sequence. We have named it collapsin-2. The collapsin-related genes exhibit distinct but overlapping patterns of mRNA expression in the developing spinal cord and the developing visual system. This family of collapsin-related molecules could potentially act as repulsive cues toward specific neuronal populations.
Immunoglobulin/fibronectin type III-like cell adhesion molecules have been implicated in axon pathfinding based on their expression pattern in the developing nervous system and on their complex interactions described in vitro. The present in vivo study demonstrates that interactions by two of these molecules, axonin-1 on commissural growth cones and Nr-CAM on floor plate cells, are required for accurate pathfinding at the midline. When axonin-1 or Nr-CAM interactions were perturbed, many commissural axons failed to cross the midline and turned instead along the ipsilateral floor plate border. In contrast, though perturbation of Ng-CAM produced a defasciculation of the commissural neurites, it did not affect their guidance across the floor plate.
The 5-HT3 receptor blocking properties of YM060, YM114 (KAE-393), granisetron and ondansetron were examined in the vagus nerve and cerebral cortex of rats. 5-HT and 2-methyl-5-HT induced dose-dependent depolarizations of rat isolated vagus nerve with EC50 values of 2.53 (1.93-3.33) x 10(-6) and 4.03 (2.87-5.66) x 10(-6) M, respectively. YM060, YM114 and granisetron dose-dependently antagonized the depolarization of the rat vagus nerve induced by 5-HT, with decreases in the slope and maximal response at higher concentrations. Apparent pA2 values for these antagonists were 10.27 +/- 0.09, 10.12 +/- 0.16 and 9.44 +/- 0.40, respectively. Ondansetron produced a clear rightward shift of the concentration-response curve to 5-HT. The pA2 value was 8.63 (8.23-9.68). YM060 and YM114 at up to 10(-5) M produced no significant depression of the depolarizing responses to DMPP and GABA. YM060, YM114, granisetron and ondansetron displaced specific binding of [3H]GR65630 to rat cortical membranes with pKi values of 10.48 (10.41-10.57), 10.24 (10.18-10.28), 9.15 (9.02-9.28) and 8.70 (8.64-8.77), respectively. An excellent correlation (r = 0.97) was obtained between pA2 values in the vagus nerve and pKi values in the cerebral cortex. YM060, YM114, granisetron and ondansetron showed low affinities for 5-HT1A, 5-HT2 receptor, adrenergic alpha 1, alpha 2, dopamine D2, muscarinic M2, mu-opioid, benzodiazepine and histamine H1 receptors. These results support the possibility that the same type of 5-HT3 receptor occurs in rat vagus nerve and cerebral cortex.
The electrophysiological properties of ameboid microglia from rodent brain are dominated by inwardly rectifying potassium channels and by the lack of outward currents. This channel pattern results in a distinct physiological behavior: depolarizing events, e.g. following adenosine triphosphate receptor activation, can lead to a long lasting membrane depolarization. Here we address the question whether this resting K+ channel activity can be modulated. Intracellular application of guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) induced an outward current and led to a complete disappearance of the inward current inward rectifier potassium current as measured with the patch clamp technique. Moreover, an elevation in cytosolic calcium concentration (to 1.6 microM) via intracellular perfusion reversibly blocked the inward current. The inhibition of inward currents by guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) could be enhanced by additional adenosine triphosphate receptor activation. Adenosine triphosphate or tumor necrosis factor receptor activation alone could lead to a transient partial block of the inward rectifier and to the transient appearance of a delayed outward current. We conclude that the activity of the microglia K+ channels and thus the physiological behavior of microglia can be modulated on a time scale of seconds by receptor activation and distinct intracellular pathways.
Neurons in the monkey amygdala exhibiting neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity and somatostatin-like immunoreactivity were identified using an avidin-biotin immunohistochemical technique. Differential co-existence of the two peptides was demonstrated using two-color immunoperoxidase and adjacent section methods. Numerous neuropeptide Y-positive neurons were observed in the basolateral and superficial amygdaloid nuclei. A moderate number of neuropeptide Y-positive neurons was seen in the medial subdivision of the central nucleus, but only a few neurons were observed in the lateral subdivision. Numerous somatostatin-positive neurons were stained in all major amygdaloid nuclei and always outnumbered neuropeptide Y-positive cells. All amygdaloid nuclei contained numerous peptide-positive fibers whose density varied depending on the nucleus. Approximately 90% of neuropeptide Y-positive neurons also exhibited somatostatin-like immunoreactivity. The percentage of somatostatin-positive neurons that exhibited neuropeptide-Y immunoreactivity varied in different nuclei. In the superficial amygdaloid nuclei, medial subdivision of the central nucleus and most portions of the basolateral nuclei the predominant cell type stained with both the neuropeptide Y and somatostatin antibodies was a spine-sparse non-pyramidal neuron. In the dorsal portion of the lateral nucleus, however, most peptide-positive neurons had spiny dendrites. Only the cell bodies and proximal dendrites of somatostatin-positive neurons in the lateral subdivision of the central nucleus were immunostained. This study demonstrates that specific cell populations in the primate amygdala contain neuropeptide Y, somatostatin or both peptides. Most peptide-positive neurons in the basolateral and superficial amygdaloid nuclei appear to be local circuit neurons that contribute to the dense plexus of peptide-positive axons in these regions. The finding of neurons with spiny dendrites in the dorsal part of the lateral nucleus suggests that these cells may be functionally different from peptide-positive neurons in other portions of the basolateral amygdala. The lateral subdivision of the central nucleus is distinguished from other amygdaloid nuclei by containing a large population of somatostatin-positive neurons that do not exhibit neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity.
While opioid agonists administered into the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus increase food intake in rats, naloxone reduces deprivation-induced intake. Ventricular administration of either mu (beta-funaltrexamine) or kappa (nor-binaltorphamine) opioid antagonists reduces spontaneous, deprivation, glucoprivic and palatable intake. The present study assessed whether microinjections of either general, mu or kappa opioid antagonists into the paraventricular nucleus altered either deprivation (24 h) intake, 2-deoxy-D-glucose hyperphagia or sucrose intake in rats. Deprivation intake was significantly reduced by nor-binaltorphamine (5 micrograms, 68 nmol, 30-33%), beta-funaltrexamine (5 micrograms, 100 nmol, 26-29%) or naltrexone (10 micrograms, 260 nmol, 26%) in the paraventricular nucleus. 2-Deoxy-D-glucose hyperphagia was significantly reduced only after 2 h by naltrexone (10 micrograms, 260 nmol, 69%), norbinaltorphamine (20 micrograms, 272 nmol, 69%) or beta-funaltrexamine (20 micrograms, 400 nmol, 83%) in the paraventricular nucleus. Sucrose intake was significantly reduced by nor-binaltorphamine (5 micrograms, 68 nmol, 27-36%), naltrexone (5-10 micrograms, 130-260 nmol, 18-31%) and beta-funaltrexamine (5 micrograms, 100 nmol, 20%) in the paraventricular nucleus. These data indicate that general, mu and kappa opioid antagonists administered into the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus produce similar patterns of effects upon different forms of food intake as did ventricular administration, implicating this nucleus as part of the circuitry underlying opioid mediation of ingestion.
Despite the recent cloning of mu, delta and kappa opioid receptors, a role in opioid receptor function for an opioid binding cell adhesion molecule is supported by several lines of evidence, including inhibition of opioid binding by opioid binding cell adhesion molecule antibodies, down-regulation of opioid binding cell adhesion molecule by chronic opioid agonist treatment of cultured NG108-15 cells, and reduction of opioid binding in NG108-15 cells by transfection of opioid binding cell adhesion molecule antisense cDNA. In the present study, we report that chronic in vivo treatment of mice with morphine results in down-regulation of opioid binding cell adhesion molecule immunoreactivity in primary afferent neurons in dorsal root and trigeminal ganglia as well as their axons. This effect was blocked by the opioid antagonist naloxone. Down-regulation of opioid binding cell adhesion molecule immunoreactivity was not observed in other areas of the central nervous system. Taken together, the previous studies which demonstrated the role played by opioid receptors in regulating release of transmitters from primary afferent neurons and the present findings of a specific regulation of opioid binding cell adhesion molecule expression by chronic exposure to morphine, provides evidence from an in vivo perspective which advances the notion that opioid binding cell adhesion molecule plays a role in the action of opioids.
The influence of transient increases in adrenal steroid hormones on the number of Fos-positive neurons after nociceptor activation was assessed in adrenalectomized rats. Fos protein, the product of the immediate early gene, c-fos, was detected immunocytochemically within the spinal trigeminal nucleus 2 h after noxious thermal stimulation of the cornea. Adrenalectomized rats displayed an enhanced number of Fos-positive neurons within the caudal-most portions of trigeminal subnucleus caudalis compared to that seen in adrenal-intact animals, an effect reversed by a single acute injection of corticosterone (1 mg/kg, i.p.) given 5 min prior to stimulation. Acute injection of the selective mineralocorticoid receptor agonist, aldosterone, or the selective glucocorticoid receptor agonist, RU28362, also reduced the number of Fos-positive neurons. Aldosterone and RU28362 had an additive effect on Fos when given concurrently. In contrast, adrenal status or acute injections of adrenal steroid receptor agonists had no effect on the number of Fos-positive neurons after corneal stimulation located within the ventrolateral pole of the spinal trigeminal nucleus at the level of the subnucleus interpolaris/caudalis junction. Acute administration of adrenal steroids to adrenalectomized rats greatly attenuated the number of Fos-positive neurons seen after corneal stimulation within select portions of trigeminal subnucleus caudalis. The contribution of both glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptor subtypes in reducing Fos suggested a central site of action rather than an anti-inflammatory effect on peripheral tissue. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that transient increases in adrenal steroids, such as occur after injury, are sufficient to modify the production of Fos protein in central neurons that process nociceptive information.
The preprotachykinin-A promoter contains two blocks of DNA sequence, with a high degree of homology to one another, both containing activator protein 1/cAMP response element-like elements which constitute cis-acting regulatory domains. These two domains are differentially regulated in HeLa cells and primary cultures of dorsal root ganglion neurons when they are placed in the context of a reporter gene driven by the c-fos minimum promoter. One of the domains, corresponding to a region of the preprotachykinin promoter spanning nucleotides -345 to -308, contains two activator protein 1 elements adjacent to an E-box binding protein consensus sequence. Both of the activator protein 1 elements can bind a complex containing c-fos/c-fos related antigen proteins and the adjacent E-box element is specifically recognized by proteins present in HeLa nuclear extract. This domain requires the synergistic action of both activator protein 1 elements to drive expression of the reporter gene in both HeLa and dorsal root ganglion cells. The second or proximal domain spans nucleotides -198 to -155 and contains a previously characterized activator protein 1/cAMP response element/ATF enhancer element which, in contrast to the activator protein 1 elements in the distal domain, functions in both HeLa and dorsal root ganglion cells as one copy. This domain is differentially regulated in HeLa and dorsal root ganglia. The previously characterized enhancer activity is repressed in the context of the extended cis-acting domain in HeLa cells but remains active in dorsal root ganglion, although no further enhancement of activity supported by the single enhancer is observed when in the context of the extended sequence. This proximal domain, in addition to binding the enhancer complex, can be bound by at least two other complexes, one of which binds to an E-box consensus sequence. As the elements corresponding to the E-box consensus in both domains cross-compete for binding of specific complex(es) it would appear that repression of the activity of the proximal domain is correlated with a specific protein complex binding adjacent to the characterized enhancer in the region spanning nucleotides -198 to -155. The preprotachykinin-A proximal promoter is therefore bound by multiple activator protein I complexes, which in the context of the cis-acting domains in which they are present can be differentially regulated. In the proximal domain their function may also be regulated in a tissue-specific manner by other proteins which bind to adjacent regulatory elements.
The release of ATP and ADP, the putative central neurotransmitters, from the isolated habenula preparation was investigated in the rat, at rest and during electrical stimulation, using the luciferin-luciferase assay and the creatine phosphokinase assay. Electrical field stimulation (2 Hz, 360 pulses) released a considerable amount of ATP (2450 +/- 280 pmol/g wet tissue) from the tissue; inhibition of the voltage Na+ entry by tetrodotoxin (1 microM) reduced significantly the evoked release (by 66.25 +/- 6.65%), but not the resting release of ATP. Endogenous ADP also appeared in the effluent, but its amount differed during resting condition and after stimulation from that of ATP, suggesting that the majority of the released compound is ATP in response to stimulation. When ATP was added to the tissue, it readily decomposed to ADP and AMP (Km = 811.6 +/- 68.88 microM, vmax = 23.1 +/- 2.75 nmol/min per prep., measured by high-performance liquid chromatography combined with ultraviolet detection), indicating that the habenula contains ectoATPases. In addition, the inactivation of extracellular ATP by the ectoATPase enzyme was also visualized by electron microscopic enzyme cytochemistry. The ectoATPase enzyme was present on the membranes of the dendrites and nerve terminals and in the synapses of the habenula. Taking into account the fact that ATP is ubiquitous in excitable cells (storage) and the findings published by Edwards et al. in 1992 (&quot;ATP receptor-mediated synaptic currents in the central nervous system&quot;, Nature, Vol. 359, pp. 144-147), our data provides evidence for the release by axonal stimulation and extracellular decomposition of ATP, all needed for an endogenous substance qualified as a transmitter.
Manipulations of D1- or D2-dopamine receptors have differential and selective effects on the striatonigral and striatopallidal output pathways of the striatum, respectively. However, combined stimulation of these receptors produces synergistic responses. To examine the locus of this interaction in vivo, we infused D1- or D2-receptor agents into the striatum of freely moving, dopamine-depleted rats given systemic injections of the D1 agonist SKF 38393 and the D2 agonist quinpirole. Expression of the immediate early genes zif268 and c-fos, as determined by in situ hybridization histochemistry, was used as a measure of changes in the function of striatal neurons. Systemic administration of SKF 38393 produced a dose-dependent increase in the expression of immediate early genes in the dopamine-depleted striatum. Quinpirole, on the other hand, decreased the basal expression of zif268 in both the lesioned and intact striatum. However, combined administration of quinpirole with SKF 38393 significantly enhanced immediate early gene expression in the dopamine-depleted striatum relative to that seen with SKF 38393 alone. Intrastriatal infusion of SKF 38393 produced a concentration-dependent increase in immediate early gene expression in the striatum. Furthermore, intrastriatal application of the D1-receptor antagonist SCH 23390 blocked the induction of immediate early genes by SKF 38393 given systemically either alone or with quinpirole. The induction of immediate early genes by co-administration of SKF 38393 and quinpirole was also significantly attenuated by intrastriatal administration of the D2-receptor antagonist eticlopride. These data show that D1-D2 synergy is operative in the dopamine-depleted striatum, is reflected in increases in the expression of the immediate early genes zif268 and c-fos, and is a consequence of activation of both D1 and D2 receptors within the striatum rather than in extrastriatal sites. The data further suggest that the enhanced induction of immediate early genes in the dopamine-depleted striatum of rats receiving SKF 38393 with quinpirole reflects a D2-mediated potentiation of a D1-dependent process.
Using grease gap recordings, age-related changes in serotonin2A receptors were assessed in sensorimotor regions of the cortex by examining serotonin-induced facilitation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate depolarization in cortical wedges prepared from young adult (3-6 months) and senescent (22-34 months) Fisher 344 rats. Serotonin (10-100 microM) facilitated the N-methyl-D-aspartate depolarization in wedges from young adult rats in a concentration-dependent manner, whereas no facilitation was observed in wedges from senescent rats. Similar results were obtained when +/- 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane, a mixed serotonin2A and serotonin2C receptor agonist, was substituted for serotonin. In contrast, agonists at alpha 1A-adrenoceptors, metabotropic glutamate receptors and muscarinic cholinoceptors facilitated the N-methyl-D-aspartate depolarization in wedges from both young adult and senescent rats. Chelerythrine and staurosporine, inhibitors of protein kinase C, but not concanavalin A, myo-inositol or calmodulin antagonists, restored the serotonin facilitation in wedges from senescent animals. In situ hybridization histochemistry revealed that serotonin2A receptor messenger RNA was present in layers II-VI of the cortex, with the highest density of silver grains located in layers III and V of both young adult and senescent rats. Detailed examination of layer V showed that silver grains were significantly higher than background only over pyramidal cells. We conclude that serotonin2A receptors are expressed by pyramidal cells in both young adult and senescent rats and that serotonin acts directly on these receptors to facilitate the N-methyl-D-aspartate depolarization. Moreover, in senescent rats, signal transduction at cortical serotonin2A receptors involved with facilitation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate response is compromised as a result of protein kinase C activation.
Extensive evidence indicates that the survival and development of neurons is dependent on neurotrophins. However, the factors potentially required for glial development and function, and the sites of synthesis, are not well defined. To investigate the potential role of neurotrophins in glial development in vivo, we studied the trk family of receptors and their cognate neurotrophins in the postnatal rat optic nerve using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Our results indicate that trk A, B and C messenger RNAs are expressed throughout development, and in adulthood. Both trk B and trk C expression decreased during development. However, trk C expression decreased most markedly, reaching barely detectable levels by day 90. These findings suggest that neurotrophins can affect both immature and mature glial function and that their actions may be regulated through the modulation of putative receptors. To determine whether alternatively spliced forms of trk C potentially mediate neurotrophin-3 actions, we assessed expression of the different trk C isoforms. We employed reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction using primers that selectively amplify the extracellular or intracellular domains. Optic nerve expressed both the full-length receptor and one form containing an insertion in the tyrosine kinase domain. In addition, the expression of the insert splice variant was developmentally regulated. Our observations suggest that, in glia, actions of neurotrophin-3 are probably mediated through the full-length receptor and that selected alternatively spliced forms may also be involved in trk C receptor function. To determine whether glia at different stages of differentiation elaborate neurotrophins, we analysed expression of nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophins-3 and -4/5 in the optic nerve during development. Messenger RNAs for all the neurotrophins were detected at all postnatal ages, suggesting that progenitor cells, immature and mature glia are potential sources of neurotrophins. However, neurotrophin expression was not developmentally regulated. The invariant neurotrophin messenger RNA levels, and the changing expression of trk B and trk C during ontogeny, suggest that trophic regulation of glial development is primarily governed through modulation of receptor expression.
Ribonuclease protection analysis and quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry were used to investigate the coordination and regional expression of catalytic and non-catalytic trkB messenger RNAs in the adult rat hippocampus following systemic kainate-induced seizures. Changes in trkB expression were compared with the messenger RNA expression of its neurotrophic ligands, brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3. TrkB messenger RNA expression was increased in the dentate granule cells at 1-4 h following the onset of seizures, and returned to control levels 16-24 h thereafter. In addition, seizures also induced expression of trkB messenger RNA in putative non-neuronal cells at four to seven days in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus and the stratum lacunosum moleculare of the CA1 region. Hybridization with probes specific for the non-catalytic trkB receptor and the catalytic trkB receptor revealed that the increases at four and seven days in the molecular layers of the hippocampus reflected an up-regulation of only the non-catalytic form of the receptor. Furthermore, the neuronal increases observed 1-4 h were due to an up-regulation of both trkB TK- and trkB TK+ messenger RNAs. It was established that systemic administration of kainate increased brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA levels in the pyramidal and granule cell regions of the hippocampus 1-4 h following the onset of behaviorally manifested seizure activity. Early changes in neuronal expression of trkB TK- and trkB TK+ messenger RNA paralleled changes in brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in the dentate granule cell and CA1 pyramidal cell layers, but not in the CA3 subregion. These data suggest that concomitant regulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and its cognate receptor may play a role in the selective vulnerability of hippocampal subregions to kainate-induced neuropathology. Furthermore, these data suggest a dual function for trkB receptor expression in the hippocampus following kainate-induced seizures, possibly related to both the plastic and degenerative consequences of seizure induction by kainate.
A model of epileptic cell death has been developed employing unilateral injections of kainic acid, a glutamate agonist, into the CA3 subfield of the hippocampus. The contralateral hippocampus, where neuronal damage is induced by hyperactivity in afferent pathways, served as the model structure. The pattern of cell death in this model was shown earlier to correspond to the vulnerable regions in human temporal lobe epilepsy. In the present time-course study we demonstrated that the different subpopulations of vulnerable cells in the contralateral hippocampus of the rat degenerate at different times following kainate injection. Spiny calretinin-containing cells in the hilus and CA3 stratum lucidum disappear at 12-24 h, other types of hilar neurons and CA3c pyramidal cells show shrinkage and argyrophilia at two days, whereas CA1 pyramidal cells degenerate at three days postinjection. The majority of cells destined to die showed a transient expression of the heatshock protein 72, approximately one day (for hilar-CA3c) or two days (for CA1) before degeneration. Parvalbumin-immunoreactivity transiently disappeared from the soma and dendrites of interneurons between the first and the fourth day. The results suggest that seizure-induced cell death is delayed, therefore acute oedema, even if it occurs, is insufficient to kill neurons. The only exception is the population of calretinin-containing interneurons degenerating at 12-24 h. The further one day delay between hilar-CA3c and CA1 cell death is likely to be due to differences in the relative density of glutamate receptor types (kainate versus NMDA) and the source of afferent input of these subfields. Thus, simple pharmacotherapy targeting only one of the excitotoxic mechanisms (i.e. acute oedema of calretinin cells versus delayed death of hilar-CA3c and CA1 cells at different time points) is likely to fail.
The hippocampal formation consists of the dentate gyrus, the hippocampus proper, the subicular complex and the entorhinal cortex. This structure is a major component of the medial temporal lobe, which is essential for memory formation. We investigated the expression of Zif268, a transcription factor regulated by physiological synaptic activity, in the monkey hippocampal formation. Immunoprecipitation with an anti-Zif268 antibody identified monkey Zif268 as an 86,000 molecular weight protein. In the subicular complex, the majority of neurons in the presubiculum were intensely immunopositive for Zif268 when stained with this antibody. A moderate number of Zif268-immunopositive neurons were located in the parasubiculum and the number of these neurons in the subiculum proper was smallest among the three subicular subdivisions. In the entorhinal cortex, layer- and subdivision-specific expression of Zif268 was observed. The rostral part of the entorhinal cortex contained many Zif268-immunopositive neurons in layer II, but immunopositive neurons were only sparsely present in deeper layers. By contrast, the caudal part of the entorhinal cortex contained many Zif268-immunopositive neurons in layer VI and a smaller number of those neurons in layer II. In the dentate gyrus, a few granule cells expressed Zif268. The hippocampus proper contained weakly immunostained neurons in CA1-CA3. No glial cells were immunostained by the anti-Zif268 antibody. Fos and Fos-related antigens were expressed only at very low levels in the examined areas. This study is the first report discussing the expression of immediate early genes in the primate hippocampal formation. Many Zif268-expressing neurons were observed in the presubiculum and layer II of the rostral part of the entorhinal cortex. These subdivision-specific patterns of Zif268 expression may reflect differences in synaptic activities in these regions.
Daily tetanic stimulation of the Schaffer collaterals generates an epileptogenic focus in area CA1 of the rat hippocampus, ultimately leading to generalized tonic-clonic convulsions (kindling). Potassium currents were measured under voltage-clamp conditions in pyramidal neurons, acutely dissociated from the focus of fully kindled rats, one day and six weeks after the last generalized seizure. Their amplitude, kinetics, voltage dependence and calcium dependence were compared with controls. With Ca2+ influx blocked by 0.5 mM Ni2+, the sustained current (delayed rectifier) and the transient current (A-current) were not different after kindling. Calcium influx evoked an additional fast transient current component. This transient calcium-dependent current component was increased by 154%, but only immediately after the seizure. A second, slow calcium-dependent potassium current component was dependent on the intracellular calcium level, set by the pipette as well as on calcium influx. The peak amplitude of this slow calcium-dependent current was under optimal calcium conditions not different after kindling, but we found indications that either calcium homeostasis or the calcium sensitivity of the potassium channels was affected by the kindling process. In contrast to the previously described enhancement of calcium current, kindling epileptogenesis did not change the total potassium current amplitude. The minor changes that were observed can be related either to changes in calcium current or to changes in intracellular calcium homeostasis.
Ciliary neurotrophic factor is known to exert both survival and differentiative actions on a number of neuronal populations of the peripheral and central nervous systems. In this study we have compared the trophic effects of ciliary neurotrophic factor and nerve growth factor on developing septal neurons of the rat in vitro. Fetal septal neurons were grown in vitro under glass coverslips in sandwich culture. Septal cultures grown for 14 days in the continual presence of nerve growth factor contain a population of cholinergic neurons that stain intensely for the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor (p75NGFR), choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase. Without added nerve growth factor, few neurons stain for these markers. Ciliary neurotrophic factor addition for 14 days from plating in the absence of exogenous nerve growth factor results in the appearance of a population of neurons that stains for p75NGFR. This population is similar in number to that seen in nerve growth factor-treated cultures but is not immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase and is significantly smaller in mean cross-sectional area. Delayed addition of nerve growth factor to ciliary neurotrophic factor-supported cultures at 14 days for a further seven days fails to induce choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity in these p75NGFR-positive septal neurons. In cultures grown in the continual presence of nerve growth factor from plating, removal of nerve growth factor and addition of nerve growth factor antibodies at 14 days results in the death of over 80% of the cholinergic neurons after a further four days. Addition of ciliary neurotrophic factor during the period of nerve growth factor withdrawal appears to preserve a p75NGFR-positive, choline acetyltransferase-negative neuronal population. However, seven day re-addition of nerve growth factor to ciliary neurotrophic factor-treated, nerve growth factor-withdrawn cultures fails to induce choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity in the ciliary neurotrophic factor-supported p75NGFR-positive septal neurons. Simultaneous treatment of cultures with both ciliary neurotrophic factor and nerve growth factor for 14 days from plating approximately doubles the number of p75NGFR-positive neurons relative to cultures treated with either ciliary neurotrophic factor or nerve growth factor alone, but the number of choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons in these cultures is not significantly greater than that found in cultures treated solely with nerve growth factor. These results suggest that ciliary neurotrophic factor does not support the survival and differentiation of developing septal cholinergic neurons in vitro, but can support the development of a p75NGFR-immunoreactive population of non-cholinergic septal neurons.
The nucleus basalis of male Charles River Wistar rats was injected with 10 micrograms of the beta-amyloid peptides beta-(1-40) and beta-(25-35) and changes in the morphology of the lesioned area, the release of acetylcholine from the cortex, and in behavior were investigated. Injections of saline and a scrambled (25-35) peptide were used as controls. One week after lesioning, a Congo Red-positive deposit of aggregated material was found at the beta-peptides injection site, which lasted for about 21 days in the case of the beta-(25-35) peptide and at least two months for beta-(1-40). No deposit was detected after scrambled peptide injection. At one week post injection, an extensive glial reaction surrounded the injection site of all peptides and saline as well. Such a reaction was still present but rather attenuated after two months. A decrease in the number of cholinergic neurons was detected in the nucleus basalis after one week with all treatments except saline. After two months, a reduction in the number of choline acetyltransferase-immunopositive neurons was still detectable in the rats injected with beta-(1-40) but not in the beta-(25-35)-or scrambled-injected. The reduction in choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity was closely paralleled by a decrease in basal acetylcholine release from the parietal cortex ipsilateral to the lesion. Disruption of object recognition was observed in the first weeks after beta-(25-35) peptide injection, whereas the beta-(1-40) peptide impaired the performance only two months after lesion. Rats with lesions induced by beta-peptides may be a useful animal model of amyloid deposition for investigation of the pathogenetic mechanisms leading to Alzheimer's disease.
Alzheimer's-afflicted neurons contain phosphorylated forms of tau that are not present in healthy adults. these can be recognized with great specificity by monoclonal antibodies such as paired helical filament-1 (PHF-1) [Greenberg S. G. and Davies P. (1990) Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 87, 5827-5831; Greenberg S. G. et al. (1992) J. biol. Chem. 267, 564-569]. The PHF-1 phospho-tau epitope is also present in immature neurons undergoing axodendritic differentiation [Pope W. B. et al. (1993) Expl Neurol. 120, 106-113]. Analogous to its presence in immature neurons, we report here that the PHF-1 tau epitope spontaneously occurs in the human neuroblastoma cell line SHSY5Y, where its level can be regulated by differentiation and by molecules found in the extracellular matrix. Confocal immunofluorescence studies showed PHF-1 epitope to be constitutively expressed in the somatic cytoplasm as well as in short neurites typical of undifferentiated SHSY5Y cells. Induction of differentiation with retinoic acid produced cells with a neuronal morphology and a redistribution of the expression of PHF-1 tau in the long neurites. Protracted exposure to retinoic acid decreased the levels of PHF-1 immunofluorescence without a loss of neurites, similar to the developmental down-regulation seen in situ. The effects of retinoic acid on PHF-1 immunofluorescence were modifiable by fibronectin, which can be released by some neuroblastoma cell lines [Ciccarone V. et al. (1989) Cancer Res. 49, 219-225; Yoshihara T. et al. (1992) Int. J. Cancer 51, 620-626]. Exogenous human fibronectin caused a marked up-regulation of PHF-1 immunofluorescence. Quantitative analysis of 15 multicellular areas, from six different cultures, per experimental condition showed a 16-fold increase compared to untreated controls. Up-regulation by fibronectin was also evident in undifferentiated cells. Cell counts indicated no proliferative effects of the fibronectin under the conditions used. Laminin also caused an increase of PHF-1 tau in retinoic acid-treated cells. Data obtained from immunoblots verified the results observed with immunofluorescence. The data show that the PHF-1 tau epitope is spontaneously expressed by non-degenerating human neuroblastoma cells, down-regulated by cellular differentiation, induced by retinoic acid and up-regulated by the extracellular matrix components fibronectin and laminin. One explanation of the data is that fibronectin maintains a population of SHSY5Y cells in a biochemical state of differentiation in which PHF-1 tau is expressed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Atypical antipsychotic drugs, such as clozapine, are distinguished from classical antipsychotics (e.g. haloperidol) by their lower liability for producing motor side-effects. Although initial studies suggested that the clinical efficacy of antipsychotic drugs is related to their affinity for the D2 dopamine receptor, the delayed onset of both the therapeutic effects and the extrapyramidal symptoms associated with these drugs implicates a more complex mechanism of action. In this study, we found that continuous (but not acute) treatment of rats with either drug caused an increase in dye coupling between neurons in the limbic component of the rat striatal complex (i.e. the shell region of the nucleus accumbens) after withdrawal of the drugs. Furthermore, continuous treatment with haloperidol, but not clozapine, also increased dye coupling in the motor-related part of the striatal complex (i.e. the dorsal striatum). Thus, both therapeutically effective drugs show a delayed effect on dye coupling between neurons in the accumbens shell, whereas only the drug associated with motor side effects altered coupling between cells in the dorsal striatum. Antipsychotic drugs may therefore alleviate the profound disturbances in cognitive function of schizophrenics by producing sustained alterations in the way signals from the cortex are integrated within these brain regions.
We report that injecting an E1-deleted, non-replicating, human adenovirus type 5 vector into the brain leads to an inflammatory response. Much of this inflammation is induced directly by the virion particles themselves rather than through the expression of new proteins from the vector. The severity of inflammation was found to depend on the strain of inbred rat used: PVG rats have less inflammation than AO rats in response to a vector injection. Twelve hours after injection of adenovirus vectors into the striatum of AO rats, leukocytes were seen marginating to the walls of nearby blood vessels. By two days there was a large increase in major histocompatibility complex class I expression and a heavy infiltration of leukocytes, mainly macrophages and T cells. Retrograde transport of adenovirus to neurons of the substantia nigra was associated with a delayed and less intense inflammation at this distant site. Although AO and PVG rats showed comparable responses in the striatum up to six days, at later times PVG rats had less intense inflammation. In spite of the inflammatory response, vector-driven expression of the marker protein beta-galactosidase and an adenovirus early protein was seen for at least two months following the injection, although expression declined with time. The observation that adenovirus gene transfer leads to an inflammatory response in the brain must be taken into account when planning and interpreting experiments with these vectors. Furthermore, we conclude that using an appropriate strain of rat can diminish some aspects of the inflammation.
In unanaesthetized, normal rats, continuous cystometry revealed that pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide (PACAP-27), administered intrathecally or intra-arterially near the bladder, stimulated micturition. The localization of PACAP-27 in the rat lower urinary tract was studied by immunohistochemistry, and the direct effects on the smooth muscles of the rat detrusor and urethra were investigated in vitro. In the intact rat, 1.0 nmol of PACAP-27 administered intrathecally as well as intra-arterially close to the bladder, but not intravenously, increased micturition pressure, decreased micturition volume and bladder capacity, and facilitated spontaneous bladder contractions. PACAP-27 immunoreactive structures were extremely scarce in the lower urinary tract, and the peptide had negligible effects on isolated detrusor muscle contracted by carbachol or stimulated electrically, or on urethral preparations contracted by noradrenaline. These results suggest that PACAP-27 has facilitatory actions on micturition both at the spinal cord and peripheral ganglionic levels.
Olfactory transduction occurs on the cilia of olfactory receptor neurons, which are in close proximity to the external environment. Transduction is mediated by cyclic AMP, which directly gates channels in the ciliary membrane. Previous evidence indicates that one environmental influence, the level of divalent cations in the mucus, may strongly influence olfactory transduction by blocking the cyclic-AMP-gated channels. In this report the effects of external calcium and magnesium on the ciliary macroscopic current activated by cytoplasmic cyclic AMP were measured. External calcium and magnesium each reduced the cyclic-AMP-activated current at both negative and positive potentials. At the neuronal resting potential (-50 mV), half-maximal inhibition of the current was produced by 250 microM calcium or 1.3 mM magnesium. Reduction in current by external calcium was strongly voltage-dependent, with larger effects at negative potentials. Reduction by magnesium was weaker and less voltage-dependent. Block of the cyclic-AMP-activated current by divalent cations in the mucus may be one element of a system that increases the signal-to-noise ratio for detection of odorants.
In touch sensory neurons of the leech, a train of spikes evoked by intracellular electrical stimulation leads to an afterhyperpolarization, mainly due to the activation of the Na+/K+ electrogenic pump and partly to a Ca(2+)-activated K+ conductance. It has been found that serotonin is able to reduce the afterhyperpolarization through the inhibition of the Na+/K+ electrogenic pump. We have investigated the possible modulation of the afterhyperpolarization by other endogenous neurotransmitters and we have found that octopamine is also able to reduce its amplitude. The electrical stimulation of the octopaminergic Leydig neurons mimics this effect. We have compared the actions of the two amines and found that the effect of serotonin is blocked by methysergide but not by high [Mg2+] or by phentolamine, and it is still present in touch cells isolated in culture. On the contrary, the octopamine modulation of the afterhyperpolarization does not occur in single touch cells in culture and it is blocked by all these treatments. These data suggest that while serotonin should act monosynaptically, octopamine should act through a serotonergic pathway.
Two recombinant herpes simplex type 1 viruses expressing beta-galactosidase (encoded by the Escherichia coli lacZ gene) inserted into the unique long 41 (encoding virus host shutoff) or unique short 5 (encoding glycoprotein J) open reading frames were generated. Purified recombinants or wild-type herpes simplex type 1 were injected into the left adrenal gland of hamsters. Three days later, virus-infected neurons were detected in spinal cord sections from all infected hamsters. Neurons were visualized with beta-galactosidase histochemistry in spinal cord sections from hamsters infected with either of the recombinants but not with the wild-type virus. Wild-type virus could only be detected with immunocytochemistry. Insertional mutagenesis into the unique long 41 or unique short 5 regions of the herpes simplex genome by lacZ did not disrupt the neurotropic properties of the virus. Both recombinant viruses labelled the central nervous system sympathoadrenal preganglionic neurons as well as brainstem neurons. Because the virus host shutoff recombinant more readily crossed synapses to reach the brainstem compared to the glycoprotein J recombinant, the presence of glycoprotein J may facilitate cell to cell transmission in vivo. Both recombinants may be useful for the study of synaptic organization of neural circuits. Our recombinant viruses were less lytic yet neurovirulent after mutation of either glycoprotein J or virus host shutoff of herpes simplex virus type 1 wild-type. These recombinant viruses express the bacterial beta-galactosidase which is readily detectable using simple histochemistry. Inoculation of the adrenal gland or kidney with these viruses led to clear labelling of spinal cord cells. These viruses may be useful markers of specific neural circuits.
Previous work has shown that mating induces the expression of Fos protein within the chemosensory pathways of the male Syrian hamster brain. However, it is not known if this pattern of labeling is specific to mating or the result of social interactions in general. To determine the behavioral specificity of activation within these pathways, Fos immunostaining following mating was compared to that following agonistic behavior. Both mating and agonistic behavior are dependent upon chemosensory cues and gonadal steroids (reviewed in Refs 64, 65) and areas belonging to the olfactory and vomeronasal pathways process chemosensory and hormonal information (reviewed in Ref. 48). The results of this study demonstrate both similarities and differences in brain activation patterns following these two social behaviors. Agonistic behavior increased the number of Fos-immunoreactive neurons within most subdivisions of the medial amygdala, the anteromedial and posterointermediate bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the ventrolateral septum and the ventral premammillary nucleus of the hypothalamus in a pattern comparable to that observed after mating. This pattern of activation common to mating and agonistic behavior may reflect an increase in an animal's general state of arousal during social interactions. In contrast, although mating and agonistic behavior both activated neurons within the caudal subdivision of the medial nucleus of the amygdala, the anterodorsal level of posteromedial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the paraventricular and ventromedial nuclei of the hypothalamus, in these areas either the distribution and/or number of Fos-immunoreactive neurons differed. In addition, agonistic behavior selectively activated neurons within the anterolateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the anterior nucleus of the hypothalamus and the dorsal periaqueductal gray, whereas mating alone activated neurons within the posteroventral level of posteromedial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the medial preoptic area. No differences were found between dominant and subordinate males following agonistic behavior. These observations along with results from other laboratories suggest that mating and agonistic behavior activate distinct neural circuits.
Microtubule-associated proteins contribute to the balance between stability and plasticity of the neuronal cytoskeleton by modulating assembly and disassembly of microtubules. The tau microtubule-associated proteins exist in several isoforms which are developmentally regulated and differentially distributed. Our objective was to characterize the distribution of tau isoforms in developing and mature dorsal root ganglia neurons and during axonal regeneration following sciatic nerve axotomy. Immunocytochemical analysis was carried out using antibodies that recognize all tau isoforms and a novel antibody that specifically recognizes the high molecular weight isoform. The expression of tau is highly regulated during development. At E14, all dorsal root ganglion neurons express only the low molecular weight tau isoforms. These isoforms are still present in all dorsal root ganglion neurons in neonates, whereas high molecular weight tau isoforms are expressed in a subset of dorsal root ganglion neurons. The switch from low to exclusively high molecular weight tau expression begins at E18 and is completed during the first postnatal week. In the adult, high molecular weight tau is restricted to small- and medium-sized dorsal root ganglion neurons; its distribution largely coincides with the population of substance P and calcitonin gene related peptide peptidergic neurons. This differential distribution was observed in the cell body, dorsal roots and sciatic nerve axons. In contrast to the protein, however, the distribution of high molecular weight tau messenger RNA is not restricted; all dorsal root ganglion neurons express similar tau messenger RNA levels. The discrepancy between the distribution of protein and messenger RNA suggests control at the post-transcriptional or translational levels. Sciatic nerve axotomy which is followed by axonal regeneration did not alter the differential distribution of high molecular weight tau immunostaining. We conclude that the distribution and expression of tau isoforms during axonal regeneration in adult does not recapitulate the developmental pattern.
The distribution of the GABAA receptor in the goldfish brainstem and on the Mauthner cell membrane was investigated with both optical and electron microscopy using a polyclonal antibody raised against the intracellular loop of the rat gamma 2 subunit. At the optical level, immunofluorescent dots were detected on small and large neurons belonging to vestibular and reticular nuclei. On the Mauthner cell plasmalemma, a gamma 2-like immunoreactivity was observed predominantly on the tip of the lateral dendrite. Fluorescent parches were intermingled with a more diffuse staining. Immunoreactive spots of weaker intensity were also present on the soma and some were also observed inside and within the periphery of the axon-cap as well. Observations at the electron microscopic level revealed that the peroxidase end-product predominates postsynaptically in front of release sites in the studied nuclei and on the Mauthner cell. On the lateral dendrite of the neuron, numerous immunopositive postsynaptic differentiations were encountered on spines. Stained glial elements were encountered in the different areas studied. These results demonstrate that the GABAA receptor gamma 2 subunit has a precise distribution on neuronal membranes and suggest that it could be involved in the remote dendritic inhibition of the Mauthner cell and in the control of input-output properties of both vestibular and reticular nuclei.
Intense natural or electrical stimulation of afferents from the toes or the heel results in prolonged changes in the excitability of the heel withdrawal reflex pathway in the rabbit. This study has investigated the roles played by tachykinin NK1 receptors in mediating these effects. Reflexes were evoked by electrical stimulation of the sural nerve and recorded from the gastrocnemius medialis muscle nerve. High-intensity electrical stimulation of the common peroneal nerve, or application of a crush stimulus to the toes, resulted in suppression of gastrocnemius reflex responses to between 30 and 50% of controls, from which recovery was complete in 15-25 min. In contrast, intense electrical stimulation of the sural nerve, or application of mustard oil to the heel, facilitated the sural to gastrocnemius reflex to two to four times control values. Recovery was rarely complete within 30 min of these stimuli. Administration of the NK1 receptor antagonist CP-96,345, but not its enantiomer CP-96,344, reduced gastrocnemius reflex responses to sural nerve stimulation per se; significantly decreased the time to recovery after common peroneal nerve stimulation and toe crush (but did not affect maximum inhibition); and significantly reduced the facilitation of reflexes resulting from sural nerve stimulation or mustard oil applied to the heel in the first 3-5 min after the application of the stimuli. Both CP-96,345 and CP-96,344 reduced blood pressure and heart rate. These data show that: (i) blockade of NK1-receptors reduces excitatory drive from sural nerve afferents to GM motoneurones; (ii) NK1-receptors are involved in the generation of the early excitatory events which follow stimulation of nociceptive afferents from the heel; and (iii) have a role in the later stages of prolonged, opioid-mediated inhibition of reflexes resulting from activation of fine afferents from the toes. We believe that (ii) and (iii) reflect a role for tachykinins as transmitters from small diameter primary afferent fibres.
Pelvic ganglia contain a mixture of sympathetic and parasympathetic neurons which are innervated by either lumbar (sympathetic) or sacral (parasympathetic) preganglionic axons, respectively. However, until recently no stain for these axon terminals has been available. In the present study of the male rat major pelvic ganglion, a ganglion which supplies axons to the lower urinary and digestive tracts and internal reproductive organs, the total population of preganglionic axon terminals was immunostained using an antiserum against synaptophysin, a protein associated with all small synaptic vesicles (such as the presumptive cholinergic vesicles present in all preganglionic terminals). Selective bilateral lesions of either the hypogastric or pelvic nerves, which carry the sympathetic and parasympathetic preganglionic axons, respectively, were carried out and three to seven days later ganglia were examined immunohistochemically for the distribution of residual synaptophysin-positive terminals. Neurons remaining innervated following hypogastric nerve lesion were therefore classified as parasympathetic and those innervated after pelvic nerve section were defined as sympathetic. These two cell groups are present in approximately equal proportions. Double-staining immunofluorescence to identify which transmitters or peptides are present in either sympathetic or parasympathetic neurons showed that the majority (approximately 75%) of sympathetic neurons are presumed to be noradrenergic (i.e. contain tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity) and are also immunoreactive for neuropeptide Y; the remainder contain vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactivity but not tyrosine hydroxylase and may be cholinergic. Parasympathetic neurons were virtually all non-noradrenergic (tyrosine hydroxylase negative) and were also of two histochemical types, with some neurons containing neuropeptide Y- and others containing vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactivity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The distribution of protein kinase C (alpha, beta, gamma subtypes) was studied using immunocytochemical techniques in normal nerve fibers and in regenerating sprouts (growth cones) from the nodes of Ranvier following crush injuries to the rat peripheral nervous system. In normal nerves, for each protein kinase C subtype, immunoreactivity was present in both myelinated and unmyelinated axons. In myelinated axons, immunoreactivity for all three subtypes was patchy in the axoplasm and diffuse in the subaxolemmal peripheral zones. No immunoreactivity was found in the microtubule and neurofilament (cytoskeletal) domain. In contrast, in unmyelinated axons, immunoreactivity was distributed diffusely in the axoplasm. Schwann cells of myelinated fibers exhibited protein kinase C immunoreactivity, but those of unmyelinated fibers did not. In regenerating nerves, early sprouts and growth cones extending through the crushed site along Schwann cell basal laminae exhibited intense immunoreactivity for all three subtypes. Immunoreactivity was distributed diffusely throughout the axoplasm of the regenerating sprouts (growth cones), in which microtubules and neurofilaments were very rare. Thus, the subcellular localization of the protein kinase C immunoreactivity in growth cones of early regenerating nerves differed from that of normal parent axons. These findings suggest that protein kinase C (alpha, beta and gamma subtypes), whose subcellular distribution becomes more extensive in regenerating axons, may have important functional roles in axonal sprouting and in the regulation of growth cone activity in the peripheral nervous system.
Using an in vivo microdialysis technique, we have measured the extracellular concentration of endogenous free D-serine in comparison with that of L-serine, glycine and L-glutamate in the discrete brain areas of the freely moving rat. A high concentration of D-serine was observed in the dialysate obtained from the medial prefrontal cortex and striatum, whereas the cerebellar dialysate contained only a trace amount of the D-amino acid. The regional variation in the basal overflow of D-serine was proportional to that of its tissue levels which has been shown to closely correlate with the distribution of the N-methyl-D-aspartate type excitatory amino acid receptor. In contrast, the extracellular release of glycine and L-glutamate was higher in the cerebellum and very low in the striatum. The extracellular concentrations of L-serine were more than three times those of striatal D-serine in the three regions. Neither addition of a sodium channel blocker, tetrodotoxin (2 microM), nor deprivation of Ca2+ from the perfusate reduced the basal extracellular levels of the four amino acids tested in the medial prefrontal cortex. Furthermore, intra-frontal cortex perfusion of a sodium channel activator, veratrine (200 micrograms/ml), caused an increase in the extracellular release of glycine and L-glutamate but a slight decrease in that of D-serine in a tetrodotoxin-sensitive manner in the cortical region.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
By means of autoradiography we have studied the cellular localization of binding sites for [3H]neurotensin and its nonpeptide receptor antagonist [3H]SR-48692 in explant cultures of rat neocortex, striatum, brain stem and spinal cord. Binding sites for the peptide and its antagonist were observed on a great number of astrocytes in all CNS regions studied. Simultaneous staining of the cultures with a monoclonal antibody against glial fibrillary acidic protein has shown that the labelled cells in the outgrowth zone of the cultures were glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive and could therefore be identified as astrocytes. In addition to astrocytes, many neurons and outgrowing nerve fibres were labelled by the radioligands. Binding of [3H]neurotensin and [3H]SR-48692 (10(-8)M) to neurons and glial cells was markedly reduced or inhibited by the unlabelled compounds at high concentration (10(-6)M), suggesting &quot;specific&quot; binding of the radioligands. Electrophysiological studies have shown that addition of neurotensin to the bathing solution caused a hyperpolarization of the majority of astrocytes tested. There was a dose-response relationship between the magnitude of the hyperpolarization and the concentration of the peptide (10(-10)-10(-7)M); 10(-10)M being the threshold concentration. The specificity of the action of neurotensin was confirmed by the selective nonpeptide neurotensin receptor antagonist SR-48692 which reversibly blocked or markedly reduced the hyperpolarization by the peptide on all astrocytes tested. Our electrophysiological findings together with our autoradiographic data provide strong evidence for the presence of specific and functional neurotensin receptors on astrocytes.
To clarify the functional role of the brain somatostatinergic system in cognitive processes, changes in the performance in passive avoidance and water maze tasks and in brain somatostatin contents were comparatively investigated in young Fischer rats subjected to brain cholinergic and somatostatinergic depletion, and in aged Fischer rats. Lesioning of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis and administration of cysteamine (200 mg/kg, s.c.), a depletor of somatostatin, resulted in significant deficits in passive avoidance, but complete transection of the fimbria-fornix hardly affected the performance in the task. When cognitive performance was assessed in the Morris water maze, lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis and the fimbria-fornix, and administration of cysteamine, significantly impaired the acquisition of navigatory spatial memories of rats. On the other hand, aged rats (24-27 months) showed severe impairments of memory acquisition in both tasks. Neurochemistry measurements showed that lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis produced a selective reduction both in the cortical cholinergic marker choline acetyltransferase and in striatal somatostatin level, whereas lesioning of the fimbria-fornix caused a marked loss of choline acetyltransferase in the hippocampus and posterior cortex, and a significant reduction in hippocampal somatostatin. On the other hand, treatment with cysteamine significantly reduced the contents of somatostatin in all the brain regions examined, but minimally affected choline acetyltransferase activity. However, significant reduction in the striatal choline acetyltransferase activity and elevation in somatostatin content in the frontal cortex were found in aged rats compared with young rats. Taken together, these results strongly suggest that changes in the brain somatostatinergic transmission are involved in the cognitive deficits in the experimental animal models of dementia presently employed. Furthermore, the present comparative study further implies that there are differences in the relative involvement of the cholinergic and somatostatinergic systems in the performance of rats on two different tests of mnemonic function.
Several types of voltage-dependent calcium channels appear to occur in neurons, although coupling of the particular subtype of calcium channels to the release of neurotransmitter has not been clearly understood. We have examined the effects of subtype-specific inhibitors of the calcium channels on depolarization-induced release of endogenous neurotransmitters from brain slices. High potassium-induced release of glutamate and aspartate from hippocampal and striatal slices was almost completely inhibited by a P-type channel blocker, omega-agatoxin IVA. omega-Agatoxin IVA also completely inhibited the release of serotonin from the hippocampal slices with almost the same potency as in the case of glutamate, whereas the potency in blocking the release of serotonin and dopamine from striatal slices was lower than that from the hippocampal slices. Another calcium channel blocker, omega-agatoxin TK, that was recently found to block P-type channels with very similar selectivity and potency to omega-agatoxin IVA, also inhibited the release of amino acid transmitters and monoamines, though its potency was lower than that of omega-agatoxin IVA. An N-type channel blocker, omega-conotoxin GVIA, partially inhibited the neurotransmitter release, but an L-type channel blocker, nifedipine was ineffective. We propose that the activation of P-type calcium channels makes a major contribution to depolarization-elicited neurotransmitter release in the CNS and that multiple P-type channels sensitive to omega-agatoxin IVA and omega-agatoxin TK modulate the neurotransmitter release.
The effect of catecholamine depletion or blockade of dopaminergic or noradrenergic receptors on the neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity was studied in the rat brain cortex using immunohistochemical methods. Neuropeptide Y immunoreactive neurons were counted and the mean density of stained neurons per microscopic field was calculated. It was found that monoamine depletion by reserpine, the blockade of dopaminergic receptors by haloperidol or the specific D1 receptor blockade by SCH23390 caused a significant increase in the neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity in the cortex studied, after 24 h, evaluated as the density of immunoreactive neurons. No significant changes were observed after the blockade of alpha or beta adrenergic receptors (by phenoxybenzamine or propranolol, respectively). Specific D2 receptor blockade by sulpiride induced an insignificant increase only. The results suggest the existence of an inhibitory dopaminergic control of the neuropeptide Y content, mainly via D1 receptors, in neurons of the rat brain cortex.
Only recently, evidence was provided that apolipoprotein E allele epsilon 4 located on Chromosome 19 is associated with late onset (i.e. senile) sporadic Alzheimer's disease. Histologically, Alzheimer's disease is associated with intraneuronal neurofibrillary changes and extraneuronal A4/beta-amyloid deposition. We set out with a histological staging system which considers the gradual development of Alzheimer's disease-related histological changes over time and correlates highly with the cognitive decline ante mortem. Our analysis revealed that both the mean stage for A4/beta-amyloid deposits and the mean stage for neurofibrillary tangles get significantly shifted upwards in epsilon 4-carriers. This represents an earlier onset of the histopathological process of about one decade. The fact that both types of Alzheimer's disease-related changes correlate positively with the prevalence of the epsilon 4-allele suggests for a causal relationship between the apolipoprotein E polymorphism and the development of Alzheimer's disease.
The emergence of cognitive deficits in a subgroup of aged rats is associated with increased hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activity, decreased hippocampal mineralocorticoid and/or glucocorticoid receptor gene expression and neuronal loss. Short-term treatment with antidepressant drugs in young rats increases hippocampal corticosteroid receptor gene expression. In this study, the effects of chronic antidepressant administration on hippocampal mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid receptor gene expression and spatial memory in young and aged rats were investigated. Young (eight months) and old (22 +/- 1 months) Lister-hooded rats were ranked according to watermaze performance. Matched pairs of rats were treated with amitriptyline (10 mg/kg) or saline daily for nine weeks, then reassessed in the watermaze. Amitriptyline significantly improved spatial memory in the young rats (33% increase in transfer test time) and increased hippocampal mineralocorticoid, but not glucocorticoid receptor messenger RNA expression. By contrast, in aged rats, amitriptyline had no effect on spatial memory or hippocampal corticosteroid receptor gene expression, either in cognitively unimpaired or cognitively-impaired animals. In aged rats, basal plasma corticosterone levels, which were significantly higher than in young animals, correlated negatively with spatial memory, while hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor mRNA expression correlated negatively with plasma corticosterone levels and positively with spatial memory. Amitriptyline had no significant effect on basal morning plasma corticosterone levels in either young or aged rats, but significantly decreased evening corticosterone levels in aged rats. Our data support the notion that corticosterone exerts a concentration-dependent biphasic influence, via selective activation of hippocampal mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid receptor, on spatial memory. Amitriptyline improves spatial memory in young rats and increases hippocampal mineralocorticoid receptor gene expression. The lack of amitriptyline effect on spatial memory in aged rats may reflect decreased plasticity of both the synaptic processes underlying spatial memory and the regulation of hippocampal mineralocorticoid/glucocorticoid receptor expression, with mineralocorticoid receptors fully occupied due to elevated basal plasma corticosterone levels (in part a consequence of inadequate glucocorticoid receptor function).
Physiological evidence has indicated that serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) could be a regulator of cerebral blood flow in various regions of the brain. In the present study, tryptophan hydroxylase immunocytochemistry was used to characterize, both at the light and electron microscopic levels, serotonergic nerve terminals and primarily their relationships with intraparenchymal microarterioles and capillaries in the rat frontoparietal cortex, entorhinal cortex and hippocampus. Irrespective of the brain area, serotonergic varicosities were primarily apposed to either dendrites or nerve terminals, were on average 0.37 micron2 in surface area (0.69 micron calculated diameter) and 12-22% of them engaged in synaptic junctions, mostly with dendritic elements. Perivascular terminals (defined as immunolabelled varicosities located within a 3 micron perimeter around the vessel basal lamina) in the frontoparietal cortex represented 8-11% of all immunoreactive terminals counted, as determined by light and electron microscopy, respectively. In the entorhinal cortex and hippocampus, the proportion of perivascular terminals was only determined at the ultrastructural level and corresponded to 10% and 4%, respectively. In the frontoparietal cortex, serotonergic varicosities were located significantly closer (n = 250, 0.98 +/- 0.05 micron; P &lt; 0.001) to the blood vessels than those of the entorhinal cortex (n = 116, 1.41 +/- 0.08 microns) or hippocampus (n = 105, 1.31 +/- 0.08 microns). Of all perivascular serotonergic terminals in the frontoparietal cortex, 26% were in the immediate vicinity (0-0.25 micron) of the vessel wall, with 2.8% directly abutting on the basement membrane, while 11.6% were separated from it only by a thin astrocytic leaflet. This situation contrasts with that observed in the entorhinal cortex and hippocampus, where no immunoreactive varicosity was ever seen directly contacting the vessel basal lamina and with only 10-13% of the terminals being within 0.25 micron from the vessels. The surface area of perivascular serotonergic terminals was comparable in all regions studied and corresponded to 0.22 micron2; these virtually never engaged in synaptic contacts with adjacent neuronal structures. Our results indicate that tryptophan hydroxylase-immunolabelled terminals are identical to previously characterized serotonin-containing varicosities. Furthermore, the present data show intimate associations between serotonergic terminals and microvessels in the three regions examined. However, perivascular terminals in the frontoparietal cortex were more frequent and/or located much closer to local microvessels than those in the other regions, and might be more directly involved in neurogenic control of local cerebral blood flow.
We studied the binding of [35S]t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate to the GABAA receptor-mediated chloride channel in the CA1 area and fascia dentata of control and Schaffer collateral kindled rats, by means of semi-quantitative autoradiography. The [35S]t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate binding was determined at three stages during kindling acquisition: (i) after six afterdischarges, (ii) after 14 afterdischarges and (iii) after the induction of fully kindled seizures. Furthermore, the binding was studied at the long-term stage, 28 days after the last generalized tonic-clonic seizure [Racine R. J. (1972) Electroenceph. clin. Neurophysiol. 32, 281-294]. The binding was investigated at three [35S]t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate concentrations, 4, 47.5 (KD value) and 180 nM (Bmax value). A significant decrease in [35S]t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate binding in the CA1 area (-6 to -20%) and hilar formation (-17 to -37%), in one or more of the three [35S]t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate concentrations tested at the six and 14 afterdischarges and fully kindled stages was observed, but no significant changes at the long-term kindling stage were found. In contrast, the granular and molecular layers of the fascia dentata presented a significant increase in [35S]t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate binding (+15 to +38%) at the 14 afterdischarges, fully kindled and long-term kindled stages.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Central corticosteroid receptors play an important role in the regulation of the secretion of corticosterone. Although these receptors are thought to be regulated by circulating levels of corticosterone, there is evidence for direct neural control. For example, it has been shown that noradrenergic lesions can both increase and decrease corticosteroid receptors depending on the brain structure involved. In the present study, we investigated the role of different noradrenergic receptors in the rat, by examining the effect of the acute administration of agonists and antagonists of beta and alpha 1 noradrenergic receptors on hippocampal type I and type II corticosteroid receptor levels. The effects of these drugs were studied in adrenalectomized animals whose plasma levels of corticosterone were maintained in the physiological range by implantation of coritcosterone pellets. Our results show that the beta receptor agonist salbutamol (5 mg/kg) increased the number of type I and type II hippocampal corticosteroid receptors. This effect was blocked by the beta receptor antagonist propranolol (5 mg/kg), which had no effect on its own. In contrast, the alpha 1 receptor agonist phenylephrine (100 micrograms) reduced the number of type I and type II corticosteroid receptors, whereas the alpha 1 receptor antagonist prazosin (0.5 mg/kg) increased type I receptors. The effect of prazosin was attributed to an increase in the relative beta tonus resulting from blockade of alpha 1 receptors. Its effect was reversed by the simultaneous injection of the beta receptor antagonist propranolol. In conclusion, our results show that noradrenergic transmission can have both a facilitatory and an inhibitory action on central corticosteroid receptors by acting respectively on beta and alpha 1 noradrenergic receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The distribution of vesicular or chelatable zinc was analysed in the dorsal and ventral subdivisions of the striatum and globus pallidus of the rat with Danscher's selenium method. Acetylcholinesterase and Calbindin-D28k were used as striatal and pallidal markers in order to analyse the possible compartmentalization of the distribution of zinc in the striatum and globus pallidus. The main findings of this study are the following: (1) The distribution of vesicular zinc in the dorsal striatum was heterogeneous. A peripheral rim of tissue heavily stained for zinc was detected in the medial, dorsal and lateral striatal areas, along most of the rostrocaudal extent of the striatum. addition, patch-like zones intensely stained for zinc were prominent in the rostral half of the caudate-putamen complex. (2) In some regions of the rostral half of the caudate-putamen complex, the staining for zinc appeared to follow the well-known striatal patches (striosomes)/matrix organization. However, in other regions of the rostral half of the striatum such a relation was not detected. (3) The ventral striatum also showed a heterogeneous staining for zinc. Thus, in the most ventral part of the caudate-putamen complex, both subdivisions of the nucleus accumbens and parts of the olfactory tubercle displayed different patterns of compartmentalized distribution of zinc. In the dorsal half of the shell of the nucleus accumbens, some patches with an intense reaction for zinc seemed to overlap with acetylcholinesterase-poor patches. (4) There was a remarkable absence of staining for zinc in the globus pallidus. This histochemical study illustrates, on the one hand, the high content of vesicular zinc in the dorsal and ventral subdivisions of the striatum, which was distributed following different patterns of chemical compartmentalization, and on the other hand, the absence of vesicular zinc in the globus pallidus of the rat.
GABA and GABAA receptors have been studied in the substantia nigra of the rat following quinolinic acid lesions in the striatum. The regional distribution of GABA and GABAA receptors was investigated using immunohistochemical techniques with monoclonal antibodies to GABA and to the beta 2.3 subtypes of the GABAA receptor complex. The distribution, density and cellular localization of GABAA receptors were studied using quantitative receptor autoradiography and 6-hydroxydopamine-induced degeneration of dopaminergic pars compacta neurons. The subunit configuration of GABAA receptors was investigated using in situ hybridization histochemistry and subunit subtype-specific oligonucleotide probes. The results showed that in the normal substantia nigra GABA and GABAA receptors were mainly localized within the pars reticulata. GABAA receptors were mainly of the BZI variety, had a subunit subtype configuration that included alpha 1 and beta 2.3 subtypes, and showed a rostrocaudal gradient in the density of receptors; the density of receptors in the caudal third was 56% higher than that in the rostral third of the pars reticulata. Following quinolinic acid-induced degeneration of the striatonigral pathway, there was a marked loss of GABA immunoreactivity and a 59% increase in the density of GABAA receptors in the substantia nigra pars reticulata. There was a corresponding regional topography in the pattern of loss of GABA immunoreactivity and in the pattern of increase in GABAA receptors in the pars reticulata; the topography varied with the size and placement of the lesion in the striatum and correlated with the known topographical organization of the striatonigral projection. The quantitative autoradiographic results showed that following quinolinic acid lesions in the striatum: (i) the greatest increase in the density of GABAA receptors occurred in the middle third (91% increase) of the pars reticulata; (ii) the receptors were mainly of the GABAA/BZI variety; and (iii) 6-hydroxydopamine-induced degeneration of the dopaminergic pars compacta neurons did not significantly affect the density of receptors, indicating that the increased receptor binding was mainly localized on non-dopaminergic pars reticulata neurons. The immunohistochemical and in situ hybridization studies showed that, as in the normal substantia nigra, GABAA receptors in the substantia nigra pars reticulata on the lesioned side contained the alpha 1 and beta 2.3 GABAA receptor subtypes; the alpha 1 and beta 2.3 subtypes (but not the alpha 2) were increased after quinolinic acid lesions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The binding affinity of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors for [3H]AMPA is increased 10-30-fold by the chaotropic anion thiocyanate. The present experiments tested if thiocyanate alters AMPA receptor mediated current fluxes and if any such effects are reflected in the waveform of synaptic responses. Currents were measured after a step application of glutamate or AMPA to patches excised from pyramidal cells of hippocampal slice cultures. Application of 1 mM AMPA produced responses with an average peak amplitude of 86 pA at -50 mV and a 10-90% rise time of 1.7 +/- 0.1 ms; the responses desensitized to a steady-state level below 10% of the peak current with a time constant of 11.1 +/- 0.7 ms. Glutamate in presence of D-amino-phosphonopentanoate produced similar responses which were inhibited by 6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-dione and enhanced by aniracetam or cyclothiazide and thus are characteristic for AMPA receptors. Thiocyanate accelerated the decay of AMPA responses two-fold and reduced the peak current by 30-50% with an EC50 of 3.2 mM which is comparable to its EC50 for enhancing binding. Effects on the desensitization of glutamate induced responses were much smaller and only evident at the highest thiocyanate concentration; no effect was seen on response amplitude. Binding and physiological effects can be adequately explained by assuming that thiocyanate enhances conversion from the sensitive to the desensitized state of the receptor and reduces ligand dissociation from the desensitized state. Synaptic responses were measured in disinhibited hippocampal slices. Perfusion with 20 mM sodium thiocyanate increased the slope of the field excitatory postsynaptic potential by 44.9 +/- 4.2% and reduced its decay time by 10.4 +/- 4.3%. The former effect appears to result at least in part from an increase in transmitter release since it was accompanied by a decrease in paired-pulse facilitation and was reduced in magnitude after enhancing transmitter release. The decrease in the decay time constant points to an effect of thiocyanate on AMPA receptors in situ which is similar to that seen in excised patches. These results demonstrate that an increase in binding affinity may be indicative of reduced rather than enhanced current flow through AMPA receptors. In addition, the results provide further evidence that the kinetics of the AMPA receptor channel contribute significantly to at least the decay phase of fast excitatory synaptic responses.
The distribution of nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurons was studied in the Macaca fuscata by immunohistochemistry using antiserum against nitric oxide synthase. In the macaque lower brainstem, many nitric oxide synthase-containing cell bodies were found in the gigantocellular and parvocellular reticular nuclei, the nucleus of the spinal tract of trigeminal nerve, the cochlear nucleus, the prepositus hypoglossi and the nucleus of the solitary tract. Many nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive perikarya were observed in the laterodorsal-pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus complex of the macaque pontine and midbrain tegmentum. In addition, there were many highly immunoreactive cell bodies in the superficial layers of the inferior and superior colliculi. In the forebrain, numerous cell bodies were observed in the caudate nucleus, putamen, nucleus accumbens, nucleus of the diagonal band, anterior perforated substance and amygdaloid complex. Whereas most of these neurons were labeled highly intense for nitric oxide synthase, there were also many lightly labeled nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurons in the substantia innominata, globus pallidus, ansa peduncularis and lateral hypothalamic nucleus. The present observation indicated some species difference in the distribution of central nitric oxide synthase-containing neurons. Furthermore, the present neuroanatomical evidence that nitric oxide synthase is distributed in a variety of specific neuronal systems, with some differences in the patterns of cytoplasmic localization, further indicates the neural messenger role of nitric oxide in the central nervous system.
Viscerofugal neurons are enteric neurons in the myenteric plexus of the stomach and intestine that project to the prevertebral ganglia as the afferent limb of intestino-intestinal reflexes. This study characterizes viscerofugal projections to the inferior mesenteric ganglion and investigates the possibility of similar projections to the major pelvic ganglia in the male rat. The colon and rectum were examined for retrogradely labelled neurons following the injection of retrograde tracer into the inferior mesenteric or major pelvic ganglia, or following the application of tracer to the caudal end of the cut intermesenteric nerves, or either end of the cut hypogastric nerves. All labelled viscerofugal neurons were found in the myenteric plexus and were often grouped near the mesenteric attachment. The number of viscerofugal neurons projecting to the inferior mesenteric ganglion via the lumbar colonic nerves increases along the length of the large intestine with the maximum number of viscerofugal neurons found in the rectum. Some viscerofugal neurons from the distal colon and rectum reach the inferior mesenteric ganglion via the hypogastric nerves. A similar number and distribution of viscerofugal neurons project via the inferior mesenteric ganglion into the intermesenteric nerves as terminate in the inferior mesenteric ganglion. Very few viscerofugal neurons project to the neurons of the major pelvic ganglia via the rectal nerves, and no viscerofugal neurons project caudally in the hypogastric nerves to these ganglia. The majority of labelled neurons resembled Dogiel type I morphology. Thus the inferior mesenteric ganglion receives a substantial innervation from viscerofugal neurons of the large intestine, with the greatest supply from the distal colon and rectum.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In order to provide further information about the types of spinal neuron which possess neurokinin-1 receptors, we have carried out pre-embedding immunocytochemistry on sections of rat lumbar spinal cord with an antiserum raised against a synthetic peptide corresponding to part of the sequence of the receptor, and combined this with post-embedding immunocytochemistry to detect GABA and glycine. Numerous neuronal cell bodies showing neurokinin-1 receptor-immunoreactivity were seen in lamina I, laminae III-VI, the lateral spinal nucleus and the area around the central canal. Most of the cells observed in lamina III were small and had relatively restricted dendritic trees which could often not be followed into lamina II, however some larger cells in laminae III and IV had dendrites which extended through lamina II and into lamina I. Cells of the latter type are likely to represent a major target of substance P released from small-diameter primary afferents in the superficial dorsal horn. The great majority (255 out of 283) of spinal neurons which possessed neurokinin-1 receptor-immunoreactivity, including all of those in lamina I, were not GABA- or glycine-immunoreactive, however a few cells in the deep part of the dorsal horn and the lateral spinal nucleus and several cells near the central canal were GABA-immunoreactive, and some of these were also glycine-immunoreactive. These results suggest that substance P acts through neurokinin-1 receptors mainly on excitatory neurons within the spinal cord.
Both laboratory and clinical trials have indicated the reliability of a new catheter-tip, strain-gauge intracranial pressure transducer. We report on the results of bench tests comparing the wave-form analysis capabilities of the new Codman intracranial pressure MicroSensor and a similar strain-gauge transducer. Good agreement was found between the two sensors with no significant nonlinearity or hysteresis over a measured pressure range from 0 to 100 mg Hg. Under &quot;fluid-filled&quot; conditions, the MicroSensor showed good reproduction of an arterial pressure wave form; when spectral analysis was used to analyze the two sensor types and break them down into harmonic components, no significant differences could be found for any of the first 10 amplitude and phase harmonics. If proven to stay robust after long-term clinical use, this sensor may be a useful alternative to the existing transducer systems for routinely monitoring the intracranial pressure and its wave form.
In the past, stereotactic surgical intervention for Parkinson's disease was considered indicated only in those patients with active motor manifestations that were refractory to pharmacological therapy, manifestations such as tremor, rigidity, dystonia, and dyskinesia. With the reintroduction and refinement of Leksell's posteroventral pallidotomy, both akinetic and hyperkinetic symptoms are now amenable to surgical treatment. We have analyzed the results of 126 patients who underwent either unilateral (n = 58) or bilateral (n = 68) posteroventral pallidotomies. The Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale and Hoehn and Yahr Staging Scale were used for preoperative and postoperative objective assessments. Postoperative follow-up evaluation occurred initially at 1 week and subsequently at intervals between 1 and 12 months (mean = 4.5 months) after surgery. Although individual motor subscores on the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale were significantly reduced (n = 126, P &lt; or = 0.01), the most dramatic findings were the reversal of akinetic symptoms and the elimination of dyskinesia and profound &quot;off&quot; periods. These clinical results, combined with intraoperative microelectrode records revealing pallidal neuronal hyperactivity, suggest a reconsideration of the pathophysiology of akinesia and point to possible mechanisms of akinesia improvement by posteroventral pallidotomy in some parkinsonian subgroups.
Dystrophin is a protein product of the gene responsible for Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), and is a long slender protein localized at the protoplasmic surface of sarcolemma. Dystrophin binds with actin filaments at its amino-terminal region, and with dystrophin-associated proteins (DAPs) at its carboxyl-terminal region. DAPs are composed of a glycoprotein complex and a syntrophin complex, a complex of proteins binding with dystrophin and located intracellularly. Glycoprotein complex is composed of dystroglycan complex and sarcoglycan complex, both of which are membrane-integrated. Dystrophin binds with dystroglycan complex which transverse through sarcolemma and then binds with laminin in the basal lamina, forming a long axis between action threads and the extracellular matrix. Sarcoglycan complex does not directly bind with dystrophin but binds with dystroglycan complex. Disruption of the axis results in dystrophic changes in one kind of congenital muscular dystrophy (CMD). Loss of the sarcoglycan complex gives rise to childhood severe autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy (SCARMD) which is clinically very similar to DMD. In DMD, the sarcoglycan complex is mostly lost, and the axis is for the most part defective. Therefore, it is likely that the causes of DMD and SCARMD may be similar and may be modified by the mechanism which gives rise to CMD.
A randomised controlled trial was used to test the hypothesis that cutaneous injections of sterile water (SWI) have no benefit over saline (PSI) as a method of pain reduction among patients with myofascial pain syndromes. Six general practitioners located at 6 different clinics of general practice treated 117 patients (91 female, 26 male, aged &gt; or = 25 years) with myofascial pain syndrome for at least 3 months in one or both of the upper quadrants of the body. Patients were randomised to receive either SWI or PSI which was administered sub- and intracutaneously on 1 occasion. The patients received a mean number of 10 injections of 0.5 ml of either substance. The main outcome measure was pain intensity which was measured with visual analogue scales before intervention, 10 min after intervention and 14 days after intervention. We found no statistically or clinically significant difference in pain level reduction between the 2 groups. However, patients who received SWI reported a much more painful treatment experience than those who received PSI. Our study shows that injections of sterile water are substantially more painful but demonstrate no better clinical outcome than similar injections of saline as a method to treat patients with chronic myofascial pain syndrome.
The responses of 25 spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons to mechanical and thermal stimulation of the skin, as well as to a battery of iontophoretically applied excitatory amino acids (EAAs), were tested before and then during microdialysis of substance P (SP) or neurokinin A (NKA) into the dorsal horn of anesthetized monkeys. Neither peptide had significant effects on the background activity or the responses to mechanical or thermal stimulation of the skin. However, each peptide produced significant increases in the responses to iontophoretic application of one or more EAAs. In addition, following combined application of the EAAs and either SP or NKA, the responses of the cells to mechanical stimulation of the skin increased. Combined application of SP and NKA failed to produce an increase in responses to either the EAAs or to cutaneous stimuli that was greater than that produced by either peptide alone. It is concluded that SP and NKA produce an increase in the responses of STT cells to iontophoretic applications of EAAs and the combined effects of these compounds produce sustained increases in responses to mechanical stimulation of the skin. These changes mimic those observed when STT cells are sensitized by peripheral noxious stimuli, suggesting that the mechanism of induction and expression of sensitization involves the facilitation of dorsal horn neuron responses to EAAs by tachykinins.
Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT--PCR) has been widely utilized for both the qualitative and quantitative assessment of the levels of specific mRNA transcripts in living systems. Quantitation of specific transcripts has often proved to be problematic because of the difficulty associated with relating the PCR-amplified product to the starting cDNA representing the mRNA of interest. We have overcome these difficulties and have developed a competitive PCR assay employing the property of electrochemiluminescence for the detection of PCR products. This assay possesses the dual advantage of being both nonradioactive and highly sensitive.
Contemporary neuroscience suggests the existence of fundamental algorithms by which all sensory transduction is translated into an intrinsic, brain-specific code. Direct stimulation of these codes within the human temporal or limbic cortices by applied electromagnetic patterns may require energy levels which are within the range of both geomagnetic activity and contemporary communication networks. A process which is coupled to the narrow band of brain temperature could allow all normal human brains to be affected by a subharmonic whose frequency range at about 10 Hz would only vary by 0.1 Hz.
This study investigated the combined influence of anxiety and eye orientation on cutaneous thresholds. The relationship between anxiety and the lateral differences was also examined. Right-handed subjects of low and high trait anxiety received weak electric shocks on either hand. Cutaneous thresholds were recorded when eyes were directed towards or away from the stimulated area. State anxiety was retrospectively assessed. As compared to a contralateral eye orientation, directing the eyes ipsilaterally to the stimulated area yielded lower thresholds for subjects low in trait anxiety. This effect was not observed for subjects high in trait anxiety. The benefit of the ipsilateral orientation was higher for subjects with lower state-anxiety scores as well. Besides, subjects low in trait anxiety presented a left-hand advantage which was not shown by those high in trait anxiety. The left-right difference in thresholds was also positively correlated with state anxiety. The eye-orientation results are discussed in terms of anxiety-induced modification of spatial attention and the differential hand sensitivity findings in terms of hemispheric specialization.
The noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist dizocilpine (MK-801) produced an interoceptive stimulus cue in rats trained to discriminate between MK-801 (0.075 mg/kg) and saline in a two-choice, discrete trial avoidance paradigm. Haloperidol (0.03-0.3 mg/kg) failed to antagonize the discriminative stimulus cue of MK-801, with all rats choosing the MK-801-appropriate choice lever. Higher doses of haloperidol (1.0 mg/kg) produced significant sedation such that the rats were unable to complete all the trials. In contrast, clozapine dose dependently antagoinzed the discriminative stimulus cue produced by MK-801. Clozapine at a dose of 3.0 mg/kg completely antagonized the stimulus cue produced by MK-801. Therefore, the discriminative stimulus cue produced by the noncompetitive NMDA antagonist MK-801 may be useful as an animal model for selecting novel drugs with potential efficacy for treatment-resistant schizophrenia.

Organisms respond to extracellular stimuli by changing the expression of genes. Stimulation of the cell often induces a cascade of intracellular events that leads to activation of transcription factor DNA-binding complexes which modulate the transcription rate. Many cellular processes including development of the organism are dependent on these proteins to maintain proper levels of mRNA. A diversity of mechanisms has evolved to coordinate transcription factor binding to the specific DNA element which affects mRNA synthesis. Precise regulatory processes are present at the level of transcription, translation and posttranslation. Often, posttranslational processes alter affinities of factors to DNA-binding sites. In this review, the molecular controls of transcription factor binding to DNA will be examined, with specific examples of the pharmacologic regulation of transcription factor binding to DNA.
The corpus callosum (CC) of mice was completely transsected with a thin tungsten knife using a three-cut approach through the dorsal cerebrum just lateral to midline. This method results in almost total transsection of the CC throughout its entire rostrocaudal extent. Advantages of this approach include minimal bleeding and extracallosal damage as well as the possibility of selective transsection of only anterior, middle, or posterior parts of the CC. The technique can be readily adapted to any other rodent species.
A principal purpose of the present study was to characterize rats' demand for food by increasing the required delay between the alternation of leverpresses. While living in cages that were exposed to a 12:12 light:dark cycle, rats were required to alternate leverpresses for their entire daily food ration. After a press on one lever resulted in the delivery of a food pellet, a red cuelight was illuminated for a fixed duration that equaled the imposed delay between successive leverpresses. After the imposed delay elapsed and the cuelight was turned off, a press on the alternate lever resulted in the delivery of another food pellet. Increases in the imposed delay from 0.01 s to 16 s reduced mean percent correct (alternation) and mean food intake, although both were reduced more rapidly and to a greater extent in the light than in the dark photoperiod. This interaction resulted from a reduction of meal size in the light and a compensatory increase in meal size in the dark as the imposed delay increased. Rats also defended their daily intake in the dark against increasingly larger imposed delays by spending increasingly larger amounts of time alternating and by increasing total (correct + incorrect) presses. These results suggest that photoperiod is a determinant of the motivational value of food as a reinforcer for instrumental behavior in a closed economy.
The present study was designed to assess the anxiety profile of the selectively bred alcohol-preferring sP and alcohol-nonpreferring sNP rats. Rats were offered either water (ethanol-naive rats) or a free choice of 10% (v/v) ethanol and water (ethanol-experienced rats) for 14 consecutive days prior to the test. Spontaneous exploration of an elevated plus maze was used as a behavioral measure of anxiety. Ethanol-naive sP rats spent less time in and made fewer entries into the open arms of the maze than ethanol-naive sNP rats. These results suggest a higher innate degree of anxiety in sP than in sNP rats. Moreover, time spent in and number of entries into the open arms of the maze were higher in ethanol-experienced than in ethanol-naive sP rats. This finding suggests that ethanol consumed voluntarily produces anxiolytic effects in sP rats. The results of the present study are discussed in terms of (a) anxiety as a genetic trait related to ethanol-preference in sP rats and (b) self-medication of anxiety as a possible factor promoting voluntary ethanol consumption in sP rats.
Groups of adult, male, Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to either restraint at room temperature or cold restraint at 4 +/- 1 degree C for 2 h. Spontaneous motility, measured immediately after the stress, was decreased and defecation scores were increased in the cold restraint group but not in the restraint group. The rats were then sacrificed and prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, and striatum dissected out. The levels of dopamine (DA), dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), homovanillic acid (HVA), serotonin (5-HT), and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA) were measured in these areas by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with electrochemical detection. DA levels were decreased in the prefrontal cortex (-68%), nucleus accumbens (-40%), and striatum (-76%) of the cold restraint group when compared to the controls. DA levels were decreased only in the prefrontal cortex of the restraint rats (-31%) when compared to the controls. The cold restraint group also had increased levels of DOPAC in the prefrontal cortex (+66%) and nucleus accumbens (+65%) and increased levels of HVA in the prefrontal cortex (+43%) when compared to the control group. Our results therefore indicate that cold restraint activates DA metabolism in the prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, and striatum while restraint activates DA metabolism in the prefrontal cortex alone. Thus, cold restraint may be a more potent stressor than restraint alone.
The hydroxylation of the new antipsychotic drug risperidone to its main, active metabolite 9-hydroxyrisperidone is catalyzed by the hepatic cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP2D6, and cosegregates with the polymorphic hydroxylation of debrisoquin. We have previously examined central D2 dopamine and 5-HT2 receptor occupancy after 1 mg risperidone orally in three healthy subjects who were extensive metabolizers (EM) of debrisoquin, using positron emission tomography and the radioligands [11C]raclopride and [11C]NMSP. In this study, the same experimental design was repeated in two healthy poor metabolizers (PM) of debrisoquin to compare the D2 and 5-HT2 receptor occupancy induced by risperidone in EM and PM. The two PM had much higher plasma concentrations and longer elimination half-lives of risperidone than the three EM. Plasma concentrations of the sum of risperidone and 9-hydroxyrisperidone partly overlapped among the EM and PM. D2 receptor occupancy was 50% and 54% in the two PM, as compared to 40%, 43% and 55% in the EM. 5-HT2 receptor occupancy was 63% and 73%, as compared to 45%, 56% and 68% in the EM. These findings support the view that the active 9-hydroxyl metabolite of risperidone contributes to the in vivo effects of risperidone in humans, and thus partly counterbalances the marked variability in the disposition of risperidone.
The state-dependent effect of the BZ-receptor agonist diazepam (1.25-10 mg/kg), the partial agonist FG 8205 (0.5-4.0 mg/kg) and the BZ1-receptor agonist zolpidem (0.25-2 mg/kg) were investigated in rats. During daily sessions, animals were trained to acquire FR10 lever pressing for food reinforcement whilst under the influence of the agonists, using an operant technique. Forty-eight hours after the final training session under drug, their performance of the FR10 was evaluated during a test session, carried out following vehicle administration only. Neither diazepam, nor FG 8205 impaired acquisition of the task. In the group treated with 2 mg/kg zolpidem, six out of eight rats failed to learn within 20 sessions, but the smaller doses were without effect on acquisition. When drug treatment was withdrawn, there was evidence that all three of the agonists tested produced state-dependency. This was apparent in the form of longer latencies to obtain reinforcement and decreased lever pressing rates. The significance of these findings are discussed in the context of the relationship between the state-dependent effects of BZ-receptor agonists and their other properties, and the receptor subtypes which might underly these effects.
Investigations concerning dependence to drug of abuse are of pluridisciplinary nature. It is clear that to understand this complex phenomenon will not be the privilege of one particular level of psychobiological organizations. Whatever the theories, it must be stated that correlational relations exist between behavior, mental states, and brain-neuronal states whatever the transduction principles in cause. An important neglected problem to be investigated concerns the vulnerability presented by some organisms and not by other, either for the search of a drug-stimulus or to repeat the first encounter with the pharmacological agent, potentially a drug of abuse. Such vulnerability corresponds to a neurobiological state considered far from the equilibrium, i.e. homeostasis. Whether the drug, as many other agents, environmental, nutritional, sexual, tends to reduce the imbalance within the neuronal systems is a matter of debate.
The historical aspects of facial esthetics and its role in orthodontic teachings and practice are traced to their origins in classical art. Related discussions include the failure of &quot;divine proportions,&quot; the ascent of the Class II facies, and the influence of 19th century pseudoscience. Today, the treatment of facial form for a diverse society requires a tolerant sense of esthetic pluralism. Moreover, advances in neuroscience and psychology have extended understanding of the biological basis of variation in facial expression and judgment. The nature of oral esthetics was examined through quantitative studies of the smile line. Significant sexual dimorphism was found, ie, the gingival smile line (GSL) appears to be a female lineament and the low smile line seems to be a male lineament. Further results indicated that the GSL is associated with several facial characteristics, including anterior vertical maxillary excess, and the muscular capacity to raise the upper lip significantly higher than average on smiling. Other variables associated with GSL are statistically significant increases in overjet, interlabial gap at rest, and overbite. The gingival smile line is not necessarily objectionable esthetically and it will normally diminish with age. However, the treatment of choice for the GSL patient with an uncoached complaint is orthognathic surgery and orthodontics.




Systemic administration of the putative selective D3 receptor agonist 7-hydroxy-2-(N,N-di-n-propylamino)tetralin (7-OH-DPAT) consistently decreased extracellular dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) levels in the nucleus accumbens and dopaminergic neuronal activity in the ventral tegmental area. 7-OH-DPAT inhibited dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens also when locally perfused through the dialysis probe. The results suggest the possibility that stimulation of dopamine D3 receptors with 7-OH-DPAT mimic biochemical and electrophysiological actions previously ascribed to D2 autoreceptor stimulation; however the lack of selective D3 antagonist precludes any firm conclusion in this sense.
Recently, sex differences in the structures of the human hypothalamus and adjacent brain structures have been observed that seem to be related to gender, to gender problems such as transsexuality, and to sexual orientation, that is, heterosexuality and homosexuality. Although these observations have yet to be confirmed, and their exact functional implications are far from clear, they open up a whole new field of physiological structural-functional relationships in human brain research that has so far focused mainly on such relationships in pathology.
Gap junctions play important roles in the exchange of information and metabolites in the nervous system. These roles are highlighted by peripheral neuropathy (X-linked dominant Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease) that is associated with mutations in a gap-junction protein (connexin32), resulting in loss of function, and by somatic dysfunctions where changes in expression, organization or function of gap junctions are associated with neuronal hyper- or hypoexcitability. In this review, the causes and consequences of this gap-junction-related peripheral neuropathy and other pathological conditions of the nervous system, where dysfunctions of junctional communication are considered to play a casual role, are considered.
One of the major controversies in neuroscience concerns whether the expression of long-term potentiation (LTP) is a pre- or postsynaptic phenomenon, with apparently contradictory data being the norm. The model that is outlined in this article combines anatomical and electrophysiological evidence to allow apparently contradictory data to be compatible. Development of LTP involves both influx of Ca2+ through NMDA receptors, and activation of another factor, perhaps the metabotropic glutamate receptor. These two processes might result, respectively, in the insertion of activation of additional postsynaptic receptors, and the growth of microfilaments that could split simple synapses into perforated synapses, consisting of multiple active zones. Whether the latter occurred, and at what rate, would be likely to depend on multiple factors, such as temperature, the metabolic state of the cell, buffering of Ca2+, and the concentration of factors such as nitric oxide. These subtle experimental variables would thus determine whether the dominant effect observed was pre- or postsynaptic.
Phage display is a new technique that is used extensively in molecular biology to study protein-protein interaction, receptor- and antibody-binding sites, to produce monoclonal antibodies against diverse antigens, some of which are too well conserved for the production of monoclonal antibodies by traditional means, and to improve or modify the affinity of proteins for their binding partners. This technique could have many applications in neurobiology. This review describes the background to the technique, and illustrates a number of possible uses in neurobiology, ranging from the production of antibodies to non-immunogenic proteins and to those that are available as cloned DNA sequences only, to the detailed study of receptor-ligand interaction using either ligands, their receptors or neutralizing antibodies.
Colour vision tests for detection of glaucomatous damage frequently suffer from two problems: most tests are confined to foveal vision, whereas defects tend to appear first extrafoveally; and the modulation directions in colour space are not optimal. This paper deals with peripheral testing  la Yu, Falcao-Reis, Spileers and Arden [(1991) Investigative Ophthalmology and Visual Science, 32, 2779-2789], and investigates whether there are modulation directions that show preferential sensitivity reduction in glaucoma. In 14 eyes with early glaucoma, 17 risk eyes and 10 normals, 12 deg peripheral colour contrast thresholds were determined for L, M, S, L-M and L+M test directions. Threshold elevations were correlated in all test directions, with S modulation yielding the largest elevations.
Ethambutol, a tuberculostatic drug, induces red-green colour vision defects in man and goldfish. The ethambutol-induced red-green colour vision defect in goldfish was argued to originate in the retina because after ethambutol application: (1) inhibitive interactions in red-green (double) opponent ganglion cells are lost [Van Dijk &amp; Spekreijse, 1982 (Investigative Ophthalmology and Visual Science, 24, 128-133); Wietsma &amp; Spekreijse, 1992 (Investigative Ophthalmology and Visual Science Suppl., 33, 1032)] and (2) the depolarizing responses to red light in the biphasic horizontal cells are reduced. To account for these findings Spekreijse, Wietsma and Neumeyer [(1991) Vision Research, 31, 551-562] suggested that ethambutol induced dark adaptation in the retina. In this paper the dark adaptation hypothesis is tested with the following results: (1) ethambutol changes only transiently the receptive field size and spectral sensitivity of horizontal cells; (2) the spectral characteristics of horizontal cells do not change in long-term ethambutol-treated goldfish; (3) formation of spinules on horizontal cell dendrites in cone terminals, a parameter for light adaptation, remains unaffected. Therefore we conclude that ethambutol does not induce functional dark adaptation of horizontal cells and that the ethambutol-induced red-green colour vision deficiency does not originate in the horizontal cell layers.
The argument is made that mensuration of midsagittal magnetic resonance (MR) images is plagued with methodological errors due to confusion of the midsagittal MR image and the mesial brain surface. Several examples are given to demonstrate the effects of slice thickness and orientation on the size and shape of mesial structures. The benefits of examining contiguous slices and the necessity of consulting coronal and transaxial cuts in mensuration efforts of midsagittal cuts are emphasized.
Microdialysis was performed to quantitate lateral hypothalamic dopamine (LHA DA) release before, during and after a single meal in food-deprived obese and lean Zucker rats to examine our hypothesis that an abnormally high dopamine activity may exist in the LHA of obese Zucker rats. Food consumption after food deprivation, was significantly greater in obese than in lean rats (4.1 +/- 0.2 and 2.3 +/- 0.4 g, respectively; (p &lt; 0.05). Mean basal dopamine level was significantly higher in obese than in lean rats (12.0 +/- 0.3 and 10.5 +/- 0.3 pg in 10 microliters dialysates, respectively; p &lt; 0.05). Dopamine release during eating was greater in obese than in lean rats (159.1 +/- 6.8% and 135.4 +/- 3.6% of baseline level, respectively; p &lt; 0.05). After eating, the dopamine level returned to that before (105.6 +/- 4.5% in obese rats and 101.9 +/- 4.0% in lean rats) within the first 20 min sample. Data suggest that there may exist an inherently higher LHA DA 'threshold' level in obese Zucker rats and that until it is reached, food intake continues. This higher 'threshold' level may be responsible for their unique feeding behavior and is probably a contributory factor to their development of obesity.
The editing status of mRNA at the Q/R site of the AMPA/kainate type glutamate receptor (GluR) subunits A, B, 5 and 6 modulates the ion selectivity of glutamate receptor operated ion channels. We hypothesized that a long-lasting dysfunction of this editing process after an ischeamic insult may be involved in the process of delayed neuronal cell death. In order to test this hypothesis, the editing status of the GluRs was determined in the hippocampus of rats up to 24 h after 10 min of global ischaemia. No statistical significant differences were found in the hippocampus of animals after ischaemia compared with controls. It is concluded that delayed neuronal cell death is not mediated by a less selective or less efficient mRNA editing process of the different glutamate receptor subunits in the hippocampus.
Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) has previously been shown to increase survival of cultured neurons and to prevent the neurotoxic effect of the envelope glycoprotein 120 of human immune deficiency virus (HIV). The present report shows that VIP also protects mouse and human thymocytes exposed to a cytolytic dose of prednisolone in vitro. The activity of VIP is dose-dependent, and specific, since the structurally related secretin has no effect. The effective concentration of VIP is within the physiological range, suggesting that VIP released from nerve terminals may modulate cell death in the thymic cortex. Results with an N-terminal and a C-terminal fragment of VIP implied that the complete VIP molecule is required for optimal protection against cytolysis.
The effect of ganglioside GM1 on isoproterenol-induced cAMP accumulation was studied in insect Sf9 cells expressing the human beta 1-adrenergic receptor by infection with recombinant baculovirus. When such Sf9 cells were treated with isoproterenol plus IBMX, intracellular cAMP formation increased approximately 10-fold over the basal level. Preincubation of the baculovirus-infected cells with GM1 for 1 h caused a concentration-dependent inhibition of the isoproterenol-induced cAMP accumulation. Phosphatidylserine, GM3, GT1b and a bovine brain ganglioside preparation lacking GM1 did not cause significant inhibition. Forskolin-induced cAMP accumulation was not affected by the GM1 treatment. Inhibition of isoproterenol-induced cAMP formation by GM1 was not observed in Sf9 cells expressing beta 2-adrenergic receptor instead of the beta 1-adrenergic receptor. Binding studies with (-)-[3H]CGP12177 showed that preincubation with GM1 significantly reduced the affinity of antagonist binding to the beta 1-adrenergic receptor. These results suggest that GM1 or related ganglioside structure(s) may function as natural modulator(s) of the beta 1-adrenergic receptor.
Two kappa agonists, U50,488 and spiradoline, produced dose-related acute decreases in both morphine and cocaine self-administration in rats; higher doses of both agents were required to decrease rates of bar-pressing for water. On the day after kappa agonist administration, both agents produced extinction-like patterns of responding in many rats self-administering morphine or cocaine but not in rats responding for water. Two days after their administration, both U50,488 and spiradoline produced significant decreases in both morphine and cocaine intake; some rats continued to show decreases in drug self-administration for 5-6 days. Although the kappa antagonist nor-binaltorphimine (10 mg/kg s.c.) had no effect itself on either morphine or cocaine self-administration, it fully antagonized the effects of U50,488 (10 m/kg i.p.). The results suggest that although endogenous kappa opioid systems may not tonically modulate mechanisms involved in drug reinforcement, pharmacological activation of kappa pathways may be a novel and effective pharmacological approach to treating both opioid and stimulant addiction.
We have measured the concentrations of free D-serine post-mortem in the prefrontal cortex, parietal cortex, cerebellum and spinal cord from individuals with and without (controls) neuropsychiatric diseases using high-performance liquid chromatography with fluorometric detection. The levels of D-serine were found to be high in the prefrontal and parietal cortex (around 100 nmol/g wet weight) and very low in the cerebellum and spinal cord (below 10 nmol/g wet weight). The uneven distribution of the D-amino acid in the human central nervous system (CNS) resembles that observed in rodents, suggesting that, as shown in the rat CNS, the regional variation of D-serine content in the human brain might also be closely correlated with those of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) type excitatory amino acid receptor. In the prefrontal cortex, the gray and white matter had a similar concentration of D-serine. These findings, together with the selective action of D-serine at the NMDA-related glycine site and the non-neurogenic nature of extracellular D-serine release, add further support to the view that D-serine could be an intrinsic modulator of the NMDA receptor liberated from certain glial cells in the mammalian brain. Despite the anti-psychotogen activity of D-serine in the rat, there were no statistically significant differences between the D-serine contents in the prefrontal or parietal cortex of controls and those of patients with schizophrenia or dementia of the Alzheimer type.
The cellular mechanisms that regulate cell division in the developing vertebrate nervous system are essentially unknown. Using the frog retina as a model system, we tested the hypothesis that proliferation is regulated by feedback signals that encode the total number of cells in the population. To alter the number of cells in the retina, we surgically removed approximately half of the embryonic eyebud. In a previous study, cell counts made immediately after partial ablation showed that the number of proliferating, undifferentiated cells was reduced to 70% of the number in the contralateral control eye, while the number of postmitotic, differentiated cells was reduced to 47%. In this study, we sought to determine whether these reduced cell number of affected proliferation, which was assessed by counting the total number of cells present at various times after surgery. The partially ablated retinas consistently had fewer cells than the contralateral retinas. Analyses of the cell numbers suggested that there was little or no change in mitotic rate in the partially ablated retinas and that the decreased production of both differentiated and undifferentiated cells was due almost entirely to the reduction in the number of dividing cells. There is thus no evidence that retinal stem cells up-regulate their production of new cells in response to a reduction of either the stem cells themselves or of their descendants. This lack of response to population size indicates that, in contrast to many non-neural stem cell systems, proliferation of neural stem cells is not regulated by a feedback mechanism but instead is largely autonomous.
Neuronal activity and trophic factors have been implicated in shaping the connectivity of functional synaptic circuits. We studied the development and regulation by sensory input of the neurotrophins NGF, BDNF and NT-3 in the developing rat visual system. In the occipital cortex, NT-3 mRNA was transiently expressed in the neonate. In contrast, BDNF and NGF mRNA's increased during postnatal development, and reached mature levels around 3 weeks of age. BDNF mRNA was ten times more abundant than NGF mRNA. In the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), NT-3 mRNA was also transiently expressed, whereas NGF and BDNF mRNA's did not vary significantly during development. The high-affinity neurotrophin receptors trkB and trkC were expressed both in the developing LGN and occipital cortex. These receptors for BDNF and NT-3, respectively, were expressed at birth, with little change during development. In contrast, trkA mRNA, which encodes the high-affinity NGF receptor, was undetectable in either region. Visual experience differentially modulated expression of NGF and BDNF mRNA's. NGF mRNA was slightly increased after 3 weeks of light-deprivation. In contrast, BDNF mRNA expression in visual cortex was significantly lower than normal in rats dark-reared from birth. Decreased BDNF expression after sensory deprivation was reversible by exposure to light. Thus, all three neurotrophins were detected in visual cortex and LGN. Differences in abundance developmental profiles, and regulation imply distinct functions for each factor in the visual system.
During the early postnatal period, the rat brain contains high basal levels of AP-1 DNA binding activity which declines to the low levels found in the adult by the third postnatal week. Although the individual transcription factors that comprise this AP-1 DNA binding complex had not been identified, we discovered that these proteins were immunoreactive to the cAMP responsive element binding protein (CREB) and also recognized the CRE element. The 45 kDa CREB-immunoreactive protein was detected at high levels only during the first postnatal week. CRE and AP-1 DNA binding activities were studied in the olfactory bulb, striatum, hindbrain, hippocampus, hypothalamus and cerebellum. In general, the DNA binding activity correlated with the stage of maturation of the particular brain region. However, basal AP-1 DNA binding in the olfactory bulb from adults remained slightly elevated relative to other brain regions. Interestingly, the DNA binding complex in the olfactory bulb began to include fos-related antigen as well as CREB by the third postnatal week. The fra-containing complex only recognizes the AP-1 element, while the CREB complex can bind to either CRE or AP-1 sequences. Thus, there is crosstalk between the signal transduction systems that activate CREB and AP-1 transcription factors. This elevated CREB DNA binding activity may be a sensitive index for studying the development of the brain and could be involved in modulating the genomic program in differentiating cells.
The expression of heat shock protein (HSP) 73, a constitutive form of HSP, was evaluated immunohistologically in human brains, from embryos to adults. HSP 73 immunoreactivity was first detected in the embryo at 6 weeks of gestational age (GW) in the ventral horn cells of the spinal cord and the dorsal root ganglion cells. During the fetal period, the reactivity extended cranially, becoming detectable in the cerebral pyramidal cells at 40 GW. Glial cells in the spinal cord also showed HSP 73 immunoreactivity, from 22 GW. The time course of the development of HSP 73 immunoreactivity was mostly consistent with the time courses of overall neuronal and glial maturation, suggesting an increasing role of HSP 73 during neural cell differentiation.
Deposition of beta-amyloid peptide in senile plaques is a principal neuropathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease. beta-Amyloid peptide is derived from larger amyloid precursor proteins. Amyloid precursor protein is a member of a family of integral membrane glycoproteins that includes amyloid precursor-like protein (APLP) 1 and 2. Alternatively spliced pre-mRNAs encode several APLP2 isoforms; the APLP2-751 isoform is a substrate for modifications by a chondroitin sulfate glycosaminoglycan (CS GAG) chain, whereas the APLP2-763 isoform does not undergo CS GAG modification. In this report, we have examined the sorting and metabolism of APLP2-751 and APLP2-763 in polarized epithelial Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells. We demonstrate that, despite differences in post-translational modifications, both the APLP2-751 proteoglycan and APLP2-763 isoform were targeted and secreted to the basolateral compartment of MDCK cells. We document that the kinetics of intracellular maturation of full-length forms and secretion of soluble derivatives generated from each isoform were indistinguishable. Our results are consistent with the view that, in MDCK cells, the CS GAG chain of APLP2 has little influence on intracellular trafficking and that the principal basolateral targeting determinants are likely to reside in the APLP2 core protein.


We report here on the characterization of soluble and particulate forms of the inducible nitric oxide synthase in RAW 264.7 macrophage cells. Stimulation of these cells with E. coli lipopolysaccharide and interferon-gamma resulted in a significant induction of nitric oxide synthase activity with approximately 20% of the total activity localized to the cell membrane. Like the soluble enzyme form, the membrane-associated nitric oxide synthase activity was inhibited by NG-monomethyl-L-arginine and did not require the addition of calcium. Both protein forms were immunoreactive on Western blots with antibodies specifically recognizing the carboxyl terminus of the protein. In contrast, antibodies specific for the amino terminus recognized inducible nitric oxide synthase from the cytosol, but failed to recognize the membrane-associated protein. Thus, macrophage cells are capable of expressing two forms of the inducible nitric oxide synthase that are definable by an intracellular distribution that correlates to antigenic differences at the amino terminus.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) is a lasting enhancement of excitatory synaptic transmission that follows specific patterns of electrical stimulation. Although the mechanism of LTP has been intensively studied, particularly in the hippocampus, its significance for normal brain function remains unproven. It has been proposed that LTP-like mechanisms may contribute to naturally occurring, experience-dependent synaptic modifications in the visual cortex. The formation of normal binocular connections within the visual cortex requires simultaneous input from both eyes during a postnatal critical period that can be delayed by rearing animals in complete darkness. To explore the role of LTP in this experience-dependent maturation process, we induced LTP in visual cortical slices taken at different ages from light-reared and dark-reared rats. Susceptibility to LTP coincides with the critical period and, like the critical period, can be prolonged by rearing animals in darkness. These findings support the hypothesis that LTP reflects a normal mechanism of experience-dependent synaptic modification in the developing mammalian brain.

The localization of sites of memory formation within the mammalian brain has proven to be a formidable task even for simple forms of learning and memory. Recent studies have demonstrated that reversibly inactivating a localized region of cerebellum, including the dorsal anterior interpositus nucleus, completely prevents acquisition of the conditioned eye-blink response with no effect upon subsequent learning without inactivation. This result indicates that the memory trace for this type of learning is located either (i) within this inactivated region of cerebellum or (ii) within some structure(s) efferent from the cerebellum to which output from the interpositus nucleus ultimately projects. To distinguish between these possibilities, two groups of rabbits were conditioned (by using two conditioning stimuli) while the output fibers of the interpositus (the superior cerebellar peduncle) were reversibly blocked with microinjections of the sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxin. Rabbits performed no conditioned responses during this inactivation training. However, training after inactivation revealed that the rabbits (trained with either conditioned stimulus) had fully learned the response during the previous inactivation training. Cerebellar output, therefore, does not appear to be essential for acquisition of the learned response. This result, coupled with the fact that inactivation of the appropriate region of cerebellum completely prevents learning, provides compelling evidence supporting the hypothesis that the essential memory trace for the classically conditioned eye-blink response is localized within the cerebellum.
The recently discovered efferent projections from the main and accessory olfactory bulbs to the supraoptic nucleus (SON) were further investigated. Intracellular electrophysiological methods were used to determine (a) if these projections are monosynaptic, (b) which excitatory amino acid (EAA) receptor subtypes mediate responses to activation of these pathways and (c) whether the same receptor subtypes mediate responses of phasically firing (vasopressin) and continuously firing (putative oxytocin) neurons. Recordings were made from SON neurons in large explants and 500 microns thick horizontal slices, containing 2-6 mm of the piriform cortex and lateral olfactory tract (LOT). This allowed recording of synaptic responses to selective stimulation of the LOT. EPSPs in SON neurons faithfully followed stimulus frequencies of 50-100 Hz, indicating that these inputs were monosynaptic. Stimulus-evoked EPSPs were blocked by the non-specific EAA antagonist, kynurenate. Perifusion of the slice with Mg(2+)-free medium revealed the presence of NMDA receptors in addition to the non-NMDA receptors on both phasically and continuously firing cells, indeed, on all cells tested. Partial blockade of these EPSPs in Mg(2+)-free medium could be achieved with either the NMDA antagonist, AP5, or the non-NMDA antagonist, CNQX or NBQX. Full blockade of the stimulus-evoked EPSPs was effected by adding both types of antagonists to the medium, although spontaneous EPSPs were still observed in several cells. These results are consistent with prior studies showing both receptor subtypes in the SON. This is the first demonstration that afferent stimulation activates both subtypes in the same SON neuron regardless of its peptide content.
To define the importance of adoptive sensitization and duration of graft residence on transplant alloimmunization, behavioral and histochemical parameters were examined in unilaterally 6-OHDA-lesioned F344 rat hosts which received fetal ventral mesencephalic (VM) grafts from Wistar-Furth (WF) donors. In all animals which showed increased rotations after alloimmunization, increased numbers of T cell receptor (TcR) positive, CD8+ lymphocytes were detected in the grafts. In addition, an increased density of class I MHC antigens was seen in the graft and in the adjacent host brain. Lesser numbers of CD4+, CD11b+, and MHCII+ positive elements were also seen. Perivascular cuffing was often found in actively immunized animals. An increase in TcR+ and MHC class I+ elements was also seen in animals only adoptively immunized. The tyrosine hydroxylase positive graft area was also markedly reduced in actively immunized animals and the extent of reduction correlated with the number of cells used for immunization. These studies indicate that established allografts can evade rejection as long as host lymphocytes are not activated against graft alloantigens. In addition, increasing graft residence time in the host and adoptive immunization render the graft more susceptible to subsequent rejection.
An in vivo autoradiographic procedure was employed to visualize local changes in brain opioid receptor occupancy in juvenile rats. This procedure is based on the assumption that released endogenous ligand will exclude exogenously applied tracer, in this case [3H]diprenorphine, from opioid receptors. Increases in availability of opioid peptides will then result in decreased opioid receptor binding. From behavioral studies there is ample evidence that opioid systems are involved in the regulation of social play behavior in juvenile rats. In the present study, changes in regional brain opioid activity as a result of social isolation-induced social play behavior were monitored. Twenty-one-day-old rats were socially isolated for 0, 3.5 or 24 h prior to testing, and tested alone or in a dyadic encounter. After behavioral testing, [3H]diprenorphine was administered and the brain was prepared for autoradiography. Social isolation caused increases in social behavior (dyadic encounters) but not in non-social behavior (singly tested animals). Modest differences in brain opioid receptor binding due to social isolation, social play behavior, or an interaction of the two, were found in claustrum, nucleus accumbens, globus pallidus, paraventricular and arcuate nuclei of the hypothalamus, and the dorsolateral and paratenial thalamic nuclei. These results support the notion that opioid systems are involved in the regulation of social play behavior. In addition, the observation of changes in opioid binding in areas involved in reward processes, adds evidence to the hypothesis that opioid systems are involved in the regulation of the rewarding aspects of social play in juvenile rats.
The effect of NGF was studied on the adhesion of mouse dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons to a laminin-coated surface and on their subsequent survival in primary culture. DRG neurons were obtained both from normal diploid mice and trisomy 16 mice. The latter are considered a model of human trisomy 21, Down's syndrome. Whereas both diploid and trisomy DRG neurons depended on NGF for adhesion, the sensitivity of trisomy 16 neurons to NGF was significantly reduced (P &lt; 0.05). This suggests that excess expression of genes on mouse chromosome 16 alters NGF-regulated adhesion to laminin. Survival of neurons that had attached to laminin in culture did not appear dependent on NGF for either diploid or trisomy 16 neurons.
A proportion of the microtubule-associated protein, tau, is in an elevated state of phosphorylation in foetal and adult brain whereas all of the tau in paired helical filaments, which are characteristic of Alzheimer's disease is hyperphosphorylated; it is important therefore to elucidate the mechanisms that regulate tau phosphorylation. Here we describe results that show that although MAP kinase can hyperphosphorylate tau in vitro, activation of MAP kinase in transformed fibroblasts does not result in hyperphosphorylation of transfected tau, whereas glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3 beta) when co-transfected with tau does result in tau hyperphosphorylation. The findings imply that GSK-3 beta may be a stronger candidate than MAP kinase for inducing tau hyperphosphorylation in vivo.
The localization and termination of olivocerebellar fibers in the flocculus and nodulus of the rabbit were studied with anterograde axonal transport methods [wheatgerm agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) and tritiated leucine] and correlated with the compartments in the white matter of these lobules delineated with acetylcholinesterase histochemistry (Tan et al. J. Comp. Neurol., 1995, this issue). Olivocerebellar fibers originating from the caudal dorsal cap travel through floccular compartments FC2 and FC4 to terminate as climbing fibers in floccular zones FZII and FZIV. Fibers from the rostral dorsal cap and the ventrolateral outgrowth traverse compartments FC1 and FC3, which are interleaved with compartments FC2 and FC4, and terminate in zones FZI and FZIII. Fibers from the rostral pole of the medial accessory olive traverse the C2 compartment and terminate in the C2 zone. FZI-III extend into the adjoining folium (folium p) of the ventral paraflocculus. The C2 zone continues across folium p into other folia of the ventral paraflocculus and into the dorsal paraflocculus. Four compartments and five zones were distinguished in the nodulus. Medial compartment XC1 contains olivocerebellar fibers from the caudal dorsal cap and subnucleus beta that terminate in the XZI zone. Olivocerebellar fibers from the rostral dorsal cap and the ventrolateral outgrowth occupy XC2 and terminate in XZII. The XC4 compartment contains fibers from both the caudal dorsal cap and from the rostral dorsal cap and the ventrolateral outgrowth. The latter terminate in a central portion of the XZIV zone. The dorsomedial cell column projects to the XZIII zone, which is present only in the dorsal part of the nodulus. The rostral medial accessory olive projects to the XZV zone, which occupies the lateral border of the nodulus. These results confirm and extend the conclusions of Katayama and Nisimaru ([1988] Neurosci. Res. 5:424-438) on the zonal pattern in the olivo-nodular projection in the rabbit. Additional observations were made on the presence of a lateral A zone (Buisseret-Delmas [1988] Neurosci. Res. 5:475-493) in the hemisphere of lobules VI and VII. Retrograde labeling of the nucleo-olivary tract of Legendre and Courville ([1987] Neuroscience 21:877-891) was observed after WGA-HRP injections into the inferior olive including the rostral dorsal cap and the ventrolateral outgrowth. The anatomical and functional implications of these observations are discussed.
We have examined visual functions, including colour vision, in a patient with bilateral cortical lesions involving mainly the fusiform and lingual gyri, areas known to be involved in the central processing of chromatic stimuli. The patient has near normal (6/9) acuity, and his responses to tests of binocular function and spatial vision are normal, as are his discrimination of changes in target speed and surface lightness. He does, however, exhibit minor losses in the upper visual field, mild prosopagnosia and topographical agnosia, all conditions commonly associated with cerebral achromatopsia. Colour matches and spectral response data establish that his cone photoreceptors have normal spectral characteristics and his spectral sensitivity measured against a white background reveals normal postreceptoral chromatic function. The patient's colour discrimination for differences in wavelength, hue or saturation is, however, impaired and his colour naming is significantly disturbed, particularly for blues and greens. We have determined the areas of the chromaticity chart that correspond to his naming categories for surface colours, and show that changes in illuminant cause him to alter the names of surface colours in a manner consistent with the changes in their chromaticities. Other subjects with normal or congenital red-green deficient colour vision make many fewer name changes under changes in illuminant. We conclude that the patient's colour constancy is impaired as a consequence of abnormal central processing of colour vision.


Capillary reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) was used to determine acetylmethylprednisolone (A-MP) that had been administered to feline spinal cord tissue. The method used a 300 mm x 0.32 mm I.D. packed capillary octadecylsilyl (ODS) column and an isocratic mobile phase of 40 mM triethylamine formate (TEAF, pH 3.2)-acetonitrile (50:50, v:v). The chromatographic behavior of A-MP was evaluated with respect to peak-area and peak-height by varying the A-MP concentration (12-190 microM) with a fixed injection volume (1 microliter), and by varying the injection volume (1-10 microliter) with a fixed concentration (12 microM) of A-MP. The limit of detection (signal-to-noise ratio, 3:1) was 250 pg (600 fmol) of synthetic A-MP. Various amounts of A-MP directly spiked into feline spinal cord segments were solvent extracted, separated, and plotted against peak-area (r2 = 1.00). Background tissue without A-MP gives minimal (&lt; 1%) interference at 243 nm. The method also detects exogenous A-MP that was administered into feline spinal cord via an intrathecal injection. Furthermore, the presence of A-MP was confirmed via its molecular ion and corresponding product ions that were obtained by fast-atom bombardment tandem mass spectrometry (FAB-MS-MS).
The effects of sigma (sigma) ligands on protein phosphorylation were examined in crude, rat forebrain synaptosomes. Synaptosomes were prelabelled with 32P(i) and incubated with the sigma ligands 1,3-di-o-tolylguanidine (DTG), (+)pentazocine and (-)pentazocine (3, 10, 30, 100, 300 microM), or haloperidol, reduced haloperidol, and (+)SKF 10,047 (100 microM). Aliquots were then incubated for 10 s in control (5 mM K+) or depolarising buffer (41 mM K+). All the sigma ligands increased basal phosphorylation of synapsin Ib and other proteins including dynamin, and inhibited the depolarisation-dependent increase in phosphorylation of synapsin Ib in synaptosomes. The effects of these ligands are not directly on protein kinases or protein phosphatases. This indicates that the sigma ligands are mediating their effects via interaction with sigma binding sites, and suggest, for the first time, that protein phosphorylation may be one mechanism through which sigma ligands produce their biological effects.
We studied the effects of the beta-amyloid (A beta) peptides A beta-(1-40), A beta-(25-35-NH2) and A beta-(25-35-COOH) on binding of the phosphoinositide derived, calcium mobilising, second messengers inositol(1,4,5)-trisphosphate (Ins(1,4,5)P3) and inositol(1,3,4,5)-tetrakisphosphate (Ins(1,3,4,5)P4) to their receptor sites in rat cerebral cortical membranes. All three peptides gave statistically significant dose-dependent increases in both [3H]Ins(1,4,5)P3 and [3H]Ins(1,3,4,5)P4 binding. A beta-(1-40) and A beta-(25-35-NH2) enhanced [3H]Ins(1,4,5)P3 and [3H]Ins(1,3,4,5)P4 binding to a similar extent. In comparison, A beta-(25-35-COOH) gave much greater enhancements of [3H]Ins(1,4,5)P3 and [3H]Ins(1,3,4,5)P4 binding. However, a component of the latter appeared to be due to the formation of pelletable A beta-(25-35-COOH)/[3H]Ins(1,3,4,5)P4 aggregates, that occurred in the absence of membranes. These results raise the possibility that A beta affects calcium homeostasis by a direct action on [3H]Ins(1,4,5)P3 and [3H]Ins(1,3,4,5)P4 receptor sites.
Whole cell patch clamp recordings were made in layer II-IV from organotypic slices of rat primary visual cortex, explanted at postnatal day 6 and maintained in a serum-free medium. Neurons evinced current clamp characteristics typical for stellate cells. Between 7 and 21 days in culture, both glutamate- and GABA-mediated postsynaptic currents were observed. Long-term culturing in the presence of a degenerate 15-mer antisense oligonucleotide directed against the transcripts of all alpha subunits genes of the GABAA receptor resulted in a dose dependent reduction of evoked GABA synaptic currents. This reduction was maximal (80%) at 20 microM. A randomized control oligo had no effect. Evoked glutamatergic excitatory postsynaptic currents were unaffected following oligo treatment. A 15-mer antisense oligo directed against the alpha 1 subunit gave variable effects: in some cells the amplitude of evoked GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) was reduced by 50-75%, while in other cells recorded from the same slices, there was little or no effect. An antisense oligo, directed against the alpha 2 subunit, however, gave a consistent and robust 80% reduction of the amplitude of evoked IPSCs. A 15-mer 3-base mismatch oligo against alpha 2 had no effect. We conclude that the alpha 2 subunit functions in postsynaptic GABAA receptors located on or close to the cell bodies of stellate cells. The role of the alpha 1 subunit is less clear, but this subunit seems spatially differentiated. The in situ antisense oligo technique should provide further insight into the biophysical and pharmacological consequences of the subunit composition of ligand gated channels at functional synapses.
Estrogens and thyroid hormones contribute importantly to cell proliferation and tumor transformation in the pituitary gland. The purpose of the present article is provide review about neurotransmitters, chemicals, and receptors that are involved in estrogen-induced anterior pituitary growth. Central dopaminergic and noradrenergic systems are thought to be the most important systems in regulation of pituitary growth and function. For this purpose authors discuss some of their past and present data suggesting that estrogen-induced anterior pituitary pituitary growth is associated with decreased synthesis and metabolism of central catecholamines and increased adenohypophyseal dopamine 2 receptors. Treatment with thyroid hormones prevents both estrogen-induced catecholaminergic inhibition and dopamine D2 receptor increment in the anterior pituitary gland. Further studies focusing on central catecholaminergic systems, pituitary receptor equipment and mechanisms of intracellular signal transduction will be of value to better understand pituitary tumor formation and possibly to find new approaches toward treating patients with these tumors.
In anesthetized, paralyzed and ventilated rats, hypoxia, produced by intratracheal administration of 100% N2 for 20 s, increases sympathetic nerve activity and produces cardiovascular responses. Acute midcollicular decerebration has no effect on these responses in chemo-innervated or chemo-denervated animals. Suprapontine neural structures are, therefore, not required for the rapid sympathetic and cardiovascular responses to acute hypoxia. The results support the view that sympathoexcitatory responses to acute hypoxia depend entirely on the functions of reticulospinal sympathoexcitatory vasomotor neurons of the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL).
The formation of synapses in the last two ganglia of the sympathetic chain of the frog Rana esculenta was investigated after anastomosing the 6th spinal nerve to the denervated ganglia in order to evaluate the reinnervation of deafferented sympathetic neurons with somatic cholinergic axons. The same ganglia were examined both electrophysiologically and morphologically from 25 to 280 days after the operation. In response to electrical stimulations of the anastomosed spinal nerve, synaptic transmission was analysed with intracellular microelectrodes placed into B or C sympathetic neurons. Synaptic density was quantified using electron microscopy by a synaptic index defined as the ratio of the number of synapses encountered to the number of perykarya examined. After ganglionic deafferentation, post-synaptic membrane differentiations persisted without any pre-synaptic element and an index of the 'vacated' post-synaptic differentiations was calculated. Although somatic axons were growing into all ganglia studied, no sign of neuronal reinnervation was detected in ganglia of 8 of the 31 frogs (26%) taken from 29 to 210 days after the anastomosis. Moreover, in 18 out of 31 frogs (58%) analysed at different times after the operation, the ganglia were reinnervated with regenerating preganglionic axons in spite of care taken to avoid it. However, even after 3 months, certain neurons of these ganglia were not reinnervated and the synaptic index approximated the value of normal ganglia only in the 8th ganglion. In addition, post-synaptic membrane differentiations could still persist and coexist with normal synapses. It was only beyond three months after the anastomosis that the ganglia of 5 of the 31 frogs (16%) were reinnervated with regenerating somatic axons. Reinnervated B and C neurons were polyinnervated. But in 3 out of these 5 frogs the ganglia were also reinnervated with preganglionic axons and several B and C neurons received a double reinnervation. The synaptic indices were far from the value of normal ganglia except for the 8th ganglion of one frog reinnervated by both types of axons and the indices of vacated differentiations were close to that of ganglia with no reinnervated neurons. Contrary to mammals, frog somatic axons are, therefore, relatively ineffective at reinnervating sympathetic neurons, probably because in amphibian ganglia, synapses between the pre- and post-synaptic elements require higher specificity.

Through molecular cloning we have identified a molluscan G protein alpha subunit which belongs to the G alpha q family and is expressed in the central nervous system (CNS) of the pond snail, Lymnaea stagnalis. The deduced protein product shares a very high degree of amino sequence identity with vertebrate and invertebrate G alpha q/G alpha 11 subunits (80-82% and 76-77%, respectively). Large parts of the protein have been completely conserved, among which are residues 25-58, including the nucleotide-binding A domain. Especially the C-terminal half (amino acids 195-353), implicated in receptor and effector interactions, is highly conserved (94% sequence identity with murine sequences). This region includes the nucleotide-binding C, G, and I domains, which are identical to cognate motifs of vertebrate G alpha q/11. Like the latter proteins, the Lymnaea G alpha q C-terminus lacks a cysteine that could serve as a substrate for pertussis toxin. In situ hybridization reveals G alpha q-encoding mRNA(s) to be present throughout the CNS. Interestingly, however, close inspection of two identified cell types in the cerebral ganglia, the light-green cells, involved in the regulation of growth and metabolism and the anterior lobe cells which are involved in the control of male aspects of reproduction, indicates that they express the mRNA(s) at significantly different levels. Even within the heterologous cluster of light-green cells there appears to be differential expression of the pertinent mRNA. Such observations have hitherto not been reported for specific cell types occurring in vivo.
Recent evidence suggests a role for sigma (sigma) binding sites in maintenance of cell growth and/or proliferation. The present study examines, for the first time, the effect of sigma binding site ligands on in vitro growth of tumour cells derived from human mammary adenocarcinoma (MCF-7, MDA) and colon carcinoma (LIM 1215, WIDr), and melanoma (Chinnery). Addition of the sigma ligands haloperidol, reduced haloperidol, 1,3-di(2-tolyl)guanidine (DTG), (+)- and (-)-N-allylnormetazocine (SKF 10,047), (+)- and (-)-pentazocine and rimcazole at 6.25, 12.5, 25, 50, 100 microM at the beginning of culture or 24 h later, inhibited cell proliferation in a dose-dependent manner. Light microscopy revealed cell detachment, rounding and cell death. The potency of sigma ligands on melanoma cells was rimcazole &gt; reduced haloperidol &gt; haloperidol = (+)-pentazocine, whereas DTG and (+)- and (-)-SKF 10,047 and (-)-pentazocine had no effect even at 100 microM. In contrast, in MCF-7 cells, rimcazole &gt; reduced haloperidol &gt; haloperidol &gt; (-)-pentazocine &gt; DTG &gt; (+)-pentazocine &gt; (+)-SKF 10,047 &gt; (-)-SKF 10,047. For colon cancer cells, reduced haloperidol &gt; DTG &gt; haloperidol = (-)-pentazocine = (+)-pentazocine = (+)-SKF 10,047. Of all the ligands tested, rimcazole and reduced haloperidol were the most potent inhibitors of cell proliferation. With the exception of one slow-growing colon cancer cell line (LIM 1215), the order of sensitivity of various cell lines to reduced haloperidol, SFK 10,047, DTG, haloperidol and (+)- and (-)-pentazocine was colon carcinoma &gt; mammary adenocarcinoma &gt; melanoma, whereas to rimcazole, the sensitivities of mammary adenocarcinoma and melanoma cells were comparable. The effect of sigma ligands in MCF-7 and melanoma cells was not due to blockade of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors, serotonin (5-HT2) receptors, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)/phencyclidine receptors, beta-adrenoceptors or opioid receptors, since 100 microM SCH 23390, raclopride, mianserin, (+)-MK-801, propranolol and 1 microM naloxone respectively, were ineffective. However, mianserin and raclopride were inhibitory to melanoma cells and one colon carcinoma cell line, respectively. Taken together, the results are consistent with the recent observation that sigma binding sites may play a role in cell growth and/or cell proliferation.
1. The effects of the GABAB receptor agonist baclofen on the voltage-dependent Ca2+ currents were studied in rat thalamocortical neurones with the use of whole cell voltage-clamp recordings in brain slices. 2. The contribution of N-, L- and P-types of Ca2+ channels to the total high voltage-activated Ca2+ (HVA Ca2+) current was assessed by the use of omega-conotoxin, nifedipine and omega-agatoxin IVA, respectively. No P-type current could be detected. Thus, the HVA Ca2+ current contained an N- and an L-type current (23 and 15% of the total current, respectively) and a residual current, which will be referred to as the 'R' component. 3. Baclofen (1-50 microM) had no effect on the low voltage-activated (LVA) Ca2+ current (IT). 4. At low concentrations (0.5-10 microM), baclofen decreased the HVA Ca2+ currents by about 10-20% without a marked modification on the kinetics, whereas 50 microM baclofen decreased the HVA Ca2+ currents by about 40% with a pronounced slowing down of the kinetics. 5. The 10-20% decrease of the total HVA Ca2+ currents produced by the low concentrations of baclofen occurred as the result of a 30% block of the 'R' component. The additional decrease observed with the dose of 50 microM was due to a full block of the N-type current. The L-type was unaffected by baclofen. 6. The effect of baclofen on the total HVA Ca2+ current was partially blocked by GABAB receptor antagonists indicating that it occurred through stimulation of GABAB receptors. 7. The effect of baclofen on the N-type current was abolished by CGP 35348 (100 microM) and CGP 55845A (100 nM). The effect on the 'R' component was also antagonized by CGP 55845A (100 nM) although with a lower potency, but was not blocked by CGP 35348 (100 microM). 8. We conclude that the effects of baclofen on the various components of the HVA Ca2+ currents occur through different types of GABAB receptors. One receptor has a high affinity for baclofen (i.e. saturated by concentrations as low as 0.5 microM), is insensitive to CGP 35348, is coupled to the 'R' component and is responsible for a maximum 20% decrease in the total HVA Ca2+ current. The other receptor has a lower affinity for baclofen (i.e. affected by a concentration of 50 microM), is sensitive to CGP 35348, is coupled to the N-type Ca2+ current and is responsible for the additional 20-30% decrease in the HVA Ca2+ current observed with 50 microM baclofen.
Keratinocyte growth factor (KGF), a member of the fibroblast growth factor family of related proteins, is expressed by stromal fibroblasts and acts on epithelial cells in a paracrine fashion. To understand the mechanisms responsible for regulating normal KGF expression and how these might be altered in disease, the 5'-flanking region of this gene was cloned. The presence of two KGF transcription initiation sites was suggested by ribonuclease protection assay and confirmed by primer extension analysis. Examination of the genomic DNA sequence revealed the presence of the putative promoter sequences TATTTA and CCAAT, located 31 and 50 base pairs upstream, respectively, from the first of the two mRNA start points, and putative initiator sequences surrounding each transcription start site. Transient transfection into murine NIH/3T3 fibroblasts demonstrated that the region required for basal level KGF promoter activity was located between bases -225 and +190. Inclusion of sequences between -1503 and -775 markedly reduced promoter activation, indicating the presence of negative regulatory element(s) in this region. A similar pattern of promoter activation was detected in human fibroblasts and in murine C2C12 myoblasts. In contrast, no chloramphenicol acetyltransferase activity was observed in macrophages and epithelial and lymphoid cells transfected with the same constructs. Northern blot analysis revealed a strong correlation between KGF RNA expression and promoter activation in all cells tested. Activation of the KGF promoter could be induced by the proinflammatory cytokines interleukin 1 and interleukin 6 and by the adenylate cyclase activator forskolin. Taken together, these results indicate the existence of cis-acting element(s) responsible for selective activation of the KGF promoter only in cells that express KGF mRNA and may provide a mechanistic basis for KGF gene expression during inflammation.
The physiological action of glutamate is terminated by diffusional processes with its subsequent removal by high-affinity transport systems localized to glial and/or neuronal elements. Several cDNAs encoding glutamate transporters have been isolated from mammalian tissues. Here, we screened a cDNA library derived from mouse cerebellum and isolated the two glutamate transporters, termed MGLT1 and MEAAC1. The MGLT1 and MEAAC1 cDNAs encode proteins of 572 and 523 amino acids, respectively. MGLT1 has 93.9% amino acid sequence identity with the rat GLT1 and MEAAC1 has 89.3% identity with the rabbit EAAC1. MEAAC1 mRNA was expressed in brain, lung, kidney and skeletal muscle, whereas expression of MGLT1 was restricted to brain.
This study investigated the use of neural networks in the identification of Escherichia coli ribosome binding sites. The recognition of these sites based on primary sequence data is difficult due to the multiple determinants that define them. Additionally, secondary structure plays a significant role in the determination of the site and this information is difficult to include in the models. Efforts to solve this problem have so far yielded poor results. A new compilation of E. coli ribosome binding sites was generated for this study. Feedforward backpropagation networks were applied to their identification. Perceptrons were also applied, since they have been the previous best method since 1982. Evaluation of performance for all the neural networks and perceptrons was determined by ROC analysis. The neural network provided significant improvement in the recognition of these sites when compared with the previous best method, finding less than half the number of false positives when both models were adjusted to find an equal number of actual sites. The best neural network used an input window of 101 nucleotides and a single hidden layer of 9 units. Both the neural network and the perceptron trained on the new compilation performed better than the original perceptron published by Stormo et al. in 1982.
Receptor diversity in combination with receptor-receptor subtype specific interactions, which can be antagonistic or synergistic in character, markedly increase plasticity in WT and VT in the nervous system. In this way switching among transmission lines for the various DA receptor subtypes becomes possible. Some of these aspects are supported by our work on selective modulation of D2 receptors by CCK and NT. Selective regulation of D2 receptors via CCK-8 receptor subtypes and NT receptors may underlie CCK/DA interactions and NT/DA interactions in the basal ganglia. These studies underline the importance of receptor-receptor interactions exerted at the membrane level between neuropeptide receptors and D2 receptors, which are determined at least in part by the ongoing activity at D1 receptors. In the case of both CCK/D2 and NT/D2 receptor interactions, it has been possible, by means of intrastriatal and intraaccumbens microdialysis, to obtain a functional correlate to the receptor interactions found in the membrane preparations from the striatum. Schizophrenia may be in part related to reduced release of CCK and/or NT peptides or to alterations in their receptor interactions with the D2 receptor. This view may lead to new therapeutic approaches.

Most neurotransmitter receptors examined to date are either regulated by phosphorylation or contain consensus sequences for phosphorylation by protein kinases. The nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR), which mediates depolarization at the neuromuscular junction, has served as a model for the study of the structure, function, and regulation of ligand-gated ion channels. The AChR is phosphorylated by protein kinase A, protein kinase C, and an unidentified protein tyrosine kinase. Tyrosine phosphorylation of the AChR is correlated with a modulation of the rate of receptor desensitization and is associated with AChR clustering. We showed that agrin, a neuronally derived extracellular matrix protein, induces AChR clustering and tyrosine phosphorylation. In addition, we identified two protein tyrosine kinases, Fyn and Fyk, that appear to be involved in the regulation of synaptic transmission at the neuromuscular junction by phosphorylating the AChR. The two kinases are highly expressed in Torpedo electric organ, a tissue enriched in synaptic components including the AChR. As demonstrated by coimmunoprecipitation, Fyn and Fyk associate with the AChR. Furthermore, the AChR is phosphorylated in Fyn and Fyk immunoprecipitates. We investigated the molecular basis for the association of the AChR with Fyn and Fyk using fusion proteins derived from the kinases. The AChR bound specifically to the SH2 domain fusion proteins of Fyn and Fyk. The association of the AChR with the SH2 domains is dependent on the state of AChR tyrosine phosphorylation and is mediated by the delta subunit of the receptor. These data provide evidence that the protein tyrosine kinases Fyn and Fyk may act to phosphorylate the AChR in vivo.
A zymographic assay for calpains in nondenaturing casein-containing polyacrylamide gels was developed. Calpain samples were run into the polyacrylamide gels by electrophoresis using a Tris-glycine buffer containing 1 mM EGTA to stabilize calpains. Upon completion of the electrophoresis, the gels were washed and incubated in a calpain activation buffer containing 1-4 mM calcium and 10 mM dithiothreitol for 20-24 h. After staining of the casein gels with Coomassie blue G250, both mu-calpain and m-calpain showed up as clearing bands. The amount of calpain loaded was proportional to the brightness of the clearing band. m-calpain can be easily distinguished from mu-calpain due to its higher mobility in the gel. Irreversible inhibitor (e.g., E64c) or tight-binding calmidazolium-treated mu-calpain remained inactive in the casein zymogram, whereas reversible inhibitor (e.g., calpain inhibitor I) was released from the protease by migration and dilution, lifting its inhibition. Crude homogenate of cultured cells (erythrocytes, Molt-4 and cerebrocortical neurons) or tissue (rat brain) can be directly analyzed for the presence of calpain isoforms despite the presence of endogenous calpastatin. Using this technique, mu-calpain activity in Molt-4 cells was found to decrease progressively with A23187 treatment, as a reflection of autolytic inactivation.
We have examined the subcellular distribution of the growth-associated protein B-50 (GAP-43) in pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells, using confocal microscopy. Proliferating PC12 cells contained very low levels of B-50 in the cytosol. Enhanced expression of B-50 in these cells, evoked by either nerve growth factor (NGF) treatment or transient transfection with rat B-50 cDNA, led to Golgi sorting and membrane targeting of the B-50 protein. Site directed mutagenesis of Cys3Cys4 to Ser3Gly4 in B-50 resulted in a cytosolic distribution. We conclude that Cys3, and Cys4 are essential for accumulation of B-50 both at the plasma membrane and in the Golgi apparatus of PC12 cells.
The neurotransmitter acetylcholine is synthesized by choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and transported into synaptic vesicles by the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT). Recently it has been reported that the entire coding region of VAChT mRNA is located in the first intron of the ChAT gene. In this study, ChAT and VAChT mRNAs were analysed in cultured sympathetic neurones. Cholinergic differentiation factor/leukaemia inhibitory factor and ciliary neurotrophic factor induced strong expression of ChAT and VAChT mRNAs in parallel. RT-PCR analysis of ChAT mRNAs revealed that five types of ChAT transcripts which differed in the 5' non coding regions were increased. RT-PCR analysis of VAChT mRNA indicated that the cytokines induced only VAChT mRNA species which did not contain the R-exon, and not those containing the R-exon. The results indicate that ChAT and VAChT expressions are coordinately but differentially regulated in cultured sympathetic neurones.
The behavioural effects of unilateral middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) induced by perivascular injection of endothelin, and a unilateral excitotoxic lesion of the striatum, were explored using the staircase test of skilled paw-reaching in the rat. A profound bilateral impairment in pellet recovery, with a concomitant increase in pellet displacement, was observed in the MCAO group. By contrast the striatal lesion group exhibited a primarily contralateral impairment. The findings provide both further insight into the control of unilateral motor function and a reliable behavioural endpoint for the assessment of experimental stroke.
Texas Red-labelled dextran with a mol. wt of 3000 g mol-1, a marker for the extracellular space, was injected unilaterally into the neostriatum of adult rats (0.3-30 micrograms microliter-1) and its distribution evaluated 1 min to 5 h later. Diffusion in the neuropil was observed with clearance starting after 30 min. After 10-15 min strong labelling along the myelinated fibre bundles was observed in the entire neostriatum. After about 20 min the labelling along the fibres reached into the corpus callosum and the overlaying deep layers of the cerebral cortex. A marked cellular uptake and accumulation of labelled dextran was found in putative perivascular pericytes. Thus, in the living brain preferential extracellular fluid pathways for diffusion exist, especially along fibre bundles, which allow the exchange of chemical signals between two distant regions. These may represent extracellular fluid pathways for volume transmission.
Grafts of favorable axonal growth substrates were combined with transient nerve growth factor (NGF) infusions to promote morphological and functional recovery in the adult rat brain after lesions of the septohippocampal projection. Long-term septal cholinergic neuronal rescue and partial hippocampal reinnervation were achieved, resulting in partial functional recovery on a simple task assessing habituation but not on a more complex task assessing spatial reference memory. Control animals that received transient NGF infusions without axonal-growth-promoting grafts lacked behavioral recovery but also showed long-term septal neuronal rescue. These findings indicate that (i) partial recovery from central nervous system injury can be induced by both preventing host neuronal loss and promoting host axonal regrowth and (ii) long-term neuronal loss can be prevented with transient NGF infusions.
Cell-specific alteration in the splicing of exons 7, 8 and 15 of the amyloid precursor protein gene was investigated in differenting P19 EC cells into neuronal and glial cells. Exons 7 and 8 were skipped in the neuronal state and exon 15 was skipped in the glial state. Expression of U2AF, one of the essential factor for splicing in mammalian cells, was down-regulated during cellular differentiation. The skipping of exon 15 was suppressed in the glial cells transfected with U2AF. Thus, a reduction in U2AF is believed to play a crucial role in glial-specific splicing of the APP gene.
An interaction between angiotensin II (Ang II) receptors and alpha 2-adrenoceptors was evaluated in the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) of the normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rat (WKY) and of the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) using quantitative receptor autoradiography and cardiovascular analysis. In the WKY rat, Ang II promoted a dose-dependent increase in the IC50 value of l-noradrenaline when competing for ([3H]p-aminoclonidine ([3H]PAC) binding sites, which reached a maximum of 400% with 10 nM of Ang II and was associated with a small decrease in the B0 value (20%). In the SHR Ang II (0.1 nM) had an opposite effect leading to a decrease in the IC50 value of about 57%, and no change was observed in the B0 value. Saturation analysis also showed that Ang II (0.1 nM) increased the KD value of [3H]PAC in the WKY strain but in contrast decreased the KD value of [3H]PAC in the SHR. The Bmax value was not significantly changed neither in the WKY rat nor in the SHR. The cardiovascular analysis showed that a threshold dose of Ang II (0.05 pmol) counteracted the vasodepressor effect produced by l-noradrenaline coinjected in the NTS of the WKY rat. No effect was observed in heart rate. In the SHR no counteraction of the l-noradrenaline-induced vasodepressor effect was found, and in contrast a slight increase of the vasodepressor effect associated with a significant increase in the bradycardiac response was observed. The results give evidence for an antagonistic Ang II/alpha 2 receptor interaction in the cardiovascular part of the NTS of the WKY rat as previously observed in the Sprague-Dawley rat. However, this interaction is altered in the SHR, so that in this strain the Ang II/alpha 2 receptor interaction enhances alpha 2 affinity and possibly alpha 2 receptor function. This opposite effect observed in the SHR may represent one compensatory mechanism to counteract the development of high blood pressure in the SHR.
The in vitro and in vivo effects of (-)-nicotine on dopamine D2 receptors in the rat neostriatum have been studied using biochemical binding, in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry. A single i.p. injection (1 mg/kg) of (-)-nicotine resulted in a reduction of the KD value of the D2 antagonist [3H]raclopride binding sites in rat neostriatal membrane preparations at 12 h without any significant change in the Bmax value. This action of (-)-nicotine was counteracted by pretreatment 15 min earlier with the nicotine antagonist mecamylamine (1 mg/kg, i.p.). However, the KD and the Bmax values of the D2 agonist [3H]NPA binding sites in the rat neostriatal membrane preparations were not significantly affected 0.5-48 h after a single i.p. injection with 1 mg/kg of (-)-nicotine. No significant change in neostriatal D2 receptor mRNA levels was observed at any time interval after the (-)-nicotine injection. No significant change was observed in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactivity in either the substantia nigra or the neostriatum, nor in nigral TH mRNA levels during the time interval studied (4-24 h posttreatment). Furthermore, addition of low (10 nM) or high (1 microM) concentrations of (-)-nicotine in vitro to rat neostriatal membranes did not alter the characteristics of [3H]raclopride or [3H]NPA binding. These results indicate that a single (-)-nicotine injection can produce a selective and delayed increase in the affinity of D2 receptors for the antagonist, but not for the agonist without modifying the levels of D2 receptor mRNA, probably via the activation of central nicotinic receptors.
Regional cerebral 'incorporation coefficients' k* of each of 3 labeled long-chain fatty acids -[9,10-3H]palmitate ([3H]PA), [1-14C]arachidonate ([14C]AA) and [1-14C]docosahexaenoate ([14C]DHA)-were measured using quantitative autoradiography in 11 bilateral brain visual areas of 3.5-month-old awake, hooded, Long-Evans rats, and were compared with regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc). The rats, which had undergone unilateral orbital enucleation at 15 days of age, were studied either in the dark with eyelids of the intact eye sutured, or when stimulated in a light box with the intact eye open. rCMRglc did not differ between homologous contralateral and ipsilateral visual areas in the dark or during stimulation, but was elevated bilaterally by 25% or more in many visual areas during stimulation compared with dark. Contralateral compared with ipsilateral k* was lower for each fatty acid tracer in superficial gray of the superior colliculus (in dark and during stimulation) and dorsal nucleus of lateral geniculate body (during stimulation). In the dark, k* for [3H]PA was correlated significantly with rCMRglc for the 22 visual areas studied, whereas during stimulation k* for [14C]AA was correlated with rCMRglc. These results suggest that central neuroplastic changes following chronic unilateral enucleation are accompanied by reduced incorporation of [3H]PA, [14C]AA and [14C]DHA into contralateral brain ares that normally receive crossed retinofugal fibers, and by symmetry of rCMRglc in the dark but increased bilateral symmetrical responsiveness of rCMRglc to visual stimulation of the intact eye.
Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) mRNA and its receptor (c-Met) mRNA were detected in the fetal and adult rat brain. Expression of c-Met mRNA was increased after birth. HGF mRNA was preferentially expressed in the microglia of the rat brain, while c-Met mRNA was expressed in neurons as well as astrocytes and microglia. Most of the neurons were c-Met positive, and HGF stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation of c-Met (140-kDa) in the neurons. HGF as well as bFGF also activated Ras in the neurons. These results suggest that HGF plays a biological role as one of the neurotrophic factors in the brain.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a degenerative disease of motor neurons, characterized by depositions of neurofilaments in the perikarya and proximal axons. The pathogenesis of ALS remains poorly understood, but two lines of evidence suggest that neurofilament accumulation may play a causal role. First, transgenic mice that overexpress neurofilament proteins show motor neuron degeneration and, second, variant alleles of the neurofilament heavy-subunit gene (NF-H) have been found in some human ALS patients. To investigate how disorganized neurofilaments might cause neurodegeneration, we examined axonal transport of newly synthesized proteins in mice that overexpress the human NF-H gene. We observed dramatic defects of axonal transport, not only of neurofilament proteins but also of other proteins, including tubulin and actin. Ultrastructural analysis revealed a paucity of cytoskeletal elements, smooth endoplasmic reticulum and especially mitochondria in the degenerating axons. We therefore propose that the neurofilament accumulations observed in these mice cause axonal degeneration by impeding the transport of components required for axonal maintenance, and that a similar mechanism may account for the pathogenesis of ALS in human patients.
Survival analysis of suicide risk by sex and age after attempted suicide was studied in a cohort of 1573 suicide attempters referred to the psychiatric emergency room at the Karolinska Hospital from 1981 to 1988. The time course of suicide risk and the overall prognosis after attempted suicide and, in particular, the possible usefulness of sex and age as risk factors for the prediction of suicide risk after attempted suicide was analyzed. Nearly two thirds of the sample were women and most of the suicide attempters were young (in their twenties and thirties), and the median age was 35 years. The overall mortality after a 5-year mean observation period after attempted suicide was 11%, and the suicide mortality was 6%. The suicide risk after attempted suicide among men (8.3%) was nearly twice the female suicide risk (4.3%). Age as a possible suicide risk factor was analyzed for each sex separately by median split subgrouping. It was concluded that both older and younger male suicide attempters are at high risk of suicide (7% and 10% respectively), and older women are at higher risk than younger (6% vs 2%). The suicide risk is particularly high during the first year after the suicide attempt. The high suicide risk group of young adult male suicide attempters is one of the main feasible targets of psychiatric intervention research programs on suicidal behavior. Suicide among young men is a major cause of years of life lost.
Impairment on neuropsychological tests during steady-state drug use and withdrawal, and after discontinuation of benzodiazepines, was studied in primary benzodiazepine-dependent patients. One group of patients was tested before and the other group after the initiation of a gradual tapering-off of the drug, and both groups were tested approximately 1 year later. At the initial assessment, both groups of patients showed impairment on most of the tests of general intelligence and on several of the tests in the Halstead-Reitan battery, as well as on a test of nonverbal memory, in comparison with healthy controls. At follow-up the patient groups had reached the level of the control group. This study confirmed earlier observations of neuropsychological deficits in long-term benzodiazepine-using patients and demonstrated that these changes are at least partly reversible by discontinuing drug intake.
The purpose of this report is to overview some recent advances in basic science that help us understand the roles of the central auditory nervous system in hearing. Particularly at rostral levels, neural representations of the acoustic signal are shaped by convergent inputs and show some degree of plasticity, even in adults. The fidelity with which brain regions represent a stimulus dimension is heterogeneous, and this has demonstrable implications for the perceptual consequences of damage to those regions. So-called higher-level disorders (e.g., phonologic ones) have become increasingly understandable, largely through work in cognitive neuroscience, which has begun to describe the functional architecture of the processes mediating sound recognition and comprehension.

There has been a recent, dramatic surge in interest in antiphospholipid antibodies and associated clinical disorders, especially focal ischemic cerebrovascular disease. Antiphospholipid antibodies are a heterogeneous group of antibodies with varying specificities. Coagulation assays will detect lupus anticoagulants while enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays detect anticardiolipin antibodies. There are numerous potential links between antiphospholipid antibodies and coagulation disorders, including interaction of antiphospholipid antibodies and a cofactor, beta 2-glycoprotein I, which itself is involved in coagulation mechanisms. While the specific mechanism of antiphospholipid antibody-related coagulopathy is unknown, it is clear that antiphospholipid antibodies are associated with an immune-mediated prothrombotic state. Patients with the highest titers of IgG antiphospholipid antibodies have a relatively high risk of recurrent thrombotic events, especially stroke, deep venous thrombosis, and spontaneous abortion. Because of limited controlled, prospective data, current therapy remains empiric and directed at coagulation mechanisms, immune mechanisms, or both.
A total of 523 cardiac surgical discharge summaries were searched for recorded evidence of adverse neurological events occurring between operation and time of discharge. Neurological events were recorded in 31 and included one or more of seizure disorder (n = 16), pyramidal signs (n = 11), extrapyramidal signs (n = 8), coma (n = 6), and neuro-ophthalmic deficits (n = 6). There were significantly more adverse neurological events after repairs for arch anomalies (16.6% of cases). There was also an association with the length of cardiopulmonary bypass and a period of low perfusion pressure either intraoperatively or postoperatively. Of the 19 out of 23 survivors in whom long term outcome data were available, four were normal and six had persisting neurological problems directly related to the perioperative period. In a further nine of the 19 survivors, established preoperative neurodevelopmental abnormality probably contributed to their present neurological status, in addition to perioperative events. In view of the way these data were collected, this study must represent the minimum incidence of neurological events in children undergoing cardiac surgery.

We have investigated the effects of interleukin-2 on identified cutaneous C- and A delta- fibre nociceptors in an in vivo rat saphenous nerve preparation. A fraction of C-polymodal (33%), A delta- (22%) and C- (7.5%) mechanical nociceptors were activated by intradermal injection of interleukin-2. For C-fibre polymodal nociceptors, concentration thresholds were &lt; or = 0.12 unit/3 microliters and the percentage of interleukin-2-activated nociceptors did not increase with concentrations above 0.06 unit/3 microliters. Responses were dose-dependent and characterized by potent tachyphylaxis for subsequent injections of the same dose. C-fibre polymodal nociceptors activated by interleukin-2 were also activated by subsequent chemical stimuli as follows: 81% were activated by histamine (300 ng/3 microliters), 87% by bradykinin (75 ng/3 microliters), 100% by topical acetic acid and 87% by capsaicin (3 micrograms/3 microliters). In contrast, C-fibre polymodal nociceptors that could not be activated by interleukin-2 responded less frequently to histamine (17%) and bradykinin (24%) but were generally activated by noxious chemicals, including acetic acid (82%) and capsaicin (70%). In conclusion, this study demonstrates that interleukin-2 is a potent activator of a discrete population of cutaneous C-polymodal nociceptors, which are chemosensitive to endogenous inflammatory mediators. The fact that these nociceptors respond to a variety of endogenous mediators is consistent with the concept of multiple humoral mechanisms of itch and, consequently, the difficulties in reducing itch associated with inflammation.
[Ca2+]i oscillations have been described in a variety of cells. This study focuses on caffeine-induced [Ca2+]i oscillations in sympathetic neurons. Previous work has shown that these oscillations require Ca2+ entry from the extracellular medium and Ca(2+)-induced Ca2+ release from a caffeine- and ryanodine-sensitive store. The aim of the study was to understand the mechanism responsible for the oscillations. As a starting point, [Ca2+]i relaxations were examined after membrane depolarization and exposure to caffeine. For both stimuli, post-stimulus relaxations could be described by the sum of two decaying exponential functions, consistent with a one-pool system in which Ca2+ transport between compartments is regulated by linear Ca2+ pumps and leaks. After modifying the store to include a [Ca2+]i-sensitive leak, the model also exhibits oscillations such as those observed experimentally. The model was tested by comparing measured and predicted net Ca2+ fluxes during the oscillatory cycle. Three independent fluxes were measured, describing the rates of 1) Ca2+ entry across the plasma membrane, 2) Ca2+ release by the internal store, and 3) Ca2+ extrusion across the plasma membrane and uptake by the internal store. Starting with estimates of the model parameters deduced from post-stimulus relaxations and the rapid upstroke, a set of parameter values was found that provides a good description of [Ca2+]i throughout the oscillatory cycle. With the same parameter values, there was also good agreement between the measured and simulated net fluxes. Thus, a one-pool model with a single [Ca2+]i-sensitive Ca2+ permeability is adequate to account for many of the quantitative properties of steady-state [Ca2+]i oscillations in sympathetic neurons. Inactivation of the intracellular Ca2+ permeability, cooperative nonlinear Ca2+ uptake and extrusion mechanisms, and functional links between plasma membrane Ca2+ transport and the internal store are not required.
The Cognitive Estimation Test (CET) was devised by Shallice &amp; Evans (1978) in an attempt to quantify the tendency observed in some patients with frontal lobe lesions to produce bizarre estimates in response to questions to which people do not usually know exact answers (e.g. 'what is the height of a double-decker bus?'), despite performing normally on standard intelligence tests. In the present study, the CET performance of a large number of patients suffering from head injury, brain tumour, ruptured aneurysm (anterior communicating artery and other), multiple sclerosis, dementia, encephalitis, Korsakoff's syndrome and anxiety/depression were compared with CET scores from 150 healthy controls. Patients with Korsakoff syndrome demonstrated significantly impaired CET performance. A subgroup of patients with discrete frontal lesions was compared with a group with localized non-frontal lesions. No significant difference in CET performance was observed between anterior and posterior lesioned patients. The sensitivity of the CET to anterior brain dysfunction is called into question by the present findings.
1. The ability of bradykinin and its analogues to depolarize rat and mouse superior cervical ganglia was studied by use of in vitro grease-gap recording techniques, and the ability of antagonists selective for bradykinin receptor subtypes to block their effects was examined. 2. Bradykinin (3 microM) depolarized ganglia from both species, although the magnitude of the maximal response was less in mouse (15 +/- 5%, n = 7) than rat tissue (33 +/- 6%, n = 7), relative to muscarine (1 microM). 3. Interleukin 1 beta (30 u ml-1 for 18 h at 37 degrees C) increased the depolarization caused by bradykinin (3 microM) in mouse ganglia from 15% to 54% (P &lt; 0.001, n = 12). Responses to the B1 receptor agonist, [des-Arg10]-kallidin (3 microM) were similarly potentiated but this was only detected after inhibition of peptidase activity with 10 microM captopril (4% to 35%, n = 5). 4. In ganglia from both species the rank order of agonist potency was bradykinin = [Lys0]-bradykinin &gt; [des-Arg10]-kallidin. However, like responses to [des-Arg10]-kallidin in mouse tissue, both the potency of bradykinin and the maximal depolarization achieved (EC50 = 912 nM; 80%, n = 11) was enhanced following inhibition of angiotensin converting enzyme with 10 microM captopril (EC50 = 50 nM; 135%, n = 4). 5. Responses to bradykinin were selectively antagonized by the B2 receptor antagonist, Hoe 140 but not by the B1 antagonist, [Leu8]-bradykinin1-8. From Schild analysis the pA2 value for Hoe 140 in mouse tissue was 9.65, although the slope of the regression line was significantly greater than unity, indicating non-competitive kinetics (slope = 1.88 +/- 0.18, n = 9). The depolarization caused by [Lys0]-bradykinin was also antagonized by Hoe 140 (3 nM).6. Thus the predominant bradykinin receptor in mouse superior cervical ganglia is compatible with a B2 subtype. Furthermore the depolarizations caused by B1 and B2 agonists in this tissue can be increased following exposure to interleukin l beta, and by blocking peptide degradation with captopril.
Cholecystokinin (CCK), a well-known neuroactive peptide, has been observed in the axon endings within the thalamic reticular nucleus and the adjacent ventrolateral nucleus of the thalamus. The origin of this CCK innervation remains undefined. In this study, a fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) technique was used in conjunction with latex microsphere retrograde tracing to investigate whether cortical neurons may provide a source of CCK afferents to the ventrolateral thalamic nucleus. Rhodamine latex beads were injected into the ventrolateral thalamic nucleus of adult male rats to retrogradely label corticothalamic cells. After 7 days, tissues were processed for FISH using a 24-base oligonucleotide probe complementary to the 3' coding region of rat preprocholecystokinin mRNA. It was found that CCK transcripts are expressed in about 80% of identified corticothalamic projecting neurons. We therefore conclude that the descending cortical projections to the ventrolateral thalamus may provide an important source of CCK innervation to this region of the brain.
Subtypes of the angiotensin II (Ang II) type-1 (AT1) receptor are probably involved in distinct actions of the peptide, since their distribution in peripheral organs and regulation of their gene expression are different. We investigated the distribution of AT1A and AT1B receptor subtype mRNAs in the rat forebrain and pituitary using sensitive cRNA probes for in situ hybridization. High level of AT1A receptor mRNA expression is observed in the subfornical organ (SFO) and in the anterior hypothalamus, particularly the periventricular tissue surrounding the anterior portion of the 3rd ventricle (AV3V), which contains the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis (OVLT), the median preoptic nucleus and the preoptic periventricular nucleus as well as in the hypothalamic periventricular nucleus and in the parvocellular part of the paraventricular nucleus (PVN). Moderate to strong AT1A labeling was found in the anterior olfactory nucleus, the piriform cortex and the nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract. Very low AT1B receptor mRNA expression was found in the SFO and the PVN. In contrast, strong AT1B receptor mRNA expression coincided with low AT1A receptor mRNA expression in the anterior pituitary. Labeling was cytoplasmic at the light microscopic level. We thus suggest that the AT1A receptor is responsible for the central actions of Ang II in the rat forebrain whereas direct actions of Ang II on the anterior pituitary are mediated by the AT1B receptor subtype.
The chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter transcription factor, COUP-TF I, and the protein ARP-1 (COUP-TF II) are two highly homologous orphan receptors of the nuclear hormone receptor family. In this study we investigated their expression patterns in the adult nervous system of the mouse. In situ hybridizations were performed on brain sections with 35S-labeled cRNA probes derived from the 3'-non-coding regions of the mARP-1 and mCOUP-TF I mRNAs. Both COUP-TF I and ARP-1 were shown to be expressed in the adult brain and they displayed restricted and distinct expression patterns. COUP-TF I transcripts were predominantly found in the rostral and caudal parts of the adult mouse brain, whereas ARP-1 transcripts prevaled in the middle part of the brain. High expression of COUP-TF I was detected in the olfactory nucleus, in neocortex layers I/II and V/VL, in the dentate gyrus and in areas CA1/CA3/CA4 of the hippocampus, and in the granular layer of the cerebellum. Only low amounts of COUP-TF I mRNA were detected in the ventral, the laterodorsal and in the interanteromedial thalamic nuclei. Small amounts of COUP-TF I transcripts were also found in the epithelial layer of the ventricle and in arachnoid membranes. High expression of ARP-I was detected in the reticular, the ventral lateral and the gelatinosus thalamic nuclei. Other hot spots of ARP-1 mRNA expression were the amygdaloid nucleus and the arachnoid membranes. Lower amounts of ARP-1 transcripts were found in the anterior and lateral hypothalamic areas, in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, and in the choroid plexus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The intimal surface of the blood vessel in vivo is subject to shear stress resulting from blood flow, which in most of the circulation, at least at rest, is laminar. Turbulence can occur at bifurcations, especially those of the large arteries, and where vessels curve significantly. Shear stress is a frictional tangential force exerted at the fluid-intimal interface in the long axis of the vessel. It is now known that hemodynamic shear stress can influence a large variety of biological processes in endothelial cells, which vary from those with a short response time, just a few milliseconds, such as the opening of ion channels, to those that change over a period of minutes to several hours, for example, endocytosis and cytoskeleton rearrangement, and those features that alter much more slowly, such as cell shape and stiffness. In addition to these types of changes, there are suggestions that flow acting through shear stress may be responsible for several basic attributes of the vasculature, including the relative size and diameter of the components of a branching vascular system. In this symposium on the flow regulation of the blood vessel, the first presentation dealt with optimality principles that appear to govern the dimensions of the vasculature, in particular the geometry of the arterial branching and the role of shear stress. An optimally designed system is one that requires the least metabolic work to perform its function.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A key question concerning the perception of 3D objects is the spatial reference frame used by the brain to represent them. The celerity of the recognition process could be explained by the visual system's ability to quickly transform stored models of familiar 3D objects, or by its ability to specify the relationship among viewpoint-invariant features or volumetric primitives that can be used to accomplish a structural description of an image. Alternatively, viewpoint-invariant recognition could be realized by a system endowed with the ability to perform an interpolation between a set of stored 2D templates, created for each experienced viewpoint. In the present study we set out to examine the nature of object representation in the primate in combined psychophysical-electrophysiological experiments. Monkeys were trained to recognize novel objects from a given viewpoint and subsequently were tested for their ability to generalize recognition for views generated by mathematically rotating the objects around any arbitrary axis. The perception of 3D novel objects was found to be a function of the object's retinal projection at the time of the recognition encounter. Recognition became increasingly difficult for the monkeys as the stimulus was rotated away from its familiar attitude. The generalization field for novel wire-like and spheroidal objects extended to about +/- 40 degrees around an experienced viewpoint. When the animals were trained with as few as three views of the object, 120 degrees apart, they could often interpolate recognition for all views resulting from rotations around the same axis. Recordings from inferotemporal cortex during the psychophysical testing showed a number of neurons with remarkable selectivity for individual views of those objects that the monkey had learned to recognize. Plotting the response of neurons as a function of rotation angle revealed systematic view-tuning curves for rotations in depth. A small percentage of the view-selective cells responded strongly for a particular view and its mirror-symmetrical view. For some of the tested objects, different neurons were found to be tuned to different views of the same object; the peaks of the view-tuning curves were 40-50 degrees apart. Neurons were also found that responded to the sight of unfamiliar objects or distractors. Such cells, however, gave nonspecific responses to a variety of other patterns presented while the monkey performed a simple fixation task.
The expression of mRNAs encoding the three GABAA receptor subunits that are associated with the most abundant benzodiazepine-sensitive GABAA receptor in adult cortex, that is, the alpha 1, beta 2, and gamma 2 subunits, was studied in rat cortex during pre- and postnatal development by means of in situ hybridization, gamma 2 and beta 2 mRNAs become detectable in neocortex at gestational day 16 (GD16), alpha 1 at GD18. gamma 2 mRNA exhibits the highest level of expression at early ages, while alpha 1 mRNA levels are low. beta 2 mRNA rises steeply during the last days of gestation. Around birth, it shows the highest expression of the three subunits studied in cortex, and increases further until postnatal day 15 (PD15). The expression of alpha 1 subunit mRNA also increases markedly shortly before birth and accelerates between PD8 and PD15, when it reaches higher levels than the other two subunits. Following the initial high expression, gamma 2 mRNA increases gradually and slowly until PD25. During prenatal development, highest expression of all three subunit mRNAs is found in the upper layers of cortex, that is, cortical plate and marginal zone. The subplate layer does not start to express GABAA receptor subunit mRNAs until GD18. At birth, all developing layers of the cortex express mRNAs for the three subunits, except the marginal zone. Highest levels are found in the upper part of the cortical plate. At the end of the first postnatal week (PD8), the laminar distribution of mRNA expression in neocortex becomes more differentiated. For all three subunit mRNAs, highest expression is then observed in neuron-like cells in layer IV in the granular areas, and over layers III and upper V in agranular areas. Subsequently, between PD8 and PD25, increasing levels of expression are observed over the pyramidal cell layer V. This regionally differentiated, developmental pattern suggests a close relationship between development of GABAA receptor subunits, ingrowth of thalamocortical projections, and maturation of neocortical circuitry.
A substantial proportion of neurons in the striate and prestriate cortex of monkeys have stereoscopic properties; that is, they respond differentially to binocular stimuli that are known in humans to provide cues for stereoscopic depth perception. Stereoscopic neurons, as these cells may be called, are selective for horizontal positional disparity (i.e., display disparity selectivity) and for the textural correlation between images over their receptive fields (i.e., they show correlation selectivity). Many neurons have tuned disparity response profiles that collectively cover the entire range of physiological disparities. Neurons with peak responses at or about the zero disparity (&quot;tuned zero neurons,&quot; excitatory or inhibitory) have narrow and symmetrical profiles. Neurons that are tuned to larger disparities, either crossed (&quot;tuned near neurons&quot;) or uncrossed (&quot;tuned far neurons&quot;), have broader excitatory profiles that are asymmetrically wider toward the smaller disparities, and commonly include an inhibitory component about the zero disparity. Other stereoscopic neurons have reciprocal profiles (&quot;near&quot; or &quot;far&quot; neurons, respectively) in the sense that they respond with excitation to crossed or uncrossed disparities, and with suppression to disparities of opposite sign. Stereoscopic neurons can also signal the textural correlation between paired retinal images by giving different responses to random-dot patterns that have, and to those that do not have, the same dot distribution over the neuron's left and right receptive fields. Tuned-zero excitatory neurons characteristically respond to uncorrelation with suppression; tuned-zero inhibitory neurons, with excitation; and both types give the opposite responses to correlated stereopatterns. Neurons selective for nonzero disparities, both tuned and reciprocal, also give excitatory responses to uncorrelated stimuli, but these responses are smaller and more variable than those evoked by correlated patterns at the effective disparities. These findings suggest that stereoscopic neurons in the visual cortex of the macaque comprise three operational systems: (1) a zero-disparity system that is involved in fine depth discrimination with the obligatory singleness of vision, and the maintenance of vergence; and (2) a near-, and (3) a far-disparity system that together signal qualitative estimates of depth with double vision, and vergence responses to large disparities.
Serum dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate (DHEAS) levels and diagnostic autoantibody titers were measured in patients with pemphigoid/pemphigus [n = 46/4; 21 men and 29 women, 42 to 93 years of age (mean 79)]. Twenty-four patients were either on peroral Prednisolone (n = 11), or topical treatment with betamethasone (n = 13), and the other 26 were either receiving non-steroidal drugs or were untreated. Their DHEAS levels were compared to those of 20 patients with psoriasis, and to 23 patients with secondary osteoarthritis (OA). Assessing the patients by group, the mean DHEAS level was markedly lower in the pemphigoid/pemphigus than in the psoriasis and OA patients (geometric mean 600 vs. 2130 and 2100 nmol/l, respectively; p &lt; 0.001). This difference was independent of steroid treatment. No correlation was found between the DHEAS levels and antibody titers. The low levels found in pemphigoid/pemphigus are concordant with those reported for systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis and polymyalgia rheumatica/giant cell arteritis. DHEAS deficiency is a permanent feature in these autoimmune diseases, and may contribute to their etiology and/or pathophysiology.
We describe two women with acquired partial lipodystrophy, one with significant myopathic symptoms and signs. Muscle biopsy of deltoid and quadriceps was performed in each case. The light microscopy findings were of type 1 and type 2 fibre hypertrophy, with an increase in intracytoplasmic fat in both cases. Electron microscopy showed normal fibres, with accumulations of electron-lucent fat droplets between the myofibrils. The cause of the lipodystrophies is uncertain, but myopathy may be a feature, and muscle biopsy studies may help in further defining the syndrome.
Leptomeningeal astroglial heterotopia (LAH) was found in the cerebellum of 2 patients with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF 1). This LAH was clearly and widely demonstrated with glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunohistochemistry and was connected with parenchymal astroglial fibers. These findings suggest that NF 1 involves the dysplasia or overgrowth of astrocytes in the cerebellar leptomeninges.
1. The clinical utility of plasma metadrenalines for examination of sympatho-adrenal function and catecholamine metabolism was assessed from plasma measurements of these metabolites in a number of clinical conditions (hypertension, cardiac failure, bilateral adrenalectomy and X-chromosomal deletions of the gene for monoamine oxidase), and before and during activation of sympathetic outflow or infusions of noradrenaline and adrenaline. 2. Plasma concentrations of normetadrenaline were less than 25% of those of noradrenaline, concentrations of metadrenaline and adrenaline were similar and those of sulphate-conjugated metadrenalines were 20- to 30-fold higher than free metadrenalines. Hypertensive patients had elevated plasma concentrations of adrenaline, noradrenaline and conjugated but not free metadrenalines. Cardiac failure patients had 2- to 4-fold increases in plasma noradrenaline and free and conjugated normetadrenaline. Adrenalectomy resulted in undetectable plasma concentrations of adrenaline, 91-97% decreases in free and conjugated metadrenaline and a 40% decrease in normetadrenaline relative to noradrenaline. Patients with X-chromosomal deletions of the gene for monoamine oxidase had 6- and 16-fold increases in plasma free and conjugated normetadrenaline and 2- and 4-fold increases in free and conjugated metadrenaline. 3. Infusion of catecholamines increased plasma concentrations of free metadrenalines by less than 6% of increases in precursor amines, indicating that most plasma normetadrenaline (84%) and metadrenaline (90%) is derived from metabolism of catecholamines before their entry into the circulation. Considerable O-methylation of catecholamines within the adrenals explains why sympatho-adrenal activation resulted in smaller proportional increases in plasma metadrenalines than catecholamines. 4. Plasma metadrenalines provide supplementary information about sympatho-adrenal activity to that provided by catecholamines, but are more useful for examination of the extraneuronal inactivation of catecholamines, particularly detection of neurochemical phenotypes in genetic disorders of catecholamine metabolism. Significant formation of metadrenalines within chromaffin tissue explains why measurements of plasma metadrenalines provide an extraordinarily sensitive method for diagnosis of phaeochromocytoma.
Etiologic research in psychiatry relies on an objectivist epistemology positing that human cognition is specified by the &quot;reality&quot; of the outer world, which consists of a totality of mind-independent objects. Truth is considered as some sort of correspondence relation between words and external objects, and mind as a mirror of nature. In our view, this epistemology considerably impedes etiologic research. Objectivist epistemology has been recently confronting a growing critique from diverse scientific fields. Alternative models in neurosciences (neuronal selection), artificial intelligence (connectionism), and developmental psychology (developmental biodynamics) converge in viewing living organisms as self-organizing systems. In this perspective, the organism is not specified by the outer world, but enacts its environment by selecting relevant domains of significance that constitute its world. The distinction between mind and body or organism and environment is a matter of observational perspective. These models from empirical sciences are compatible with fundamental tenets of philosophical phenomenology and hermeneutics. They imply consequences for research in psychopathology: symptoms cannot be viewed as disconnected manifestations of discrete localized brain dysfunctions. Psychopathology should therefore focus on how the person's self-coherence is maintained and on the understanding and empirical investigation of the systemic laws that govern neurodevelopment and the organization of human cognition.

The regional cerebral blood flow, brain atrophy, white matter changes and neurophysiologic changes were evaluated in 28 patients with a clinical diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) and in 8 patients with a clinical diagnosis of frontal lobe dementia (FLD) using single photon emission computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography (EEG). We found that FLD patients had more severe frontal blood flow reduction and less severe parietal blood flow reduction compared to AD patients. Among patients with mild dementia the EEG changes were less severe in the FLD group. No significant differences were found in white matter changes or in regional atrophy.
DM-GRASP (GRASP) is an integral membrane glycoprotein expressed on a restricted set of axons in the developing chick nervous system. We demonstrate that purified GRASP supports neurite extension from the subpopulation of neurons that express GRASP. Sensory, sympathetic, and ciliary neurons express GRASP and extend neurites on a GRASP substrate. In contrast, tectal, diencephalic, and retinal cells express GRASP at a very low level, if at all, and do not extend neurites on a GRASP substrate. Moreover, as GRASP is downregulated on sensory neurons during development, they lose the capacity to extend neurites on a GRASP substrate. Recombinant GRASP produced in a baculovirus expression system is biochemically and functionally identical to GRASP purified from embryonic chick brain. The finding that GRASP selectively supports neurite extension supports the hypothesis that it mediates selective fasciculation via a homophilic binding mechanism.
Prohormone convertases (PCs) are Ca(2+)-dependent subtilisin-related endoproteases that have been implicated in the post-translational processing of prohormones and other proproteins. Furin is an ubiquitously expressed PC that has been shown to hydrolyze a wide variety of precursor proteins in secretory pathways. We have screened an Aplysia atrial gland cDNA library using a furin probe prepared by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and have isolated an Aplysia furin-related 6.7-kb cDNA partial clone that was truncated on the 5' end. The remaining 5' atrial gland furin nucleotide sequence was obtained by two stages of reverse transcription PCR. The final composite nucleotide sequence of the atrial gland furin cDNA was 7,837 bp in length. This sequence encoded a putative preproendoprotease (Afurin2) of 824 amino acid residues that was related to other eukaryotic furins, and showed a high sequence identity with a recently reported Aplysia nervous system furin-like sequence. In situ hybridization demonstrated extensive expression of Afurin2 in atrial gland secretory cells. The cDNA clone contained a relatively long 3' untranslated region of 5,230 nucleotides that included a microsatellite repeat region (TG)n. The characterized Aplysia Afurin2 is a candidate PC that may play an important role in the processing of egg-laying hormone (ELH)-related precursors in the secretory cells of the atrial gland. In addition, comparative structural studies of Afurin2, together with previously reported localization studies, argue for the occurrence of a furin-like convertase within secretory granules.
Controversy continues to exist regarding the generators of the initial cortical components of the somatosensory evoked potential (SEP). This issue was explored by detailed epidural and intracortical mapping of somatosensory evoked activity in Old World monkeys. In depth recordings, 3 complementary procedures were utilized: (1) the intracortical and subcortical distribution of SEPs was determined from approximately 4000 locations; (2) concomitant profiles of multiple unit activity (MUA) were recorded as an estimate of local action potential profiles; (3) 1-dimensional calculations of current source density (CSD) were used to outline the timing and pattern of regional transmembrane current flow. Our analysis confirms the participation of multiple cortical areas, located on either side of the central sulcus, in the generation of the initial cortical SEP components. Earliest activity P10, was localized to area 3, followed within milliseconds by activation of areas 1, 2 (P12), and 4 (P13). In SI (Brodmann's areas 3, 1 and 2), the initial SEP components reflect the depolarization of lamina 4 stellate cells and the subsequent activation of adjacent pyramidal cells in laminae 3 and 5. The genesis of later cortical components (P20, N45) represents the composite of activity distributed across multiple cortical laminae and the interaction of overlapping excitatory and inhibitory events. These findings have direct implications for the clinical interpretation of SEP waveforms.
Evidence has shown that epidermal growth factor (EGF), transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF alpha) and their receptors (EGF receptors) are present in the anterior pituitary, indicating that the growth factors are synthesized in situ and act locally. Studies have demonstrated that EGF could stimulate the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) cortex axis, particularly at the pituitary level in vivo and in vitro, and also stimulate TGF alpha messenger RNA (mRNA) expression in cultured bovine pituitary cells. Recently, our studies have demonstrated that some stresses up-regulated EGF mRNA expression in the anterior pituitary, as detected by ribonuclease protection assay, further indicating the possible roles of EGF in the stress response. However, little is yet known about the sources and targets (sites of EGF receptors) of the growth factors in the pituitary. Therefore, this study was designed to localize EGF and TGF alpha mRNA and their receptors as well as to assess the effects of cold stress (CS) on their expression in the subsets of pituitary cells. In situ hybridization immunocytochemistry coupled with immunocytochemistry and dual immunocytochemistry studies revealed the presence of 1) EGF mRNA in somatotropes and gonadotropes; 2) TGF alpha mRNA in somatotropes, gonadotropes, and lactotropes; and 3) EGF receptors in all subsets of pituitary cells. CS (30 min) induced the expression of EGF mRNA in corticotropes and thyrotropes. EGF expression was not altered in somatotropes and gonadotropes. No significant changes were detected in TGF alpha mRNA expression in the pituitary cells after 30 min of CS. Expression of EGF receptors was also increased after 30 min of CS. This resulted from increases in EGF receptor-labeled cells among thyrotropes and gonadotropes. The cold stress-induced expression of EGF mRNA in corticotropes and thyrotropes fits with their overall activation after this type of stress. The increase in EGF receptor-labeled cells among thyrotropes may point to an important autocrine role for EGF in maintaining TSH responses to cold. On the other hand, the significance of EGF receptor up-regulation in gonadotropes (FSH-containing cells) caused by CS remains unknown.
To investigate the role of nuclear hormone receptors on neuropeptide gene expression in the hypothalamo-neurohypophyseal system (HNS) of the rat, a survey was made of members of the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily that are expressed in the supraoptic nucleus (SON). A polymerase chain reaction cloning strategy based on homologies in the DNA-binding domain of AGGTCA-binding factors was devised for the identification of receptors in microdissected SON tissue. Cloning of the amplified products led to the identification of five true receptors, thyroid hormone receptor-alpha (THR alpha), retinoic acid receptor-alpha, retinoic acid receptor-gamma, retinoid X receptor-alpha, and retinoid X receptor-gamma, as well as four orphan receptors, apolipoprotein AI regulatory protein (ARP-1), chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter transcription factor I (COUP-TF I), estrogen-related receptor 2, and testis receptor 4 (TR4). Dot-blot screening of amplified gene fragment analysis showed that THR alpha, ARP-1, TR4, and COUP-TF I were the most abundant factors expressed in the SON region, in the order THR alpha &gt; ARP-1 &gt; TR4 approximately COUP-TF I. THR alpha has previously been localized to HNS neurons. In situ hybridization analysis showed that ARP-1, COUP-TF I, and TR4 were not expressed in magnocellular neurons at appreciable levels, but rather in surrounding structures. Furthermore, in lactating female rats there were no significant differences in the composition of the nine identified nuclear hormone receptors in the SON region compared with control animals. From these experiments, it is concluded that there is a multitude of hypothalamically expressed nuclear hormone receptors, but that only THR alpha is expressed at relatively high abundance in HNS neurons. This indicates that the peptide-producing magnocellular neurons of the SON express a specific set of transcription factors of the nuclear hormone receptor family.
Previous work has shown that neural stimulation of brown adipose tissue (BAT) increases norepinephrine-stimulated adenylyl cyclase (AC) activity 2- to 3-fold by a mechanism involving postreceptor alterations of the AC system. In view of the recent discovery of multiple AC subtypes, the purposes of this study were to determine which of these subtypes are present in BAT and to examine whether their expression is altered by neural stimulation. Direct hybridization and polymerase chain reaction analyses demonstrated that BAT expresses messenger RNAs (mRNAs) encoding AC-III, AC-IV, AC-V, and AC-VI subtypes. Of the subtypes detected in BAT, neural stimulation increased only AC-III mRNA levels. Activation of beta-adrenergic receptors was sufficient to increase AC-III mRNA levels; however, the potency of beta-receptor agonists was greatly enhanced by simultaneous stimulation of alpha 1-adrenergic receptors. The close correlation between the increases in AC activity and the induction of AC-III mRNA across various physiological and pharmacological treatments indicates that this subtype is responsible for the increase in AC activity that occurs after adrenergic stimulation.
These experiments examined whether the previously observed abolition by progesterone (P) of alpha 1-adrenergic potentiation of adenylyl cyclase activity in brain slices of estrogen-primed female rats is attributable to a reduced capacity of alpha 1-adrenoceptors to stimulate phosphoinositol hydrolysis. In preoptic area and hypothalamic slices from ovariectomized (OVX) female rats, both norepinephrine (NE) and the alpha 1-adrenergic agonist phenylephrine (PHE) were robust stimulators of inositol phosphate (IP) formation. The NE response was completely blocked by the alpha 1-adrenergic antagonist prazosin. PHE-induced IP formation in tissue from OVX females exposed for 48 h to estrogen alone was comparable to that in OVX controls. In hypothalamic tissue from OVX rats given estrogen plus P, NE and PHE activation of phosphoinositol hydrolysis was attenuated. Both chlorethylclonidine, an irreversible antagonist of alpha 1b-adrenoceptors, and 5-methylurapidil, an alpha 1a-selective antagonist, reduced NE-induced IP formation regardless of the hormonal condition of the animals. Analysis of PHE competition for [3H]prazosin binding indicated that agonist binding was of high affinity (Ki, 16-30 microM) and was unaffected by hormonal status. Therefore, P abolition of alpha 1-adrenergic augmentation of adenylyl cyclase is correlated with reduced phosphoinositol hydrolysis, but not with changes in alpha 1-adrenoceptor agonist binding affinity. Moreover, both alpha 1a- and alpha 1b-adrenoceptors appear to work together to stimulate this second messenger system in the female rat hypothalamus.

Progressive myoclonus epilepsy (PME) is a syndrome complex encompassing different diagnostic entities. Among the 30 cases of PME studied during 1982 and 1992 at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bangalore, South India, the specific diagnoses included Lafora disease (LD), neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (NCL). Unverricht-Lundborg disease (ULD), and myoclonus epilepsy and ragged-red fibres (MERRF). We discuss the familial nature of PME and the clinical and electrophysiological abnormalities in asymptomatic siblings. Eight cases of LD were in three different families with 3 affected siblings in two families (L1, L2) and 2 siblings in the third family (L3). Occipital seizures and behavioral changes occurred in all 3 members of L1 but were absent in the other two families. Age of onset was similar in two families (L1, 11 years; L2, 14.5 years), but not in the third. Presymptomatic EEG abnormalities were observed as long as 6 years before onset in L2. ULD occurred in 2 sisters in one family. Both had identical clinical features and normal somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEPs). The asymptomatic sister of the patient MERRF had abnormal EEG and giant SSEPs for the past 2 years. Thus, although all variations are evident in the overall clinical pattern in each of the PME, affected member of individuals families tend to be similar. Once an index case is identified, electrophysiologic tests (EEG and SSEP) may be useful in identifying other affected siblings in the presymptomatic stage.
Methylguanidine (MG) and guanidinoacetic acid (GAA) are known to be endogenous convulsants in the mammalian brain. We have reported previously that MG and GAA concentrations were significantly elevated bilaterally in the amygdala (AM) 7 and 28 days after completion of AM kindling. In the present study, we investigated regional changes in MG and GAA in (1) AM-kindled rat brain 3 months after completion of kindling and (2) hippocampal (HIPP)-kindled rat brain 7 and 28 days after completion of kindling, using high-performance liquid chromatography. MG was increased significantly in the kindled AM 3 months after completion of AM kindling (76%, P &lt; 0.05). Significant increases in MG levels were also found 7 and 28 days after completion of HIPP kindling (124%, P &lt; 0.025 and 110%, P &lt; 0.05, respectively) in the left AM, ipsilateral to the kindled site. GAA increased significantly (93%, P &lt; 0.025) only in the left AM, ipsilateral to the kindled site, 7 days after completion of HIPP kindling. These results, together with our previous data, indicate that long-lasting increases of MG occur in the AM regardless of kindled foci, and may be important in producing neuronal hyperexcitability in kindled epileptogenesis.
Receptor autoradiographic experiments together with the filter wipe-off technique were performed to investigate the effects of cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) on dopamine D2 receptors. In vitro studies showed that 1 nM CCK-8 significantly increased the KD value of binding sites for the D2 agonist [3H]N-propylnorapomorphine (NPA) in the rostral and caudal parts of the nucleus accumbens by 48 and 148% respectively. In contrast, 1 nM CCK-8 significantly decreased the IC50 value of dopamine for binding sites for the D2 antagonist [125I]iodosulpride in the rostral and caudal parts of the caudate-putamen by 46 and 56% respectively, and in the rostral and caudal parts of the nucleus accumbens (areas of CCK-dopamine coexistence) by 57 and 75% respectively. Ex vivo studies demonstrated that 30 min after an intraventricular injection of 1 nmol/rat CCK-8 the KD value of [3H]NPA binding sites in the caudal part of the forebrain and the IC50 value of dopamine for [125I]iodosulpride binding sites in the caudal part of the nucleus accumbens were significantly increased by 160% and decreased by 77% respectively. These results indicate for the first time that in sections CCK-8 in vitro and ex vivo can strongly regulate D2 receptor affinity in the striatum. The present studies also provide evidence for stronger modulation of D2 receptors by CCK-8 in the area of CCK/dopamine coexistence in the nucleus accumbens than in other basal ganglion areas, supporting the existence of CCK/D2 receptor interactions in cotransmission. The stronger interactions found in sections than in membrane preparations may indicate the requirement of intracellular mechanisms and/or a more intact membrane structure for optimal receptor-receptor interactions.
5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT; serotonin) is known to depress glutamatergic synaptic transmission in the spinal cord of vertebrates. To test directly whether 5-HT inhibits synaptic glutamate release, we examined its effect on the ultrastructure of synaptic vesicle clusters in giant reticulospinal axons in a lower vertebrate (lamprey; Lampetra fluviatilis). The size of these axons makes it possible to selectively expose only a part of the presynaptic element to 5-HT, while another part of the same axon is maintained in control solution. Action potential stimulation at 20 Hz for 20 min caused a marked reduction in the number of synaptic vesicles in active zones maintained in control solution, while in the part exposed to 5-HT (20 microM) the number of synaptic vesicles per active zone was approximately 3-fold higher. In contrast, 5-HT had no effect on the number of vesicles in resting axons. To examine whether 5-HT acts by reducing presynaptic Ca2+ influx, intra-axonal recordings of Ba2+ potentials were performed. No reduction of the axonal Ba2+ potential could be detected after application of 20 or 200 microM 5-HT. The present results show that 5-HT reduces the rate of synaptic exocytosis in reticulospinal axons. The effect appears to be mediated by a mechanism distinct from the presynaptic Ca2+ channels.
Chromaffin cells exposed to basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) in vitro express characteristics of sympathetic neurons, extend neurites, and become dependent on nerve growth factor (NGF) for survival. We explored whether the growth factor responsiveness of chromaffin cells could be exploited to enhance the transdifferentiation, neurite outgrowth and functional efficacy of chromaffin cells implanted into rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. Cografts of neonatal chromaffin cells and fibroblasts genetically modified to produce bFGF were placed into the dopamine-depleted striatum of adult rats. Either control-transfected or NGF-producing fibroblasts were then transplanted 1 mm distal to the cograft. Chromaffin cells transdifferentiated under the influence of bFGF, as indicated by the growth of neurites and the expression of neuron-specific proteins. Distal grafts of NGF-producing fibroblasts successfully induced chromaffin neurites to traverse through the host parenchyma to the NGF source. In the absence of NGF fibroblast grafts, neither neurite extension nor good, long-term survival of the chromaffin-derived neurons was observed. Assessments of apomorphine-induced rotational behavior 2- and 4-weeks postgrafting revealed no behavior improvements in any of the groups. These results indicate that localized sources of growth factors are effective in inducing the transdifferentiation of grafted chromaffin cells as well as the extension of chromaffin-derived neurites into the host parenchyma. Such chromaffin cell-derived neurons are, however, functionally ineffective in this rat model of Parkinson's disease. Whether the lack of behavioral improvement reflected the tropic growth of neurites to an inappropriate striatal region or the noradrenergic nature of the chromaffin cell-derived neurons remains to be clarified. Nonetheless, these results caution that promoting transdifferentiation and neurite extension from engrafted chromaffin cells may not be sufficient to achieve desired functional effects of such grafts.
Prosaposin, recently identified as a neurotrophic factor (1), is the precursor of saposins A, B, C, and D. The neurotrophic activity of prosaposin resides in the saposin C domain. We have pinpointed the active sequence to a linear 12-mer located in the NH2-terminal sequence of saposin C (LIDNNKTEKEIL). Nanomolar concentrations of a 22-mer peptide encompassing this region stimulated neurite outgrowth and choline acetyltransferase activity, and prevented cell death in neuroblastoma cells. In primary cerebellar granule cells, the 22-mer also stimulated neurite outgroth. Studies of the neuroblastoma line NS20Y using a radiolabeled 18-mer from the neurotrophic region identified a high-affinity (Kd = 70 pM) binding site indicative of receptor-ligand interaction. The 22-mer stimulated protein phosphorylation of several proteins, some of which were tyrosine-phosphorylated after brief exposure similar to saposin C. Circular dichroism studies demonstrated that the 22-mer was converted from a random to a helical structure by addition of ganglioside GM1. The results are consistent with receptor-ligand binding by the peptide initiating a signal transduction cascade and resulting in neuronal differentiation.

Calcitic and aragonitic otoconia from the Japanese red-bellied newt, Cynops pyrrhogaster, were examined using an atomic force microscope. The surface structure of both otoconial polymorphs consisted of arrays of elements approximately 50 nm in diameter. Elements were generally round and were separated by shallow depressions of no more than 20 nm. The elements are suggested to be single crystals of calcium carbonate. The relationship of these observations to theories of otoconial genesis is discussed.
Immunological and biochemical characteristics of a 100,000 MW biglycan-like haemopoietic factor, purified from thymic myoid cells 871207B, were studied to distinguish them from macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF), which they resemble in activity and biochemical properties. Rabbit antibody raised against a synthetic peptide fragment (J-1) designed from amino acid sequences specific to the 100,000 MW factor responded to 871207B cells, the conditioned medium of 871207B, and capillary-like structures in the thymus, but not to M-CSF producer L-929 cells or the conditioned medium of L-929 cells. In contrast, M-CSF epitope was detected in L-929 cells and the conditioned medium cells but not in 871207B cells or the conditioned medium, even after enzymatic digestion of glycosaminoglycan chains. Treatment of the 100,000 MW factor with chondroitinase ABC and AC produced a 50,000 MW component. Digestion of this product with N-glycanase resulted in a 40,000 MW protein component. These results suggest that the 100,000 MW factor is a proteoglycan consisting of a core protein with an apparent molecular mass of 40,000 MW, a 50,000 MW chondroitin sulphate chain and 10,000 MW N-linked oligosaccharide chains. A small amount of a 40,000 MW monocytic cell growth activity was also found in the 871207B cell-conditioned medium. An enzymatically obtained 40,000 MW factor, the conditioned medium 40,000 MW factor, and the 100,000 MW factor were specifically eluated from an anti-J-1 IgG-immobilized affinity column with monocytic cell growth activity, suggesting that the biological activity resides in the 40,000 MW core protein. The 100,000 MW factor induced the proliferation and differentiation of monocytic lineage cells from a variety of sources, such as bone marrow cells, peritoneal exudated cells and brain microglia cells.
Previous study in our group demonstrated that dynorphin exerted a significant analgesic effect in spinal cord, and electroacupuncture (EA) of high frequency (100 Hz) produced analgesia which was mediated by dynorphin released in spinal cord. However, no data are up to nowadays available for demonstrating either from anterior horn or from dorsal horn the dynorphin comes. Using radioimmunoassay, we found in the present study that ir-dynorphin content in dorsal horn was 10 times more than in anterior horn, which were 11.24 +/- 0.91 pmol/10 mg protein and 1.08 +/- 0.20 pmol/10 mg protein, respectively. Stimulation of 100 Hz EA for 30 min produced a significant increase of ir-dynorphin content in dorsal horn, in contrast, no change of ir-dynorphin content was found in anterior horn. For the meanwhile, a significant elevation of ir-dynorphin was induced by 100 Hz EA in cerebrospinal fluid. It is concluded according to these data that EA, as a stimulation in physiological condition, elevates the content of ir-dynorphin only in dorsal horn, and induces release of dynorphin in loci. The released dynorphin acts on dorsal horn to mediate the analgesia of EA.
Intrathecal injection of dynorphin A produced dual effects on sensory and motor functions in the spinal cord of the rat. At a dose of 5 nmol, dynorphin A produced an increase in tail flick latency (TFL) as well as a reversible motor paralysis as assessed by change in the angle of inclined plane. At a dose of 10 or 20 nmol, dynorphin produced a motor paralysis lasting for up to 24 hours. The effect of dynorphin A on the sensory function of the spinal cord was shown by an increase in the vocalization threshold induced by electrical stimulation of the tail, at dose range of 1.25-10 nmol, with a quick onset (5 min) and relatively short duration (within 60 min). Unlike tail flick reaction which involves spinal motor function, tail stimulation-induced vocalization threshold is a relatively pure index for spinal nociceptive activities. The differential effect of dynorphin on sensory and motor function was supported by the evidence that (1) dynorphin-induced analgesic effect (increase in vocalization threshold) was naloxone reversible, whereas dynorphin-induced motor paralysis was naloxone resistant. (2) Nor-BNI, a specific antagonist for kappa opioid receptor, blocked the sensory effect of dynorphin, but had no influence on motor effect of dynorphin. It is thus concluded that dynorphin has both analgesic and paralytic effects in spinal cord. The analgesia shown by an increase of vocalization threshold is an opioid effect, most probably mediated by kappa opioid receptor; the paralytic effect, however, is a non-opioid effect. The increase of TFL induced by dynorphin involves both sensory (analgesia) and motor (paralysis) effects.
Embryo and adult rat spinal cord sections immunostained for S-100 protein, vimentin, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), or phosphorylated 160 kDa neurofilament protein (NF), were used to study glial participation in nerve tissue assembly. Radial glial fibers (RGF) expressed vimentin since E12. In the peripheral ventral zone, RGF formed cephalocaudal plates (CP) within the white matter, ensheathing developing axonal tracts first expressing NF at E13. As axonal tracts increased, CP became denser and extended ventrolaterally. S-100 protein appeared at E17 in the midline and, at E18, it overlapped vimentin expression. Astrocytes expressed GFAP since E20. We conclude that the pattern found in the spinal cord results from interactions between developing axonal tracts and radial glia, and that it could set the structural basis for the organized assembly of the spinal cord found in adults.

The effects of cerebral ischemia on calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaM kinase II) were investigated using the rat four-vessel occlusion model. In agreement with previous results using rat or gerbil models of cerebral ischemia or a rabbit model of spinal cord ischemia, this report demonstrates that transient forebrain ischemia leads to a reduction in CaM kinase II activity within 5 min of occlusion onset. Loss of activity from the cytosol fractions of homogenates from the neocortex, striatum, and hippocampus correlated with a decrease in the amount of CaM kinase alpha and beta isoforms detected by immunoblotting. In contrast, there was an apparent increase in the amount of CaM kinase alpha and beta in the particulate fractions. The decrease in the amount of CaM kinase isoforms from the cytosol but not the particulate fractions was confirmed by autophosphorylation of CaM kinase II after denaturation and renaturation in situ of the blotted proteins. These results indicate that ischemia causes a rapid inhibition of CaM kinase II activity and a change in the partitioning of the enzyme between the cytosol and particulate fractions. CaM kinase II is a multifunctional protein kinase, and the loss of activity may play a critical role in initiating the changes leading to ischemia-induced cell death. To identify a structural basis for the decrease in enzyme activity, tryptic peptide maps of CaM kinase II phosphorylated in vitro were compared. Phosphopeptide maps of CaM kinase alpha from particulate fractions of control and ischemic samples revealed not only reduced incorporation of phosphate into the protein but also the absence of a limited number of peptides in the ischemic samples. This suggested that certain sites are inaccessible, possibly due to a conformational change, a covalent modification of CaM kinase II, or steric hindrance by an associated molecule. Verifying one of these possibilities should help to elucidate the mechanism of ischemia-induced modulation of CaM kinase II.
Irreversible anoxic injury is dependent on extracellular Ca2+ in mammalian CNS white matter, with a large portion of the pathologic Ca2+ influx occurring through reverse Na(+)-Ca2+ exchange, stimulated by increased intracellular [Na+]. This Na+ leak likely occurs via incompletely inactivated voltage-gated Na+ channels. This study reports that clinically used antiarrhythmic compounds, likely by virtue of their Na+ channel-blocking properties, significantly protect CNS white matter from anoxia at concentrations that cause little suppression of the preanoxic response. Rat optic nerves were pretreated with various agents for 60 min, then subjected to 60 min of anoxia in vitro. Functional recovery was measured electrophysiologically as the area under the compound action potential (CAP). Without drug, the CAP areas recovered to a mean of 32 +/- 12% of control after 1 h of reoxygenation. Recoveries using prajmaline 10 microM were 82 +/- 15% (p &lt; 0.0001), and using tocainide 1 mM, 78 +/- 8% (p &lt; 0.0001), with little suppression (&lt; or = 10%) of the preanoxic response. Ajmaline (10-100 microM), disopyramide (10-300 microM) and bupivacaine (10-100 microM) were somewhat less effective, whereas verapamil produced 52 +/- 11% recovery before reduction of the preanoxic CAP was observed at 30 microM. Procainamide (100-300 microM) was ineffective. These results suggest that Na+ channel blockers, including commonly used antiarrhythmic agents, may be effective in protecting central white matter, which is a target for anoxic/ischemic injury in diseases such as stroke and spinal cord injury.
Leptomeningeal metastasis is an uncommon problem in pediatric neurology and oncology. It occurs primarily in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and primary brain tumors. Although leptomeningeal metastasis may present with focal neurologic signs and symptoms, leptomeningeal metastasis is a disease affecting the entire neuraxis and necessitating an extent-of-disease evaluation of both the brain and spinal cord. Neuroradiographic staging of leptomeningeal metastases includes contrast-enhanced cranial computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, contrast-enhanced spine magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomographic myelography, and radionuclide cerebrospinal fluid flow studies. As a consequence of global neuraxis involvement, the treatment of leptomeningeal metastases requires therapy directed at all cerebrospinal fluid compartments. The treatment of leptomeningeal metastases usually includes both radiotherapy and intra-cerebrospinal fluid drug therapy. Radiotherapy is directed to regions of bulky or symptomatic central nervous system disease. Intra-cerebrospinal fluid drug therapy, using one of three available chemotherapeutic agents (methotrexate, cytarabine, or triethylene thiophosphoramide), is administered by a variety of schedules and either by intralumbar or intraventricular drug delivery. Notwithstanding that the treatment of leptomeningeal metastases is palliative, with an expected patient survival of 6 months, it often affords stabilization and protection from further neurologic deterioration in children with leptomeningeal metastases in whom death is usually a consequence of progressive systemic or parenchymal brain disease.

The intrinsic membrane and firing properties of medial vestibular nucleus (MVN) neurons were investigated in slices of the chick brainstem using intracellular recording and current injection. Avian MVN neurons fired spontaneous action potentials with very regular interspike intervals. The rapid repolarization of all action potentials was followed by an after-hyperpolarization. Intracellular injection of steps of hyperpolarizing current revealed both an inward rectification of the membrane potential during the step and a rebound depolarization following the offset of the step. In some neurons, the rebound depolarization resulted in bursts of action potentials. Steps of depolarizing current applied to spontaneously active neurons evoked increases in firing rate that were higher at the onset of the step than during the steady-state response. The relationship between current and firing rate was linear. The membrane and firing properties of avian MVN neurons were distributed continuously across the population of recorded neurons. These properties appear identical to those of rodent MVN neurons, suggesting that the composition and distribution of ion channels in the MVN neuronal membrane has been highly conserved across vertebrate species.
BACKGROUND AND METHODS. To determine the effects of hypertension on brain function, positron emission tomography (PET) studies using (18F)-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) were performed on a group of 17 otherwise healthy older hypertensive men (mean age +/- SD = 69 +/- 8 yr) and 25 age- and gender-matched controls. Subjects had medically treated essential hypertension for a minimum of 10 years (range = 10 to 24 yr) with no evidence of end-organ impairment from hypertension by routine clinical screening and by history. All hypertensive and control subjects were determined to be cognitively normal by extensive neuropsychological testing. The hypertensive subjects previously had been reported to have lateral ventricle enlargement and left hemisphere brain atrophy by quantitative MRI. PET data were analyzed using t-tests to look at group differences.
Only male zebra finches (Poephila guttata) sing, and nuclei implicated in song behavior exhibit marked sex differences in neuron number. In the robust nucleus of the anterior neostriatum (RA), these sex differences develop because more neurons die in young females than in males. However, it is not known whether the sexually dimorphic survival of RA neurons is a primary event in sexual differentiation or a secondary response to sex differences in the number of cells interacting trophically with RA neurons. In particular, since sexual differentiation of the RA parallels the development of dimorphisms in the numbers of neurons providing afferent input from the lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior neostriatum (IMAN) and the high vocal center (HVC), it has been hypothesized that sex differences in the size of these afferent populations trigger differential RA neuron survival and growth. To test this hypothesis, we lesioned either the IMAN or both the IMAN and HVC unilaterally in 12-day-old male and female zebra finches. Subsequently, RA cell death and RA neuron number and size were measured. Unilateral IMAN lesions increased cell death and decreased neuron number and size within the ipsilateral RA of both sexes. However, even in the IMAN-lesioned hemisphere, these effects were less pronounced in males than in females, so that by day 25 the volume, number, and size of neurons were sexually dimorphic in both the contralateral and ipsilateral RA. Similarly, the absence of both IMAN and HVC afferents did not prevent the emergence of sex differences in the number and size of RA neurons by 25 days posthatching. We conclude that these sex differences within the RA are not a secondary response to dimorphisms in the numbers of IMAN or HVC neurons providing afferent input.
Early effects of experience on synaptic reorganization and behavior often involve activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. We have begun to explore the role of this glutamate-receptor subtype in the development of learned birdsong. Song learning in zebra finches occurs during a restricted period that coincides with extensive synaptic reorganization within neural regions controlling song behavior. In one brain region necessary for song learning, the lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior neostriatum (IMAN), NMDA receptor binding is twice as high at the onset of song learning as in adulthood. In the present study, we used quantitative autoradiography with the noncompetitive NMDA antagonist [3H]MK-801 to examine more closely the developmental decline in NMDA receptor binding within IMAN and found that it occurred gradually over the period of song learning and was not associated with a particular stage of the learning process. In addition, early isolation from conspecific song did not affect [3H]MK-801 binding in IMAN at 30, 60, or 80 days. Since behavioral studies confirmed that our isolate rearing conditions extended the sensitive period for song learning, we conclude that the normal developmental decline in overall NMDA receptor binding within IMAN does not terminate the capacity for song learning. Finally, early deafening, which prevents both stages of song learning, also did not affect [3H]MK-801 binding in IMAN at 80 days, indicating that the decline in NMDA receptor binding occurs in the absence of auditory experiences associated with song development.
Neuronal differentiation involves specific molecular and morphological changes in precursors and results in mature, postmitotic neurons. The expression of neuron-specific beta tubulin, as detected by the monoclonal antibody TuJ1, begins during the period of neurogenesis. Indeed, TuJ1 expression precedes that of the 160 kD neurofilament protein in both the central and peripheral nervous systems. In the embryonic rat spinal cord, bipolar cells and some mitotic cells in the ventricular zone were TuJ1 immunoreactive (IR). Sensory ganglia also contained cells with TuJ1-IR mitotic spindles in situ. In embryonic rat sensory and sympathetic ganglion cell cultures pulsed with the thymidine analog bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU), TuJ1 label was detected in the spindle of mitotic cells and in the midbody of cells joined at cytokinesis, indicating that neuron-specific tubulin expression was initiated during or before the final mitosis of neuronal progenitors. Dorsal root ganglion cultures included TuJ1-IR cells with several shapes that may reflect morphological transitions, from flattened stellate neural crest-like cells to differentiated bipolar neurons. Indeed, the presence of flattened TuJ1-IR cells was correlated with neurogenesis. Some sympathetic neuron precursors possessed long TuJ1-IR neurites, as well as TuJ1-IR spindle microtubules and BrdU-labeled chromosomes, indicating that these precursors can possess long processes during metaphase. These results support the hypothesis that neuron-specific tubulin expression represents an early molecular event in neuronal differentiation exhibited by a wide range of neuronal precursors. The cessation of proliferation can occur at different points during neuronal differentiation, as TuJ1-IR was detected in cells undergoing mitosis. Future studies directed toward understanding the molecules that initiate neuron-specific tubulin expression may lead to the factors that control the initial phases of neuronal differentiation.
As immediate early genes (IEGs) are thought to play a critical role in mediating stimulus-induced neuronal plasticity, several laboratories have characterized the IEG response induced by cocaine to help define the changes in gene expression that may underlie its long-lasting behavioral effects. Although activation of several transcription factor IEGs has been described, little is known about which &quot;effector&quot; IEGs, if any, are also induced. In the present study, we have examined whether cocaine administration affects expression of a recently identified &quot;effector&quot; IEG, referred to as arc (activity-regulated, cytoskeleton-associated). This IEG encodes a protein with homology to spectrin that appears to be associated with the actin cytoskeleton. Using in situ hybridization, we have found that systemic cocaine administration elicits a robust, transient rise in arc mRNA levels in striatum, which is suppressed by D1 dopamine receptor blockade, reserpine treatment, or striatal 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. D2 receptor antagonist triggered arc expression when administered alone. Immunohistochemical studies indicated that Arc protein induced by cocaine is expressed in neuronal cell bodies and dendrites. As Arc appears to be component of the neuronal cytoskeleton, it may be involved in structural alterations underlying neuronal plasticity triggered by cocaine.
We identified, by affinity chromatography, two putative binding proteins for the presynaptic snake venom toxin taipoxin. We have previously characterized one of these proteins [neuronal pentraxin (NP)] as a neuronally secreted protein with homology to acute-phase proteins. Here we report the identification of the second protein as a 49-kDa lumenal calcium binding protein that we have named taipoxin-associated calcium binding protein 49 (TCBP-49). This protein contains six EF-hand putative calcium binding domains and the carboxyl-terminal sequence His-Asp-Glu-Leu (HDEL), identical to the yeast endoplasmic reticulum retention signal. Message for this protein is present in brain, liver, muscle, heart, kidney, and testis. Antibodies to this protein label reticular organelles of neurons and glia. This localization and the specific enrichment of native and recombinant TCBP-49 on columns of immobilized taipoxin raise the possibility that this protein interacts with internalized taipoxin, perhaps mediating its activation. The availability of pure TCBP-49 will allow direct tests of whether TCBP-49 alters the integrity of the oligomeric structure, phospholipase activity, or toxicity of taipoxin.
We investigated the effectiveness of continuous vs intermittent LHRH stimulation of the neonatal female anterior pituitary gland on inducing cellular FSH immunoreactivity in the Golden Syrian hamster. Neonatal female pituitary glands were grafted beneath the right renal capsules of hypophysectomized-ovariectomized adult hosts with a catheter implanted in the external jugular vein. In experiment 1, vehicle or LHRH (6 ng/h) was infused continuously or LHRH was pulsed at 1 h (6 ng) or 12 h (72 ng) intervals through the catheters for 8 days. Hamsters were decapitated for collection of trunk blood shortly after the end of treatment, and grafts were prepared for immunocytochemical staining for LH and FSH. Anterior pituitary glands removed from neonatal (day 1) and day 9 female pups also were stained for LH and FSH. The mean percentage of adenohypophysial cells staining for LH increased from 11% in neonatal pups to mean percentages (24-28%) that were similar in day 9 pups and in all groups with grafts. The mean percentage of adenohypophysial cells staining for FSH increased from 1% in neonatal pups to percentages (16-21%) that were similar in day 9 pups and in grafts in hosts administered 6 or 72 ng LHRH pulses. By contrast, the mean percentage of FSH cells did not increase in grafts in hosts administered vehicle or LHRH by continuous infusion. Serum LH concentration was low in hosts given vehicle or LHRH by continuous infusion but elevated in hosts given 72 ng LHRH pulses and in all but one host given 6 ng LHRH pulses.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The regulation of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I, interferon (IFN)-beta, and anti-viral state expression in neurons was analyzed. Treatment of neurons with either double-stranded RNA (poly I: poly C) or virus, but not IFNs, induced high levels of IFN-beta, but not MHC class I genes. However, neurons treated with IFN-beta established an anti-viral state. Transfection of neurons with IFN-beta constructs showed that a region containing PRDI (IRF-E site) and PRDII (kappa B site) mediated induction, but closely related sites in a MHC class I construct did not. Gel mobility shift assays indicated that transcription factors containing the RelA (p65) component of NF-kappa B, but not p50, bound to PRDII. PRDI, however, bound to transcriptional antagonist IRF-2. Unique selective induction of these transcription factors is likely to mediate non-coordinate expression of IFN-beta, MHC class I, and anti-viral state genes in neurons.
Four patients are described who developed sensorimotor neuropathy while being treated with simvastatin and had complete or partial resolution of clinical abnormalities after withdrawal of treatment. In one case onset was within days of commencing treatment, but in two cases symptoms did not develop for two years. The electrophysiological and pathological features of the neuropathy were those of axonal degeneration. Clinical evidence of proximal and distal weakness and muscle fasciculations and persistent abnormalities of sensory conduction after recovery suggest the possibility of toxic damage to anterior horn cells and dorsal root ganglia. Thirty eight other cases with symptoms suggestive of peripheral neuropathy have been reported to the Australian Adverse Drug Reactions Advisory Committee, 22 of whom recovered after cessation of treatment; in five cases there was recurrence after re-exposure to the drug. Simvastatin should be considered among the causes of peripheral neuropathy, and the drug should be withdrawn if patients receiving it develop muscle weakness or sensory disturbances.

The clinicopathological features of a previously unrecognised type of acute encephalopathy prevalent among Japanese children is described by reviewing the records of 13 consecutive patients treated and 28 previously reported cases. The hallmark of this encephalopathy, proposed to be a novel entity termed acute necrotising encephalopathy of childhood, is multiple, necrotic brain lesions showing a symmetric distribution. The encephalopathy was noted in previously healthy children after respiratory tract infections, with presenting symptoms of coma, convulsions, vomiting, hyperpyrexia, and hepatomegaly. Laboratory examinations disclosed liver dysfunction, uraemia, and hypoproteinaemia. The histological appearance of the liver was variable and non-specific. Cerebrospinal fluid contained an increased amount of protein. Computed tomography and MRI showed the presence of symmetrically distributed brain lesions of the thalamus, cerebral white matter, brainstem, and cerebellum. Necropsy examination confirmed extensive fresh necrosis of these regions with evidence of local breakdown of the blood-brain barrier. Based on the characteristic combination of clinical and pathological findings, acute necrotising encephalopathy of childhood can be distinguished from previously known encephalopathies, including Reye's syndrome.
Genomic imprinting is a recently recognized phenomenon of differential expression of genetic material depending upon whether the genetic material has come from the male or female parent. This process of differential phenotypic expression involves mammalian development both in the normal and abnormal situations, resulting in parental sex effects. However, some parental sex effects may be due to other mechanisms such as mitochondrial inheritance. In the following article, evidence for genomic imprinting in experimental animals and in diseases are summarized. Relevant human neurological disorders manifesting parental sex effects discussed here include myotonic dystrophy, Huntington's disease, fragile X syndrome, spinocerebellar ataxia type 1, and neurofibromatosis type 1 and 2. A possible mechanism of imprinting involves the processes of methylation imprint and replication imprint. The knowledge of imprinting is helpful in clinical practice particularly in the areas of genetic counseling, prenatal diagnosis, and possible future gene therapy.

Kennedy disease is caused by an enlarged trinucleotide repeat sequence within the androgen receptor gene. We report here seven male patients with a benign motor neuron syndrome highly analogous to Kennedy disease but with a normal trinucleotide repeat.


To investigate the mechanisms by which glutamate-induced acetylcholinesterase (AChE) release might play a part in the pathogenesis of excitotoxically triggered motor neurone disease, we measured AChE molecular forms released after glutamate-receptor agonist stimulation of superfused and incubated slices of mouse spinal cord. Kainate and GLU caused a dose-related, calcium-dependent, magnesium-blocked liberation of AChE soluble forms (mainly G4) from both the ventral and dorsal horns, without membrane damage. In the immature slice, glycine potentiated GLU elicited AChE release in the presence of strychnine, suggesting N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor involvement. After the 30th postnatal day, nearly all the release was caused by non-NMDA receptor stimulation. The response might interfere with the negative feedback loop which modulates the overactivation of motor neurones, and might render them more vulnerable to excitotoxic stress.
Recent studies have suggested that the neuronal damage during human immunodeficiency virus encephalitis (HIVE) might be mediated by increased intracellular calcium. Since in vitro studies have shown that calcium-binding proteins protect neurons from calcium-mediated toxicity, we hypothesized that calbindin-expressing neurons might be resistant to HIV1-mediated damage. We compared patterns of calbindin immunoreactivity in the cortex and subcortex of autopsied AIDS cases with and without HIVE. Calbindin-immunoreactive neurons in the neocortex were significantly reduced in HIVE (one-way ANOVA, p &lt; 0.001), while these neurons in the basal ganglia and hippocampus were unaffected. The loss of calbindin-immunolabeled neurons in the neocortex was correlated with viral burden (r = -0.45, p &lt; 0.001). Differential loss of calbindin-immunoreactive neurons in HIVE suggests that neuronal damage in different regions of the CNS may be mediated by different pathogenic mechanisms.
1. The effect of the voltage-dependent Ca channel (VDCC) antagonist omega-conotoxin-MVIIC (omega-CTx-MVIIC) on the presynaptic Ca influx and synaptic transmission was studied in area CA1 of guinea pig hippocampus. The presynaptic Ca transient ([Ca]t) and the field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP) evoked by a single electrical stimulus were simultaneously recorded at CA3 to CA1 synapses. 2. omega-CTx-MVIIC dose dependently blocked the fEPSP and the presynaptic [Ca]t without affecting the presynaptic fiber volley and the presynaptic resting Ca level. During application of omega-CTx-MVIIC, the decrease of both the fEPSP and the presynaptic [Ca]t had a similar time course, and the initial slope of the fEPSP is proportional to about the fourth power of the amplitude of the presynaptic [Ca]t. These results strongly suggest that omega-CTx-MVIIC inhibits the fEPSP by blocking presynaptic Ca channels at hippocampal CA3 to CA1 synapses. 3. Sequential application of high concentrations of omega-CTx-MVIIC (10 microM) and other VDCC blockers including omega-conotoxin-GVIA (omega-CTx-GVIA, 1 microM) and omega-agatoxin-IVA (omega-Aga-IVA, 1 microM) showed that omega-CTx-MVIIC significantly occludes the effects of omega-CTx-GVIA and omega-Aga-IVA. Combined application of omega-CTx-GVIA (1 microM) and omega-Aga-IVA (1 microM) largely but not completely occluded the effect of omega-CTx-MVIIC.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. A motor and digital controller have been developed to apply rapid stretches to the human elbow joint. The digital controller returns the forearm to the initial position before the reflex contraction. Thus short-latency reflex responses can be cleanly separated in time from the mechanical effects of the stretch under a wide variety of loading conditions. 2. The reflex force varies linearly with the velocity of stretch over nearly 2 orders of magnitude. The reflex force also varies linearly with the tonic level of force over the entire range of forces studied (0-100 N). This contrasts sharply with, for example, the human ankle joint, which shows a very limited linear range. 3. As the digital controller is made more compliant (less stiff), reflex shortening increases dramatically and becomes more prolonged, whereas the reflex force becomes somewhat smaller and shorter. With compliant loads and the brief stretches we applied, the reflex shortening is approximately equal to the stretch that generated it. 4. Simulations of the results confirm that the dependence of reflex shortening and force on the stiffness of the load is mainly determined by the mechanics of the limb and muscles. The simulations also indicate that 1) the gain of the reflex is as high as it can be without causing instability and 2) the presence of a rectification nonlinearity (e.g., lengthening the muscle produces a reflex, but shortening the muscle does not) is mainly responsible for preserving the stability of the elbow system.
Research in humans and monkeys has demonstrated a system of anatomically related structures in the medial temporal lobe that is important for memory function. This system is comprised of the hippocampal region (i.e., the dentate gyrus, hippocampus proper and subicular complex) and the entorhinal, perirhinal, and parahippocampal cortices. While the hippocampal region has long been thought to be important in memory, there are few systematic studies in primates of the effects on memory of damage limited to the hippocampal region. We have used magnetic resonance imaging techniques, together with a stereotaxic approach, to produce bilateral lesions limited to the hippocampal region (the H lesion). Damage to the adjacent perirhinal, entorhinal, and parahippocampal cortex was minimal. Monkeys with the H lesion exhibited significant and long-lasting impairment on the delayed non-matching to sample task. At the same time, on this and other amnesia-sensitive tasks, monkeys with the H lesion performed better overall than monkeys with lesions of the hippocampal region that also included damage to the adjacent entorhinal and parahippocampal cortices (the H+ lesion). These findings show that, first, the hippocampal region itself is essential for normal memory function; and second, the adjacent entorhinal and parahippocampal cortices, either alone or in combination, are also an essential component of the medial temporal lobe memory system.
Huntington disease (HD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder characterized by selective death of striatal medium spiny neurons. Intrastriatal injections of glutamate receptor agonists (excitotoxins) recapitulate some neuropathological features of this disorder. Although this model suggests that excitotoxic injury may be involved in HD, the exact mechanisms of cell death in HD and its models are unknown. The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that HD can develop via the activation of an apoptotic mechanism of cell death and to examine whether excitotoxic striatal lesions with quinolinic acid in rats represent accurate models of HD. To characterize cell death, we employed DNA electrophoresis, electron microscopy (EM), and the terminal transferase-mediated (TdT) deoxyuridine triphosphate (d-UTP)-biotin nick end labeling (TUNEL) method for the in situ detection of DNA strand breaks. In the neostriatum of individuals with HD, patterns of distribution of TUNEL-positive neurons and glia were reminiscent of those seen in apoptotic cell death during normal development of the nervous system; in the same areas, nonrandom DNA fragmentation was detected occasionally. Following excitotoxic injury of the rat striatum, internucleosomal DNA fragmentation (evidence of apoptosis) was seen at early time intervals and random DNA fragmentation (evidence of necrosis) at later time points. In addition, EM detected necrotic profiles of medium spiny neurons in the lesioned rats. In concert, these results suggest that apoptosis occurs in both HD and excitotoxic animal models and that apoptotic and necrotic mechanisms of neuronal death may occur simultaneously within individual dying cells in the excitotoxically injured brain. However, the distribution of dying neurons in the neostriatum, the degree of glial degeneration, and the involvement of striatofugal pathways are very different between HD and excitotoxically damaged striatum. The present study suggests that multiple methods should be employed for a proper characterization of neuronal cell death in vivo.
Neuro-2a neuroblastoma cells can be stimulated to extend neurites with a number of agents, one of which, neuraminidase, induces terminal differentiation by a mechanism involving enhanced Ca2+ influx. Permeabilization of such differentiated cells with saponin and treatment with cholera toxin B subunit linked to horseradish peroxidase revealed intense staining of the nuclear membrane, indicating the presence of GM1 ganglioside. Unstimulated cells had barely detectable levels of nuclear GM1. Nuclei isolated by sucrose density gradient centrifugation similarly showed intense staining with fluorescently labeled cholera toxin B subunit, in contrast to nuclei from undifferentiated controls. Treatment with chloroform-methanol removed most of the fluorogenic material. Chemical analysis of such nuclei from neuraminidase-treated cells confirmed significant elevation of GM1 above control levels, along with virtual absence of markers for plasma membrane and Golgi apparatus. Cerebellar granule cells from neonatal rats revealed a similar phenomenon following spontaneous neurite outgrowth in culture.
The second visual cortical area (V2) of the primate is composed of repeating thin, pale, and thick cytochrome oxidase stripes containing primarily color-selective, broad-band oriented, and disparity-selective cells, respectively. We have now examined topography in V2 with respect to these functional subdivisions. Our data suggest that there are multiple, interleaved visual maps in V2, one for each of the color, orientation, and disparity domains. The same region of visual space is re-represented by each stripe within a stripe cycle, resulting in discontinuities or &quot;jumps back&quot; in representation at stripe borders. Adjacent stripe cycles represent adjacent regions of space such that the visual map is continuous from one stripe to the next like stripe. Receptive field size and scatter are significantly larger for thin stripes than for thick stripes. Unexpectedly, our data suggest two types of pale stripes within each stripe cycle, one with scatter similar to thin stripes and another to thick stripes. Some evidence also suggests the presence of multiple maps within individual stripes in V2. Consistent with functional clustering within single stripes (Ts'o et al., 1990b), we have recorded re-representations and topographic discontinuities coincident with functional borders within single stripes. These results suggest that multiple and interleaved mapping may be a common organizational strategy for representing multiple functional domains within a single cortical area.
The interactions among excitatory inputs arising from the prefrontal cortex, amygdala, and hippocampus, and innervating nucleus accumbens neurons were studied using in vivo intracellular recording techniques. Neurons recorded in the accumbens displayed one of three activity states: (1) silent, (2) spontaneously firing at low, constant rates, or (3) a bistable membrane potential, characterized by alternating periods of activity and silence occurring in concert with spontaneous transitions between two steady-state membrane potentials (average, -77.3 +/- 7.1 mV base, -63.0 +/- 7.4 mV plateau). These neurons also exhibited a high degree of convergence of responses elicited by stimulation of each of the three excitatory inputs tested. Activation of hippocampal afferents, but not cortical, amygdaloid, or thalamic afferents, induced bistable cells to switch to the depolarized (active) state. In contrast, no bistable cells were encountered in the nucleus accumbens following an acute transection of the fornix. Furthermore, microinjection of lidocaine in the vicinity of the hippocampal afferents at the level of the fornix caused a reversible elimination of the plateau phase in bistable cells. These data suggest that hippocampal input is necessary for accumbens neurons to enter a depolarized, active state. Furthermore, activation of prefrontal cortical inputs fail to evoke spike firing in accumbens neurons unless they are in this active state. Consequently, the hippocampus appears to be capable of gating prefrontal corticoaccumbens throughput.
Expression of the choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) gene in Drosophila melanogaster is responsible for production of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine and is necessary for viability. In previous studies, we have shown that the regulatory region for normal ChAT expression is large and composed of multiple regulatory elements (Kitamoto et al., 1992; Kitamoto and Salvaterra, 1993). In this study, using various lengths of 5' flanking DNA fused to wild type ChAT cDNA, we have defined a 0.3 kilobase (kb) region of the cis-regulatory DNA, which is essential for restoring viability of Cha lethal mutants. DNase I footprinting analysis of this 0.3 kb DNA revealed a protected 22 bp sequence that contains an octamer-like motif (ATTCAAAT) with one base difference from the consensus octamer motif (ATGCAAAT). Electrophoretic mobility shift assays and Southwestern blot analysis confirmed the presence of specific binding factor(s) for the 22 bp sequence in embryo nuclear extracts, and competition studies established the importance of the octamer-like motif for high-affinity binding. Using the 22-mer as a probe, we have isolated a cDNA clone encoding the Drosophila POU homeo domain protein, dPOU-19/pdm-1, whose target genes and specific binding sequences have not been identified. We propose that vital expression of the Drosophila ChAT gene is regulated by a member of the dPOU-19/pdm-1 putative transcription factor family.
Neurons in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) contribute to the modulation of nociceptive transmission and to the analgesic effects of opioids. The RVM contains serotonergic terminal arbors, serotonergic neurons and several types of serotonin (5-HT) receptors. Limited evidence suggests that 5-HT acting within RVM decreases nociceptive responsiveness and contributes to opioid analgesia. The present study examines the density and distribution of serotonergic afferents onto physiologically identified neurons in the RVM. In anesthetized rats, RVM neurons were characterized by their response to noxious stimulation as either on (excited), off (inhibited) or neutral (unaffected) cells. Tissue containing intracellularly labeled RVM neurons was processed for 5-HT immunocytochemistry. Five off, five on, and three serotonergic neutral cells were examined with the confocal microscope for appositions between 5-HT immunoreactive (5-HT-IR) processes and intracellularly labeled processes. Serotonergic neutral cells had the highest density of 5-HT-IR appositions. The density of 5-HT-IR appositions onto off cells was slightly lower. On cells demonstrated the lowest density of 5-HT-IR appositions. These results indicate that 5-HT contributes to nociceptive modulation by direct actions on the activity of RVM cells. Because the RVM has several sources of serotonergic input and a number of different 5-HT receptor subtypes, further understanding of the role of RVM 5-HT afferents will require pharmacological studies to determine the action of 5-HT on each cell class and anatomical studies to determine the brainstem origin of serotonergic input to each cell class.
Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase-II (CamK-II) is a major neuronal protein which plays a significant role in the cellular process of long-term potentiation (LTP), and vesicular release of neurotransmitters. Here, we show that KN-62, 1-[N,O-bis(5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-N-methyl-L-tyrosyl]-4- phenylpiperazine, a specific cell-permeable inhibitor of CamK-II substantially protected neurons from (1) acute NMDA toxicity and (2) hypoxia/hypoglycemia-induced neuronal injury in fetal rat cortical cultures. KN-62 did not directly inhibit glutamate, kainate, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA), glycine, or [piperidyl-3,4-(N)]-(N-[1-(2-thienyl)cyclohexyl]-3,4-piperidine) (TCP) binding to rat brain membranes. Finally, KN-62 significantly reduced cellular calcium accumulation following either NMDA challenge or hypoxia/hypoglycemia insult. Our results show that CamK-II plays a key role in mediating some of the biochemical events leading to cell death following an acute excitotoxic insult.
Certain cytokines have been reported to exert neurotrophic actions in vivo and in vitro. In the present study, we investigated the possible neuroprotective actions of the cytokine human recombinant interleukin-1 beta (hrIL-1 beta) against excitatory amino acid (EAA)-induced neurodegeneration in cultured primary cortical neurons. Brief (15 min) exposure of cultures to submaximal concentrations of glutamate, NMDA, AMPA, or kainate caused extensive neuronal death (approximately 70% of all neurons). Neuronal damage induced by the EAAs was significantly reduced (up to 70%) by pretreatment with 500 ng/ml (6.5 x 10(3) U/ml) hrIL-1 beta for 24 hr. The neuroprotective effect of hrIL-1 beta was reversed by coapplication of an IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra, 50 micrograms/ml). Neuroprotective actions of hrIL-1 beta were also reduced by administration of a neutralizing monoclonal antibody to NGF (65% inhibition). In concordance, the neurotoxic actions of EAAs were significantly reduced (by 40%) after pretreatment with NGF (100 ng/ml for 48 hr). Furthermore, an additive neuroprotective effect of approximately 75% was observed when cultures were exposed to a combination of hrIL-1 beta and NGF. In contrast, exposure of cultures to high concentrations hrIL-1 beta alone (100 micrograms/ml, 1.3 x 10(6) U/ml) for periods up to 72 hr resulted in neurotoxicity, which was reversed by IL-1ra (1 mg/ml). These findings suggest that hrIL-1 beta can limit EAA-induced neuronal damage. These effects appear to be may be mediated, at least in part, via NGF. These findings may be relevant to the understanding of neurodegenerative diseases.
A tilting apparatus has been designed and constructed to produce fore-aft whole head-and-body tilt (WHBT) alone, or in combination with ankle dorsiflexion of standing subjects, about an axis colinear with the ankle joint. The apparatus is composed of a vertical tilting structure attached to a supporting base. Mechanical rotation of the vertical tilting structure is achieved by a spring activating system mounted on its base. Subjects are secured to the vertical structure by a body harness system with the head fixed, and the feet secured to the standing platform. Simultaneous dynamic WHBT and ankle joint displacement are induced by rotating the vertical support; whereas WHBT alone is achieved by concurrent rotation of both the vertical support and standing platform. Tilts are triggered manually, and data acquisition precedes head acceleration onset by 50-100 ms to provide suitable baseline values. This tilting apparatus has been successfully used to apply forward WHBT in 34 subjects with height ranging from 1.55 to 1.87 m and weights from 42 to 95 kg, and at magnitudes of peak head acceleration varying from 0.4 to 2.2 g as measured by a linear accelerometer mounted on a dental bite. These acceleration rates can be reproduced with minor variation in the same subjects. Moreover, the area under the head acceleration traces was reproducible within 15% between subjects. Tilts can be delivered with concomitant ankle dorsiflexion. These features make the low-cost tilting apparatus a very useful tool for the study of human tilting reactions in both laboratories and clinical settings.
Behavioral recovery is the major goal of neuroscience research on the peripheral nervous system. However, behavioral methods of assessing peripheral nerve regeneration are still lacking. In the present work we used the median nerve and finger flexors as the experimental model. After resection or crush injury of the median nerve, rats were submitted daily to the grasping test. For this, they were gently lifted by the tail and allowed to grasp a grid connected to an ordinary electronic balance. While grasping the animal continued to be lifted by the tail with increasing firmness until it lost its grip. At this precise moment the value shown by the balance was recorded. In the crushed median nerve, recovery of function was clearly demonstrated by the grasping test. The test also indicated the exact day on which recovery began and its improvement with time. This very simple objective behavioral method provides a sensitive quantitative technique for assessing recovery. The experimental model using the median nerve seems to be better than the sciatic nerve model, as no articular contractures or autotomies were noted in the present experimental animals.
In the present study, following previous experience with electrolytic lesion of the rat brain, and subsequent reduction of reactive gliosis with 7 beta-hydroxycholesterol derivatives (Bochelen et al.: Neuroscience 51:827-834, 1992), we have performed a hemisection of the spinal cord in adult rats and investigated the influence of 7 beta-hydroxycholesteryl-3-oleate (oxysterol) on the intensity of the astrocytic reaction and the axonal regeneration. We have shown here that local administration of liposomes containing this oxysterol reduced the intensity of the astroglial reaction on the sectioned side, as seen with immunocytochemical detection of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and by in situ hybridization with a specific RNA probe. Moreover, radioautographic evaluation of astrocyte proliferation with tritiated thymidine evidenced a reduction of the astrocyte labelling index. In addition, double immunocytochemical detection of GFAP and polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule (E-NCAM) revealed a decrease of the expression of this molecule in reactive astrocytes of the treated animals. Finally, immunocytochemical detection of serotonin (5HT) was determined in the raphespinal projections, which constitute a major descending system. In treated animals, serotonergic axons originating from the intact side reinnervated the dorsal horn of the sectioned side, below the hemisection. These results demonstrate that 7 beta-hydroxycholesteryl-3-oleate can reduce the astrocytic reaction following spinal cord injury, promoting the serotonergic reinnervation of a denervated territory.
Activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors is primarily responsible for urinary bladder emptying. Because multiple subtypes of muscarinic receptors exist, we wished to characterize those present in bladder and ultimately to attribute function to those that regulate bladder contractility, neurotransmitter release and perhaps other cholinergic functions in this tissue. Although the m2 and m3 subtypes could be immunoprecipitated after solubilization from human, rat, rabbit and guinea pig bladder membranes, the m1, m4 and m5 subtypes could not. The m2:m3 ratio was 9:1 in rat bladder but was only 3:1 in the other species examined. Immunoprecipitation of the m2 subtype correlated with the relative levels of high-affinity agonist binding sites measured by competition of carbachol for [3H]N-methylscopolamine binding or measured directly using [3H]oxotremorine-M. In the presence of agonist, but not antagonist, GTP binding proteins could be immunoprecipitated in concert with the m2 or m3 receptors using anti-receptor antibodies. These proteins were members of the Gi and Gq/11 subfamilies for both the m2 and the m3 receptor subtypes. In spite of the preponderance of the m2 receptor in all species studied, Schild analysis using somewhat selective antagonists showed that the pharmacologically defined m3 receptor mediated contractility in strips of rat and rabbit bladder. Thus acetylcholine activates bladder smooth muscle via the m3 receptor subtype, and subsequent contractility may be transduced by guanine nucleotide binding proteins such as the Gi and Gq/11 subfamilies.
Binding studies were conducted with intact SH-SY5Y cells, using the mu-opioid-selective antagonist [3H]D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2. Previous studies had demonstrated equilibrium binding constants generally higher than those found when binding to membrane preparations for most opioid agonists. Studies on various other G protein-coupled receptors had shown that receptor internalization led to low apparent affinities for agonists and that short or low-temperature incubations could reveal high-affinity binding components. In SH-SY5Y cells, short (1-min) and 4 degrees C incubations did not reveal high-affinity binding components. Nonequilibrium binding experiments could also be used to compare binding affinities of opiate agonists with activity at mu receptors in the cells. SH-SY5Y cells have functional mu and delta receptors. mu Receptors can be measured independently of delta receptors if activity is determined in the presence of the delta antagonist ICI 174,864. When both binding and activity, as measured by inhibition of forskolin-stimulated cAMP accumulation, were conducted for 10 min, the ratio of binding IC50 to activity IC50 could give an indication of the relative efficacy of opioid agonists. These studies indicated that morphine has slightly lower efficacy than etorphine and the peptides DAMGO and DADLE. Each of these compounds has significantly higher efficacy than ethylketocyclazocine and the partial agonist buprenorphine.
Transmural nerve stimulation of arterioles in the rat iris produces a vasoconstriction mediated via alpha-1B adrenoceptors and the mobilization of intracellular calcium. This study has investigated the role of sensory nerves in modulating this vasoconstriction using isolated preparations of iris perfused with Krebs' solution. Repeated stimulation of the transmural nerves for 1 sec (10 Hz), at intervals less than 2 min, produced a rapid and long-lasting loss of the vasoconstriction. This inhibition was not seen in arterioles taken from rats treated neonatally with capsaicin (50 mg/kg) nor after application of capsaicin (10(-5) M) to control preparations. In arterioles from control rats, both the substance P analog Sar9 and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) were effective in inhibiting nerve-mediated vasoconstriction. L-NG-nitroarginine methyl ester (10(-5) M), but not D-NG-nitroarginine methyl ester (10(-5) M), prevented the loss of vasoconstriction during repetitive stimulation, which suggested the involvement of nitric oxide. Antagonists to the NK1 and NK2 neurokinin receptor subtypes, RP 67580 and L-659877, respectively, were without effect, whereas the antagonist to the CGRP1 receptor, CGRP8-37, prevented the loss of vasoconstriction during repetitive nerve stimulation. The effects of both Sar9 and CGRP (10(-8) M) in inhibiting the nerve-mediated vasoconstriction were prevented by preincubation in L-NG-nitroarginine methyl ester (10(-5) M), which suggested that the mechanism of action of both peptides involved the release of nitric oxide.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Neurological sequelae of hypothyroidism are well recognized and relatively common. Neurological symptoms occurring as a presenting feature of this illness are, however, uncommon. Here we report three patients who presented in such a way and in whom the diagnosis was only suspected because of slow relaxing reflexes.
The phenomenon of cerebellar long-term depression (LTD), a decrease of synaptic strength between the parallel fibers (PFs) and Purkinje cells after conjunctive activation of PFs and the climbing fibers (CFs), is implicated as a cellular mechanism for motor learning. We have characterized a field-potential recording technique in cerebellar slice and have used the technique to examine the temporal conditions for cerebellar LTD induction in an attempt to examine the relevance of LTD to associative conditioning. Interstimulus intervals (ISIs) between onsets of PF and CF activation and the number of paired stimuli (pairings) were examined. LTD has distinct temporal specificity that seems to be constrained by inhibitory interneurons and can be masked by excessive stimulation. When 100 paired stimuli were given to PFs and CFs, LTD was induced with an ISI of 250 msec (PF activation preceding CF activation). In contrast, a smaller forward (125 msec), simultaneous (0 msec), or backward (-250 msec) ISIs were not effective for inducing LTD. However, the blockade of GABAA receptor-mediated inhibition made it possible to induce LTD with 100 pairs of simultaneous stimulations. Furthermore, by increasing the number of pairings to 600, significant LTD was observed with all four interstimulus intervals. These results suggest that temporal conditions for LTD induction share some similarity to associative learning of discrete motor responses.
We speculate that the development of cognitive processes provided such endowed animals with an additional coping strategy in dealing with stress. This ability depends on a unifying consciousness appearing to control or regulate the many individual processes that potentially summate to make up the mind. Without this unifying component, the significance and uniqueness of this coping strategy would be lost. The cognitive mind would also have to develop, of course by chance, a strong bias to believe in a highly organized world, since this is what would have survival value within one lifetime. This sense of unity as a coping strategy is really a deception or illusion, in that it imposes perceived order. Thus, the biology of deception has been an important development leading to man as a cognitive creative being. Our premise here extends this notion and suggests that denial-like processes are at the core of the cognitive coping mechanisms we have evolved as humans.

Binding domains on rat dopamine transporters for cocaine and 1-(2-diphenylmethoxy)ethyl-4-(3-phenylpropyl)piperazine compounds were identified using controlled proteolysis of photoaffinity-labeled protein and epitope-specific immunoprecipitation of the labeled fragments. Rat dopamine transporters were photoaffinity labeled with 1-[2-(diphenylmethoxy)ethyl]-4-[2-(4-azido- 3-[125I]iodophenyl)ethyl]piperazine ([125I]DEEP) [a 1-(2-di- phenylmethoxy)ethyl-4-(3-phenylpropyl)piperazine analog] or 3 beta-(p-chlorophenyl)tropane-2 beta-carboxylic acid, 4'-azido-3'- [125I]iodophenylethyl ester ([125I]RTI 82) (a cocaine analog) and were gel purified to remove contaminating radioactivity. The resulting samples were treated with V8 protease or trypsin and analyzed by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The peptide maps generated with each enzyme were different for each of the ligands, suggesting that the ligands were incorporated into different regions of the protein. Identical peptide maps were generated from striatum- and nucleus accumbens-derived transporters, indicating that these polypeptides are highly similar in primary sequence. The proteolytic fragments generated by V8 protease were localized to specific domains of the protein using antipeptide antibodies corresponding to five different regions of the transporter. Fragments of 10 and 7 kDa from [125I]DEEP-labeled transporters were specifically immunoprecipitated with an antibody generated against amino acids 42-59 (near the first putative trans-membrane domain), whereas a 34-kDa fragment from [125I]RTI 82-labeled transporters was precipitated with three different sera corresponding to regions in the carboxyl-terminal two thirds of the protein. None of the V8 fragments smaller than 45 kDa, containing either photolabel, was altered in molecular mass by N-deglycosylation. The results indicate that photoincorporation of [125I]DEEP occurs in the amino half of the dopamine transporter, near the first two transmembrane helices, whereas [125I]RTI 82 labels the carboxyl-terminal region of the protein, between transmembrane domains 4 and 12.
The 5-hydroxytryptamine type 2 receptor gene is transcriptionally induced by 5-HT-mediated activation of the 5-HT2 receptor in rat myometrial smooth muscle cells. We recently cloned the promoter of the rat 5-HT2 receptor gene and showed that a 1.4-kilobase promoter construct transfected into myometrial smooth muscle cells displays both constitutive and serotonin-dependent promoter activity. We have examined a series of deletional mutants of this promoter for their transcriptional activity. Deletions from base pair (bp) -1314 to bp -184 (with respect to the major transcriptional start (site) resulted in no changes in constitutive or 5-HT-dependent transcriptional activity. A substantial loss of serotonin-dependent transcriptional activation was observed with a promoter construct from which the bp -184 to -108 sequence was deleted. A sequence [termed the serotonin-1 (S1) element], 5'-AGGTTnnnnnnnAACCT-3' (where n represents any deoxynucleotide), containing a novel dyad repeat is contained within this region. In addition to the S1 element, two simian virus 40 promoter factor 1 (SP-1) sites contiguous to this site, as well as an initiator element, appear to be important. Deletion of both the S1 and SP-1 sites resulted in an almost total loss of activity. Myometrial smooth muscle cells contain nuclear proteins that interact specifically with the S1 and SP-1 elements. Thus, multiple elements appear to be involved in serotonin-dependent induction of promoter activity. Analysis of the promoter elements that direct constitutive (i.e., serotonin-independent) activity revealed the involvement of a different region. Deletions from bp -1314 to bp -75 resulted in only minor increases in basal promoter activity. Deletion to bp -50 resulted in a 2.5-fold increase in basal promoter activity, whereas deletion to bp -25 resulted in a 5-fold increase in promoter activity. These results suggest that the basal promoter unit includes bp -25 to 1 and that upstream sequences act to repress basal promoter activity.
There is evidence for a 37% deficiency of complex I activity in Parkinson's disease (PD), which appears to be specific for PD amongst parkinsonian syndromes and selective for the substantia nigra within the central nervous system. Rat studies have shown that, in the context of a normal nigrostriatal dopaminergic cell population, L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-dopa) causes a reversible 25% defect of complex I activity in nigral and striatal tissue. Analysis of striatal tissue from PD patients after prolonged exposure to high-dose L-dopa does not show such a defect. Results of these and other studies suggest that L-dopa therapy does not cause complex I deficiency in PD striatum. However, it cannot be excluded that, in the particular environment of the PD substantia nigra, L-dopa may enhance a preexisting complex I defect.
We discuss the evidence, based on the analysis of transgenic mice overexpressing the human neurofilament (NF) heavy gene, that abnormal NF accumulations can provoke neurodegeneration of motor neurons. Transgenic mice overexpressing by two-fold the normal levels of human NF-H proteins develop a progressive motor neuron disease with several pathologic features reminiscent of those found in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). A plausible mechanism for the selective motor neuron degeneration is that exceeding levels of NF-H cross-linkages impede transport of newly synthesized NF structures. The abnormal NF accumulations in perikarya and proximal axons is accompanied by a disruption in axonal transport of not only NF proteins but also of other components required for maintenance of axons. The relevance of the NF-H transgenics as a model of ALS is discussed in light of our current knowledge of motor neuron disease.
Two cellular systems have been used to investigate the modulation of tau hyperphosphorylation. In the first system, the effects of the excitatory amino acid glutamate, the microtubule destabilising agent colchicine, and beta 25-35-amyloid peptide on tau phosphorylation were studied in rat cortical neurones in primary culture. Using immunocytochemistry and western blot analysis, we demonstrated that tau in these cultures is normally highly phosphorylated, but a proportion becomes rapidly dephosphorylated following treatment of the cultures with glutamate or colchicine. These changes in tau phosphorylation occurred prior to cell death. In the second system, the ability of p42 MAP and p44 MAP kinases, glycogen synthase kinases 3 alpha and 3 beta (GSK-3 alpha and GSK-3 beta) to phosphorylate tau in transfected COS cells was investigated. Both GSK-3 alpha and GSK-3 beta phosphorylated tau to produce a PHF-like state of phosphorylation but the MAP kinases failed to induce such a transformation in tau. These results suggest that aberrant regulation of GSK-3 alpha/beta may be a pathogenic mechanism in Alzheimer's disease.

AMPA receptors mediate fast, glutamatergic synaptic transmission in the central nervous system. The time-course of the associated postsynaptic current has been suggested to be determined principally by the kinetics of glutamate binding and receptor desensitization. Aniracetam and cyclothiazide are drugs capable of selectively preventing desensitization of the AMPA receptor. To investigate the relevance of desensitization to fast synaptic transmission in the cerebellum we have tested these compounds against AMPA-induced depolarizations and postsynaptic potentials using the grease-gap recording technique. Aniracetam (1 microM-5 mM) and cyclothiazide (1 microM-500 microM) both enhanced the depolarising action of AMPA (1 microM) on Purkinje cells in a concentration-dependent manner. At the highest concentrations tested, the increases over controls were approximately 600% and 800% respectively. Aniracetam also increased, in a concentration-dependent manner, the amplitude of the evoked synaptic potentials of both parallel fibre-Purkinje cell and mossy fibre-granule cell pathways, with the highest concentrations tested enhancing the potentials by approximately 60% and 75% respectively. These data suggest that, at two different synapses in the cerebellum, AMPA receptor desensitization occurs physiologically and is likely to contribute to the shape of fast synaptic currents.
The presence and time-course of beta-adrenoceptor density in cultured explants of neocortex obtained from 6-day-old rat pups were investigated using a [125I]ICYP binding assay. A delayed, but more pronounced, increase in the receptor expression was observed as compared to the situation previously described in vivo. These changes only occurred for the beta 1-subtype of the receptor, whereas the beta 2-subtype binding remained constant up to 3 weeks in vitro. The delay of beta 1-adrenoceptor expression may be due to the incomplete presence of the proper maturational input, and the late enhancement of receptor expression to upregulation related to the absence in vitro of noradrenergic input. Decreased beta-adrenoceptor levels could be induced by chronic treatment of the beta-agonist isoproterenol (1 microM) introduced either for 3 or 13 days. Again, changes in density were found only for the beta 1-adrenoceptor binding sites. There is no reduction of receptor density following return to control conditions for 10 days after a 3-day treatment with isoproterenol, demonstrating the ability of this model to attain its final receptor density notwithstanding the developmental insult.
The hypothalamus has been claimed to be involved in a great number of physiological functions in development, such as sexual differentiation (gender, sexual orientation) and birth, as well as in various developmental disorders including mental retardation, sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), Kallman's syndrome and Prader-Willi syndrome. In this review a number of hypothalamic nuclei have therefore been discussed with respect to their development in health and disease. The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is the clock of the brain and shows circadian and seasonal fluctuations in vasopressin-expressing cell numbers. The SCN also seems to be involved in reproduction, adding interest to the sex differences in shape of the vasopressin-containing SCN subnucleus and in its VIP cell number. In addition, differences in relation to sexual orientation can be seen in this perspective. The vasopressin and VIP neurons of the SCN develop mainly postnatally, but as premature children may have circadian temperature rhythms, a different SCN cell type is probably more mature at birth. The sexually dimorphic nucleus (SDN, intermediate nucleus, INAH-1) is twice as large in young male adults as in young females. At the moment of birth only 20% of the SDN cell number is present. From birth until two to four years of age cell numbers increase equally rapidly in both sexes. After this age cell numbers start to decrease in girls, creating the sex difference. The size of the SDN does not show any relationship to sexual orientation in men. The large neurosecretory cells of the supraoptic (SON) and paraventricular nucleus (PVN) project to the neurohypophysis, where they release vasopressin and oxytocin into the blood circulation. In the fetus these hormones play an active role in the birth process. Fetal oxytocin may initiate or accelerate the course of labor. Fetal vasopressin plays a role in the adaptation to stress--caused by the birth process--by redistribution of the fetal blood flow. Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons of the PVN play a central role in stress response. Thus fetal CRH neurons may play a role in the timing of the moment of birth. Recently, alterations have been described in peptidergic, aminergic and cholinergic transmitters in the hypothalamus in SIDS. Future research will have to establish whether these changes are part of the course of SIDS. A large proportion of the SON and PVN neurons also produce tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). In neonates the majority of TH-immunoreactive neurons colocalizes vasopressin, while in the adult the majority of TH-positive neurons colocalizes oxytocin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Recent evidence suggests that neurons and glia can synthesize and secrete cytokines, which play critical roles in maintaining homeostasis in the central nervous system (CNS) by mediating the interaction between cells via autocrine or paracrine mechanisms. Circulating cytokines and soluble receptors also regulate neuronal function via endocrine mechanisms. Disturbance of the cytokine-mediated interaction between cells may lead to neuronal dysfunction and/or cell death and contribute to the pathogenesis of the CNS diseases (e.g., ischemia, Alzheimer's disease and HIV encephalopathy). Defining the molecular pathways of cytokine dysregulation and neurotoxicity may help to elucidate potential therapeutic interventions for many devastating CNS diseases.
In multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN), little is known of the long-term effect of human immunoglobulin (HIG) infusions as a maintenance therapy. We report a patient who improved after an initial HIG infusion of 2 g/kg and continued to improve both clinically and electrophysiologically during maintenance HIG treatment consisting of one infusion of 0.4 g/kg every week. Our findings suggest that maintenance HIG therapy may lead to further improvement of MMN, and that more frequent HIG infusions at a lower dosage may be more effective.
We describe clinical and EMG findings in three patients with an inability to reopen the eyes after voluntary closure of the eyelids. Synchronous EMG recording from the levator palpebrae (LP) and orbicularis oculi (OrbOc) muscles revealed that after voluntary closure of the eyelids and upon the command to open the eyes, all three patients were unable to inhibit the &quot;voluntary&quot; contraction of the OrbOc muscles, while on clinical examination there was no evidence of ongoing OrbOc muscle contraction. This &quot;motor persistence&quot; was restricted predominantly to the pretarsal portion of the OrbOc. In one patient, it occurred as an isolated abnormality of the eyelid movement and was recorded as an additional EMG abnormality in two patients with blepharospasm and involuntary LP inhibition. Clinical examination alone cannot differentiate this type of disorder of supranuclear control of eyelid movement from involuntary LP inhibition; simultaneous EMG recording from the LP and OrbOc muscles is required. Injection of botulinum toxin into the pretarsal portion of OrbOc muscles is helpful.
Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) is an autosomal dominant muscular disorder in which the disease locus has been mapped to chromosome 4q35-qter. In most patients, the DNA rearrangements associated with FSHD have been found in the EcoRI fragment detected by the p13E-11 probe, and deletions of the 3.2 kb repeat units within the fragment are thought to cause the disease. To examine FSHD-associated DNA rearrangements in the Japanese population, we performed Southern blot analysis of the genomic DNA, using the p13E-11 and pFR-1 probes, in 158 Japanese individuals, including 38 FSHD patients from 19 families. We found that all but one (a possible affected recombinant) of the Japanese FSHD patients (97.4%) had specific smaller (&lt; 28 kb) EcoRI fragments which cosegregated with the disease; this included four patients who had severe inflammatory changes in the muscle and eight patients with de novo DNA rearrangements. We found no FSHD patient who had a fragment larger than 28 kb. By contrast, only two of 35 Japanese controls (5.7%) had EcoRI fragments smaller than 28 kb. Our patients showed anticipation, i.e. decreased size of the EcoRI fragment in parallel with earlier onset of the disease (r = 0.531, P = 0.003, with younger age at onset in children (17.8 +/- 7.0) than their affected parents (31.5 +/- 14.8) (P = 0.019). However, since each family had a specific small EcoRI fragment associated with the disease, the differing clinical severity within a family cannot be explained by the size of the fragment alone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
REK7 is an Eph-related tyrosine kinase receptor expressed exclusively in the nervous system, predominantly in hippocampus and cortex. A soluble REK7-IgG fusion protein, produced to analyze the biological role of REK7, prevents axon bundling in cocultures of cortical neurons with astrocytes, a model of late stage nervous system development and differentiation. Using REK7-IgG as an affinity reagent, we purified and cloned a novel REK7 ligand called AL-1, a GPI-linked protein homologous to other members of an emerging ligand family. Membrane attachment of AL-1 appears necessary for receptor activation, since REK7 on cortical neurons is efficiently activated by transfected cells expressing GPI-linked AL-1, but not by soluble AL-1. Consistent with this, soluble AL-1 blocks axon bundling. Our findings, together with the observation that both molecules are expressed in the brain, suggest a role in the formation of neuronal pathways, a crucial feature of nervous system development and regeneration.
The delay in clinical effects of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) suggest the existence of adaptive phenomena, such as receptor sensitivity changes. To examine the effects of repeated administration of SSRIs on serotonin neurotransmission, we investigated the effects of acute and chronic administration of the SSRI fluvoxamine on the extracellular levels of 5-HT in the median raphe nucleus and dorsal hippocampus of conscious rats by means of brain microdialysis. A single oral dose of fluvoxamine (30 mg/kg) augmented extracellular 5-HT in the median raphe and dorsal hippocampus to 270 and 191% of baseline level, respectively. Administration of fluvoxamine (30 mg/kg) or vehicle for 14 days did not affect 5-HT baseline levels. Moreover, the increase in extracellular 5-HT in the median raphe nucleus and dorsal hippocampus after an oral dose of fluvoxamine (30 mg/kg) in rats chronically treated with fluvoxamine was not different from rats treated with vehicle. Using RU 24969 as a probe for the sensitivity of the 5-HT1B autoreceptors in the dorsal hippocampus, no change in receptor sensitivity could be observed. These results demonstrate that repeated oral treatment with fluvoxamine does not affect extracellular 5-HT in the median raphe and dorsal hippocampus, suggesting that presynaptic functional changes of 5-HT in the brain areas tested are not implicated in the observed delayed onset of action of this SSRI in humans.
Twenty adult patients with lesions in the prefrontal cortex were tested on the Tower of Hanoi puzzle. The performance of patients was significantly worse than that of controls. This difference could not be accounted for in terms of a general decline in intelligence or memory, or by the size of the lesion. The results further suggest that both patients and controls used the same general strategy to solve the problem and that patients' difficulties with the task have little to do with planning or &quot;look ahead&quot; deficits (as is generally assumed in the neuropsychology literature). Patient performance is best explained in terms of an inability to see or resolve a goal-subgoal conflict. This interpretation is compatible with several existing accounts of frontal lobe dysfunction that postulate a failure of inhibition of a prepotent response to explain poor performance on the Wisconsin Card Sorting task, the Stroop task, the Antisaccade task, the A-Not-B task, and the Delayed Alternation task.
This paper presents an effective treatment for pure alexia by a type of single-case design, which we termed a &quot;material-control single-case design&quot; [Sugishita et al., Neuropsychologia, Vol. 31, 559-569, 1993]. Two patients with pure alexia were treated using kinesthetic reading (reading by tracing or copying the outline of each letter with the patient's finger). The results clearly demonstrated that both patients significantly improved their reading and copying performances. Their recovery of reading performance arose from improvement in copying. The results of tachistoscopic reading tests suggested that the patient obtained the ability to read without kinesthetic movements.
We present a computer programme, MicroTrace, designed for user-guided digitisation of objects in biological sections. The programme is optimised for recording the spatial distribution of neuronal structures, such as large populations of tracer-labelled cell bodies or axonal plexuses, regional borders, and surfaces. System requirements are a PC running Microsoft Windows, a microscope equipped with stepping motors, and a drawing tube. A computer generated drawing area, surrounded by menus and icons, is projected into the microscope field of view via the drawing tube. Different 'object' icons are assigned to individual object categories (cell types, surfaces, etc.). Digitisation is performed by pointing the cursor at objects in the section. Computer graphical symbols are superimposed on the digitised objects. All object categories are digitised, before moving the stage to other fields of view by manipulating the joystick or scroll bars. Movement of the microscope stage is accompanied by a translation of the graphical image, so that continuous feedback on the progress of the digitisation is provided. MicroTrace can readily be adapted to the specific needs of the user. We show its use in different experimental neuroanatomical techniques. Two-dimensional images and three-dimensional reconstructions of neuronal distribution and surfaces are demonstrated.
Positron-emitting radionuclides have short half-lives and high radiation energies compared with radioisotopes generally used in biomedical research. We examined the possibility of applying positron emitter-labeled compounds to functional imaging in brain slices kept viable in an oxygenated buffer solution. Brain slices (300 microns thick) containing the striatum were incubated with positron emitter-labeled tracers for 30-45 min. The slices were then rinsed and placed on the bottom of a Plexiglas chamber filled with oxygenated Krebs-Ringer solution. The bottom of the chamber consisted of a thin polypropylene film to allow good penetration of beta+ particles from the brain slices. The chamber was placed on a storage phosphor screen, which has a higher sensitivity and a wider dynamic range than X-ray films. After an exposure period of 15-60 min, the screen was scanned by the analyzer and radioactivity images of brain slices were obtained within 20 min. We succeeded in obtaining quantitative images of (1) [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose uptake, (2) dopamine D2 receptor binding, (3) dopa-decarboxylase activity, and (4) release of [11C]dopamine preloaded as L-[11C]DOPA in the brain slice preparation. These results demonstrate that positron emitter-labeled tracers in combination with storage phosphor screens are useful for functional imaging of living brain slices as a novel neuroscience technique.
Clinical studies have indicated that the posterior cingulate cortex is intimately involved in verbal and auditory memory. The present study was performed to obtain anatomical evidence for the above proposal. The connections of the auditory cortical areas with the posterior cingulate cortex in the macaque monkey were examined by retrograde and anterograde tracing methods using wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP). WGA-HRP was injected into either area TA, TB or TC in the superior temporal auditory cortex. Area TA was reciprocally connected with the posterior cingulate cortex, whereas areas TC and TB were not. The rostral two-thirds of area TA had major connections with the caudomedial lobule in the retrosplenial cortex (CML of Goldman-Rakic et al., 1984) and a minor one with area 23b. The caudal third of area tA was connected only with area 23b. However, neither labeled cells nor terminals were observed in areas 23a, 23c, 29, 30 or 31 in the posterior cingulate cortex following a WGA-HRP injection into the caudal, intermediate or rostral portion of area TA. The present finding suggests that verbal and auditory memory impairment in patients with damage to the posterior cingulate cortex is largely due to damage to the CML and area 23b and not to the other posterior cingulate areas.
In this review the current knowledge of the anatomy, development and plasticity of the rodent corticospinal tract is summarised. Recent technical advancements, especially in neuronal tracing methods, have provided much new data concerning the anatomy of the corticospinal tract. The rodent corticospinal axons project to the subcortical nuclei via collateral branches. These collateral branches of corticospinal axons are formed by delayed interstitial budding during early postnatal periods. Corticospinal neurons are generated in the ventricular zone during a short time lag, migrate into the cortical plate, and settle in layer V of the cerebral cortex. The migration of corticospinal neurons is experimentally deranged by prenatal exposure to alcohol or genetically affected by the reeler genetic locus (rl), resulting in generation of ectopic corticospinal neurons. Such experimentally or genetically induced ectopic corticospinal neurons are a good model for examining whether target recognition and path finding are affected by the intracortical position of corticospinal neurons. Some chemical molecules (e.g. L1 and B-50/GAP43) are transiently expressed in the corticospinal tract during the perinatal period, while others (e.g. protein kinase C gamma subspecies and alpha CaM kinase II) are permanently expressed in the adult corticospinal tract. The only chemical marker specific for layer V corticofugal neurons is an antibody to a soluble protein, protein 35. Since the corticospinal tract in the rodent is an easily identified group of fibers situated in the most ventral portion of the dorsal funiculus of the spinal cord and exhibits considerable postnatal development, it has often been utilized in the neurological studies on plasticity and regenerative capacity of the lesioned central nervous system. Recently, it has been clarified that growing corticospinal fibers have the ability to penetrate and traverse across the lesion sites under certain special conditions.
Nerve growth factor is an endogenous protein which belongs to the neurotrophin family of trophic factors. According to the neurotrophic hypothesis, neurotrophins are synthetized by target tissues and regulate the survival and phenotype of their innervating neurons. Whereas these trophic molecules have been mainly thought to be involved in developmental processes, their existence in the central nervous system of the adult animal suggests that they may play a role in neuronal physiology. Recently, it has been reported that neurons that express messenger RNA for two neurotrophins, namely brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3, are located medial to the locus coeruleus and ventral to the fourth ventricle. This area corresponds to the latero-dorsal tegmental nucleus, which contains cholinergic neurons that have been implicated in the generation of rapid eye movement sleep. In turn, the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus is reciprocally connected with the nucleus pontis oralis in the rostrodorsal pontine reticular formation, which is an area that is involved in the initiation of the physiological patterns of activity that define the state of rapid eye movement sleep. Scattered neurons in the nucleus pontis oralis express the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor which also binds the other neurotrophins with similar affinity. In addition, neurons in the area of the nucleus pontis oralis have been reported to express a subtype of the neurotrophin high affinity receptors. These membrane receptors, independently or in combination with the low affinity receptors, have been proposed to mediate the delayed, long-term effects of neurotrophins.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Oral administration of the benzodiazepine, flurazepam, for one week results in tolerance in vivo and in vitro and in a reduction in recurrent and feedforward inhibition in vitro in the CA1 pyramidal cell region of hippocampus. In the present study CA1 pyramidal cells were examined intracellularly in vitro in rat hippocampal slices (500 microns) from rats sacrificed two or seven days after cessation of oral flurazepam treatment. Following drug treatment, the membrane characteristics of CA1 pyramidal cells were not significantly different from control neurons. GABAA-mediated, early inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were significantly reduced in amplitude (60%) in pyramidal neurons from rats killed two days, but not in those killed seven days, after the end of drug administration. The decrease in early inhibitory postsynaptic potential amplitude was observed using just-subthreshold, threshold and supramaximal orthodromic stimulation as well as following antidromic activation. The magnitude of the decrease in the early inhibitory postsynaptic potential amplitude was similar in the presence of the GABAB antagonist, CGP 35348, and could not be attributed to differences in the strength of afferent stimulation between flurazepam-treated and control groups. The size of the GABAB-mediated, late inhibitory postsynaptic potentials was also significantly decreased (45%) in comparison to control cells. Reversal potentials for both the early (-72 mV) and late (-92 mV) hyperpolarizations were not significantly different between groups. Following high intensity orthodromic stimulation, in the presence of an intracellular sodium channel blocker (QX-314) which also blocks the GABAB-mediated late hyperpolarization, a bicuculline-sensitive late depolarizing potential was unmasked in neurons from FZP-treated rats, but never from control cells. Excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude was significantly increased in flurazepam-treated neurons and the threshold for the synaptically-evoked action potential was significantly increased. Following depolarizing current injection, the duration and frequency of pyramidal cell discharges and the action potential threshold were not altered by oral flurazepam treatment. The amplitude of the fast afterhyperpolarization was also not changed. Overall, the findings indicate an impairment of transmission at GABAergic synapses onto hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cell neurons after chronic benzodiazepine treatment at a time when rats are tolerant to the anticonvulsant effects of the benzodiazepines in vivo.
In vivo microdialysis was employed to monitor acetylcholine release in the hippocampus and frontal cortex of freely behaving rats. Four stimuli were presented on separate occasions in the course of a dialysis session to rats with microdialysis probes implanted in the hippocampus or frontal cortex. Visual, auditory, olfactory and tactile stimuli elicited a number of different responses such as exploratory and consummatory behaviours. Presentation of two of the stimuli (auditory and tactile) also produced periods of alert immobility (freezing). All of the stimuli increased acetylcholine release in both the hippocampus and cortex: in the hippocampus, this increase was statistically significant with all except the olfactory stimulus, whereas in the cortex all but the visual stimulus resulted in significant increases. In the hippocampus, there were no significant differences between the increases in acetylcholine release produced by the four stimuli. In contrast, in the cortex, there was significant variation between the magnitude of acetylcholine release produced by the different stimuli: acetylcholine release elicited by tactile stimulation was greater than that produced by the other stimuli. There was no significant variation in the duration of increases in acetylcholine release produced by the stimuli in either the hippocampus or cortex. These results provide evidence that acetylcholine release is associated with a variety of behavioural responses to stimuli designed to produce arousal, and point to a role for cortical and hippocampal cholinergic mechanisms in arousal or attention. Further, the results suggest that under some circumstances cortical and hippocampal acetylcholine release may be regulated differentially.
We have investigated the effects of neuroleptic treatments which do, or do not, induce catalepsy on the level of expression of glutamate decarboxylase, the rate limiting enzyme in GABA synthesis, in efferent neurons of the pallidum in adult rats. Different regimens of haloperidol (1 mg/kg s.c., three, seven or 14 days; 2 mg/kg, s.c., 10 days) induced catalepsy in a majority of rats and increased glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA levels in the globus pallidus (external pallidum) in those rats exhibiting catalepsy. Levels of glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA were also increased in the entopeduncular nucleus (internal pallidum), but only after 14 days of treatment with haloperidol. The atypical antipsychotic clozapine (seven days, 20 mg/kg, s.c.), which did not induce catalepsy, slightly decreased glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA levels in the globus pallidus. When co-administered with haloperidol (seven days, 1 mg/kg s.c.), the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine (1 mg/kg, s.c.) completely blocked both haloperidol-induced catalepsy and increases in glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA levels in the globus pallidus. In contrast, scopolamine was not able to block increased glutamate decarboxylase and enkephalin messenger RNA expression induced by haloperidol in the striatum. These results reveal a good correlation between increases in glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA levels in the globus pallidus and catalepsy after these drug treatments and suggest that anticholinergic blockade of the behavioral and molecular effects of neuroleptics may involve non-striatal mechanisms.
Prior work has shown that intrastriatal injection of the metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist 1S,3R-ACPD results in pronounced contralateral rotation, and the basis for this effect is thought to be increased activity of dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons. We tested this hypothesis by determining the expression of Fos-like immunoreactivity after intrastriatal injection of 1S,3R-ACPD. Intense Fos-like immunoreactivity was noted in the globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus, subthalamic nucleus and substantia nigra pars reticulata. Ablation of the subthalamic nucleus 10 days prior to intrastriatal injection of 1S,3R-ACPD abolished rotational behaviour but not Fos-like immunoreactivity in the globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus and substantia nigra. Intrasubthalamic injection of 1S,3R-ACPD produced marked contralateral rotation and a pattern of Fos-like immunoreactivity similar to that seen after intrastriatal 1S,3R-ACPD injection. These results suggest that stimulation of striatal metabotropic glutamate receptors inhibits striatal projection neuron activity, while stimulation of subthalamic metabotropic glutamate receptors increases subthalamic nucleus activity. Increased subthalamic nucleus activity is necessary and sufficient for the expression of rotational behavior. These results also suggest that metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonists may be useful in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Although interactions between opioids and adrenergic agonists in the treatment of pain have been demonstrated in humans, the contribution of specific adrenergic receptors in this interaction remains to be clarified. In a double-blind, placebo-controlled study in male patients with postoperative dental pain, we investigated the effect of preoperative administration of the alpha 2-adrenergic antagonist, yohimbine, on analgesia produced by postoperative intravenous morphine. Although yohimbine by itself did not affect the pain, the overall analgesic effect of morphine was significantly enhanced in the presence of yohimbine. This report is the first to demonstrate that an alpha 2-adrenergic antagonist enhances opiate analgesia in humans.
A striatal dopaminergic denervation leads to changes in the expression of messenger RNA encoding prepropeptides contained in striatal efferent neurons. Such a dopaminergic lesion also abolishes a functional equilibrium between dopaminergic and cholinergic transmissions, generally believed to operate within the neostriatum, which constitutes the theoretical basis for the clinical use of antimuscarinic drugs in extrapyramidal diseases. It is possible, therefore, that changes in prepropeptide messenger RNA expression are mediated by an alteration in cholinergic transmission. To test this hypothesis, we have examined in rats whether trihexyphenidyl, an antimuscarinic drug of wide clinical use, can counteract the changes in preproenkephalin, preprotachykinin and preprodynorphin messenger RNA expression produced by a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons. Two weeks after the lesion, trihexyphenidyl was continuously administered through an osmotic minipump (5 mg/day for 15 days) to half of the lesioned and sham-operated rats, the other half receiving the vehicle. Using quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry, messenger RNAs were analysed at two rostrocaudal levels (anterior and central) of the neostriatum. In parallel, M1 muscarinic receptors were measured by autoradiography of [3H]pirenzepine binding sites. In sham-operated rats, trihexyphenidyl administration produced a significant increase (17-27%) in M1 binding sites. In addition, preproenkephalin messenger RNA levels were decreased (-38%) in the central part, while preprodynorphin messenger RNA levels were significantly increased (+22%) at both striatal levels. In 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, the expected changes in messenger RNAs were observed when ipsi- versus contralateral side values were compared, but changes were not always detected when comparison was established between values from the dopamine-denervated neostriatum and those from sham-operated rats. The trihexyphenidyl administration in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned animals was unable to reproduce the up-regulation of M1 receptors, even in the intact neostriatum. This antimuscarinic treatment further increased preproenkephalin messenger RNA levels in the denervated anterior neostriatum, amplifying the ipsi- versus contralateral difference. It also potentiated the imbalance in preprotachykinin messenger RNA expression, mainly as a result of an increase of preprotachykinin messenger RNA levels in the intact neostriatum. In contrast, trihexyphenidyl treatment by increasing preprodynorphin messenger RNA in both neostriata abolished the ipsi- versus contralateral difference observed in lesioned rats. In conclusion, with the exception of preprodynorphin messenger RNA, trihexyphenidyl treatment was unable to counteract the imbalance in prepropeptide messenger RNA expression produced by a unilateral striatal dopaminergic denervation and even amplified this effect. These results question the neostriatum as the site of action of antimuscarinic drugs in producing their therapeutic effect in extrapyramidal syndromes.
The carboxyl-terminal amino acid sequences of the canine and gerbil glucose transporter GLUT3 were determined and compared to the published rat sequence. Eleven of 16 amino acids comprising the carboxyl terminus of GLUT3 were found to be identical in rat and dog. However, the canine sequence &quot;ATV&quot; substitutes for the rat sequence &quot;PGNA&quot; at the end of the molecule. The gerbil sequence has 12 of 16 amino acids identical to the rat, including the PGNA terminus. Based on these sequences, four peptides were synthesized, and two polyclonal antisera (one to the canine sequence and one to the rat sequence) were raised to examine the distribution of GLUT3 in canine and rodent brain. Immunoblots of brain membrane preparations showed that both antisera identified peptide-inhibitable protein bands of molecular weight 45,000-50,000. Immunocytochemical studies demonstrated that binding sites for these antisera were abundantly distributed in neuropil in all brain regions. Areas rich in synapses and areas surrounding microvessels exhibited especially high reactivity. GLUT3 reactivity was similarly distributed in canine and rodent brain, except at the blood-brain barrier. GLUT3 was not detected in the blood-brain barrier in gerbil and rat but was present in many canine cerebral endothelial cells, particularly in cerebellum and brain stem. The carboxyl-terminal antisera employed in this study exhibited high degrees of species specificity, indicating that the three or four terminal amino acids of the immunizing peptides (ATV and PGNA) are important epitopes for binding the polyclonal antibodies. These antisera exhibited only minimal binding to brain tissue of non-target species, yet yielded similar staining patterns in neuropil of rodent and canine brain. This finding provides strong evidence that the observed staining patterns accurately reflect the distribution of GLUT3 in brain. In addition, the presence of vascular GLUT3 in dog brain suggests that the canine blood-brain barrier may be preferable to that of the rat as a model for studies of glucose transport relevant to human brain.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide (PACAP), a recently described vasoactive intestinal peptide-like neuropeptide, was found to be present in neurons in the submandibular gland of the ferret, where PACAP-immunoreactive nerve fibers were distributed around blood vessels, acini and ducts. Most of the PACAP-immunoreactive fibres were distinct from those storing vasoactive intestinal peptide. PACAP occurs in tissues as PACAP1-38 and PACAP1-27. PACAP1-38 and PACAP1-27 but not PACAP16-38 displayed biological activity with about the same potency. They exerted vasodilator effects on the submandibular vasculature, which resulted in a greater fall in vascular resistance than an equimolar dose of vasoactive intestinal peptide. The vasodilator response was independent of muscarinic receptor activation. Neither vasoactive intestinal peptide nor PACAP alone evoked any flow of saliva. However, both vasoactive intestinal peptide and PACAP enhanced the fluid response to acetylcholine, and the flow of saliva as well as the output of protein in response to parasympathetic nerve stimulation, vasoactive intestinal peptide being more potent than PACAP. In vitro, protein was released from submandibular gland tissue in response to both vasoactive intestinal peptide and PACAP, vasoactive intestinal peptide being more potent than PACAP. PACAP (and vasoactive intestinal peptide) exerted its in vitro effect following adrenoceptor and muscarinic blockade and following degeneration of sympathetic nerves. Sympathetic denervation combined with parasympathetic preganglionic denervation resulted in supersensitivity to both vasoactive intestinal peptide and PACAP. The fact that PACAP and vasoactive intestinal peptide occur in different nerve fibre populations suggests different roles for the two peptides in the submandibular gland.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Previous studies have shown that when peripheral nerves in axolotl limbs are cut and surgically misdirected, regenerating axons grow back to the original pathways and innervate their correct muscles. In the present study however, we demonstrate that when given a choice between their correct nerve stump and an incorrect stump (forearm flexor nerve), regenerating extensor cranialis nerve axons grow towards both pathways. This result suggests that the directed growth of regenerating axons in the peripheral nervous system may be in response to factor(s) released from the distal nerve stumps, but that in this region of the limb, axons were unable to differentiate between correct and incorrect pathways. Growing axons appeared to be accompanied by neural sheath cells, whilst activated macrophages remained near the cut nerve stumps. Possible mechanisms by which regenerating axons may eventually innervate their correct targets are discussed.
The effect of a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the medial forebrain bundle in rats and subsequent L-DOPA treatment for eight weeks on preproenkephalin, preprotachykinin and glutamate decarboxylase (M(r) 67,000) gene expression in the striatum was investigated by in situ hybridization. A 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the medial forebrain bundle markedly increased the level of preproenkephalin messenger RNA (+66%) and modestly elevated the level of glutamate decarboxylase (M(r) 67,000) messenger RNA (+36%) in the denervated striatum, but caused a decrease in the level of preprotachykinin messenger RNA (-54%) relative to the intact striatum and to sham-lesioned control animals. Treatment with L-DOPA (200 mg/kg/24 h) for eight weeks reduced but did not abolish the 6-hydroxydopamine lesion-induced elevation of preproenkephalin messenger RNA and slightly reduced the elevation of glutamate decarboxylase (M(r) 67,000) messenger RNA in denervated striatum relative to intact side and control groups. However, L-DOPA treatment almost completely reversed the decrease in preprotachykinin messenger RNA caused by 6-hydroxydopamine lesioning when compared to intact side and control groups. The effect of L-DOPA on the gene expression of preproenkephalin and glutamate decarboxylase (M(r) 67,000) differs from the increase in striatal enkephalin content and glutamate decarboxylase activity previously found following L-DOPA treatment. In contrast, L-DOPA reversed the changes in preprotachykinin messenger RNA, reflecting previously reported increases in substance P content. The findings provide new evidence that chronic L-DOPA treatment differentially affects direct striatonigral and indirect striatopallidal pathways at the molecular level.
Transforming growth factor-alpha immunoreactivity is examined in the developing and adult brain of cats and rats, and in the adult human brain in cryostat sections immediately processed free-floating with a well-characterized monoclonal antibody which does not cross-react with epidermal growth factor. Transforming growth factor-alpha immunoreactivity is observed in neurons of the cerebral neocortex, subiculum, hippocampus, striatum, thalamus, amygdala, basal forebrain, mesencephalon, cerebellar cortex, dentate nucleus and brainstem during development and in adulthood. The intensity of the immunoreaction directly correlates with the size of the cytoplasm. Diffuse transforming growth factor-alpha immunoreactivity also occurs in the white matter of the cerebrum, cerebellum and brainstem in the kitten, but not in the adult cat. In addition to neurons, numbers of glial cells in the cerebellar white matter, brainstem and cerebral hemispheres during development, and a few glial cells in the cerebellar cortex, diencephalon, cerebral cortex and white matter in adults are strongly transforming growth factor-alpha immunoreactive. These results support the concept that transforming growth factor-alpha is widely distributed in the brain of mammals, localizes in both neurons and glial cells, and is development dependent. These findings also suggest that transforming growth factor-alpha may play a role in the developing and adult central nervous system.
Glutamate is the principal transmitter of retinal projections to the rodent suprachiasmatic nucleus, a circadian clock synchronized with the light-dark cycle through the activation of glutamate receptors of the ionotropic type. In vitro, an intracellular mobilization of calcium can be induced by glutamate within cells of the suprachiasmatic nucleus maintained in a calcium-free medium, suggesting a participation of metabotropic glutamate receptors coupled to phospholipase C. Using in situ hybridization histochemistry, we examined the expression of messenger RNAs encoding the mGluR1 and mGluR5 subtypes of metabotropic glutamate receptors in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the adult rat and during postnatal development. In the adult, mGluR1 was expressed in a small subset of neurons segregated caudally within the ventrolateral subdivision of the nucleus, while mGluR5 was mainly expressed in ventrolateral neurons within the middle third of the nucleus. Both subtypes were expressed in morphologically similar small cells, but mGluR5 was also solely expressed in a small population of larger neurons located at the dorsalmost aspect of the ventrolateral subdivision. In addition, with mGluR1 probe silver grain clusters exhibiting a grain density close but below the significant level were observed throughout the ventrolateral subdivision of the nucleus. At birth, mGluR1 and mGluR5 were similarly expressed throughout the caudal half of the nucleus. The expression of mGluR1 increased during early postnatal development and exhibited an adult pattern at postnatal day 21. The expression of mGluR5 increased from postnatal day 7 and reached the adult pattern at postnatal day 45. These observations suggest that each subtype of metabotropic glutamate receptor coupled to phospholipase C underlies specific roles within the rat suprachiasmatic nucleus during postnatal development and in the adult. In the adult, ionotropic and metabotropic receptors likely co-expressed within neuronal subsets located in the retinal terminal field may have interactive and/or additive effects on intracellular calcium concentration. Metabotropic receptors may thus participate in the mediation of photic information conveyed to a subset of neurons. During postnatal development, metabotropic receptors may play a role in the maturation of glutamatergic synapses associated with the retinal input.
Neuropeptide Y is demonstrated as a potent orexigenic peptide when injected into the rat hypothalamic paraventricular nuclei. The neuropeptide Y innervation of paraventricular nuclei originates from both hypothalamic arcuate nuclei and brainstem neurons, whose specific role in the control of food intake is still under discussion. To assess the role of the arcuate neuropeptide Y in the regulation of food intake, we propose a new method for immunologically impairing the neuronal secretion of neuropeptide Y from a unique brain site. The monoclonal antibody to the neuropeptide Y precursor epitope, the C-flanking peptide, was microinjected with two cellular toxins (the ricin A chain and the monensin) into the hypothalamic arcuate nuclei or paraventricular nuclei. One microinjection into the arcuate nuclei reduced the food intake and body weight gain for 10 days. It prevented the food intake stimulation usually induced by a 12 h food deprivation. This decrease of food intake was not due to the aversive properties of monoclonal antibody or cellular toxins, or the immunoneutralization of the biologically active neuropeptide Y, because (i) the acute effect of the microinjection into the arcuate nuclei promoted a transient increase of the food intake likely induced by a strong release of neuropeptide Y from the arcuate neurons which were immunologically damaged, and (ii) the C-flanking peptide monoclonal antibody binds neither neuropeptide Y nor its receptors. The microinjection was inefficient when C-flanking peptide monoclonal antibody was replaced by non-specific rat immunoglobulins or when the C-flanking peptide monoclonal antibody/toxins mixture was injected into the paraventricular nuclei. The data bring further arguments in two domains.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Low intensity millimeter-wave electromagnetic radiation of less than 10 mW cm-2 power intensity has a nonthermal effect on the body and it is widely used in medical practice for treatment of various diseases. Nevertheless, the effect of EMR on biological tissues is not understood. The skin and its sensory receptors are considered to be responsible for EMR reception, but this has yet to be confirmed. The present experiments were designed to study the effect of millimeter-wave electromagnetic radiation on the ampullae of Lorenzini in skates, which are very sensitive to weak electrical stimuli at low frequency. Reception of low-intensity millimeter-wave electromagnetic radiation at 37-55 GHz by the electroreceptors (ampullae of Lorenzini) in the skate has been shown. At a power intensity of 1-5 mW cm-2 irradiating the duct opening at 1-20 mm distance caused a transient increase in the firing rate of a single afferent unit. When the power intensity was increased inhibitory responses were also observed. Some receptors responded with a prolonged excitatory activity lasting up to 30 min to the irradiation of the duct opening. Direct irradiation of the sensory cells produced only an inhibition, probably due to a rise in temperature. It is proposed that millimeter-wave electromagnetic radiation generates a d.c. potential at the vicinity of duct opening which can be detected by the electroreceptors.
Histamine neurons acutely dissociated from the tuberomammillary nucleus of the rat hypothalamus were studied in whole-cell and cell-attached patch-clamp experiments. Electrophysiological properties of dissociated cells were found to be similar to those recorded in slice experiments using microelectrodes. Tuberomammillary neurons fired spontaneously and this activity persisted when Cs+ (1.5 mM) was added to, or when K+ was removed from the extracellular solution. In whole-cell experiments a persistent tetrodotoxin-sensitive inward current was recorded. In cell attached recordings voltage-gated sodium channels displayed either normal or non-inactivating behavior. These results provide a further analysis of the properties of histaminergic neurons and indicate that spontaneous activity is intrinsic to individual neurons. Evidence for a non-inactivating tetrodotoxin-sensitive sodium current is presented. Single channel recordings indicate that this current is the result of non-inactivating behavior of sodium channels. Such a current is well suited for biasing tuberomammillary neurons toward spontaneous activity.
The actions of gamma-hydroxybutyrate, a drug known to lead to an increase in nocturnal slow wave sleep and induce epileptic states following systemic application, on the membrane properties of thalamocortical neurons from brain slices of the rat and cat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus were studied using sharp electrode intracellular recordings. Gamma-hydroxybutyrate applied by addition to the perfusion medium led to a concentration-dependent and reversible hyperpolarization of the membrane potential accompanied by a decrease in apparent input resistance (0.1 mM: 2.3 +/- 0.3 mV, 9.5 +/- 1.0%; 10 mM: 11.3 +/- 1.3 mV, 37.5 +/- 10.8%, respectively). In six of seven neurons the iontophoretic or bath (0.1-0.2 mM) application of low concentrations of gamma-hydroxybutyrate led to a hyperpolarization accompanied by the appearance of low-frequency (&lt; 4 Hz) membrane potential oscillations crowned by bursts of action potentials, when the membrane potential of these neurons was initially set depolarized to the range where ongoing oscillatory activity occurred. The gamma-hydroxybutyrate-elicited hyperpolarization was reversibly antagonized by the co-application of the GABAB receptor antagonist CGP 35348 (0.4-1 mM), but was not affected by the putative gamma-hydroxybutyrate receptor antagonist NCS 382 (0.1-5 mM) or tetrodotoxin (1 microM), suggesting that gamma-hydroxybutyrate tonically activates postsynaptic GABAB receptors. The gamma-hydroxybutyrate-induced promotion of oscillatory activity and action potential burst firing of thalamocortical neurons may be one mechanism by which gamma-hydroxybutyrate leads to an increase in the deep stages of sleep and the generation of electroencephalogram and behavioural patterns typical of absence epilepsy.
In order to visualize target cells of thalamic projections in the rat brain we examined the induction of c-fos messenger RNA and Fos-like immunoreactivity following stimulation of the &quot;mediodorsal&quot; thalamus (midline, mediodorsal and intralaminar nuclei) in freely moving rats. The thalamic neurons were activated through disinhibition by perfusion of the GABAA antagonist bicuculline-methyl chloride via a microdialysis cannula placed in the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus. The rats were allowed a recovery period of at least 20 h after surgery before being coupled to the perfusion pump. Cannula implantation with or without 4 h of Ringer perfusion caused hardly any detectable c-fos expression in the brain, but 20 min of bicuculline (0.1 mM) perfusion induced high levels of c-fos messenger RNA and Fos protein expression in the area adjacent to the dialysis membrane, indicating activated thalamic neurons. In situ hybridization as well as immunohistochemical analysis of the frontal cortical areas and limbic structures showed a rapid, specific and transient c-fos expression in the medial and lateral prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, mediodorsal striatum, claustrum, nucleus reticularis of the thalamus and amygdala. The overall spatial distribution of the c-fos response was comparable to the innervation patterns of thalamic efferents known from anatomical tracing experiments. The rats were perfused with Ringer while asleep, but they woke up during treatment with bicuculline and displayed an increase in general behavioural activity, which could be correlated to the amount of bicuculline measurable in the dialysate. Pathological behaviours, such as epilepsy, were not noticeable during bicuculline treatment. These results show that it is possible to selectively activate defined anatomical pathways by pharmacological application of drugs using microdialysis in unanesthetized unrestrained animals and to visualize the transsynaptically activated target neurons of these projections. We conclude that this novel experimental approach is indeed suitable for studying functional anatomical pathways.
Two experiments examined the effects of cholinergic basal forebrain lesions by intraventricular and intrahippocampal infusions of the immunotoxin 192 IgG-saporin on recognition memory in an operant delayed-non-matching-to-position task in rats. Intraventricular infusions produced extensive reductions in cortical and hippocampal choline acetyltransferase activity in the first experiment. Behaviourally, a mixed delay-dependent/independent accuracy deficit and increased biased responding was observed post-lesioning. Thus, both mnemonic as well as non-mnemonic processes were affected by the lesion. This performance deficit was indistinguishable from the impairment induced by acute intraventricular injections of the choline uptake inhibitor hemicholinium-3, which suggests that cholinergic damage induced by 192 IgG-saporin disrupted performance. In the second experiment more discrete intrahippocampal 192 IgG-saporin lesions were made, which reduced hippocampal choline acetyltransferase activity about 57%, although this reduction was not as extensive as following intraventricular injections. Although intrahippocampal lesions also impaired non-matching accuracy, this effect failed to reach significance during most stages of the experiment. Scopolamine just failed to significantly impair (P = 0.053) performance in hippocampal lesioned rats more than in controls. The nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine did not affect the lesion-induced changes in performance. These results suggest that the cholinergic basal forebrain, including the septohippocampal system, is important for the mediation of recognition memory, and muscarinic receptor-mediated mechanisms may be of greater importance than alterations of nicotinic receptor-mediated processes in the septohippocampal system.
It is commonly believed that the cell bodies of mammalian sensory neurons are contained within spinal and cranial sensory ganglia associated with the central nervous system or within the central nervous system itself. However, strong circumstantial evidence implies that some sensory neurons are contained entirely within the gastrointestinal tract. We have investigated this possibility by using intracellular methods to record the responses of myenteric neurons in the guinea-pig small intestine to physiological stimuli applied to the neighbouring mucosa. The results show that the myenteric plexus contains a population of chemosensitive sensory neurons and that these neurons correspond to neurons with AH electrophysiological properties and Dogiel type II morphology. This is the first direct evidence that some sensory neurons are contained entirely within the peripheral nervous system.
We studied the effects of high frequency tetanic stimulation of the striatum on the KCl (20 mM)-evoked dopamine release in rat striatal slices. The KCl-evoked dopamine release was potentiated by high frequency tetanic stimulation (10-20 Hz) of the striatum including the corticostriatal fibers, and this potentiation was observed until 3 h after high frequency tetanic stimulation. Potentiation of dopamine release after high frequency tetanic stimulation was induced not only by KCl but also by glutamate in Mg(2+)-free medium, N-methyl-D-aspartate in Mg(2+)-free medium, and by DL-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid. 2-amino-5-phosphovalerate, 3-[(+/-)-2-carboxypiperazine-4-yl]-propyl-1-phosphonate or dibenzocycloheptaneimine, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor inhibitors, abolished enhancement by tetanus, whereas, 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, an antagonist of DL-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid ionotropic receptors, or L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate, an antagonist of glutamate metabotropic receptors, showed no effect. Moreover, pretreatment with glutamate or N-methyl-D-aspartate in the absence of Mg2+ also facilitated dopamine release evoked by KCl concentrations. When extracellular Ca2+ was removed from the medium during pretreatment, potentiation by glutamate disappeared. We conclude that activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors on dopaminergic nerve terminals in the striatum produces the long-term changes in efficacy of the response to KCl or glutamatergic agents. That is, plastical phenomena could exist at presynaptic levels between glutamatergic neurons and dopaminergic neurons in striatum.
Nitric oxide, a simple gas which serves as a neurotransmitter in the CNS, has been proposed to serve as an interneuronal second messenger in olfactory transduction. However, the role of nitric oxide in olfaction has been questioned by experiments in which nitric oxide synthase, the enzyme that generates nitric oxide, could not be localized to the olfactory epithelium. We have localized nitric oxide synthase to the olfactory neurons in adult rat and catfish olfactory epithelia using a modified nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase technique. In the rat, staining was also found in cells with morphology reminiscent of microvillar olfactory cells. In contrast, the respiratory epithelium and the sustentacular cells in the olfactory epithelium displayed no staining. The nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase reaction, which has been shown to co-localize with immunohistochemical staining for nitric oxide synthase in the brain, was stimulated by addition of the nitric oxide synthase substrate L-arginine, and was inhibited by the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor L-NG-nitro arginine, indicating that staining was specific for nitric oxide synthase. Unilateral bulbectomy, which causes degeneration of mature olfactory neurons on the bulbectomized size, markedly reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase staining. These observations were substantiated by biochemical assays for nitric oxide synthase by monitoring the production of [3H]-L-citrulline from [3H]-L-arginine. This is the first demonstration of specific NADPH diaphorase staining of mature olfactory neurons in rat and catfish olfactory epithelial suggesting the presence of nitric oxide synthase in these cells. Our histological and biochemical findings, in conjunction with data from other research, are supportive of a role for nitric oxide synthase in olfactory function.
Previous work showed that axotomy-induced deafferentation of the placode-derived visceral afferent neurons of the nodose ganglion altered their expression of some neuropeptides and tyrosine hydroxylase. The present studies were designed to selectively evaluate the loss of axonal transport on the numbers of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, tyrosine hydroxylase, and calcitonin gene-related peptide mRNA-containing and immunoreactive neurons in the nodose ganglion of the adult rat. Vinblastine (0.15 mM) application to the cervical vagus nerve was used to block axonal transport between ganglionic perikarya and peripheral targets. In situ hybridization histochemistry with 35S-labeled oligonucleotide probes was used to both quantify the number of mRNA-containing neurons and to assess the density of mRNA expression per neuron, and immunocytochemistry was used to visualize the number of immunoreactive neurons. The efficacy of vinblastine to inhibit axonal transport was verified by evaluating the build-up of calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactive in the vagus nerve immediately rostral to the site of drug application. The absence of vinblastine-induced neuronal damage was verified by the relative absence of degenerating nerves in the vagus nerve caudal to the site of drug application. Vinblastine treatment of the vagus nerve increased the numbers of vasoactive intestinal peptide mRNA-containing neurons and vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactive neurons in the nodose ganglion at three, seven and 14 days, and increased the numbers of calcitonin gene-related peptide mRNA-containing and calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive neurons in the nodose ganglion at one, three and seven days. The average labeling density of vasoactive intestinal peptide mRNA-containing neurons was also increased following vinblastine treatment. Vinblastine treatment of the cervical vagus nerve, however, led to the appearance of low-labeling density calcitonin gene-related peptide mRNA-neurons and resulted in reduction of the average labeling density for calcitonin gene-related peptide mRNA-containing neurons. In contrast, application of vinblastine to the cervical vagus nerve, decreased the number of tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA-containing and tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons in the nodose ganglion. In summary, inhibition of the axoplasmic transport between the periphery and the visceral sensory perikarya appeared to alter vasoactive intestinal peptide, calcitonin gene-related peptide, and tyrosine hydroxylase expression and content in visceral sensory neurons of the nodose ganglion. These data suggest the presence of an axonally transported influence on the regulation of neuropeptide and neurotransmitter enzyme synthesis in mature placode-derived visceral sensory neurons.
The in vivo effects of [D-Pen2,D-Pen5]enkephalin, a cyclic peptide agonist with high affinity and selectivity for the delta opioid receptors, on the endogenous aluminum content of selected areas of rat brain and spinal cord were studied by means of atomic absorption spectrophotometry. Intracerebroventricular injection of a subanalgesic dose of [D-Pen2,D-Pen5]enkephalin (0.2 microgram/3 microliters) produced a transient, time-dependent reduction of the aluminum content. This effect was statistically significant in the frontal cortex, hippocampus and striatum, but did not reach the level of significance in the medulla and thoracic spinal cord. The partial depleting effect of [D-Pen2,D-Pen5]enkephalin on aluminum content, in the range of 0.2-1.0 micrograms/3 microliters, was dose-dependent and could be reversed by naloxone pretreatment. Serum aluminum levels were unchanged after [D-Pen2,D-Pen5]enkephalin treatment. Chronic (five weeks), systemic AlCl3 treatment increased the endogenous aluminum content in all central nervous system areas examined. Interestingly, [D-Pen2,D-Pen5]enkephalin i.c.v. produced a slight depletion of this elevated metal level in these areas to values not significantly different from those of the respective control values. Chronic in vivo, as well as in vitro, effects of aluminum on opioid receptor binding characteristics were also studied. Neither the specific binding of [3H][D-Pen2,D-Pen5]enkephalin nor [3H]Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-NMePhe-Gly-ol to membranes of frontal or parietal cortices, striatum or hippocampus, prepared from rats chronically treated with AlCl3, were affected.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The distribution of glutamate receptor subunit/subtypes in the vertebrate retina was investigated by immunocytochemistry using anti-peptide antibodies against AMPA (GluR1-4), kainate (GluR6/7) and metabotropic (mGluR1 alpha) receptors. All receptor subtypes examined are present in the mammalian retina, but they are distributed differentially. GluR1 is present in the inner plexiform layer as well as amacrine and ganglion cell bodies. GluR2 is present mainly in the outer plexiform layer and bipolar cells. An anti-GluR2/3 antibody labels both plexiform layers and various cell bodies in the inner nuclear layer and the ganglion cell layer. GluR4 is present on Mller glial cells. In the goldfish retina, GluR2 immunoreactivity is prominent in the Mb type of ON-bipolar cells, including the dendrites and the large synaptic terminal. The putative dendritic localization is surprising, because no depolarizing conductance increase induced by glutamate is thought to be present in these cells. An AMPA receptor at a presynaptic terminal is also unusual, and probably provides feedback control of glutamate release. GluR6/7 is most widespread in the retina, being present in horizontal, bipolar, amacrine and ganglion cells. Ion channels composed of GluR6 are now known to be phosphorylated by protein kinase A, resulting in current potentiation. This property and our present observation together suggest that the glutamate receptors previously studied electrophysiologically by others in horizontal cells may contain GluR6. mGluR1 alpha is found mostly in the inner plexiform layer; its localization partially overlaps with that of the inositol trisphosphate receptor in the retina. Our results suggest that, in the retina, glutamate receptor subtypes may be expressed in selective cell types according to their specific functions.
The percentage of labeled neurons and glial cells in the phylogenetically older corticomedial part of the amygdala was investigated in control and estrogen-treated rats using [3H]thymidine autoradiography. Newborn, three-day-old female and male Wistar rats were treated with a single dose of 1 mg of estrogen and killed at the age of 10 days. The percentage of labeled neuronal and glial cells was determined by stereological methods in the medial, cortical and central nuclei, respectively. In treated male rats, the percentage of labeled neurons and glial cells in these nuclei was significantly greater on the 10th day of life as compared to controls, except for glial cells in the nucleus centralis. In treated female rats, the percentage of labeled neurons in all three nuclei was comparable to controls, while the percentage of labeled glial cells was increased in the nucleus medialis, decreased in the nucleus centralis and unchanged in the nucleus corticalis. Our results indicate clear sex- and region-specific differences in the reactivity of both neurons and glia to neonatally administered estrogen.
Recently, both glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity and glucocorticoid receptor messenger RNA levels were found in multiple brain areas, especially in the neuroepithelium during the late prenatal development of the rat brain. To better understand the potential influence of stress on fetal brain development by release of maternal adrenocortical steroids, we have investigated the effects of corticosterone administration to pregnant rats on the locomotor activity of their prepubertal offspring. On day 16 of pregnancy female rats were implanted with either placebo or corticosterone pellets (release of 2.4 mg/day for seven days). After birth their offspring were nursed by foster mothers to avoid any postnatal effects of the corticosterone pellets. At three weeks of age, the offspring were tested for spontaneous motor behaviours. Both male and female offspring from corticosterone treated mothers showed significantly increased spontaneous ambulation, motility and rearing compared to placebo treated groups. No significant sex differences were found in locomotor activity between male and female offspring from placebo groups. Following d-amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg) treatment, a preferential dopamine releasing agent, we observed a significant increase in ambulation, motility and rearing activity in the male offspring treated with corticosterone. In the female offspring, only the rearing activity was significantly higher after d-amphetamine treatment in the prenatal corticosterone group compared with the placebo treated group. Basal dopamine metabolism (dihydroxyphenylacetic acid/dopamine ratio) was increased in the dorsal striatum and ventral striatum of male and female offspring from corticosterone-treated dams. In the male offspring, corticosterone treatment was associated with a disappearance of the right side dominance of dopamine metabolism in the dorsal striatum.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Prostaglandins enhance the sensitivity of sensory neurons to excitatory chemical agents such as bradykinin. The intracellular transduction cascades mediating this potentiation remain largely unknown. We have examined the role of cyclic AMP in the prostaglandin E2-induced potentiation of sensory neurons. Pretreatment with agents that elevate intracellular cyclic AMP levels enhances the number of action potentials elicited by bradykinin in a manner analogous to that of prostaglandin E2. The prostaglandin E2-induced potentiation of the number of bradykinin-elicited action potentials is blocked by either inhibition of adenylyl cyclase or protein kinase A. Therefore, our results suggest that prostaglandin E2 activates adenylyl cyclase to increase intracellular cyclic AMP, which in turn activates protein kinase A. Presumably activation of protein kinase A leads to increased levels of protein phosphorylation that then contribute to the enhancement of neuronal sensitivity to excitatory chemical agents.
Several indices of peptidergic, primary afferent neural transmission in rat at the level of the lumbar spinal cord exhibited differential changes over time in response to adjuvant-induced inflammation of the hindpaw. The indices were measurements of the production of messenger RNA encoding the precursors for substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide in dorsal root ganglia, the storage of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide in the dorsal spinal cord and the release of the peptides evoked by application of capsaicin to the dorsal spinal cord. A 47% decrease in the content of immunoreactive substance P in the dorsal half of the lumbar spinal cord, as determined by radioimmunoassay, was measured at 6 h following the injection of complete Freund's adjuvant into the hindpaw. Decreased content of immunoreactive SP persisted for four days, but was no longer present at eight days after the adjuvant injection. The content of immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide in the dorsal spinal cord was decreased by 29% at one day following the injection of adjuvant into the rat hindpaw and 43% at two days; the content then increased to a level greater than that of control animals at eight days. The amount of messenger RNA encoding preprotachykinin and prepro-calcitonin gene-related peptide in L4-L6 dorsal root ganglia was determined from northern blot analysis of the total messenger RNA extracted from the dorsal root ganglia. Each species of messenger RNA had increased compared to the control animals at two days following the injection of adjuvant into the rat hindpaws and remained elevated after eight days. Thus, an increase in the messenger RNAs encoding substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide in the dorsal root ganglia preceeded the recovery of the content of the peptides in the spinal cord. Morphometric studies of calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive perikarya in the L4 dorsal root ganglia indicated that the increase in messenger RNA occurred in neurons of the size that normally express calcitonin gene-related protein. Radioimmunoassay of the superfusate of the dorsal half of the lumbar spinal cord was used to measure the release of immunoreactive substance P and immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related protein in vitro. Although the basal release of immunoreactive substance P and immunoreactive calcitonin-gene related protein from the dorsal spinal cord was constant throughout the time points examined, changes occurred in the release of peptide evoked by 10 microM capsaicin. The capsaicin-evoked release of immunoreactive substance P was decreased at 6 h and eight days post-injection of adjuvant.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The cellular mechanisms involved in activation of mechanosensitive visceral sensory nerves are poorly understood. The major goal of this study was to determine the effect of mechanical stimulation on intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) using nodose sensory neurons grown in culture. Primary cultures of nodose sensory neurons were prepared by enzymatic dispersion from nodose ganglia of 4-8 week old Sprague-Dawley rats. Whole cell [Ca2+]i was measured by a microscopic digital image analysis system in fura-2 loaded single neurons. Brief mechanical stimulation of individual nodose sensory neurons was achieved by deformation of the cell surface with a glass micropipette. In 31 of 50 neurons (62%), mechanical stimulation increased [Ca2+]i from 125 +/- 8 to 763 +/- 89 nM measured approximately 10 s after stimulation. [Ca2+]i then declined gradually, returning to near basal levels over a period of minutes. [Ca2+]i failed to increase after mechanical stimulation in the remaining 19 neurons. The mechanically-induced rise in [Ca2+]i was essentially abolished after the neurons were incubated for 5-10 min in zero Ca2+ buffer (n = 7) or after addition of gadolinium (10 microM), a blocker of stretch-activated ion channels (n = 5). The effect of gadolinium was reversed after removal of gadolinium. The results indicate that: (1) mechanical stretch increases [Ca2+]i in a subpopulation of nodose sensory neurons in culture, and (2) the stretch-induced increase in [Ca2+]i is dependent on influx of Ca2+ from extracellular fluid and is reversibly blocked by gadolinium. The findings suggest that opening of stretch-activated ion channels in response to mechanical deformation leads to an increase in Ca2+ concentration in visceral sensory neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We have previously shown that norepinephrine can produce hyperalgesia via an alpha 2-adrenergic receptor mechanism. The alpha 2-adrenergic receptor agonist clonidine has, however, also been shown to produce peripheral analgesia. In view of the multiple alpha 2-subtypes currently known (i.e. alpha 2A, alpha 2B and alpha 2C), we evaluate the alpha 2-receptor subtypes mediating norepinephrine-induced peripheral hyperalgesia and clonidine analgesia. Norepinephrine and the alpha 2-adrenergic agonists clonidine and UK 14,304 (1-1000 ng), when co-injected with the calcium ionophore A23187 (1000 ng) produced dose-dependent hyperalgesia in the Randall-Selitto paw withdrawal test. Norepinephrine (100 ng) hyperalgesia was dose-dependently antagonized by alpha 2-adrenergic receptor antagonists. From the estimated ID50, the rank order of potency was: SK&amp;F 104856 (alpha 2B) approximately imiloxan (alpha 2B) &gt; rauwolscine (alpha 2C) &gt; BRL 44408 (alpha 2A). Norepinephrine hyperalgesia was not significantly affected by pertussis-toxin treatment. Prostaglandin E2 (100 ng) hyperalgesia was inhibited dose-dependently, by clonidine and UK 14,304. Rauwolscine was more potent in reversing the inhibitory effect of clonidine on prostaglandin E2 than imiloxan while BRL 44408 was ineffective. The inhibitory effect of clonidine on prostaglandin E2 hyperalgesia was reversed by pertussis toxin. These data suggest that alpha 2B-subtype receptors mediate (norepinephrine hyperalgesia while the antinociceptive effect of alpha 2-agonist is mediated by the alpha 2C-subtype receptor. Differential coupling of these receptor subtypes to second messenger systems and location on different cell types in the rat paw may explain, at least in part, their differential responses to alpha 2-agonist stimulation, leading to hyperalgesia and analgesia.
An increase of dynorphin levels is commonly observed in the substantia nigra of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats chronically treated with daily injections of L-DOPA. This study investigates the potential of fetal mesencephalic grafts to restore normal levels of dynorphin in such cases. After 19 consecutive days of treatment with L-DOPA, lesioned rats with the most severe nigral cell loss showed increased levels of dynorphin in the substantia nigra ipsilateral to the lesion, as expected. The changes were assessed by standard immunohistochemical techniques combined with the use of an image analysis system. Such changes were not observed in the substantia nigra of rats that received fetal mesencephalic cells in the striatum six months prior to the beginning of the chronic treatment. However, only animals displaying heavy loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta showed significant changes of dynorphin levels in the substantia nigra following drug treatment. Our results show that fetal nigral cells transplanted into the striatum have the potential to prevent biochemical changes observed in the basal ganglia induced by the lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway and chronic treatment with L-DOPA. It is still hypothesized from studies in rodents that this peptide may play a role in the appearance of DOPA-induced dyskinesia, because dynorphin levels increase in the substantia nigra pars reticulata after L-DOPA treatment. If this happens to be the case, then the use of fetal nigral grafts could therefore be an important step to prevent the induction of dyskinesia after chronic L-DOPA treatment.
Activation of abdominal vagal afferents by peripheral injection of cholecystokinin octapeptide induces oxytocin release into the circulation. To test the hypothesis that cholecystokinin increases oxytocin release via activation of noradrenergic afferents from the brainstem, we injected rats with 5-amino-2,4-dihydroxy-alpha-methylphenylethylamine, a selective neurotoxin to noradrenergic fibres, into a lateral cerebral ventricle. The neurotoxin treatment reduced the noradrenaline content in the hypothalamus by 75% and reduced the oxytocin secretion in response to cholecystokinin by over 90%. In separate experiments, the neurotoxin was injected unilaterally in the vicinity of the supraoptic nucleus to test whether direct noradrenergic afferents to the supraoptic nucleus are involved in the response to cholecystokinin. The injection reduced the immunoreactivity for dopamine beta-hydroxylase in the supraoptic nucleus and significantly decreased the number of the supraoptic neurons expressing Fos-like protein after cholecystokinin but not after hypertonic saline. In further experiments, rhodamine-conjugated latex microspheres were injected into the supraoptic nucleus to retrogradely label afferent neurons, and the brains were processed with double-immunohistochemistry for tyrosine hydroxylase and Fos-like protein. In the C2/A2 but not the C1/A1 region of the brainstem, cholecystokinin increased the expression of Fos-like protein in the population of retrogradely-labelled catecholaminergic cells. In the C2/A2 region, the majority of retrogradely labelled cells expressing Fos-like protein after cholecystokinin were catecholaminergic. We conclude that noradrenergic afferents from the A2 but not from the A1 region of the brainstem to the hypothalamus mediate, at least in part, oxytocin release following cholecystokinin.
Our current knowledge of the sites of action of the centrally-acting antihypertensive drug clonidine is based almost entirely on experiments in anesthetized animals. The aim of this study was to determine, in conscious rabbits, the sites of action in the brainstem of systemically administered clonidine, as well as its oxazoline analog rilmenidine. Three groups of experiments were carried out. In the first group, hypotension was produced by continuous intravenous infusion of sodium nitroprusside, at a rate sufficient to decrease arterial pressure by 20-30 mmHg, maintained for a period of 60 min. In the second and third groups of experiments, sustained hypotension was also produced by nitroprusside infusion as in the first group, but this was preceded by intravenous injection of clonidine (7-30 micrograms/kg i.v.) or rilmenidine (150-300 micrograms/kg i.v.), respectively. In confirmation of our previous study [Li Y.-W. and Dampney R. A. L. (1994) Neuroscience 61, 613-634], hypotension produced by nitroprusside alone induced a large increase (compared to sham control experiments) in the neuronal expression of Fos (a marker of neuronal activation) in the nucleus of the solitary tract, area postrema, the rostral, intermediate and caudal parts of the ventrolateral medulla, A5 area, locus coeruleus and subcoeruleus, and parabrachial nucleus. In comparison with this group, in rabbits pretreated with clonidine the numbers of Fos-positive cells were greatly reduced (by 76-94%) in the rostral, intermediate and caudal parts of the ventrolateral medulla, area postrema, A5 area, locus coeruleus and subcoeruleus. Clonidine pretreatment also caused a more moderate reduction (by 45%) in the number of Fos-positive cells in the nucleus of the solitary tract, but had no effect on Fos expression in the parabrachial nucleus. Double-labeling for tyrosine hydroxylase and Fos immunoreactivity showed that clonidine pretreatment greatly reduced the numbers of both catecholamine and non-catecholamine Fos-positive neurons. Rilmenidine pretreatment also greatly reduced Fos expression in the lower brainstem, with a very similar pattern to that observed after clonidine pretreatment. The results indicate that in conscious animals both clonidine and rilmenidine cause a widespread but selective inhibition of neurons in the pons and medulla that are normally activated by a hypotensive stimulus. In contrast to previous observations in anesthetized animals, the results suggest that (i) systemic administration of both drugs inhibits non-catecholamine as well as catecholamine neurons in the ventrolateral medulla, and (ii) the regional pattern of neuronal inhibition following administration of equipotent hypotensive doses of both drugs is very similar.
Medullary catecholamine cell groups are involved in multiple modes of cardiovascular regulation and display indices of functional activation, including widespread c-fos expression, in response to hypotensive hemorrhage. Assessments of the impact of such challenges on transmitter-related gene expression are complicated by the biochemical and connectional heterogeneity that characterize these cell groups. Quantitative hybridization histochemical methods were used to follow the effects of 15% hemorrhage on levels of messenger RNA encoding tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine biosynthesis, in medullary aminergic neurons; concurrent staining for nuclear Fos-immunoreactivity permitted comparisons between cells that ostensibly were and were not targeted by the challenge. Increased levels of tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA were detected in Fos-immunoreactive neurons in all cell groups examined. Mean maximal increases ranged between 133 and 192% of control values, and were attained within 0.5-1 h post-hemorrhage in noradrenergic (A1 and A2) cell groups, and at 2 h in adrenergic ones (C1, C2, and C2d or dorsal strip). By 4 h after the challenge, tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA levels in Fos-immunoreactive neurons in all cell groups had returned to control values. By contrast, tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA in non-Fos-immunoreactive cells either did not change significantly over the course of the experiment (C2 and C2d), or showed a rapid and transient increase, whose magnitude tended to be less than that seen in Fos-immunoreactive cells. c-fos messenger RNA was prominently induced in catecholaminergic neurons in each of the medullary cell groups examined at 0.5 h after hemorrhage, suggesting that the early tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA response to hemorrhage in non-Fos-immunoreactive cells preceded the capacity of responsive neurons to manifest detectable Fos protein expression. These findings indicate that hemorrhage up-regulates tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA levels in medullary catecholaminergic cell groups which have access to adaptive neuroendocrine and/or autonomic control systems. The approach employed here should prove of general utility in assessing the impact of environmental events on messenger RNA expression in connectionally heterogeneous cell groups that share a common biochemical phenotype.
Striatal expression of preproenkephalin and preprotachykinin messenger RNA was studied in normal controls and in patients with Parkinson's disease using in situ hybridization histochemistry. In controls, preproenkephalin messenger RNA was expressed in a population of medium-sized neurons of mean cross-sectional area 165 microns 2, accounting for 66% of striatal medium-sized neurons, whereas preprotachykinin messenger RNA was expressed in a population of medium-sized neurons of mean cross-sectional area 204 microns 2 (23% larger than those expressing enkephalin, P &lt; 0.05), accounting for 58% of medium-sized striatal neurons. Much lower levels of both preproenkephalin messenger RNA and preprotachykinin messenger RNA were expressed by large neurons in the globus pallidus and substantia nigra reticulata. In addition, preproenkephalin messenger RNA was expressed at low levels by neurons in the subthalamic nucleus. In Parkinson's disease cases, there was a statistically significant increase in preproenkephalin messenger RNA expression in the body of the caudate (109% increase, P &lt; 0.05) and in the intermediolateral putamen (55% increase, P &lt; 0.05) due to an increase in the level of gene expression per neuron rather than an increase in the number of neurons expressing preproenkephalin messenger RNA. Similar increases were observed in other putaminal subregions and in the putamen as a whole, but these did not reach statistical significance. No change in preprotachykinin messenger RNA expression was detected. These findings demonstrate selective up-regulation of a striatal neuropeptide system in Parkinson's disease compatible with increased activity of the &quot;indirect&quot; striatopallidal pathway, which is thought to play a crucial role in the pathophysiology of akinesia and rigidity in this condition.
Repeated administration of direct-acting (apomorphine, SKF-38393, quinpirole) or indirect-acting (amphetamine, cocaine) dopaminergic agonists can produce enhancement of locomotor and sterotypic behaviours in response to subsequent dopamine agonist challenge. This sensitization of dopamine receptors, known as priming or reverse tolerance, is long-lasting and appears to be dependent upon the participation of the N-methyl-D-asparate excitatory amino acid receptor. The mechanism underlying dopamine receptor sensitization is not understood. Mounting evidence suggests that immediate-early genes may provide a link whereby extracellular stimuli are converted into long-term changes in neuronal activity. In the present study, behavioural measurements and immunohistochemical techniques were used to determine whether induction of the immediate-early gene c-fos is critical to the mechanism underlying priming of a D1-mediated behavioural response. It was demonstrated that in drug-naive rats bearing unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway, the mixed D1/D2 agonist apomorphine produced a dramatic increase in the expression of Fos-like immunoreactivity in the ipsilateral caudoputamen, nucleus accumbens and globus pallidus, and was a potent primer of SKF-38393-mediated rotational behaviour. In contrast, saline administration did not increase Fos expression and did not prime SKF-38393-elicited rotation. Preadministration of MK-801 at 0.5 mg/kg significantly reduced apomorphine's effect on Fos expression and prevented apomorphine priming of SKF-38393-induced rotation. However, at a lower dose of 0.1 mg/kg, MK-801 had little effect on apomorphine-mediated Fos expression but did block the priming response. In another experiment, the D2 family-selective agonist quinpirole was found to be an affective primer of SKF-38393-mediated rotation, and to produce increase Fos expression in the ipsilateral globus pallidus only. Preadministration of MK-801 at 0.1 mg/kg blocked quinpirole priming of SKF-38393-mediated rotation and significantly reduced the number of Fos-positive neurons in the ipsilateral globus pallidus. Administration of the indirect dopamine agonist amphetamine increased Fos expression in the intact striatum, but not in the ipsilateral (lesioned) striatum or globus pallidus, and did not sensitize (prime) animals to behavioural effects of SKF-38393. In a separate group of animals. Northern blot analysis demonstrated that a priming dose of apomorphine significantly increased the messenger RNA signals for c-fos, c-jun, ngfi-A and jun-B in denervated striatum. Administration of 0.1 mg/kg MK-801 prior to apomorphine had no significant effect on signal intensities.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Monitoring expression of c-fos and other immediate-early genes has proven a useful method for determining potential sites of action of antipsychotic drugs. Most studies of the effects of antipsychotic drugs on immediate-early gene expression have focused on the basal ganglia and allied cortical regions. We now report that clozapine administration markedly increases both the number of cells expressing Fos protein-like immunoreactivity and the amount of Fos protein in the thalamic paraventricular nucleus, but not the contiguous mediodorsal thalamic nucleus. Comparable doses of several dopamine D2-like antagonists, including raclopride, sulpiride, remoxipride and haloperidol, did not induce Fos expression in the paraventricular nucleus. However, loxapine and very high doses of haloperidol resulted in a small but significant increase in paraventricular nucleus Fos expression. The dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH23390 did not induce Fos in the paraventricular nucleus or alter the magnitude of the clozapine-elicited increase in Fos expression. The serotonergic 5-hydroxytryptamine2a/2c antagonist ritanserin, alone or in combination with sulpiride, did not increase Fos expression in the paraventricular nucleus. Similarly, the 5-hydroxytryptamine2:D2 antagonist risperidone did not change the amount of Fos protein in the paraventricular nucleus. Neither the alpha 1 adrenergic antagonist prazosin nor the muscarinic cholinergic antagonist scopolamine mimicked the effect of clozapine. The key placement of the paraventricular nucleus as an interface between the reticular formation and forebrain dopamine systems suggests that this thalamic nucleus may be an important part of an extended neural network subserving certain actions of antipsychotic drugs.
Findings reported here show that there is a significant increase in the number of neurons in the pedunculopontine nucleus in most schizophrenic patients compared to age-matched controls. Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase histochemistry was used to label putative cholinergic neurons in the pedunculopontine nucleus and laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, while noradrenergic locus coeruleus neurons were labeled immunocytochemically using an antibody to tryosine hydroxylase. Cell counts of these neuronal groups were carried out using a Biographics image analysis system. We found significantly increased cell numbers in the pedunculopontine nucleus of schizophrenic patients compared to controls. The number of laterodorsal tegmental nucleus neurons was increased but this was not statistically significant. However, the total cell counts for pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei were significantly higher in schizophrenic subjects. The number of locus coeruleus noradrenergic neurons was similar in both groups. These results implicate the brainstem reticular formation as a pathophysiological site in at least some patients with schizophrenia. In addition, these findings suggest a developmental etiology for the disease and account for some, but not all, of the symptoms of schizophrenia, including sensory gating abnormalities, sleep-wake disturbances and, perhaps, hallucinations. Overdriving of thalamic and substantia nigra function by cholinergic afferents from the midbrain may account for some of the symptoms seen in schizophrenia. These findings suggest that, at least in some schizophrenic patients, there is an increased number of neurons in the cholinergic arm of the reticular activating system. This may explain some of the symptoms of schizophrenia and points to a prenatal disturbance as one of the possible causes of the disease.
It has been proposed that synaptic density or synaptic innervation may be altered in schizophrenia as a correlate of the neurodevelopmental pathology of the disease. Synaptophysin is a synaptic vesicle protein whose distribution and abundance provides a synaptic marker which can be reliably measured in post mortem brain. We have used in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunoreactivity to assess the expression of synaptophysin messenger RNA and protein respectively in medial temporal lobe from seven schizophrenics and 13 controls. In the schizophrenic cases, synaptophysin messenger RNA was reduced bilaterally in CA4, CA3, subiculum and parahippocampal gyrus, with a similar trend in dentate gyrus but no change in CA1. It was also decreased in terms of grains per pyramidal neuron in the affected subfields. In parahippocampal gyrus, the loss of synaptophysin messenger RNA per neuron in schizophrenia was greater in deep than superficial laminae. A parallel study in rats showed no effect of haloperidol treatment upon hippocampal synaptophysin messenger RNA, suggesting that neuroleptic treatment does not underlie the reductions found in schizophrenia. In the right medial temporal lobe of schizophrenics, we confirmed the correlation of synaptophysin messenger RNA abundance between ipsilateral subfields seen in both hemispheres of control brains. However, these correlations were not observed in the left medial temporal lobe of the schizophrenic cases. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity in schizophrenia showed no significant differences in any subfield compared to controls. Our data support the broad hypothesis that synaptic pathology occurs in schizophrenia. In so far as synaptophysin expression is a marker for synaptic density, the data suggest that pyramidal neurons within the medial temporal lobe may form fewer synapses. However, the lack of any significant differences in synaptophysin immunoreactivity despite the loss of encoding messenger RNA means that this conclusion must be drawn cautiously. There are several plausible explanations for the preservation of synaptophysin immunoreactivity despite reductions in transcript abundance; one possibility is that the inferrred loss of synapses occurs in extra-hippocampal sites to which the affected pyramidal neurons project. For example, the reduction in synaptophysin messenger RNA in subicular neurons may be accompanied by decreased density of synaptic terminals in the nucleus accumbens. Such differences in the efferent synaptic connectivity of the hippocampus have previously been hypothesized to be an important component of the circuitry underlying schizophrenia.
Two regions in the forebrain of domestic chicks (Gallus domesticus), the intermediate and medial hyperstriatum ventrale and the lobus parolfactorius, have previously been shown to be important centres of biochemical, pharmacological and physiological change following one-trial passive avoidance training. The purpose of the present study was to examine, at the electron microscopic level, the fine spatial re-arrangement of synaptic structures in the intermediate and medial hyperstriatum ventrale (at 30 min), and in the lobus parolfactorius (at 24 h), post-training using comprehensive biometrical designs, image analysis and stochastic approaches. In intermediate and medial hyperstriatum ventrale, no significant differences in the numerical density of synapses either between control and trained chicks, or between hemispheres, were revealed using the disector method. However, after training, a nested-ANOVA demonstrated an increase in the thickness of pre- and post-synaptic electron densities (estimated via image analysis) only in the left intermediate and medial hyperstriatum ventrale, whereas synaptic apposition zone profiles increased in length bilaterally. In presynaptic terminals from the intermediate and medial hyperstriatum ventrale, stochastic analysis revealed that training resulted in the re-distribution of synaptic vesicles between two spatial pools relative to synaptic apposition zones, in both hemispheres producing a large number of synaptic vesicles closer to synaptic apposition zones; a nearest neighbour analysis of synaptic apposition zone profiles indicated that the lateral shape of the synaptic apposition zone after training is more complex in both hemispheres. In the lobus parolfactorius at 24 h post-training the main changes in synaptic fine structure involved a shift of synaptic vesicles away from synaptic apposition zones in the right hemisphere with the distance between synaptic apposition zones decreasing; in the left lobus parolfactorius, synaptic apposition zones became more regular/round in shape with a greater distance between them after training. These data suggest that the initial acquisition of memory involves population changes in the fine spatial organization of synaptic vesicles and synaptic apposition zones in synapses in the intermediate and medial hyperstriatum ventrale, which indicate a possible tendency towards greater synaptic efficacies. These changes are as dynamics as the molecular changes which have hitherto been considered the preserve of short-term correlates of memory formation.
Recent studies indicate that long-term potentiation is accompanied by changes in the waveform of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials in the CA1 field of disinhibited hippocampal slices, suggesting that long-term potentiation alters the kinetics of the glutamate receptor channels that mediate excitatory synaptic responses. The present study examined the effects of stimulating and recording location within stratum radiatum on the magnitude of long-term potentiation and the associated waveform changes. Stimulation of stratum radiatum proximal to the cell body layer evoked field excitatory postsynaptic potentials in proximal stratum radiatum that had decay phases well-fit by single exponentials; long-term potentiation reduced the decay time constant of these potentials, as reported previously. Stimulation of distal stratum radiatum evoked field excitatory postsynaptic potentials in distal stratum radiatum that were contaminated by positive after-potentials; meaningful estimates of decay time constants for these responses could not be obtained. Long-term potentiation of distal responses tended to be smaller than that obtained proximally. Comparisons were also made between responses recorded distally and proximally for either distal or proximal stimulation. For both stimulation loci, the distally-recorded responses had positive after-potentials and the proximally-recorded responses did not. The decay time constants for proximally-recorded responses to distal stimulation decreased significantly after long-term potentiation. Proximal and distal stimulation both produced greater long-term potentiation recorded proximally than distally and the difference was significantly greater for proximal stimulation. When long-term potentiation was induced by stimulation of proximal and distal sites simultaneously, the difference between proximally- and distally-recorded long-term potentiation was significantly reduced. Paired-pulse facilitation was greater when recorded proximally but the variation in facilitation with stimulation and recording position was different from that obtained for long-term potentiation. Paired-pulse facilitation of response amplitude was slightly reduced after long-term potentiation, but the change did not depend on the stimulation-recording arrangement; facilitation of response slope was not reliably affected by long-term potentiation. These results indicate that the shape of the dendritic field excitatory postsynaptic potential is influenced by the relative position of recording electrodes in stratum radiatum; when the position is such that after-potentials are minimized, long-term potentiation produces a decrease in the decay time constant of the synaptic field potential.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Several lines of evidence suggest that the piriform cortex functions as a generator in the development and propagation of forebrain (limbic type) seizures, particularly in the kindling model of epilepsy. It is, however, not clear where, within the rather large piriform cortex region, the generator resides, and how much tissue is involved. Highly sensitive loci to chemical or electrical stimulation have been described both in the deep anterior and posterior parts of the piriform cortex. Furthermore, data from piriform cortex slice preparations indicated that epileptiform potentials originate in deep structures, particularly the endopiriform nucleus that underlies the piriform cortex. In the present study, in rats, we implanted stimulation and recording electrodes in various rostrocaudal locations of the piriform cortex and endopiriform nucleus, including the &quot;area tempestas&quot;, i.e. a structure in the anterior part of the piriform cortex previously proposed to be critically involved in the generation of convulsive seizures of limbic origin. Within the piriform cortex, electrodes were aimed at different cellular layers of this structure. For comparison, additional animals received electrodes in different parts of the basolateral amygdala. A total of 19 different locations was obtained in this way. The susceptibility of these locations to electrical stimulation was characterized by determining the threshold for induction of afterdischarges. The afterdischarge threshold was lowest in layer III of the posterior piriform cortex and some locations in the endopiriform nucleus, whereas amygdala and &quot;area tempestas&quot; displayed higher values. In several animals, particularly those with electrodes in layer III of the posterior piriform cortex, spontaneous spiking was seen in prestimulation recordings, whereas this was never observed in recordings from the amygdala. Subsequent kindling by repeated stimulation of the various locations demonstrated marked differences in afterdischarge threshold reduction and kindling rate. The most marked decreases in afterdischarge threshold were seen in locations within layer III of the piriform cortex, whereas several other locations, including the &quot;area tempestas&quot;, exhibited only moderate decreases or no decrease at all. In contrast to previous observations with only few locations in the piriform cortex region, the posterior piriform cortex was not in general slower to kindle than the anterior piriform cortex, although some locations in the posterior piriform cortex exhibited significantly lower kindling rates than the amygdala. The highest kindling rate was seen in the dorsal endopiriform nucleus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
This study investigates the pattern of axonal projections of single corticothalamic neurons from the rat primary visual cortex. Microiontophoretic injections of biocytin were made in cortical laminae V and VI to label small pools of corticothalamic cells and their intrathalamic axonal projections. After a survival period of 48 h, the animals were perfused and the tissue was processed for biocytin histochemistry. On the basis of the intrathalamic distribution of axonal fields and the types of terminations found in the thalamus, three types of corticothalamic projections were identified. (1) Cells of the upper part of lamina VI projected to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus where they arborized in rostrocaudally oriented bands or &quot;rods&quot; parallel to the lines of projection of retinal afferents. (2) Cells of the lower part of lamina VI projected to the lateral part of the lateral posterior nucleus and they also sent collaterals to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus where they participated in the formation of rods. (3) The corticothalamic projection of lamina V cells originated from collaterals of corticofugal cells whose main axons reached the tectum and/or the pontine nuclei. These collaterals never terminated within the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus; they arborized in the lateral posterior, lateral dorsal and ventral lateral geniculate nuclei. All corticothalamic cells from lamina VI displayed the same type of axonal network made of long branches decorated by terminal boutons emitted &quot;en passant&quot; at the tip of fine stalks. Corticothalamic fibers arising from lamina V, however, generated varicose endings in restricted regions of their target nuclei. All corticothalamic axons derived from lamina VI cells, but not those derived from lamina V cells, gave off collaterals as they traversed the thalamic reticular complex. These results demonstrate that corticothalamic fibers arising from the rat primary visual cortex display a lamina-dependent projection pattern. In the light of previous studies on the topographical organization of corticothalamic projections, it is proposed that a similar organizational plan characterizes corticothalamic relationships in other sensory systems in the rat and in other species.
The postsynaptic AMPA/kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate-selective glutamate receptors are formed by several different subunits and the overall subunit composition of the receptor appears to determine its physiological and pharmacological properties. Although glutamatergic mechanisms have been implicated in various forms of hippocampal stress responses, the impact of stress on glutamate receptor subunit composition has not yet been elucidated. We have used cell-by-cell quantitative in situ hybridization to assess stress-induced changes in transcript levels of N-methyl-D-aspartate and AMPA receptor subunit genes in subdivisions of the rat hippocampus and hypothalamus that are implicated in the stress response. We found that 24 h after a single immobilization stress there was a significant increase in the cellular level of NR1 subunit messenger RNA (about 35-45% above control values) in hippocampal CA3 and CA1 pyramidal cells as well as in neurons of the hypothalamic supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei. Moreover, in the CA3 area we have detected a concomitant increase (50% above controls) in the level of NR2B subunit messenger RNA, while the expression of NR2A subunit gene did not change after stress. Stress induced a selective decrease in the level of AMPA receptor subunit glutamate receptor A messenger RNA in neurons of both the CA3 and CA1 areas (18 and 24%, respectively, below control values). These results suggest that the regulation of specific subunit messenger RNAs of the N-methyl-D-aspartate and AMPA receptors may be involved in altered hippocampal and hypothalamic responsiveness to glutamate and thus could play a critical role in stress-induced changes in their function.
In two experiments, we used an ISCAN infrared video system to examine the influence of a pitched visual array on gaze elevation and on judgments of visually perceived eye level. In Experiment 1, subjects attempted to direct their gaze to a relaxed or to a horizontal orientation while they were seated in a room whose walls were pitched at various angles with respect to gravity. Gaze elevation was biased in the direction in which the room was pitched. In Experiment 2, subjects looked into a small box that was pitched at various angles while they attempted simply to direct their gaze alone, or to direct their gaze and place a visual target at their apparent horizon. Both gaze elevation and target settings varied systematically with the pitch orientation of the box. Our results suggest that under these conditions, an optostatic response, of which the subject is unaware, is responsible for the changes in both gaze elevation and judgments of target elevation.
Ingestive behavior was activated in male rats by intraoral infusion of a 1-M solution of sucrose. Injection of cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8; 1.6 or 5.0 micrograms) inhibited ingestion of the sucrose solution and increased the concentration of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in the paraventricular hypothalamic nuclei. The inhibitory effect of the low, but not the high, dose of CCK-8 was attenuated by depleting 5-HT in the brain with p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA; 100 mg/kg for 3 days). Treatment with 5-hydroxytryptophan (20 mg/kg) increased the concentration of 5-HT in the brain of rats pretreated with either NaCl or PCPA and enhanced the inhibitory effect of CCK-8 on ingestive behavior in the PCPA-, but not NaCl-, treated rats. 5-HT may play a role in the mechanism of action of CCK-8 but additional factors must be involved.
Two experiments were performed in BALB/c mice implanted bilaterally with guide cannulae. In the first experiment, the tips of the guide cannulae were positioned 1.5 mm above the lateral hypothalamus (LH). On each experimental day, injection cannulae were inserted into each side of the LH. The experiment, carried out in a Y-maze, was composed of two phases. During the initial acquisition period, which lasted 4 days, animals were allowed to self-inject, successively, on alternate days, one dose of morphine into one side of the LH and a different dose in the other side. From the fifth day, the subjects were given the possibility of choosing between these two doses by entering into a given arm of the Y-maze. When the two doses available were 5 ng and 50 ng or 15 ng and 50 ng, the subjects rapidly discriminated them and preferentially triggered the injection of the higher dose (50 ng). When the two doses available were 30 ng and 50 ng, the mice triggered indifferently the two doses during the first three sessions. A discrimination between these two doses began to become apparent from the fourth session, with the subjects preferring to trigger the dose of 50 ng. In a second experiment, the tips of the guide cannulae were positioned either 1.5 mm or 2.6 mm above the LH, the bilateral injection cannulae consequently being inserted either into the LH or into the overlying ventral thalamus (TH). Experimental conditions were the same as that of Experiment 1.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Characteristics of interaction of two derivatives of 2,2-diphenyl-2-ethylthioacetate with muscarinic receptors were studied in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells stably transfected with the genes of human m2 and m3 muscarinic receptors. Data from radioligand-receptor binding assays and measurements of m2 receptor-inhibited cyclic AMP formation and m3 receptor-stimulated phosphoinositide (PI) hydrolysis showed that this new series of muscarinic receptor antagonists exhibited a middle range of affinities in binding to muscarinic receptors (Ki = 0.2-0.7 mumol/l), without being able to discriminate between m2 and m3 receptors. They completely displaced [3H]N-methylscopolamine ([3H]NMS) binding at equilibrium and inhibited receptor-mediated increase in PI turnover in m3 CHO cells and decrease in cyclic AMP synthesis in m2 CHO cells in an apparent competitive manner. However, higher concentrations of the compounds (&gt; 10 mumol/l) decelerated the kinetics of atropine-induced dissociation of [3H]NMS at m2 and m3 receptors, indicating an allosteric interaction. Collectively, our results demonstrate that these derivatives of 2,2-diphenyl-2-ethylthioacetate display a mixed mechanism of interaction with muscarinic receptors, being competitive at low concentrations and allosteric at higher concentrations. In contrast to previous reports of a significantly higher affinity at cardiac M2 as compared to ileal M3 receptor, these compounds do not exhibit such selectivity when the two receptor subtypes are expressed in the same type of cells.
Acupuncture is a simple and useful treatment for insomnia, with a success rate of around 90%. The acupuncture points applied vary depending on the doctor and on the case, but the usual points are Shenmen (HT7) and Anmien (extrapoint). The mechanism of this treatment has not been well elucidated. Acupuncture analgesia may be used as a great indicator, because in both practices needles are inserted in deep tissues as the common stimulation. The possible neuronal integration and transmitter effect in the acupuncture treatment for insomnia are discussed.
Present day neurophysiology stops with attributing thinking processes as the highest level of function of the brain. It has been common knowledge to oriental thinkers for many centuries, that there are many further states of the human mind, culminating in the state of thoughtless awareness; the fourth state of consciousness. This state must have a physiological basis. The complicated structure of the brain, the extravagant abundance of neural and glial elements in the brain, the infinite possibilities of synaptic junctions and synaptic transmission, and the multitude of neurotransmitters and neuromodulators; all these point to the definite possibility of a much greater level of performance and achievement for the human brain than has been apparent so far. Not only the theories but also the experience of Eastern seers have shown that the brain can transcend the boundaries of logic and reason, and experience states of awareness, commonly unrecognized. In the past few decades, knowledge about the functioning of the human brain has been growing exponentially and scientists of diverse disciplines are concentrating on unraveling its mysteries. It is necessary for scientists to investigate this state with all available tools and find the neurophysiological basis of this state.
In recent years, recognition of the importance of sleep, not only as a health problem but also as a social problem, has brought about worldwide growing interest in sleep and sleep research. In Asian countries, the number of sleep researchers is increasing rapidly and as a result the Asian Sleep Research Society (ASRS) was founded in 1994. This paper reviews the main topics of basic and clinical sleep research which have been investigated recently in Japan and in Asian countries. The subjects of sleep research in Asia in the future will be, in principle, similar to those in other countries of the world. However, the author suggests several subjects which are more or less specific to Asia and which should be studied in association, such as epidemiological longitudinal study of sleep disorders in developing countries, characteristics of sleep and dreaming in oriental culture and philosophy, etc. The roles of ASRS in dissemination of information, promotion of training and education, and enlightenment of public and government were also emphasized.
The effects of dopamine-antagonistic neuroleptic (NL) medication on saccadic eye movements were compared in matched groups of 40 NL-treated and 18 NL-free schizophrenic patients and in 18 NL-treated and 14 NL-free bipolar affective patients. Manipulation of the saccadic paradigm yielded data on four types of saccade: those reflexively elicited by novel stimuli (REFLEX saccades), those directed towards the remembered location of a target now extinguished (REM) or towards the location where a predictably alternating target is expected to appear (PRED), or ANTI saccades, directed away from the stimulus to the mirror image location. Extensive psychiatric, neurological and neuropsychological assessments were also carried out on all subjects. The saccades of NL-treated patients, regardless of diagnosis, were less spatially accurate than those of NL-free patients, with a greater tendency to fall short of the target when generated towards the locus of a mentally represented target. This effect was greatest with a predictably alternating target, especially during periods when target visibility was withdrawn, only a temporal cue remaining. This pattern of impairment which is also found in early stages of Parkinson's disease is likely to be due to deficiency of striatal dopamine. Its best clinical predictors were disease duration, and Webster-Parkinsonism scores. Failure to suppress reflexive saccades to the stimulus in the REM and ANTI paradigms were more closely associated with schizophrenia than with NL treatment and were best predicted by negative symptoms and Wisconsin perseverative errors, both of which are widely regarded as indicators of frontal lobe dysfunction.
Most of the previous research reporting abnormalities of rapid re-fixation eye movements (saccades) in patients with schizophrenia has used patients receiving neuroleptic medication. In this study non-neuroleptically medicated schizophrenics were compared with other psychiatric patients using a variety of saccadic paradigms to determine the specificity of saccadic dysfunction. The patient groups consisted of schizophrenics (N = 18), bipolar affectives (N = 18), anxiety neurotics (N = 10) and normal controls (N = 31), none of whom had received neuroleptic medication for the preceding 6 months. Four behavioural paradigms, reflexive, predictive, remembered and ANTI were used to elicit saccades. The primary abnormality in the schizophrenic group was a significantly increased rate of distractibility in the ANTI (saccades made towards the target rather than in an opposite direction) and REM (saccades made prior to the imperative cue) paradigms. The major neuropsychological variable predictive of these errors was Wisconsin card sort perseverative errors. These data, in conjunction with findings from previous neurological research, would seem to provide converging evidence towards dysfunction of prefrontal cortex in schizophrenia.
Endogenous opioid systems have been implicated in experimental cocaine addiction. One aspect of this involvement may be the modulation of the motivational properties of cocaine by endogenous opioids. The present study assessed the effect of opioid blockade with naloxone (NLX) on cocaine's motivational properties using the conditioned place preference procedure. Treatment with doses of NLX that did not induce place aversion (0.01-1.0 mg/kg-1, SC), dose-dependently attenuated place preference induced by cocaine (10 or 20 mg/kg-1, IP). This effect of NLX was present when administered during acquisition of cocaine-induced place preference and when administered before expression of cocaine's motivational effects. These data support the notion that the (conditioned) motivational properties of cocaine are modulated through activation of opioid systems by endogenous opioid peptides. Furthermore, it is suggested that an interaction between endogenous opioid systems and dopaminergic systems in the brain might be of importance in the motivational facilitation of experimental cocaine addiction.
Fifteen normal volunteers were administered 0.250, 0.375, and 0.500 mg of triazolam and placebo in a double-blind repeated measures cross-over design. Subjects demonstrated dose-dependent impairments in free recall, a test of explicit memory requiring awareness and reflection, and sedation as assessed by objective behavioral measures (the digit symbol substitution task) and subjective visual analogue scales. The sedative drug response did not account for the impairment in free recall. Differences in performance of the two tests of sedation indicated that the effect of this drug on reflective processes accounts for impairment in episodic memory and the inability to track the sedative effects of this drug at the higher doses tested in this study.
NNC 756 is a new benzazepine with high affinity and selectivity for D1-dopamine receptors. In a double-blind, placebo controlled, cross-over study, positron emission tomography and the radioligand [11C]SCH 23390 were used to determine central D1-dopamine receptor occupancy after a single oral dose of 80 mg NNC 756 in three healthy men. NNC 756 induced 75, 66 and 47% occupancy of D1-dopamine receptors in the putamen of at 1.5 h after drug administration and 46, 36 and 24% after 7.5 h. There was a hyperbolic relationship between the occupancy values and the serum concentrations. The Ki value for the hyperbola was 6.4 ng/ml (+/- SD 1.4). The occupancy at 1.5 h is on the same level as that shown to induce effects in animal models for prediction of antipsychotic effect. Restlessness (akathisia) appeared in two subjects and nausea in one subject at time of peak drug concentration in serum. The oral dose level of 80 mg should be appropriate to investigate the potential antipsychotic effect of NNC 756.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effects of cholinergic receptor blockade in the rat prefrontal cortex on cognitive processes. The nicotinic antagonists neuronal bungarotoxin and dihydro-beta-erythroidine and the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine were injected into the prelimbic area of the prefrontal cortex. Their behavioural effects were assessed in a T-maze to test reference memory (visual discrimination task) and working memory in delayed matching (MTS) and non-matching to sample (NMTS) tasks. Neuronal bungarotoxin produced a significant decrease in working memory performance in the MTS task but not in the NMTS task. In contrast, scopolamine impaired working memory in both MTS and NMTS tasks. Reference memory was not altered by any of the cholinergic antagonists. These results demonstrate a differential role of nicotinic and muscarinic receptors in the rat prefrontal cortex. Nicotinic transmission appears to be important in delayed response tasks requiring effortful processing for response selection, while the muscarinic system is involved in general working memory processes.
The present study was performed to determine if 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+) affects binding of [3H](-)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imi ne maleate ([3H]MK-801), [3H]glutamate and [3H]glycine to the rat and monkey striatal N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. We found that MPP+ non-competitively inhibits [3H]MK-801 binding with IC50 values between 80 and 330 microM depending on the species and the concentration of glutamate and glycine. MPP+ also partially inhibited [3H]glycine binding without affecting [3H]glutamate binding. We conclude that MPP+ is not an agonist at the NMDA receptor but at high concentrations inhibits NMDA receptor function.

Our objective was to investigate the patterns of proliferation and differentiation of infiltrating cells in inflammatory myopathies. Immunohistochemical staining was performed on muscle biopsy specimens from 18 patients with inclusion body myositis, polymyositis and dermatomyositis using monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies. An abundance of cells were TNF-alpha+ (4-8%), ICAM-1+ (7-65%), IFN-gamma+ (3-6%), and Ki-67+ (4-8%). It was shown that 70% of the Ki-67+ cells were Ki-67+CD3+ cells. Very few mononuclear cells were IL-2R+. MHC-I expression was found on nearly all muscle fibres in all cases, while MHC-II expression was found on occasional muscle fibres in 1/3 of cases. Analysis of repeated biopsies from four IBM patients after prednisolone treatment showed no change in the proportions of TNF-alpha, ICAM-1, IFN-gamma or Ki-67 positive cells. In inflammatory myopathies there is an intense proliferation and differentiation of inflammatory cells in situ, indicating a local stimulation of the inflammatory process.
We have examined the subcellular distribution of synapsins and synaptophysin in density gradients from synapsin- and vector-transfected NG108-15 cells, since we recently found that transfection of synapsin IIb cDNA into neuroblastoma x glioma hybrid cells (NG108-15) resulted in cell lines that had a more neuronal phenotype than controls. The increase in synapsins and synaptophysin in the transfected cells was maximal in the region of the gradient containing small synaptic vesicles. The transferrin receptor, a marker for early endosomes, did not increase in the synapsin-containing fractions in the transfected cells. Secretogranin I, a soluble protein stored in and secreted from large dense cored vesicles, showed a very pronounced increase in the dense regions of gradients from transfected cells. These subcellular fractionation data suggest a possible role for the synapsins in the regulation of synaptic vesicle function.
Behavioral pharmacology has suggested an intricate, multiphasic pathway of memory consolidation. An integrated molecular pharmacological approach in Drosophila has lent support to this theory recently by dissecting consolidated memory into two genetically distinct components: a cycloheximide-insensitive, anesthesia-resistant memory and a cycloheximide-sensitive long-term memory. In addition, experiments using inducible dominant-negative transgenes in Drosophila or gene knockouts in mice demonstrate a role for cAMP-responsive transcription factors in formation of long-term memory. These studies support the application of reverse-genetic strategies, including the use of temporally specific agonists and antagonists, to advance the functional dissection of memory formation.
By the beginning of 1980s the questions concerning the mechanism of neurosecretion, the mode of neurotoxin action on this process and the mechanism of protein insertion into biological membranes were the principal directions of studies. Two views on the process of insertion of membrane proteins into, and transport across the biological membranes have been proposed. One hypothesis on membrane biogenesis describes the mechanism of incorporation of protein molecules into phospholipid matrix as a co-translational process. It starts with the synthesis of a hydrophobic N-terminal signal sequence of the protein destined to span the bilayer. In this case the energy of elongation was supposed to be utilized for insertion of the protein into hydrophobic core of the bilayer. Using the model system of co-translational translocation that consisted of liposomes and cell-free translational system including wheat germ extract and poly(A) RNA obtained from the mammary gland it has been studied whether the liposomes could serve as acceptor of synthesized secretory proteins. It is shown that in the presence of casein mRNA the 14-C-labeled product of translation is accumulated inside liposomes. When mRNA for globin, a nonsecretory protein, is translated in this cell-free system, 14-C-label is not found in the internal volume of liposomes. The polypeptides extracted from liposomes after their incubation in the system of casein mRNA translation interact specifically with anti-casein antibodies (D. I. Balkov, A. V. El'skaya, V. K. Lishko et al., 1988). These data provide the evidence that the transfer of synthesizing casein through bilayer lipid membrane does not require a specific receptor. Insertion and transfer of this protein occur co-translationally, due to the interaction of &quot;signal peptide&quot; with membrane lipids. The second model of the assembly of protein into membrane supposes an ability of hydrophilic proteins to cooperate with the phospholipid bilayer. As a result of such cooperation the polypeptide changes its conformation adequately to the hydrophilic environment and is integrated with the bilayer. This second model suggests the existence of water soluble precursors of membrane proteins localized in the cell cytoplasm. The last idea was studied in experiment with a specific hydrophilic protein from the cytoplasmic fraction of excitable tissues. Tetrodotoxin-sensitive (TTX-sensitive) structures have been found in soluble fractions of the brain, heart and skeletal muscle homogenates (V. K. Lishko, M. K. Malysheva, A. V. Stefanov, 1977). Initially we prepared proteoliposomes by sonication of a phospholipid suspension with the supernatants of tissue homogenates.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The outer plexiform layer of the retina contains a neural circuit in which cone synaptic terminals are electrically coupled and release glutamate onto wide-field and narrow-field horizontal cells. These are also electrically coupled and feed back through a GABAergic synapse to cones. In cat this circuit's structure is known in some detail, and much of the chemical architecture and neural responses are also known, yet there has been no attempt to synthesize this knowledge. We constructed a large-scale compartmental model (up to 50,000 compartments) to incorporate the known anatomical and biophysical facts. The goal was to discover how the various circuit components interact to form the cone receptive field, and thereby what possible function is implied. The simulation reproduced many features known from intracellular recordings: (1) linear response of cone and horizontal cell to intensity, (2) some aspects of temporal responses of cone and horizontal cell, (3) broad receptive field of the wide-field horizontal cell, and (4) center-surround cone receptive field (derived from a &quot;deconvolution model&quot;). With the network calibrated in this manner, we determined which of its features are necessary to give the cone receptive field a Gaussian center-surround shape. A Gaussian-like center that matches the center derived from the ganglion cell requires both optical blur and cone coupling: blur alone is too narrow, coupling alone gives an exponential shape without a central dome-shaped peak. A Gaussian-like surround requires both types of horizontal cell: the narrow-field type for the deep, proximal region and the wide-field type for the shallow, distal region. These results suggest that the function of the cone-horizontal cell circuit is to reduce the influence of noise by spatio-temporally filtering the cone signal before it passes through the first chemical synapse on the pathway to the brain.
Teleost fish retinas continue to add neurons throughout life, and evidence from in vitro experiments have implicated insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) in this process. To discover whether these factors are expressed in vivo, we have examined their expression in the cichlid fish, Haplochromis burtoni. Three lines of evidence show that IGFs are present in the fish retina. An IGF-I specific antibody, sm 1.2, binds preferentially to the retinal outer plexiform layer, in areas of cone photoreceptor synaptic endings. Northern blots of mRNA hybridized with riboprobes from trout IGF-I and IGF-II genes revealed transcripts of approximately 6.5 and 4.9 kb, respectively. The IGF-I probe detected an additional transcript of 1.2 kb in liver but not in retinal mRNA. In situ hybridization with digoxigenin-labeled riboprobes revealed that the IGF gene product is localized in the cone photoreceptors. These results show that cone photoreceptors are the source of IGFs in the fish retina, consistent with the hypothesis that IGFs play a role in regulating production of new neurons in the teleost retina.
We have found that development of both deprivation-induced and lens-induced refractive errors in chickens implicates changes of the diurnal growth rhythms in the eye (Fig. 1). Because the major diurnal oscillator in the eye is expressed by the retinal dopamine/melatonin system, effects of drugs were studied that change retinal dopamine and/or serotonin levels. Vehicle-injected and drug-injected eyes treated with either translucent occluders or lenses were compared to focus on visual growth mechanisms. Retinal biogenic amine levels were measured at the end of each experiment by HPLC with electrochemical detection. For reserpine (which was most extensively studied) electroretinograms were recorded to test retinal function [Fig. 3 (C)] and catecholaminergic and serotonergic retinal neurons were observed by immunohistochemical labelling [Fig. 3(D)]. Deprivation myopia was readily altered by a single intravitreal injection of drugs that affected retinal dopamine or serotonin levels; reserpine which depleted both serotonin and dopamine stores blocked deprivation myopia very efficiently [Fig. 3(A)], whereas 5,7-dihydroxy-tryptamine (5,7-DHT), sulpiride, melatonin and Sch23390 could enhance deprivation myopia (Table 1, Fig. 5). In contrast to other procedures that were previously employed to block deprivation myopia (6-OHDA injections or continuous light) and which had no significant effect on lens-induced refractive errors, reserpine also affected lens-induced changes in eye growth. At lower doses, the effect was selective for negative lenses (Fig. 4). We found that the individual retinal dopamine levels were very variable among individuals but were correlated in both eyes of an animal; a similar variability was previously found with regard to deprivation myopia. To test a hypothesis raised by Li, Schaeffel, Kohler and Zrenner [(1992) Visual Neuroscience, 9, 483-492] that individual dopamine levels might determine the susceptibility to deprivation myopia, refractive errors were correlated with dopamine levels in occluded and untreated eyes of monocularly deprived chickens (Fig. 6). The hypothesis was rejected. Although it has been previously found that the static retinal tissue levels of dopamine are not altered by lens treatment, subtle changes in the ratio of DOPAC to dopamine were detected in the present study. The result indicates that retinal dopamine might be implicated also in lens-induced growth changes. Surprisingly, the changes were in the opposite direction for deprivation and negative lenses although both produce myopia. Currently, there is evidence that deprivation-induced and lens-induced refractive errors in chicks are produced by different mechanisms. However, findings (1), (3) and (5) suggest that there may also be common features. Although it has not yet been resolved how both mechanisms merge to produce the appropriate axial eye growth rates, we propose a scheme (Fig. 7).

Using a panel of &quot;exon-specific&quot; monoclonal antibodies, we have examined the products of degradation of dystrophin by endogenous proteases in post-mortem human muscle. Four main sites of dystrophin digestion were identified, all of them in the C-terminal half of the molecule. Two of them correspond to &quot;hinges&quot; in the central rod region and a third in the C-terminal domain follows the dystroglycan binding site. The results support the Koenig and Kunkel model for the tertiary structure of dystrophin (J. Biol. Chem. 265 (1990) 4560-4566), but suggest that much of the N-terminal half of dystrophin is protected from proteolysis, possibly by interaction with the sub-sarcolemmal cytoskeleton. Although the results seem inconsistent with an anti-parallel dimer model of dystrophin in which hinge 2 and hinge 3 are close together, possible ways of reconciling them with such a model are also considered.
Two new conotoxins that affect both sodium and calcium currents have been characterized from the venom of Conus marmoreus, using direct assays on voltage-gated currents in caudodorsal neurons (CDC) of the freshwater snail Lymnaea stagnalis. The designations and amino acid sequences of the new toxins are MrVIA, ACRKKWEYCIVPIIGFIYCCPGLICGPFVCV, and MrVIB, ACSKKWEYCIVPILGFVYCCPGLICGPFVCV. Both toxins block voltage dependent sodium currents in snail neurons with ED50's of 0.1-0.2 microM. Effects are also observed on the fast-inactivating calcium current subtype in the CDC at &gt; or = 1 microM. At concentrations of 1-5 microM, MrVIA acts as a calcium current agonist whereas MrVIB acts as a blocker. At higher doses both toxins block the fast-inactivating calcium current. Almost no effects of MrVIB are seen on the second (sustained kinetics) CDC calcium current subtype, while MrVIA also slightly blocks the sustained current. The calcium current block is rapidly reversible, whereas in contrast recovery of the sodium current requires extensive wash. MrVIA/B have the same cysteine framework as the omega- and delta-conotoxins and a high content of hydrophobic residues, in common with the delta-conotoxins. There is only one localized concentration of charged residues in MrVIA/B, in the first intercysteine loop. These two conotoxins provide unique probes for structure and function studies on voltage-gated sodium and L-type calcium channels. Their unusual cross-channel activity suggests they may represent an &quot;intermediate&quot; variant of conotoxin, in the diversification of one conotoxin structural family that selectively targets either sodium or calcium channels.
Using an antibody highly specific for D-serine conjugated to glutaraldehyde, we have localized endogenous D-serine in rat brain. Highest levels of D-serine immunoreactivity occur in the gray matter of the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, anterior olfactory nucleus, olfactory tubercle, and amygdala. Localizations of D-serine immunoreactivity correlate closely with those of D-serine binding to the glycine modulatory site of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor as visualized by autoradiography and are inversely correlated to the presence of D-amino acid oxidase. D-Serine is enriched in process-bearing glial cells in neuropil with the morphology of protoplasmic astrocytes. In glial cultures of rat cerebral cortex, D-serine is enriched in type 2 astrocytes. The release of D-serine from these cultures is stimulated by agonists of non-NMDA glutamate receptors, suggesting a mechanism by which astrocyte-derived D-serine could modulate neurotransmission. D-Serine appears to be the endogenous ligand for the glycine site of NMDA receptors.
We have recently described a family in which there is cosegregation of major affective disorder with Darier's disease and have mapped this autosomal dominant skin disorder to 12q23-q24.1. This has provided an interesting candidate region for genetic studies of bipolar disorder. We have studied the segregation of seven markers spanning the Darier's disease locus in 45 bipolar disorder pedigrees and found modest evidence in support of linkage under heterogeneity for 5 of these markers. Nonparametric analyses were suggestive of linkage with a marker at the gene encoding a secretory form of phospholipase A2. Our sample has relatively low power to detect linkage under heterogeneity and independent researchers should examine markers from this region in further samples of bipolar pedigrees.
It is generally agreed that there is a genetic component in the etiology of schizophrenia which may be tested by the application of linkage analysis to multiply-affected families. One genetic region of interest is the long arm of chromosome 11 because of previously reported associations of genetic variation in this region with schizophrenia, and because of the fact that it contains the locus for the dopamine D2 receptor gene. In this study we have examined the segregation of schizophrenia with microsatellite dinucleotide repeat DNA markers along chromosome 11q in 5 Israeli families multiply-affected for schizophrenia. The hypothesis of linkage under genetic homogeneity of causation was tested under a number of genetic models. Linkage analysis provided no evidence for significant causal mutations within the region bounded by INT and D11S420 on chromosome 11q. It is still possible, however, that a gene of major effect exists in this region, either with low penetrance or with heterogeneity.
The nucleus tuberalis lateralis (NTL) is located in the basolateral part of the hypothalamus and is only present as a well-delineated nucleus in human and higher primates. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), NTL neurons show strong early cytoskeletal alterations, as revealed by the antibody Alz-50, but practically no senile plaques or neurofibrillary tangles. To study whether the activity of NTL neurons decreases when cytoskeletal changes appear, i.e., during aging and in AD, we applied a polyclonal antibody raised against the medial cisternae of the Golgi apparatus (GA). The size of the GA and the cell profile of NTL neurons, two established parameters for neuronal activity, were measured by an image analysis system. No significant change in the size of the profiles of the GA or of the neurons was observed in this nucleus during aging or AD. Earlier studies have shown that there is no decrease in cell number in the NTL in AD. We conclude that in the NTL an early hallmark of AD, i.e., cytoskeletal changes as stained by Alz-50, does not correlate with decreased neuronal activity, as reflected by the size of the GA, nor with a decrease in cell number. In addition, we found that the very early occurring and abundant presence of lipofuscin in NTL neurons does not go together with decreased neuronal activity.
5-HT has a powerful modulatory action on the firing properties of single neurons as well as on locomotor activity. In lamprey, 5-HT increases the neuronal firing frequency in spinal neurons by reducing the conductance in Ca(2+)-dependent K+ channels (KCa) underlying the slow afterhyperpolarization (sAHP), and it also lowers the burst frequency of the spinal locomotor network. To elucidate which type of 5-HT receptor mediates these effects, different specific receptor agonists and antagonists were applied during intracellular current clamp recordings and during NMDA-induced fictive locomotion in the lamprey spinal cord in vitro preparation. The 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT ((+/-)-8-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin hydrobromide), the 5-HT1 receptor agonist 5-CT (5-carboxyamidotryptamine maleate) and the 5-HT2 receptor agonist alpha-CH3-5-HT (alpha-methylserotonin maleate) all reproduced the actions of 5-HT at both the cellular and the network levels. The effects of all agonists were completely or partially blocked by the 5-HT1A and 5-HT2 receptor antagonist spiperone (spiroperidol hydrochloride) while selective 5-HT2 receptor antagonists were ineffective. The selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist S(-)-UH301 (S(-)-5-fluoro-8-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin hydrochloride) also counteracted the effect of 5-HT on the sAHP. 5-HT3 and 5-HT4 receptor agonists and antagonists were without effects. The intracellular coupling mechanism was not sensitive to pertussis toxin nor to the cAMP dependent protein kinase blocker (Rp)-cAMPS.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
An in vitro model of spinal cord injury was developed to study the pathophysiology of posttraumatic axonal dysfunction. A 25 mm length of thoracic spinal cord was removed from the adult male rat (n = 27). A dorsal column segment was isolated and pinned in a recording chamber and superfused with oxygenated (95% O2/5% CO2) Ringer. The cord was stimulated with a bipolar electrode, while two point responses were recorded extracellularly. Injury was accomplished by compression with a modified aneurysm clip which applied a 2 g force for 15 s. With injury the compound action potential (CAP) amplitude decreased to 53.7 +/- 5.4% (P &lt; 0.001), while the latency increased to 115.6 +/- 3.1% (P &lt; 0.0025) of control values. The absolute refractory period increased with injury from 1.7 +/- 0.1 ms to 2.1 +/- 0.1 ms (P &lt; 0.05). The infusion of 5 mM 4-aminopyridine (4-AP), a blocker of voltage-sensitive 'fast' K channels confined to internodal regions, resulted in broadening of the CAP of injured axons to 114.9 +/- 3.1% of control (P &lt; 0.05). Ultrastructural analysis of the injured dorsal column segments revealed marked axonal and myelin pathology, including considerable myelin disruption. In conclusion, we have developed and characterized an in vitro model of mammalian spinal cord injury which simulates many of the features of in vivo trauma. Injured axons display characteristic changes in physiological function including a shift in refractory period and high frequency conduction failure. The ultrastructural data and response of injured axons to 4-AP suggest that myelin disruption with exposure of 'fast' K+ channels contributes to posttraumatic axonal dysfunction.
The pattern of dendritic development of layer V pyramidal neurons in the human prefrontal cortex was studied quantitatively. The main objective was to determine how dendritic growth and differentiation continued postnatally. In order to do this, we analyzed the three-dimensional branching pattern of the basal dendritic field of Golgi-Cox impregnated neurons. The subjects ranged in age from 7.5 months after birth up to 27 years. The results revealed a maturational time-course with a rapid dendritic growth phase during the first postnatal year. The dendritic length and radial extension of the basal field increased. The growth continued, at a reduced rate, up to around 5 years of age by a lengthening of the terminal segments and a slight increase in soma size. The morphological maturation of the layer V pyramidal neurons was completed between one and five years. After this age the dendritic values appeared to level off and reach a stable level that lasted up to at least 27 years. This paper gives no indications for overgrowth or regressive events of the layer V basal dendritic trees during development.
On the basis of its in vivo activity and binding affinity, naloxone benzoylhydrazone has been characterized as a kappa 3-opioid receptor agonist and a mu-opioid receptor antagonist. This paper continues its pharmacological characterization with the help of isolated tissue preparations. Naloxone benzoylhydrazone was found to have partial agonist activity in the guinea pig ileum longitudinal muscle/myenteric plexus preparation. As an antagonist, naloxone benzoylhydrazone is similar to naloxone, with pA2 values of 8.8, 7.8, and 7.8 for mu-, delta-, and kappa 1-opioid receptors, respectively. Its agonist activity in the guinea pig ileum preparation was not influenced by beta-funaltrexamine treatment but was reversed by the selective kappa-opioid receptor antagonist nor-binaltorphimine and by the irreversible kappa 1-opioid receptor blocker UPHIT (1S,2S)-trans-2-isothiocyanato-4,5-dichloro-N-methyl-N-[2-(1- pyrrolidinyl)-cyclohexyl] benzeneacetamide. The presence of kappa 3-opioid receptors could not be demonstrated by [3H]naloxone benzoylhydrazone binding in the guinea pig ileum longitudinal muscle/myenteric plexus preparation. From these studies it is concluded that the partial agonist activity of naloxone benzoylhydrazone in this bioassay is probably due to the activation of the kappa 1-opioid receptors.
Hypotransferrinemic (Hp) mice have a point mutation or small deletion in the transferrin (Tf) gene, resulting in defective splicing of precursor Tf mRNA. Hp animals produce &lt; 1% of normal Tf levels and require supplemental serum or purified Tf for survival. Because of the lack of endogenous brain Tf, we examined regional and cellular distributions of iron and iron regulatory proteins (Tf and ferritin) in selected brain regions of Hp mice. The regional distribution of iron, Tf, and ferritin in Hp brain was similar to normal except for the pattern of iron staining in hippocampus. The cellular distribution of iron, ferritin, and Tf was similar between Hp and normal animals. The predominant cell type staining for Tf and iron was oligodendrocytes. Qualitative observations suggest that the number of cells staining for iron was similar between Hp and normal mice, whereas the number of Hp Tf-positive cells was reduced. Ferritin immunostaining was similar in both cases. However, ferritin-positive cells were predominantly astrocytes, an observation unique to mice among species studied previously. Western blot analysis revealed that Tf present in Hp brain was of exogenous origin (from supplemental injections). Presumably, Tf transports the iron found in Hp oligodendrocytes. These data demonstrate that, despite reduced endogenous Hp brain Tf, iron and plasma Tf migrate or are transported to the appropriate cells (oligodendrocytes), bringing into question the role of endogenous brain Tf in extracellular iron transport.
The present investigation examines the role of intercellular relationships in the guidance of neuronal migration in embryonic rat cervical spinal cord. A &quot;U-shaped&quot; group of cholinergic neurons, was first detected on embryonic days (E) 15.5-16 surrounding the ventral proliferative zone. At these stages, no cholinergic cells were observed in the dorsal spinal cord, but by E17, many of the &quot;U-shaped&quot; group of cholinergic cells appeared to have translocated dorsally, to become the cholinergic dorsal horn cells seen in older animals. Between E16 and E17, these choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-immunoreactive cells displayed primitive processes oriented dorsoventrally, suggesting migration along that axis. Two early forming substrates present in embryonic spinal cord have been implicated in the guidance of other populations of migrating neurons: glial cells organized in radial arrays and commissural axons aligned along the dorsoventral axis. Involvement of the commissural fibers with cholinergic cell migration seems more likely because the fibers and the translocation pathway have similar orientations. In double-labeling immunocytochemical studies of E15.5-17 spinal cord, some immature ChAT-containing neurons were directly adjacent to commissural fibers, as identified by SNAP/TAG-1 immunoreactivity. The temporal and spatial coincidence of developing cholinergic neurons and commissural axons is consistent with the hypothesis that these neurons could use commissural fibers as migratory guides. In addition, conventional electron micrographs were examined to determine if immature neuronal profiles were physically apposed to commissural axons. Immature neurons with leading and trailing processes oriented dorsally and ventrally, respectively, were embedded within and aligned along bundles of commissural fibers or along other similarly oriented neurons. This direct apposition of immature cells to the surfaces of commissural axons and other bipolar neurons is consistent with the hypothesis that the &quot;U-shaped&quot; group of cholinergic neurons may use commissural axons and other cohort neurons for guidance during their dorsal migration.
The human anterior cingulate cortex is distinguished by the presence of an unusual cell type, a large spindle neuron in layer Vb. This cell has been noted numerous times in the historical literature but has not been studied with modern neuroanatomic techniques. For instance, details regarding the neuronal class to which these cells belong and regarding their precise distribution along both ventrodorsal and anteroposterior axes of the cingulate gyrus are still lacking. In the present study, morphological features and the anatomic distribution of this cell type were studied using computer-assisted mapping and immunocytochemical techniques. Spindle neurons are restricted to the subfields of the anterior cingulate cortex (Brodmann's area 24), exhibiting a greater density in anterior portions of this area than in posterior portions, and tapering off in the transition zone between anterior and posterior cingulate cortex. Furthermore, a majority of the spindle cells at any level is located in subarea 24b on the gyral surface. Immunocytochemical analysis revealed that the neurofilament protein triple was present in a large percentage of these neurons and that they did not contain calcium-binding proteins. Injections of the carbocyanine dye DiI into the cingulum bundle revealed that these cells are projection neurons. Finally, spindle cells were consistently affected in Alzheimer's disease cases, with an overall loss of about 60%. Taken together, these observations indicate that the spindle cells of the human cingulate cortex represent a morphological subpopulation of pyramidal neurons whose restricted distribution may be associated with functionally distinct areas.
The establishment of normal iron levels in the neonatal brain is critical for normal neurological development. Studies have shown that both iron uptake and iron concentration in the brain are relatively high during neonatal development. This histochemical study was undertaken to determine the pattern of iron development at the cellular level in the rat forebrain. Iron-stained cells were observed as early as postnatal day (PND) 3, which was the earliest time point examined. At PND 3, there were four major foci of iron-containing cells: the subventricular zone and three areas within the subcortical white matter. These latter foci are associated with myelinogenic regions. The blood vessels were prominently stained for iron throughout the brain. At PND 7, as in PND 3, the majority of the iron-containing cells were in white matter. However, there were also patches of iron staining located specifically in the layer IV of the somatosensory cortex. These cortical patches were no longer visible by PND 14. At PND 14, numerous iron-stained cells were dispersed throughout white matter regions and the tanycytes aligning the third ventricle were prominently stained. The blood vessel staining was less prominent than at earlier time periods. By PND 28, the adult pattern of iron staining was emerging. Iron-stained cells were aligned in rows in white matter and had an apparent preference for a location near blood vessels. This clustering of iron-positive cells around blood vessels gave the white matter a &quot;patchy&quot; appearance. The pattern of development, cell distribution, and morphological appearance of the iron-stained cells are consistent with that reported for oligodendrocytes. That iron-positive cells in the neonate may be oligodendrocytes is consistent with the reports for iron staining in adult brains. The recent reports that oligodendrocytes are highly susceptible to oxidative damage would be consistent with the high iron levels found in these cells. These results indicate that oligodendrocytes play a major role in the development of iron homeostasis in the brain. The role of iron in oligodendrocytes may be associated with metabolic demands of myelinogenesis, including cholesterol and fatty acid synthesis. However, these cells may be a morphologically similar but functionally distinct subset of oligodendrocytes whose function is to regulate the availability of iron in the brain.
Whole-cell and sharp microelectrode recordings were obtained from neurons of rat dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV) in transverse slices of the rat medulla maintained in vitro. Calcium currents were studied with sodium currents blocked with tetrodotoxin, potassium currents blocked by perfusing the cell with caesium as the main cation and using barium as the charge carrier. From a holding potential of -60 mV, inward currents activated at potentials positive of -50 mV and peaked around 0 mV. Voltage clamping the neuron at more hyperpolarised potentials did not reveal any low-threshold inward current. The inward current was effectively blocked by cadmium (100 microM) and nicked (1 mM), suggesting that it is carried by voltage-dependent calcium channels. The inward current could be separated into three pharmacologically distinct components: 40% of the whole cell current was omega-conotoxin sensitive; 20% of the current was nifedipine sensitive; and the rest was blocked by high concentrations of cadmium and nickel. This remaining current cannot be due to P-type calcium channels as omega-agatoxin had no effect on the inward current. Nifedipine had no significant effect on the action potential. Application of omega-conotoxin reduced the calcium component of the action potential and significantly reduced the potassium current underlying the afterhyperpolarization. Application of charybdotoxin slowed action potential repolarization. When N-type calcium channels were blocked with omega-conotoxin, charybdotoxin was still effective in slowing repolarization. In contrast, charybdotoxin was ineffective ineffective when calcium influx was blocked with the non-specific calcium channel blocker cadmium.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The levels of neurotransmitters and related metabolic enzyme activities in the brain of young-adult (3 months old), aged (11 months old) and nimodipine-administered (11 months old) senescence-accelerated mouse (SAM) were compared. Nimodipine, a calcium antagonist, was administered orally for 5 months. Acetylcholine (ACh), serotonin (5-HT) and dopamine (DA) levels all decreased with age but this decrease was attenuated by nimodipine. Choline acetyltransferase and choline esterase activities increased with age, and nimodipine enhanced their activities. Tryptophan hydroxylase activity was not affected by age or nimodipine administration. Monoamine oxidase-A activity increased with age, and was decreased by nimodipine administration. These results suggest that SAM rapidly undergoes neurochemical changes which are considered to be part of the normal aging process, and these changes were attenuated by chronic administration of nimodipine.
The development of contrast sensitivity to spatial and temporal frequencies was studied in the visual cortex of 6-week-old kittens reared from birth in three conditions: normal, dark-reared (DR) and dark-reared after 6 h of visual experience. Receptive fields of cells recorded in area 17 were quantitatively analysed using drifting sine-wave gratings. Compared to the low values obtained in the DR kittens, we observed after 6 h of visual experience: (1) an adult-like detection of higher spatial frequencies, (2) an increase of contrast sensitivity at low temporal frequencies; (3) a shift of the cell optimum towards 3 Hz, all values close to the normal ones. Unlike the spatial frequency selectivity, contrast sensitivity and detection of higher temporal frequencies continue to develop with age and visual experience.
Measles virus (MV) mRNA transcription and replication are thought to be controlled by cis-acting sequence elements contained within the terminal MV genomic noncoding nucleotides. To validate these promoter and regulatory signal assignments, cDNAs were constructed allowing synthesis of RNAs corresponding to a MV genome in which all coding and intercistronic regions were replaced by the chloramphenicol acetyl transferase (CAT) coding sequence. Transcript production by T7 polymerase starting and ending precisely with the MV genome terminal residues was achieved by fusing the T7 polymerase promoter and the hepatitis delta virus genome ribozyme followed by tandem T7 polymerase termination sequences to the MV genomic 5' and 3' ends, respectively. Transfection of these negative polarity transcripts, mimicking natural defective interfering RNAs of the internal deletion type, into MV-infected 293 cells gave rise to CAT activity which could be serially transferred and massively amplified together with progeny helper virus in fresh cells. Transfer was blocked only by antibodies able to neutralize MV infectivity, indicating that the chimeric RNA not only was encapsidated, transcribed, and replicated, but also packaged into virions. Sequence analyses confirmed that both the expected chimeric antigenome and mRNA products were transcribed and replicated with fidelity during serial passage. Minor changes introduced in the transcription promoter markedly compromised function. This system now can be exploited to examine MV genomic cis-acting regulatory elements and extended to the development of full-length MV cDNAs.
The major signal transduction pathway for neurotensin (NT) receptors is the G-protein-dependent stimulation of phospholipase C, leading to the mobilization of intracellular free Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) and the stimulation of cyclic GMP. We investigated the functional actions of an analog of NT(8-13), N alpha MeArg-Lys-Pro-Trp-tLeu-Leu (NT1), and other NT related analogs by quantitative measurement of the cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration in HT-29 (human colonic adenocarcinoma) cells using the Ca(2+)-sensitive dye fura-2/AM and by effects on cyclic GMP levels in rat cerebellar slices. The NT receptor binding affinities for these analogs to HT-29 cell membranes and newborn (10-day-old) mouse brain membranes were also investigated. Data obtained from HT-29 cell and mouse brain membrane preparations showed saturable single high-affinity sites and binding densities (Bmax) of 130.2 and 87.5 fmol/mg protein, respectively. The respective KD values were 0.47 and 0.39 nM, and the Hill coefficients were 0.99 and 0.92. The low-affinity levocabastine-sensitive site was not present (K1 &gt; 10,000) in either membrane preparation. Although the correlation of binding between HT-29 cell membranes and mouse brain membranes was quite significant (r = 0.92), some of the reference agents had lower binding affinities in the HT-29 cell membranes. The metabolically stable compound NT1 plus other NT analogs and related peptides [NT, NT(8-13), xenopsin, neuromedin N, NT(9-13), kinetensin and (D-Trp11)-NT] increased intracellular Ca2+ levels in HT-29 cells, indicating NT receptor agonist properties. The effect of NT1 in mobilizing [Ca2+]i blocked by SR 48692, a non-peptide NT antagonist. Receptor binding affinities of NT analogs to HT-29 cell membranes were positively correlated with potencies for mobilizing intracellular calcium in the same cells. In addition, NT1 increased cyclic GMP levels in rat cerebellar slices, confirming the latter findings of its NT agonist action. These results substantiate the in vitro NT agonist properties of the hexapeptide NT analog NT1.
In an earlier article an enlarged subpopulation of vasopressin containing neurons was found in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of homosexual men as compared to heterosexuals. The present study investigates the possibility that the number of vasopressin neurons in the SCN and sexual partner preference behavior in male rats are both influenced by sex hormones during brain development. For this purpose, we studied groups of adult male rats that had been treated either prenatally or pre- and postnatally with the aromatase inhibitor ATD (1,4,6-androstatriene-3,17-dione) which blocks the aromatization of testosterone to estradiol. Rats treated with ATD in both pre- and postnatal periods showed 'bisexual' partner preference behavior and appeared to have 59% more vasopressin-expressing neurons in the SCN than the controls. The prenatally treated rats did not differ from the controls. This observation supports the hypothesis that the increased number of vasopressin neurons found earlier in the SCN of adult homosexual men might reflect differences that took place in the interaction between sex hormones and the brain early in development.
Only male zebra finches sing and several telencephalic song control regions exhibit sex differences in neuron number that presumably reflect effects of estrogen (E2) exerted during the first few posthatch weeks. That is, implanting females with E2 during this time masculinizes neuron number and instills the capacity for vocal behavior. In certain song regions, E2 masculinizes neuron number by preventing the naturally-occurring death of neurons, long after their production, migration and process outgrowth are complete. However, in the Higher Vocal Center (HVC), the cellular mechanisms by which E2 establishes sex differences in neuron number are poorly understood. In contrast with other song regions, HVC neurogenesis overlaps with sexual differentiation and the incorporation of new neurons is greater in young males and E2-treated females, than in normal females. However, it is not known whether E2 promotes the addition of HVC neurons by stimulating their production, specification, and/or survival. To address this issue we injected males and females with [3H]thymidine on days 15 and 16 to label a small group of sexually dimorphic HVC neuronal cohorts born during sexual differentiation. Afterwards, on day 17, females were implanted with Silastic pellets filled with estradiol benzoate (EB) or left empty. We report here that EB exposure on day 17 masculinized (increased) the number of neurons in the HVC at day 35 that were labeled by [3H]thymidine injections on days 15/16. Thus, EB was able to increase cell number among at least some HVC neuronal cohorts after their final division, implying estrogenic regulation of post-mitotic events.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We recently established primary cultures from dissociated second trimester human fetal brains using a novel spin seeding method and characterized cellular populations with distinct phenotypes in these cultures. Here, we report that these neural cultures can be dissociated to single-cell suspensions, sorted by size using flow cytometry and re-seeded to yield cultures selectively enriched for the neuronal and glial cell populations. Sorted neurons were highly homogeneous, viable and extended processes, by one day after re-seeding. These neurons expressed immunoreactivity for neurofilament protein, retained their GABAergic phenotype and were electrically excitable. Re-seeded astrocytes proliferated in culture and expressed glial fibrillary acidic protein. We describe the conditions required for the flow cytometric sorting and tissue culture assays as well as the morphological, immunocytochemical and electrophysiological characteristics of the sorted neuronal population.
In previous experiments we demonstrated an interaction between certain pleckstrin homology (PH) domains and regions containing the so-called WD40 (or beta-transducin) repeats of the beta subunit of trimeric G-proteins (G beta), a finding we here extend to the PH domains of the src-related tyrosine kinase TecIIa and the GTPase dynamin. To examine the possibility that WD40 repeats in molecules other than G beta might also bind PH domains we examined PAFAH-45, the protein product of the Lis-1 gene, which contains 7 WD40 repeats. We found that 1) Purified PAFAH-45 binds PH domain constructs in vitro. 2) Protein constructs expressing all 7 WD40 repeats of PAFAH-45 but lacking the N-terminal non WD40 region also bind PH domains of beta-adrenergic receptor kinase, beta-spectrin, TecIIa and dynamin but with a differing hierarchy of affinities than that seen with G beta. 3). PAFAH-45 WD40 repeats will reduce the binding of PH domains to brain G beta and brain G beta gamma will reduce the binding of PH domains to PAFAH-45. These data support the hypothesis that PH domain/WD40 interactions are involved in a wide variety of important protein/protein interactions.
This study examined, in the adult rat, whether the intraspinal transplantation of a cell suspension of embryonic day (ED)13 rat locus coeruleus primordia was able to normalize the lesion-induced increase of spinal alpha 1-adrenoceptors. Two experimental models of spinal denervation were studied. The first model consisted of a complete spinal cord transection (thoracic vertebrae level T8-T9) and 1 week later, the cell suspension was transplanted below the section; the second one was obtained by a selective chemical lesion of the noradrenergic (NA) system and one month later, the cell suspension was implanted at the same level as in transected rats. Five weeks after grafting, all animals were sacrificed and spinal cord tissue sections were processed for immunohistochemical detection of noradrenaline or for quantification of alpha 1-adrenoceptors binding sites densities using [3H]prazosin as a ligand. After 6-OHDA lesion, as well as caudally to the transection, a significant increase by 21% (P &lt; 0.01) to 68% (P &lt; 0.001) of alpha 1-adrenoceptors densities was detected. The implantation of embryonic NA neurons into the denervated spinal cord led to a reversal of the lesion-induced increase of spinal alpha 1-adrenoceptors, five weeks later. Moreover, this reversal seems to be more effective after mechanical than after chemical denervation.
The authors report the results of a symposium on improving the standards of care for patients with cancer pain. The symposium was sponsored by the Advisory Committee on Cancer Control of the National Cancer Institute of Canada and was held Apr. 8 to 10, 1994, in Toronto. Participants included experts on control of cancer pain and on diffusion techniques, patients with cancer and representatives of regulatory agencies. They suggested the following strategies to improve outcomes in patients with cancer pain. Processes for accreditation of health care institutions should require documentation of cancer pain, its treatment and its outcome. Tertiary care facilities that provide cancer treatment should have expert, subspecialty, multidisciplinary programs for pain control and should provide adequate psychosocial support to patients suffering cancer pain. The Canadian Cancer Society should conduct a public-education campaign to encourage patients to report pain to health care providers. The National Cancer Institute of Canada should foster research on cancer pain by restructuring its process for review of pain-research protocols. Examinations for professionals who care for patients with cancer should include a defined number of questions concerning pain and symptom control. Provincial programs to monitor prescribing through the use of triplicate prescription pads should have an educational as well as regulatory purpose.
We isolated several cDNA fragments by immunoscreening a human cDNA library with our monoclonal antibody, BG5, that showed neuronal staining on human and rat brain sections. A 1,570 bp sequence of one cDNA fragment showed 75% homology to the rat microtubule-associated protein 1A (MAP1A) cDNA sequence. This rat MAP1A-like human cDNA was highly specific to the adult brain among human tissues tested, and was expressed in various brain regions including white matter. The size of the mRNA detected with Northern blot analysis in adult human brain equaled 10 kb. The gene of this cDNA was assigned to human chromosome 15 that has a syntenic region of mouse chromosome 2, where the mouse MAP1A gene has been assigned. These results indicate that this rat MAP1A-like cDNA is a portion of human MAP1A and is a conserved molecular species among humans and rodents.
A mouse monoclonal antibody (5B9), directed against a carbohydrate epitope of human epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), recognized an 81-kDalton glycoprotein in buffer-soluble and detergent-solubilized rat brain extracts (BE). The glycoprotein was more abundant in extracts prepared from injured brain than in those from normal tissue. Removal from BE of the antigens recognized by 5B9 increased their astrocyte mitogenic activity. Sections of injured rat brain and cultures derived from damaged brain, enriched in microglia, showed 5B9 immunoreactivity in ED1-positive cells. The abundance of the glycoprotein recognized by 5B9 in injured, relative to normal, tissue, suggested that molecules with EGFR immunoreactivity may be expressed in reactive microglial cells and released after injury.
1. Vasopressin-secreting neurones in the rat hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus display patterned spontaneous phasic activity, which is apparently maintained in vivo through yet unidentified neurotransmitter system(s). The present investigation used extracellular recording techniques in anaesthetized Long-Evans rats to evaluate whether the neurotransmitter mechanism underlying phasic firing is provided via a family of ionotropic glutamate receptors. 2. N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) reliably evoked bursts of activity in twenty-seven of twenty-eight phasic neurones. Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) and kainate also elicited pronounced excitations in twenty-one of twenty-one and and fourteen of fifteen phasic cells, respectively. 3. A rapid blockade of on-going phasic activity was consistently induced following brief applications of both NMDA and non-NMDA receptor antagonists; extended application of antagonists resulted in prolonged silent periods, during which phasic activity failed to recur for minutes. Neither saline nor a cholecystokinin receptor antagonist influenced cell firing. 4. In contrast to putative vasopressin cells, application of NMDA receptor ligands did not affect the spontaneous activity in most putative oxytocin-secreting neurones, whereas kainate and AMPA potently excited seven of nine and four of five putative oxytocin cells, respectively. 5. These results imply that the maintenance of spontaneous phasic discharges in vivo in supraoptic vasopressin-secreting neurones requires tonic synaptic activation involving both NMDA and non-NMDA glutamate receptors. In putative oxytocin-secreting neurones, spontaneous firing appears to be predominantly regulated by non-NMDA receptors. Glutamatergic innervations may be in a unique position to influence the genesis of patterned electrical activity in supraoptic vasopressin neurones.
In this study, we performed an analysis of the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor alpha 3 subunit gene promoter region, -238/+47, to identify cis and trans elements that are important for basal activity in PC12 cells. Sequence analyses of the alpha 3 promoter and footprint assays revealed an Sp1 binding site between -79 and -57 (termed the alpha 3 GA motif) and an AP2 binding site between -30 and -7. Using mobility shift analysis, we found that PC12 cell extracts contain proteins that specifically bind to the alpha 3 GA motif and are immunologically related to Sp1. Mutation of the alpha 3 GA motif, which prevented binding of Sp1, resulted in a 75% decrease in promoter activity. Mutation of the AP2 site resulted in only a minor loss of promoter activity, which is consistent with the lack of AP2 binding activity in PC12 extracts. In Drosophila Schneider line 2 (S2) cell cotransfection assays, Sp1 activated the alpha 3 promoter in a GA motif-dependent manner. Furthermore, multimerization of the GA motif upstream of the beta-globin TATA box conferred Sp1 responsiveness. Our results indicate that Sp1 can activate transcription through direct interaction with the alpha 3 GA motif and that this motif plays a major role in alpha 3 promoter basal activity in PC12 cells.
We have reported previously mitogenic effects of gastrin on several immortalized and neoplastic cell lines, including Swiss 3T3 fibroblasts. Receptor subtypes, cholecystokinin (CCK)-A and CCK-B, for a closely related peptide, cholecystokinin, were recently cloned. These studies were undertaken to investigate if CCK-A- and CCK-B receptors were perhaps mediating the mitogenic effects of gastrin on Swiss 3T3 cells. Receptor antagonists that inhibit the biological effects and binding of peptides to the CCK-A (L-364,718 (L18)) and CCK-B (L-365,260 (L60)) receptors were ineffective toward inhibiting the binding and proliferative effects of gastrin on Swiss 3T3 cells. Radiolabeled L18 and L60 demonstrated no binding to the cells, indicating that CCK-A and CCK-B receptors may be absent on Swiss 3T3 cells. Radiolabeled CCK-8, gastrin, L18, and L60, on the other hand, demonstrated specific binding to a pancreatic cancer cell line (AR42J cells) (used as a positive control). In cross-linking studies the molecular mass of the major band of gastrin receptors (GR) on Swiss 3T3 cells was determined to be approximately 45 kDa. The mitogenic potency of 0.1-1.0 nM gastrin-like peptides on Swiss 3T3 cells was in the order of G1-17 &gt; or = G1-17-Gly &gt; G5-17 &gt; or = G5-17-Gly &gt; G2-17 &gt; CCK-8-Gly &gt; or = G1-17-Lys &gt; or = CCK-8. The relative binding affinity of the peptides (based on the dose-dependent inhibition of binding of 125I-G1-17 to Swiss 3T3 cells) was similar to the relative mitogenic potency of the peptides as given above. Furthermore, G1-17-Gly was equally effective as G1-17 in displacing the binding of 125I-G1-17 to the 45-kDa GR from the Swiss 3T3 cells. Based on these studies it became evident that the novel gastrin preferring GR, expressed by Swiss 3T3 cells, binds and mediates the mitogenic effects of not only the mature (amidated) forms of gastrin-like peptides but also binds and mediates the mitogenic effects of glycine-extended forms of gastrin-like peptides. Possible mRNA expression of CCK-A and CCK-B receptor subtypes by gastrin-responsive rodent intestinal and fibroblast cell lines (Swiss 3T3, IEC-6, CA) was measured by the methods of Northern blot analysis and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. mRNA from rat pancreas, AR42J cells, and rat antrum served as positive controls.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The effects of graded stressful conditions on extracellular concentrations of dopamine (DA) in the medial prefrontal cortex of rats were measured in vivo using microdialysis. Picking up the rat twice with a 20-min interval increased extracellular DA to 120%, exposure to a novel environment by placement in a clean cage for 20 min to 150% and holding the rat in the hands for 20 min to over 200%. Diazepam (5 mg/kg) decreased DA to about 75% and attenuated the novelty- and handling-induced increases. Exposure to novelty or handling are easy and simple methods to obtain graded increases of in vivo cortical DA release.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) may have a transmitter/modulator role in the hypothalamic magnocellular neurosecretory system. In the rat, the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei display high affinity binding for radiolabelled CCK. Exogenously applied CCK depolarizes supraoptic neurons, acting at postsynaptic CCK-B type receptors. The present study evaluated the ability for the sulfated octapeptide of CCK (CCK-8S), which is a predominate form of this peptide in brain, to evoke release of vasopressin from the neurohypophysis of intra-arterially perfused hypothalamic explants. 3 min applications of 1 microM CCK-8S through the intra-arterial perfusion medium prompted an elevation of vasopressin in samples taken from the neurointermediate lobe in 10 of 14 preparations. Vasopressin levels rose from undetectable baseline values to a peak of 29.5 +/- 6.7 pg/ml (mean +/- S.E.M). This response was dose-dependent and was abolished by pituitary stalk transection (5/5 explants). Locally applied CCK-8S (25-200 pmol) through bilateral infusions onto the ventral surface of the supraoptic nucleus also induced a dose-dependent release of vasopressin (5/7 explants). These observations suggest that CCK can act at receptors located on (or near) the somata of supraoptic nucleus neurons to induce neuronal discharges that are conducted to the neural lobe where they evoke release of vasopressin from neurohypophysial axon terminals.
Activation of dendritic voltage-gated ion channels by local synaptic input was tested by simultaneous dendrite-attached patch-clamp recordings and whole-cell somatic voltage recordings made from CA1 pyramidal neurons in hippocampal slices. Schaffer collateral stimulation elicited subthreshold excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) that opened voltage-gated sodium and calcium channels in the apical dendrites. The EPSP-activated sodium channels opened near the peak of the EPSP, whereas low voltage-activated calcium channels opened near the EPSP peak and during the decay phase. Dendritic high voltage-activated channels required somatic action potential generation or suprathreshold synaptic trains for activation. Dendritic voltage-gated channels are, therefore, likely to participate in dendritic integration of synaptic events.
A striatal synaptosomal preparation was used to assess the action of metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGlu receptor) agonists on 4-aminopyridine (2 mM)-stimulated endogenous glutamate release. 4-Aminopyridine alone increased basal glutamate release by 6.89 +/- 0.74 nmol/mg. The mGlu receptor agonists L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (L-AP4) (IC50 approximately 0.2 microM) and (1S,3S)-1-amino-cyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (IC50 approximately 0.2 microM) inhibited 4-aminopyridine-stimulated release. The putative mGlu receptor antagonist (S)-alpha-methyl-L-AP4, which itself inhibited 4-aminopyridine-stimulated release (IC50 approximately 10 microM), did not inhibit the effects of the two agonists.
Protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) is a highly conserved enzyme that has been implicated in diverse biological processes in the brain as well as in nonneuronal tissues. The present study used light and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry to characterize the distribution of two PP1 isoforms, PP1 alpha and PP1 gamma 1, in the rat neostriatum. Both isoforms are heterogeneously distributed in brain with the highest immunoreactivity being found in the neostriatum and hippocampal formation. Further, both isoforms are highly and specifically concentrated in dendritic spines. Weak immunoreactivity is present in dendrites, axons, and some axon terminals. Immunoreactivity for PP1 alpha is also present in the perikaryal cytoplasm and nuclei of most medium- and large-sized neostriatal neurons. The specific localization of PP1 in dendritic spines is consistent with a central role for this enzyme in signal transduction. The data support the concept that, in the course of evolution, spines developed as specialized signal transduction organelles enabling neurons to integrate diverse inputs from multiple afferent nerve terminals.
We have molecularly cloned a calcium sensing receptor (CaSR) from a rat striatal cDNA library. Rat CaSR displays 92% overall homology to its bovine counterpart with seven putative transmembrane domains characteristic of the superfamily of guanine nucleotide-binding proteins and significant homology with the metabotropic glutamate receptors. Northern blot analysis reveals two transcripts in thyroid, kidney, lung, ileum, and pituitary. In brain highest regional expression of the RNA occurs in the hypothalamus and the corpus striatum. Immunohistochemistry reveals discrete punctate localizations throughout the brain that appear to be associated with nerve terminals. No staining is evident in cell bodies of neurons or glia. Cerebral arteries display an intense network of CaSR immunoreactive fibers associated with vessel innervation. CaSR on nerve terminal membranes may regulate neurotransmitter disposition in response to Ca2+ levels in the synaptic space.
Local delivery of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) by genetically modified cells provides the unique opportunity to examine the effects of BDNF on adult dopaminergic and cholinergic neurons in vivo. Primary rat fibroblasts were genetically engineered to produce BDNF. Conditioned media from BDNF-transduced fibroblasts supported embryonic chick dorsal root ganglion neurons as well as rat fetal mesencephalic neurons. BDNF-transduced fibroblasts grafted to the rat brain survived and showed continued mRNA production for at least 2 weeks. The effects of BDNF-transduced fibroblast grafts on the dopaminergic and cholinergic systems were then assessed. BDNF-transduced fibroblasts grafted into the normal intact substantia nigra induced sprouting of tyrosine hydroxylase- and neurofilament-immunoreactive fibers into the graft. Fibroblast grafts implanted into the normal intact striatum and midbrain as well as the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned brain did not induce sprouting of dopaminergic fibers; neither did they affect drug-induced rotational behavior. BDNF-transduced fibroblasts did, however, significantly increase the homovanillic acid/dopamine ratio when grafted into the normal midbrain. Following transection of the fimbriafornix, BDNF-transduced fibroblasts grafted into the septum were unable to rescue the septal cholinergic population, as did nerve growth factor-producing fibroblast grafts. Genetically modified fibroblast grafts may provide an effective, localized method of BDNF delivery in vivo to test biological effects of this factor on the central nervous system.
Using the monoclonal antibody 3W3 a two-site enzyme immunoassay (EIA) for neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) was established. The assay was sensitive to levels of NT-3 below 10 pg/ml and does not recognize nerve growth factor (NGF) or brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). In the adult rat brain, highest levels of NT-3 (1-1.5 ng/g tissue) were found in hippocampus and piriform cortex. Also the cerebellum contained detectable NT-3 protein. In the postnatal (P1 and P5) rat brain very high levels of NT-3 (7-9 ng/g) were found in the cingulate cortex consistent with previous observations of a local, transient NT-3 mRNA expression. NT-3 was also found prenatally in hippocampus, telencephalon and cerebellum. The EIA shows that the pattern of NT-3 protein in brain tissues is distinct from that of NGF.
In a previous in vivo microdialysis study in rats, it was found that cortical acetylcholine (ACh) efflux was reliably increased by a multimodal appetitive stimulus (onset of darkness with presentation of palatable food). Furthermore, this stimulated ACh efflux was significantly enhanced by systemic administration of a benzodiazepine receptor (BZR) weak inverse agonist and significantly reduced by a BZR full agonist. These effects contrasted with the minimal effects of BZR ligands on basal cortical ACh efflux in resting animals. The aim of the present study was to determine whether this modulation of stimulated cortical ACh efflux by BZR ligands was mediated within the basal forebrain. ACh efflux, measured with in vivo microdialysis, was stimulated by onset of darkness, an event which predicted delivery of palatable food. The BZR full inverse agonist, beta -CCM (3.0 micrograms/hemisphere) or the full agonist chlordiazepoxide (40.0 micrograms/hemisphere) was infused into the basal forebrain just prior to the darkness/food stimulus. Similar to previous results with systemic administration, the BZR full inverse agonist enhanced, while the full agonist reduced, stimulated cortical ACh efflux. These results demonstrate that the action of BZR ligands in the basal forebrain is sufficient for their modulation of cortical ACh release.

In vitro, clonidine (1, 10, or 30 microM) dose-dependently and reversibly inhibited tonically active pacemaker neurons that correspond to the relatively fast-conducting reticulospinal vasomotor neurons of the rostral ventrolateral reticular nucleus of the medulla oblongata in rats. The clonidine-induced membrane-hyperpolarizing response of these neurons was abolished by either tetrodotoxin, bicuculline, a GABAA receptor antagonist, or 4,4'-diisothiocyano-1,2'-disulphonic stilbene acid, a Cl- channel blocker. We conclude that the clonidine-induced inhibition of the pacemaker neurons of the rostral ventrolateral reticular nucleus is indirect, mediated by synaptic release of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) or GABA-like substances, which activate Cl- channels of the pacemaker neurons of the rostral ventrolateral reticular nucleus.
Previously, morphine has been shown to influence social play behavior in rats on two levels. An increasing effect on social play was interpreted as an effect on the rewarding aspects of social play. A lower dose of morphine abolished the effects of an unfamiliar environment on social play, supposedly by affecting the integration of environmental stimuli. In the present study the effects of receptor-specific opioid drugs on social play and measures of social behavior unrelated to play were investigated. Fentanyl, a mu-opioid receptor agonist, seemingly mimicked both effects of morphine. The mu-opioid receptor antagonist, beta-funaltrexamine, decreased social play, although a low dose of this drug increased it. BUBUC (Tyr-D-Cys(StBu)-Gly-Phe-Leu-Thr(OtBu)) and naltrindole, a delta-opioid receptor agonist and delta-opioid receptor antagonist, respectively, had no effects on social behavior. The kappa-opioid receptor agonist, U50,488H (trans-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N-[2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)-cyclohexyl]- benzeneacetamide), dose dependently suppressed all measures of social behavior. The kappa-opioid receptor antagonist, nor-binaltorphimine, abolished the effect of an unfamiliar environment on social play. These studies suggest that the opioidergic effect on social play is mediated through mu- and kappa-opioid receptor systems.
The exact role of the mammalian hippocampus in memory formation remains essentially as an unanswered question for cognitive neuroscience. Experiments with humans and with animals indicate that some types of mnemonic associative processes involve hippocampal function while others do not. Support for the spatial processing hypothesis of hippocampal function has stemmed from the impaired performance of rats with hippocampal lesions in tasks that require spatial discriminations, but not cued discriminations. Previous procedures, however, have confounded the interpretation of spatial versus cued discrimination learning with the number and kinds of irrelevant stimuli present in the discrimination. An empirical set of data describing a role of protein kinase C (PKC) in different mnemonic processes is similarly being developed. Recent work has implicated the activation of this serine-threonine kinase in a variety of learning paradigms, as well as long-term potentiation (LTP), a model system for synaptic plasticity which may subserve some types of learning. The present study employs the principles of component task analysis to examine the role of membrane-associated PKC (mPKC) in hippocampal-dependent memory when all factors other than the type of learning were equivalent. The results indicate that hippocampal mPKC is altered by performance in hippocampally-dependent spatial discriminations, but not hippocampally-independent cued discriminations and provide a general experimental procedure to relate neural changes to specific behavioral changes.
The third intron of the mitochondrial benzodiazepine receptor (MBR)-encoding gene was sequenced from hamster, mouse and human. The rodent species were found to include an Alu-like sequence, as was first discovered in the rat gene. Differences with the rat intron were evident by an insertion of an additional B1 element in the hamster and the introduction of a complete and two partial B2 sequences in the mouse intron. The human intron contained a cluster of four Alu sequences; however, all of these repetitive elements were found to be in the opposite orientation relative to the Alu-like sequence present in the rodent genes. These findings support the possibility that the rodent Alu-like sequence is a remnant of a retropositional insertion in this gene prior to the divergence of rodent species. Because the human intron does not contain the same Alu remnant, it cannot be concluded that the rodent sequence represents an insertion of a primordial Alu element prior to the divergence of rodent and primate lineages.
A comparative histochemical analysis of the prevalence and cytochrome oxidase staining characteristics of ragged-red fibres in limb skeletal muscles was performed in 19 patients spanning four distinct mitochondrial syndromes: chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia; myoclonus epilepsy with ragged-red fibres; mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes; and pure limb myopathy. The percentage occurrence of non-ragged red but cytochrome oxidase negative fibres was additionally noted. Ragged-red fibres and cytochrome oxidase-negative fibres were generally more prevalent in the chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia syndrome than in myoclonus epilepsy ragged-red fibres syndrome or mitochondrial myopathy encephalopathy lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes syndrome. Isolated cytochrome oxidase-negative fibres were a common finding in each phenotypic syndrome except pure limb myopathy and could involve any of the major fibre types non-specifically. Ragged-red fibres were devoid of cytochrome oxidase activity in chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia, but commonly displayed activity in the other three syndromes providing a clue to syndromal differentiation on a histochemical basis.
Activities of thiamine monophosphatase (TMPase) and thiamine diphosphatase (TDPase) were measured in homogenates of brain tissue obtained at autopsy from eight alcoholic cirrhotic patients who died in hepatic coma and nine controls matched for age and for postmortem delay interval and free from neurological or psychiatric disorders, hepatic disease, or other conditions of grossly impaired nutritional status. Enzyme activities were measured by standard spectrophotometric techniques. Both TMPase and TDPase were distributed unevenly in brain with highest activities being recorded in temporal cortex. Regional correlations between TMPase and TDPase, however, were poor. TDPase activities in brain tissue from alcoholic cirrhotic patients were significantly increased in 5 of 6 brain regions, by 26 to 153% (p &lt; 0.05). TMPase activities in alcoholic cirrhotics, on the other hand, were unchanged in all brain regions, with the exception of caudate nucleus where they were increased by 70% (p &lt; 0.05). These findings add to the substantial body of evidence suggesting that alcoholic liver disease is associated with abnormal thiamine status and with altered thiamine neurochemistry. Increased TDP degradation resulting from increased activities of TDPase could contribute to the pathophysiological mechanisms involved in alcohol-related brain dysfunction.
A compartment model has been developed and validated for the kinetic analysis of (S)(-)11C-nicotine binding in the brain including a compensation for the influence of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). The model was applied to eight patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) and three age-matched healthy volunteers who received intravenous injections of (S)(-)11C-nicotine and 11C-butanol. The uptake and time course of radioactivity in different brain regions were assessed by positron emission tomography (PET). The rate constant k2* was formulated by dividing the K2 rate constant for 11C-nicotine with the K1 rate constant for 11C-butanol and thereby minimizing the influence of CBF on the quantitated binding of 11C-nicotine. The rate constant k2* for 11C-nicotine giving a quantitative measure of binding in the brain tissue was significantly higher in the temporal and frontal cortices as well as in the hippocampus of AD brains as compared with controls, indicating deficits in specific nicotinic binding in these brain areas of AD patients. A significant and negative correlation was obtained between cognitive function (Mini-Mental State Examination) and k2* of 11C-nicotine in the temporal and frontal cortices as well as in the hippocampus. The described kinetic model allowed in vivo quantification of nicotinic receptor binding in brain, which will be of importance in the future for evaluation of diagnosis, progress of disease, as well as the therapeutic effects in the treatment of AD.
The present study was designed to investigate the role of macrophages and circulating tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in the endotoxin-induced hypothermic responses in rats. Intravenous as well as intraperitoneal administration of endotoxin to male Wistar rats (0.5 mg/kg) led to increased plasma TNF-alpha concentrations and a transient hypothermia, which reached its nadir after 90 min. The hypothermia and plasma TNF-alpha responses to endotoxin were abolished after elimination of peripheral macrophages. Seven days after the first challenge, tolerance of the hypothermic response was found if the same dose was administered intraperitoneally but not if it was administered intravenously. Tolerance of the TNF-alpha response was induced irrespective of the route of endotoxin administration. We hypothesize that, after intravenous administration of endotoxin, macrophage-dependent and -independent mechanisms are activated, whereas the hypothermic response to intraperitoneal endotoxin involves primarily macrophage-dependent mechanisms. These mechanisms may relate to the prime targets reached by endotoxin, such as macrophages and endothelial cells. Because the development of tolerance of the hypothermic response is dependent on the route of endotoxin administration, whereas that of the plasma TNF-alpha response is not, we conclude that circulating TNF-alpha is not the macrophage-derived cryogenic signal that triggers the hypothermic response.
In addition to neuromodulation, endogenous opioid peptides serve as growth factors. To determine involvement of opioids in the homeostatic renewal and repair of the corneal epithelium, epithelial outgrowths from 3-mm explants of rabbit cornea were investigated. Blockade of opioid-receptor interaction by the potent opioid antagonist naltrexone (NTX) for 7 days significantly increased the extent of outgrowths and the number and labeling index (DNA synthesis) of epithelial cells, relative to control levels. Outgrowths exposed to the opioid growth factor (OGF) [Met5]enkephalin for 7 days were subnormal in extent and labeling index and displayed alterations in architectural pattern. The effects of OGF on epithelial outgrowth were blocked by concomitant exposure to the opioid antagonist naloxone; naloxone alone had no effect on growth at the concentration utilized. NTX and OGF were active in both serum-containing and serum-free cultures. Immunocytochemical investigations showed that both OGF and its opioid receptor zeta (zeta) were present in epithelial cells growing in control media. The results indicate that an endogenous opioid peptide and its receptor are present in mammalian corneal epithelium and serve to modulate cell proliferation, migration, and organization.
Conscious virgin, pregnant, or lactating rats were given intravenous Escherichia coli endotoxin while their temperatures were monitored telemetrically. Virgin females responded to 10-50 micrograms/kg endotoxin with a slight hypothermia, followed by a fever of nearly 2 degrees C magnitude. In pregnant rats given 25 micrograms/kg of the endotoxin, fevers were reduced between 96 h before and 24 h after parturition compared with those seen in virgins or in lactating rats &gt; 24 h postpartum. In the 24-h period before expected time of parturition, no rat developed a fever and the majority of animals became hypothermic; furthermore, in 80% of such animals given 25 micrograms/kg endotoxin, the hypothermia was accompanied by death within 3-15 h. Some mortality and hypothermia were also seen up to 48 h before birth and up to 24 h after birth. No mortality was observed in virgin, pregnant, or lactating rats outside of this time period. We conclude that, around the time of delivery, there is a suppression of fever in the rat and occasional toxic responses to endotoxin.
Concentrations of catecholamines and their metabolites in plasma entering and exiting mesenteric organs, liver, and kidneys were examined to assess the regional production and metabolism of catecholamines in anesthetized swine. Higher portal venous than arterial plasma concentrations of norepinephrine and its metabolites, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG) and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG), and of dopamine and its metabolites, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA), indicated substantial production of both catecholamines by mesenteric organs, representing 45-50% of total body production. Most dopamine was not metabolized to norepinephrine, suggesting a large nonnoradrenergic contribution to total body dopamine production. Concentrations of norepinephrine, DHPG, normetanephrine, and MHPG were lower in plasma exiting than entering the liver, whereas concentrations of the end-product of norepinephrine metabolism, vanillylmandelic acid (VMA), were higher in outflowing than inflowing plasma. Over 94% of the VMA removed by the kidneys was produced in the liver, consistent with the hepatic source of this metabolite. Removal of DOPAC and HVA by the liver exceeded removal by the kidneys or production by mesenteric organs, indicating greater hepatic than renal elimination of these metabolites from the body and underestimation of mesenteric organ dopamine production based on summed spillovers of dopamine metabolites from the liver into the systemic circulation.
This study examined the regulation of murine beta 3-receptor mRNA and determined whether the recently described mRNA splice variants are differentially regulated by agents that alter total beta 3-receptor mRNA levels. In vivo treatment of mice with the beta 3-receptor agonist BRL-26830 reduced total beta 3-transcripts by 64% in white adipose tissue but did not alter the mRNA splicing pattern. Further analysis in cultured 3T3-F442A adipocytes showed that isoproterenol, dexamethasone, or phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate also greatly reduced beta 3-receptor mRNA levels without selectively altering poly-U-containing transcripts. Blockade of transcription with actinomycin D produced a rapid loss of beta 3-receptor mRNA, which was prevented by blockade of mRNA translation with cycloheximide. However, neither actinomycin D nor cycloheximide altered the splicing pattern of beta 3-receptor mRNA. Analysis of transcription rate by nuclear run-off assay indicated that 8-bromoadenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate reduce beta 3-receptor gene transcription and that suppression of transcription is sufficient to account for the reduction in beta 3-receptor mRNA levels by these agents.

Since 1978, the study of health and behavior has become a major focus of scientists in psychology, psychiatry, nursing, neuroscience, and in traditional medical science disciplines. Investigation of psychological or behavioral influences on biological systems has established that biobehavioral processes such as stress play an important role in disease processes. An excellent example of the interactions between stress and health outcomes is the reactivation of latent herpes simplex virus (HSV) leading to recurrent lesions. This article describes what is currently known about HSV latency and reactivation and considers some mechanisms by which stress-induced changes in the host's immune and nervous systems might allow for either the establishment or reactivation of latent viral infections.
Recent studies from our laboratory and by other investigators have shown that autoreactive CD4+ cells specific for peripheral nerve P2 protein have a powerful effect on blood-nerve barrier permeability. In this study we injected CD4+ T cells reactive to a nonneural antigen (ovalbumin) systemically and achieved their accumulation in the tibial nerve of Lewis rats by previous intraneural injection of ovalbumin. Selected rats were given systemic demyelinating antibody (antigalactocerebroside) to provide an indicator of changes in the permeability of the blood-nerve barrier, and the animals were monitored by sequential neurophysiological studies and histology. Circulating ovalbumin-specific T cells accumulated at sites of intraneural ovalbumin injection without inducing demyelination in control animals. In rats with circulating galactocerebroside antibodies, local conduction block and demyelination were seen in the region of T-cell accumulation. Electron microscopy demonstrated dissolution of some tight junctions between endothelial cells in areas of T-cell accumulation, and T cells traversing the endothelium between endothelial cells and through their cytoplasm. Endothelial cell damage was evident in these areas. This study demonstrates breakdown of the blood-nerve barrier by activated T cells, even of nonneural specificity, allowing the development of focal conduction block and demyelination in the presence of circulating antimyelin antibodies.


The presentation of some odorous materials such as xylene or toluene under the snout of rats has been shown to elicit 15-30 Hz fast-wave bursts in both the olfactory bulb and dentate gyrus. Electrical stimulation of the olfactory bulb elicits an evoked potential (latency of first peak is 16-18 ms) in the dentate gyrus. The present study demonstrates that scopolamine or atropine blocks toluene-induced fast-wave bursts in the dentate region and to a lesser degree in the olfactory bulb while leaving dentate gyrus electrically evoked potentials intact. Further, rhythmical burst stimulation of the olfactory bulb at fast-wave frequencies will elicit fast-wave-like oscillations in the dentate gyrus. These fast-wave-like events, unlike evoked potentials to single-pulse stimulation, are abolished after muscarinic receptor antagonism with atropine. Mechanisms at the olfactory bulb and dentate gyrus that produce fast oscillations may involve muscarinic cholinergic synapses while the simple transmission of single, non-oscillatory olfactory signals to the dentate gyrus does not.
This study was designed to investigate the effects of different recognition procedures on memory performance in Balb/c mice. To this end, mice were submitted to spontaneous or contingently reinforced delayed non-matching (DNMTP) and delayed matching (DMTP) to place tasks in a T-maze. Results indicate that mammillary bodies (MM)-lesioned subjects are significantly impaired in the DNMTP tasks at the long (6 h) but not the short (5 min) delays; in contrast, they did not exhibit deficits in the DMTP task, whatever the delay considered. We stress the importance of task difficulty as a major factor explaining the different effects of the lesion in the two tasks.
Five groups of ovariectomized rats were tested during in vivo microdialysis, and concentrations of dopamine (DA) and its metabolites were determined in dialysate. In striatum, DA increased more in hormone-primed ovariectomized female rats pacing copulation than in those engaging in sex that could not pace, those that were hormone primed but tested without a male present, or oil-treated groups (p &lt; .02). Administration of estrogen before microdialysis resulted in enhanced striatal DA in response to a male rat relative to the animals tested without a male (p &lt; .06). Female rats that were pacing sexual behavior also exhibited a greater increase in accumbens DA than did the no-male, estrogen-primed, or oil-treated groups (p &lt; .015). Nonpacing animals displayed a significant decrease in DA from accumbens 30 min after introduction of the male rat (p &lt; .05) but otherwise were not different from pacing animals. Estrogen-treated animals also had an enhanced increase in accumbens DA compared with oil-treated rats (p &lt; .05). These data suggest that DA release in the striatum and accumbens is dependent on the context in which sexual behavior occurs and that estrogen may in part modulate these dopaminergic responses.
New Zealand male rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) were trained on a trace eyeblink conditioning paradigm using a 250-ms tone conditioned stimulus, a 100-ms airpuff unconditioned stimulus, and a 500-ms trace interval. Rabbits received bilateral hippocampal aspirations either 1 day or 1 month after learning. Controls consisted of time-matched sham-operated and neocortical aspirated rabbits. When retested on the trace paradigm, rabbits with hippocampal aspirations 1 day after learning were significantly and substantially impaired in the retention of trace conditioned responses. In contrast, rabbits that received hippocampal aspirations 1 month after training retained trace conditioned responses at a level comparable to that of the controls. Moreover, hippocampectomy had no effect on the retention of delay eyeblink conditioning. Thus, the hippocampus appears to be necessary for the retention of recently acquired, but not remotely acquired, trace conditioned responses.
We investigated effects of benzodiazepine (BDZ) receptor ligands on working memory in a delayed conditional discrimination (DCD) task. The BDZ receptor full agonist midazolam (0.1-1.0mg/kg) dose-dependently impaired performance independent of delay, indicating no specific effect on working memory. The non-sedative BDZ receptor partial agonist bretazenil (0.06-0.6mg/kg), the inverse agonist beta-CCM (0.05-0.45mg/kg), the partial inverse agonist FG 7142 (0.5-5.0mg/kg), the antagonist flumazenil (1-10mg/kg), and the antagonist ZK 93 426 (1-10mg/kg) did not significantly affect performance. It is concluded that BDZ ligands do not affect working memory in a positively-motivated DCD task. Midazolam also impaired performance in the no-delay condition, suggesting loss of stimulus control, possibly through an attentional impairment.
A quick and safe CT image-guided stereotactic thalamotomy technique that has proved ideal for alleviating medically refractory intractable pain due to malignant disease is described. A simple method of deriving cartesian coordinates for target points that facilitates functional neurosurgery using CT images and the Brown-Roberts-Wells stereotactic system is also described.
In order to compare the predictive value of the Apache II, the Glasgow Coma Scale and Revised Trauma Scoring systems in relation to outcome in a neurosurgical department high dependency unit (HDU), all 109 patients entering the unit under the care of one consultant were studied. All patients in the HDU were self-ventilating, so that motor responses were not suppressed by muscle relaxants or sedation. Initial Minimum and Maximum Glasgow Coma Scale Scores, Revised Trauma Score, Apache II and the Apache minus neurological weighting (Apache-NW) scores, were compared as predictors of outcome (as assessed by the Glasgow Outcome Score at 6 months). Twenty-eight patients had a bad outcome, i.e. Glasgow Outcome Scores 1-3, and 72 individuals a good outcome, i.e. scores 4 or 5. Statistical analysis was by the Spearman Ranked Correlation Test, and comparison of Receiver Operational Characteristics Curves. Data were complete on 100 patients (91.7%) and show the Maximum Glasgow Coma Score, followed by the Apache II score, as the best predictors of outcome analysed. This was also true if all patients except those with head injury were analysed as a group. All scoring systems were significantly better predictors of outcome in the head injured patient. For this group, Apache II had an outcome predictive value of 97% compared with 93% for initial and 95% for minimum GCS. Removing the neurological weighting from Apache II weakened its predictive ability in all patients, emphasizing that it is the neurological status of the patient which best predicts overall functional outcome. Apache II data are also much more time-consuming to collect than GCS data.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. The effect of chlormethiazole has been studied in a transient middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion model of cerebral ischaemia in the rat. The MCA was occluded for 1 h by use of an intraluminal suture technique, with reperfusion for 24 h following removal of the occluding filament. Neuronal damage was determined by measurement of the area of necrosis following Cresyl Violet staining of sections taken through the ischaemic region. 2. In the initial experiment, occlusion of the MCA produced a large volume of ischaemic damage in both cortex and striatum, characterized by necrosis and pyknosis (total volume of damage, 287 +/- 13 mm3, n = 9). Rats injected with chlormethiazole (1000 mumol kg-1, i.p.) 60 min before occlusion had a reduced volume of damage in both regions (104 +/- 11 mm3; n = 9; P &lt; 0.001). 3. In a subsequent study systemic physiological parameters (heart rate, blood pressure, blood pH, blood gases and rectal temperature) were measured throughout the ischaemic period. 4. Chlormethiazole (1000 mumol kg-1) pretreatment produced little change in systemic physiology and the neuroprotective effect of the drug when given 60 min prior to the MCA occlusion was confirmed. Chlormethiazole was also neuroprotective when given 10 min following the start of reperfusion (control group: 244 +/- 52 mm3, n = 10; chlormethiazole pretreatment group: 102 +/- 23 mm3, n = 10; P &lt; 0.001; chlormethiazole post-ischaemia group: 122 +/- 16 mm3; P &lt; 0.001, n = 10). 5. It is concluded that chlormethiazole is an effective neuroprotective agent in this model of transient focal ischaemia. The observation that chlormethiazole is protective when given after reperfusion indicates that the effect of the drug is unlikely to be due to an alteration of intra-ischaemic cerebral blood flow, but is more probably a direct effect on the development of ischaemic damage.
1. The effect of chlormethiazole administration on delayed neuronal death in gerbil hippocampus following transient global ischaemia has been examined. Chlormethiazole was administered either intraperitoneally or by intravenous infusion with either the dose or the time of infusion varied. 2. Chlormethiazole (600 mumol kg-1, i.p.) given 60 min after ischaemia produced substantial (&gt; 60%) neuroprotection when damage was assessed 5, 14 or 21 days later, indicating the drug does not merely delay cell death. 3. Infusion protocols were developed which would result in sustained and defined plasma concentrations. Chlormethiazole (930 mumol kg-1) was then infused intravenously for 30 min, 76.5 min or 110 min in ways resulting in sustained plasma concentrations of 200, 100 and 50 nmol ml-1 respectively. When treatment was initiated 30 min after the ischaemic episode all protocols provided effective neuroprotection. There was a dose-dependent decline in protection when plasma chlormethiazole concentrations of 50, 30 and 10 nmol ml-1 were sustained for 110 min with no protection observed at 10 nmol ml-1. 4. In contrast, when a plasma concentration of 10 nmol ml-1 was sustained by infusion for 24 h, almost total neuroprotection against the ischaemic damage was achieved. This plasma concentration produced no sedative or anticonvulsant activity. 5. These data suggest that neuroprotection depends on both dose and duration of chlormethiazole administration and that excellent neuroprotection is possible in the absence of the sedative and anticonvulsant effects of the drug.
Patients with a complete section of the corpus callosum have been observed to exhibit strong left-ear suppression when different speech stimuli are presented to both ears simultaneously (so-called dichotic listening). Data concerning the locus of corpus callosum damage that causes strong left-ear suppression remains scanty. In the present investigation, a consonant-vowel syllable dichotic listening test was given to five right-handed patients with partial sections of the corpus callosum, which were located using MRI and accurately defined measurement procedures. The following two measurement methods were used: (i) the genu-splenium (G-S) method, in which a lesion was localized in the anteroposterior dimension relative to the total length of the corpus callosum, defined as the distance between the most anterior point of the genu to the most posterior point of the splenium; and (ii) the rostrum-splenium (R-S) method, which takes into account the curvature of the corpus callosum, and in which a lesion was localized relative to the total length of the corpus callosum, defined as the length of the curved line from the tip of the rostrum to the end of the splenium. Results were compared with scores from 50 normal control subjects. Strong left-ear suppression was observed in two patients, who had surgical sections of the posterior 15.5-18.5% of the corpus callosum as measured with the G-S method, or the posterior 20-24% of the corpus callosum as measured with the R-S method. The suppression phenomenon persisted for more than 10 years post-surgery. On the other hand, the remaining three patients, who had lesions anterior to the posterior 17-28% of the corpus callosum as measured with the G-S method or 20-33% as measured with the R-S method exhibited no left-ear extinction. Despite the common assumption that damage to the posterior part of the trunk of the corpus callosum causes strong left-ear suppression, the results from the G-S method indicated that damage to the splenium defined as the posterior one-fifth of the segment between the anterior-most and posterior-most points of the corpus callosum, cause strong left-ear suppression. By the R-S method, results showed that damage to the splenium (the posterior one-fifth of the curvature of the corpus callosum) and possibly the part extending to the most posterior part of the trunk (the posterior one-quarter of the curvature) causes strong left-ear suppression.
We investigated the pathogenesis of acquired pendular nystagmus (APN) in six patients, three of whom had multiple sclerosis. First, we tested the hypothesis that the oscillations of APN are due to a delay in visual feedback secondary, for example, to demyelination of the optic nerves. We manipulated the latency to onset of visually guided eye movements using an electronic technique that induces sinusoidal oscillations in normal subjects. This manipulation did not change the characteristics of the APN, but did superimpose lower-frequency oscillations similar to those induced in normal subjects. These results are consistent with current models for smooth (non-saccadic) eye movements, which predict that prolongation of visual feedback could not account for the high-frequency oscillations that often characterize APN. Secondly, we attempted to determine whether an increase in the gain of the visually-enhanced vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR), produced by viewing a near target, was accompanied by a commensurate increase in the amplitude of APN. Increases in horizontal or vertical VOR gain during near viewing occurred in four patients, but only two of them showed a parallel increase in APN amplitude. On the other hand, APN amplitude decreased during viewing of the near target in the two patients who showed no change in VOR gain. Taken together, these data suggest that neither delayed visual feedback nor a disorder of central vestibular mechanisms is primarily responsible for APN. More likely, these ocular oscillations are produced by abnormalities of internal feedback circuits, such as the reciprocal connections between brainstem nuclei and cerebellum.
Defects of the mitochondrial respiratory chain are associated with a great variety of clinical disorders. Whilst recognition of these conditions is increasing, the need for sophisticated biochemical and molecular studies has tended to limit both their investigation and diagnosis to a few specialist centres. Using a group of 51 patients with histochemically, biochemically and/or genetically defined respiratory chain defects, we have examined both the clinical heterogeneity of these disorders and how they may be investigated most effectively in non-specialist centres. We evaluated the use of the following routinely available clinical investigations--fasting intermediary metabolites (lactate, pyruvate, ketone bodies, etc.) in blood and cerebrospinal fluid, serum creatine kinase estimation, EMG, EEG, CT, MRI and histological/histochemical muscle biopsy analysis. Our studies show that, in addition to well-recognized syndromes (e.g. chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia, mitochondrial encephalopathy lactic acidosis and stroke like episodes, and myoclonus epilepsy with ragged red-fibres, a significant number of patients present with non-specific encephalopathic disorders. Furthermore, even within those categories of respiratory chain disease which have been genetically defined, a wide variation of presenting symptoms and signs were found. Where there was initial doubt concerning the diagnosis, the following clinical features were helpful in suggesting respiratory chain disease: ophthalmoplegia; a maternal pattern of inheritance; the presence of myopathy or deafness in association with encephalopathy. Of the clinical investigations we assessed, elevated lactate in blood or cerebrospinal fluid and low density lesions in the basal ganglia were helpful in identifying patients with respiratory chain dysfunction. Histochemical analysis of muscle was, however, the single most useful investigation being diagnostic in patients with chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia, Kearns-Sayre syndrome and myopathy, and of significant importance in patients presenting primarily with central nervous system disease. The results of our study are used to discuss the most appropriate approach to diagnosis of this group of disorders.
Spatiotemporal source modeling (STSM) attempts to interpret multichannel scalp recordings in terms of their contributing brain areas. Localization accuracy is generally limited by spatially correlated residual noise and by modeling simplifications. For signals emanating simultaneously from several sources, however, correct interpretation of the source structure is the prime concern. The discussion of various STSM methods emphasizes this validity issue. Methods are proposed for systematic search of alternate source models also consistent with the data, in order to prevent unwarranted conclusions, and for combining information from different montages and from data variability across trials to impose severe objective criteria for consistency of a source model with the data.
To examine the roles of the eph subfamily of receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK), we isolated mouse cDNAs for sek, elk, and eck and localized their mRNAs in the developing mouse, with particular reference to the CNS development, by in situ hybridization. sek mRNA is most abundantly expressed throughout development; sek was detected in the germinal layer of the embryonic CNS during mid- to late-gestation and was widely expressed in the early postnatal brain. elk was expressed in the mantle layer of the embryonic CNS and showed a distribution complementary to that of sek. Differential expression of sek and elk was also observed in the early postnatal cerebellum; sek was expressed in the Purkinje cells, while elk was detected in the granule cells. eck was moderately expressed in the germinal layer of the embryonic CNS at mid-gestation, but its expression decreased as development proceeded. These spatio-temporally different patterns of gene expression suggest that these RTKs have distinct roles in mouse development despite their structural homology.
Effects of destruction of central dopaminergic neurons on tyrosine hydroxylase gene expression were investigated. Two weeks after the unilateral injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the medial forebrain bundle, a 67% to 99% loss of striatal dopamine (DA) content was observed ipsilateral to the injection site. Measures of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) protein levels revealed losses in striatal content proportional to DA content. Striatal dihydroxylphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) was somewhat less affected, resulting in 2- to 4-fold increases in the striatal DOPAC/DA ratio, depending on the severity of the lesion. Morphologically, surviving TH-positive substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) neurons were more rounded than contralateral control cells, and exhibited decreases in cross-sectional area that were proportional to the loss of striatal DA. Measures of cytoplasmic TH mRNA levels in surviving neurons by in situ hybridization autoradiography revealed a significant 23% decrease in TH content per cell that could be correlated to lesion size. The decreases in cross-sectional area and TH mRNA content resulted in a small decrease in TH mRNA density of 6%. The determination of TH transcription rate by an intron-directed in situ hybridization assay found no significant change in TH transcriptional activity as a function of lesion. We conclude that the short-term effect of partial 6-OHDA-induced lesions of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway is the selective loss or shrinkage of large DA neurons of the SNc, and that the associated down-regulation of TH mRNA expression in surviving neurons is due to a post-transcriptional mechanism related either to concomitant cellular hyperactivity or is secondary to the morphological alterations.
The spatio temporal source model (STSM) interprets the successive scalp topographies of an electrophysiological event as the summed activity of a few fixed generators. This modeling methodology is expected to provide a unique solution for a fixed number of sources. Because in general there is no &quot;a priori&quot; available physiological information, independent criteria need to be applied for determining the correct number of sources (Ns). This study illustrates theoretically as well as in simulations, that the existence of a unique solution can only be claimed when Ns is known a priori. Since most of the methods proposed for estimate Ns are not accurate as illustrated here, STSM may result in unpredictable non-physiological solutions. Basic modeling aspects and additional factors affecting reliability of STSM such as those related to the optimization process associated to the source parameter search are discussed. Some of the possible inverse solutions are illustrated in our simulations. Our main conclusion is the need to improve STSM before claims about neural generator localization can be accepted. We will also discuss, how attempts to apply STSM to clinical data, apparently supporting their reliability, are plagued with incorrect assumptions and do not justify the expectancy aroused about such models. We discuss some ways for improving STSM and the need to develop measures to evaluate their reliability, independent of the physiological plausibility of the solutions obtained. Finally we propose two mathematical measures that can be incorporated to the optimization process to contribute to the evaluation of its performance.
Transcriptional regulation is an important mechanism by which neurons adapt to environmental stimuli. The indirect dopamine agonists, amphetamine and cocaine have been shown to induce expression of immediate early genes, such as c-fos, and neuropeptide genes, such as prodynorphin in the rat striatum. Here we show that phosphorylation of transcription factor CREB is a critical early event coupling dopamine stimulation to gene regulation. CREB interacts with functional regulatory elements in both the c-fos and prodynorphin genes, and is phosphorylated in response to dopamine in a D1 dopamine receptor-dependent manner. In addition, we show by intra-striatal injection of antisense oligonucleotides directed against CREB mRNA, that CREB protein is required for c-fos induction by amphetamine.
This study investigated the behavior of children with conduct disorder or oppositional defiant disorder (CD/ODD) in interaction with each other and with normal control (NC) children in a semi-standardized setting over a period of 25 minutes. This short time turned out to be sufficient to demonstrate the behavioral manifestations of CD/ODD in children's interactions with peers. In addition, the role of the interactional partner on antisocial behaviour of CD/ODD children became apparent.
1. A method of attenuating excitotoxic and hypoxic/ischaemic neurodegeneration in vitro and in vivo using cell-permeant Ca(2+)-chelating agents is described. 2. The mechanism of neuroprotection may depend on both pre- and post-synaptic effects on intracellular Ca2+ dynamics. 3. This method is unique, because it targets Ca2+ ions, the presumed triggers of neurodegeneration, rather than a specific cellular receptor.
Recent advances in restoring neural function to biological systems and incorporating neural function into bioartificial devices have been made possible by developments in biology, materials science, engineering, and physics. Further progress is being achieved in relating cellular function to overall system behavior through the application of quantitative experimental and theoretical techniques.

Recent research in schizophrenia has demonstrated widespread abnormalities in patients' brain structure, cognitive function, and physiology. These abnormalities are most probably developmental in origin and involve a network of connected frontal-temporal-limbic structures.
This past year has seen significant advances in our understanding of the physiology of emotion. Attention continues to focus on the amygdala and its interconnections with prefrontal cortical regions. New evidence underscores the importance of lateralization for emotion. There are also new findings on the physiological predictors of individual differences in emotional behavior and experience, and on the role of autonomic arousal in emotional memory.
Recent advances in cognitive neuroscience, particularly studies utilizing functional neural imaging and animal models, are providing unique insights into the neural substrates of speech and other central auditory processes. In particular, the acoustic-phonetic aspects of speech appear to provide an important organizing principle for linking systems neuroscience research to cognitive and linguistic theories.
Recent evidence indicates that the basal ganglia are critical brain structures for motor-skill and habit learning, and may be important for the acquisition of some perceptual and cognitive skills. The cerebellum appears to contribute importantly only to motor-skill learning. Transitory cortical changes occur during motor-skill learning, but perceptual-skill learning may involve a semi-permanent change in neuronal sensitivity in the primary sensory cortex.
We previously described the upregulation of the MT2 antigen during urodele limb regeneration and characterized the MT2 antigen as a 310- to 325-kDa chondroitin-sulfated glycoprotein with a core protein of 285-300 kDa. In this study, we screened a newt blastema cDNA library using monoclonal antibody (mAb) MT2 and obtained a 1-kb cDNA fragment, designated Isolate (IS)-1. Subsequent screening of the same library using IS-1 cDNA as a probe provided IS-2, a 2.8-kb cDNA. IS-2 overlaps IS-1 at its 5' end, is highly homologous to a portion of the alpha 1 chain of the chicken type XII collagen cDNA (alpha 1[XII]), and spans a third of the chicken alpha 1[XII] cDNA, from the last 62 amino acids of the second A domain of von Willebrand factor to the first two repeats of the fourth fibronectin type III domain. The peptide sequence deduced from cDNA IS-2 demonstrates invariable tryptophan, leucine, threonine, and tyrosine residues that are highly conserved among all the fibronectin type III domains within IS-2 and between corresponding sequences of IS-2 and chicken alpha 1[XII]. A Northern blot showed a 10-kb band that corresponds to the size of the chicken alpha 1[XII] mRNA. A fusion gene was constructed by inserting the IS-2 cDNA downstream from the malE gene of Escherichia coli, which encodes maltose-binding protein (MBP). The isopropyl beta-D-thiogalactoside-induced fusion protein had the expected molecular weight and reacted to both mAb MT2 and rabbit anti-MBP serum. We conclude that mAb MT2 identifies the urodele alpha 1[XII]. The expression pattern of the type XII collagen gene in newt limb regenerates was examined by in situ hybridization. Type XII collagen transcripts first appeared at 3 days after amputation in cells of the basal layer of the wound epithelium. At Day 10, both the basal wound epithelial cells and the distal mesenchyme cells were highly transcriptionally active. At mid-bud and late-bud blastema stages, wound epithelium expression had decreased, whereas the mesenchyme remained strongly active in transcription and showed a tendency toward distal regionalization. Condensing cartilage showed no signal. Finally, at the late digit stage, hybridization became largely restricted to the perichondrium. The in situ results suggest a developmental role for type XII collagen in regeneration.
The limbic system-associated membrane protein (LAMP) is a 64-68 x 10(3) M(r) glycoprotein that is expressed by subsets of neurons that are functionally interconnected. LAMP exhibits characteristics that are indicative of a developmentally significant protein, such as an early and restricted pattern of expression and the ability to mediate specific fiber-target interactions. A potential, selective adhesive mechanism by which LAMP may regulate the formation of specific circuits is investigated in the present experiments. LAMP is readily released from intact membranes by phosphatidyl inositol-specific phospholipase C. Purified, native LAMP, isolated by PI-PLC digestion and immunoaffinity chromatography, is capable of mediating fluorescent Covasphere aggregation via homophilic binding. To test the ability of LAMP to selectively facilitate substrate adhesion and growth of neurons from LAMP-positive, in contrast to LAMP-negative regions of the developing brain, purified LAMP was dotted onto nitrocellulose-coated dishes and test cells plated. Limbic neurons from perirhinal cortex bind specifically to substrate-bound LAMP within 4 hours, forming small cell aggregates with short neuritic processes that continue to grow through a 48 hour period of monitoring. Preincubation of cells with anti-LAMP has a modest effect on cell binding but significantly reduces initiation of process growth. Non-limbic neurons from somatosensory cortex and olfactory bulb fail to bind or extend processes on the LAMP substrate to any significant extent. All cell populations bind equally well and form neurites on poly-D-lysine and laminin. The present results provide direct evidence that LAMP can specifically facilitate interactions with select neurons in the CNS during development. The data support the concept that patterned expression of unique cell adhesion molecules in functionally related regions of the mammalian brain can regulate circuit formation.
Anterior pituitary corticotropes increase in number after stimulation by adrenalectomy or corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH). However, is this brought about by mitoses? Furthermore, as epidermal growth factor (EGF) is a potent secretagogue for corticotropes, is it also a mitogen? To address these questions, populations of corticotropes enriched to 88-97% by counterflow centrifugation were studied after growth in 0-10 nM CRH with and without 0.1-10 ng/ml EGF. Three types of assays were used to detect changes in mitotic cells or cell number. An enzyme immunoassay for bromodeoxyuridine uptake during DNA synthesis [bromodeoxyuridine (BrDU) uptake] detected a 3-fold increase in optical density readings in the presence of 0.5 nM CRH or EGF. Together the peptides increased the optical density to 4.8-fold basal levels. No further increases in BrDU uptake were seen with higher concentrations of CRH or EGF. Cytochemical detection of BrDU uptake by immunolabeled corticotropes showed BrDU in 18 +/- 2% of 3- to 5-day ACTH cells. In the presence of 0.5 nM CRH or 0.5 ng/ml EGF, this value increased to 37 +/- 3% or 34 +/- 2% of ACTH cells, respectively. Together CRH and EGF stimulated increases in mitotic activity so that 47 +/- 4% of the ACTH cells were labeled for BrDU after a 1-h exposure. Cell growth/cell death assays in 3-(4,5-dimethyltiazol-2-yl)2,5- diphenyl tetrazolium bromide were also used to detect changes in overall cell number or cell survival in the same groups of enriched corticotrope cultures. Both 0.5 nM CRH and 0.5 ng/ml EGF caused increases to 1.5- to 1.7-fold basal readings. However, higher concentrations did not stimulate increases in number, and their combined effects were not additive. These studies show that CRH and EGF can be mitogens for ACTH-bearing corticotropes, in a limited dose range. In a higher dose range, their differentiating effects may eliminate dividing cells and retard further growth of the population.
Groups of adult male Wistar rats were administered carbamazepine (CBZ) in doses of 5, 10, 20, 40 or 80 mg/kg/day intraperitoneally (i.p.) for 21 days. The learning and memory of the rats were assessed by the T-maze and passive avoidance tests. The CBZ plasma levels, the activity of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) in different brain regions, and the levels of monoamines in the hippocampus were also measured. None of the administered doses of CBZ impaired learning and memory. Rats with CBZ plasma levels of 2.5 and 4.5 micrograms/ml corresponding to the doses of 20 and 40 mg/kg, learned significantly better than controls. AChE activity was decreased in hippocampus and pyriform cortex (19%) in these groups. Simultaneously, an increase in the serotonin (5-HT) (36%) and dopamine (137%) levels in the hippocampus was noted in the 20-mg/kg CBZ group. 5-Hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA) and homovanillic acid (HVA) levels were increased at 10-, 20-, and 40-mg/kg CBZ doses. However, a dose of 80-mg/kg caused no change in learning performance as compared with that of controls. Correspondingly, no changes were evident in the AChE activity or monoamine levels. We postulated that the decreased AChE activity caused by CBZ in the therapeutic range may lead to increased ACh levels in brain, thus producing improvement in learning and memory. The increased turnover of 5-HT and dopamine (DA) in the hippocampus may play a role in long-term potentiation and improvement in memory.
We examined the effect of interpeduncular nucleus (IPN) kindling on subsequent amygdala (AM) kindling in rats (n = 9). Eleven to 15 daily IPN stimulations at an afterdischarge (AD)-inducing threshold (400-1000 microA, biphasic sine waves, 1-3 s) produced progressive AD growth (9 of 9 rats) and recruitment of behavioral seizures (7 of 9 rats). The final form of the latter was generalized tonic-clonic seizures with or without a limbic seizure component. The latter was associated with ictal involvement of AM and sensorimotor cortex. Subsequent AM kindling resulted not only in more rapid kindling, but also in tonic seizure associated with a protracted loss of postural control (5-20 s) not observed in animals undergoing AM kindling without previous IPN kindling (n = 5). These findings indicate that the IPN can be kindled and that subsequent AM kindling utilizes the proconvulsant neuroplastic changes that have been already established by IPN kindling.
Peptide messengers are crucial for the execution of male copulatory processes in the snail Lymnaea stagnalis. In this study, we report the purification of a novel peptide from the penis complex of L. stagnalis. This peptide enhances the contraction frequency and contraction amplitude of the vas deferens. Amino acid sequencing and mass spectrometry indicate that the primary structure is GLTPNMNSLFF-NH2. We propose that this amide peptide modulates the transfer rate of semen in the vas deferens.
Microwave stabilization of rat brain tissue using saline was compared with microwave-stimulated fixation using either formaldehyde or Kryofix. Sections were stained according to the microwave-adapted Nissl, Klver-Barrera, and Bodian methods. Depending on the preparative choice the microwave staining method had to be adjusted. Optimal combinations of preparative techniques and staining methods are feasible. In most cases the microwave saline-stabilized and microwave Kryofix-treated sections were better suited for application in neurohistology than the microwave formaldehyde-treated sections for light microscopy.


Basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, which degenerate in Alzheimer's disease, respond to multiple trophic factors, including the neurotrophins, nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). This dual responsiveness prompted us to investigate the effects of a synthetic chimaeric molecule, containing the active domains of both NGF and BDNF. The NGF/BDNF chimaeric factor exhibited synergistic actions, and was 100-fold more potent than wild-type BDNF in enhancing survival of cultured dissociated basal forebrain cholinergic neurons. This effect was apparently due to true BDNF/NGF synergy, since addition of the two wild-type trophins simultaneously reproduced the effect of the chimaera. Synergy was selective for neurons which respond to both factors; substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons, which respond to BDNF but not NGF, exhibited no potentiation. The chimaeric factor thus revealed a synergy that may normally occur in the brain, and constitutes a potentially novel therapeutic agent with greater potency than naturally occurring individual trophins.
An intradermal administration of histamine into human skin results in a local erythema, edema and often also the sensations of itch and/or pain. These effects have classically been attributed to the presence of histamine-containing mast cells. However, in the present investigation, we report the observation of histamine-immunoreactive nerves in the skin of Sprague-Dawley rats using a new and highly sensitive immunohistochemical approach. These data suggest a more direct route of cutaneous histamine effects, mediated exclusively by the peripheral nervous system. The findings could also give a new basis for explaining histamine-related issues, such as itch.
The excitotoxic effects of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) and kainic acid (KA) were studied in organotypic hippocampal slices maintained in vitro for various periods of time. Cultures aged to equivalent Postnatal Day (EPD) 10-12, 15-17, and 23-26 were exposed to 50 microM KA or 50 microM NMDA and were analyzed at 0, 3, 6, 9, 12, 24, 48 h, or 5 days after the initiation of the excitotoxin exposure. Neuronal injury was determined by: (1) propidium iodide (PI) uptake; (2) lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release; (3) morphological damage in hematoxylin and eosin (H/E) stained sections; (4) loss of Nissl stain. Changes in PI uptake and LDH release after KA or NMDA treatment indicated that there was a developmental shift towards increasing sensitivity to KA toxicity during in vitro development, whereas cultures of all ages were equally sensitive to NMDA toxicity. The profile of damage in H/E-stained sections after treatment with KA or NMDA indicated a transient phase of damaged morphology at 12 and 24 h that was not evident after 5 days. To determine whether the disappearance of morphological manifestations of neuronal damage 5 days after treatment was due to recovery of morphology or to neuronal death, neuronal loss in Nissl-stained sections was also quantified. KA treatment did not cause significant neuronal loss in any hippocampal region in EPD 10-12 cultures, indicating that the neurons were able to successfully recover from the damage demonstrated in H/E sections at 12 and 24 h in these cultures. KA treatment in mature cultures (EPD 23-26) and NMDA treatment in all cultures produced a marked loss of identifiable Nissl-stained neurons at 5 days, indicating neuronal death and disintegration. The results provide further support for the similarities between the organotypic hippocampal culture model and in vivo excitotoxic models and also confirm that excitotoxic neuronal injury can be reversible under some conditions.
The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis and the autonomic nervous system are major effector systems that serve to maintain homeostasis during exposure to stressors. In the past decade, interest in neurochemical regulation and in pathways controlling activation of the HPA axis has focused on catecholamines, which are present in high concentrations in specific brain areas--especially in the hypothalamus. The work described in this review has concentrated on the application of in vivo microdialysis in rat brain regions such as the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus, the central nucleus of the amygdala (ACE), the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), and the posterolateral hypothalamus in order to examine aspects of catecholaminergic function and relationships between altered catecholaminergic function and the HPA axis and sympathoadrenal system activation in stress. Exposure of animals to immobilization (IMMO) markedly and rapidly increases rates of synthesis, release, and metabolism of norepinephrine (NE) in all the brain areas mentioned above and supports previous suggestions that in the PVN NE stimulates release of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH). The role of NE in the ACE and the BNST and most other areas possessing noradrenergic innervation remains unclear. Studies involving lower brainstem hemisections show that noradrenergic terminals in the PVN are derived mainly from medullary catecholaminergic groups rather than from the locus ceruleus, which is the main source of NE in the brain. Moreover, the medullary catecholaminergic groups contribute substantially to IMMO-induced noradrenergic activation in the PVN. Data obtained from adrenalectomized rats, with or without glucocorticoid replacement, and from hypercortisolemic rats suggest that glucocorticoids feedback to inhibit CRH release in the PVN, via attenuation of noradrenergic activation. Results from rats exposed to different stressors have indicated substantial differences among stressors in eliciting PVN noradrenergic responses as well as of responses of the HPA, sympathoneural, and adrenomedullary systems. Finally, involvement of other areas that participate in the regulation of the HPA axis such as the ACE, the BNST, and the hippocampus and the importance of stress-induced changes in expression of immediate early genes such as c-fos are discussed.
Analysis of meiotic tetrads is routinely used to determine genetic linkage in various fungi. Here we apply tetrad analysis to the study of genetic linkage in a vertebrate. The half-tetrad genotypes of gynogenetic diploid zebrafish produced by early-pressure (EP) treatment were used to investigate the linkage relationships of two recessive pigment pattern mutations, leopard (leo) and rose (ros). The results showed that ros is tightly linked to its centromere and leo maps 31 cM from its centromere. Analysis of half-tetrads segregating for ros and leo in repulsion revealed no homozygous ros individuals among 32 homozygous leo half-tetrads--i.e., a parental ditype (PD) to nonparental ditype (NPD) ratio of 32:0. This result shows that ros is linked to leo, a mutation previously mapped to Linkage Group I. Investigation of PCR-based DNA polymorphisms on Linkage Group I confirmed the location of ros near the centromere of this linkage group. We propose an efficient, generally useful method to assign new mutations to a linkage group in zebrafish by determining which of 25 polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based centromere markers shows a significant excess of PD to NPD in half-tetrad fish.
There is some evidence supporting a potential role of hypersensitivity of the dopaminergic system in the pathogenesis of migraine. In this case report, we describe a syncopal episode in a patient with migraine without aura after the administration of a very low dose of apomorphine, a classical agonist of dopaminergic receptors. The absence of cardiovascular risk factors in this patient suggests that the clinical event might have been caused by hypersensitivity of the dopaminergic system.
Otoconia are calcified protein matrices within the gravity-sensing organs of the vertebrate vestibular system. Mammalian otoconia are barrel-shaped with triplanar facets at each end. Reptilian otoconia are commonly prismatic or fusiform in shape. Amphibians have all three otoconial morphologies, barrel-shaped otoconia within the utricle, with prismatic and fusiform otoconia in the saccule. Scanning electron microscopy revealed a sequential appearance of all three otoconial morphologies during larval development of the newt, Cynops pyrrhogaster. The first otoconia appear within a single, developing otolith, and some resemble adult barrel-shaped otoconia. As the larvae hatch, around stages 39-42, the single otolith divides into two anatomically separate regions, the utricle and saccule, and both contain otoconia similar to those seen in the single otolith. Throughout development, these otoconia may have variable morphologies, with serrated surfaces, or circumferential striations with either separated facets or adjacent facets in the triplanar end-regions. Small fusiform otoconia occur later, at stage 51, and only in the saccule. Prismatic otoconia appear later still, at stage 55, and again only in the saccule. Thus, although prismatic otoconia are the most numerous in adult newts, it is the last vestibular otoconial morphology to be expressed.
The sequence in which the otoliths and semicircular canals and their associated sensory epithelia appear and develop in the newt are described. Three-dimensional reconstruction of serial sections through the otic vesicle of newt embryos from stages 31 through 58 demonstrate the first appearance, relative position and growth of the otoliths. A single otolith is first seen in stage 33 embryos (approximately 9 days old); this splits into separate utricular and saccular otoliths at stage 40 (13 days). The lateral semicircular canal is the first to appear, at stage 41 (14 days). The anterior and posterior canals appear approximately one week later and the vestibular apparatus is essentially fully formed at stage 58 (approximately 5 weeks). The data reported here will serve as ground-based controls for fertilized newt eggs flown on the International Microgravity Laboratory-2 Space Shuttle flight, to investigate the influence of microgravity on the development of the gravity-sensing organs.
Critical bands (CB) and critical-ratio (CR) bandwidth were determined in five European starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) using a GO/NOGO procedure and the method of constant stimuli. Test-tone frequencies were 1, 2, 4, and 6.3 kHz. Critical ratios were independent of the level of the white noise masker. The lowest CR of 21.8 dB was found at 1 kHz, and the CR monotonically increased on average by 2.3 dB per octave. CR-bandwidths at a masker spectrum level of 41 dB were 151, 191, 437, and 501 Hz at 1, 2, 4, and 6.3 kHz, respectively. With the exception of the test-tone frequency of 6.3 kHz, the size of the critical bands measured with a band-narrowing procedure was similar to that of the CR-bandwidth. CBs were 135, 233, 345, and 1156 Hz at 1, 2, 4, and 6.3 kHz, respectively. A repeat measurement at 6.3 kHz with another speaker position yielded a CB of 860 Hz. The results of this psychoacoustic study in the starling are discussed with respect to comparative data from other vertebrates and to neurophysiological bandwidth measurements of tuning curves of auditory-nerve fibres.
Echolocating bats generate an acoustic image of their target by processing target-reflected echoes of their emitted biosonar pulses. Efforts in building computational models of auditory processing in the bat auditory system, using extensive neurophysiological data from cortical studies are challenged by the intrinsic complexity and the significant variability in neural response to stimuli. In this paper, we use a computerized method for the analysis and classification of delay-sensitive neurons to classify neurons from the auditory cortex of Myotis lucifugus, a species that echolocates with FM signals. The coefficients of the bi-linear fit to the best delay response surfaces (mean R2 = 0.01) were used in classifying the neurons. Six classes were derived that corresponded to the four previously characterized neurophysiologically. The first class corresponded to delay-tuned neurons which exhibited a constant best delay at different pulse repetition rates and pulse durations. Three other classes corresponded to the different subtypes of tracking neurons which changed their best delay to one or both of these stimulus temporal parameters. Two additional classes were differentiated although their best-delay response were similar to either the delay-tuned or the duration and pulse-repetition rate sensitive class. Artificial delay-sensitive neurons built from the parameters of the centroid of each class, will serve a key role in the FM bat auditory system model that we are building.
Otoacoustic emissions are believed to arise from an active process associated with the outer hair cells in the mammalian organ of Corti. They have been attributed to the presence of impedance discontinuities on the basilar membrane which might be caused by hair cell irregularities. To test this hypothesis we have investigated the possible relationship between transient evoked otoacoustic emissions (TEOAEs) and anatomical integrity in the organ of Corti. Click-evoked TEOAEs have been measured from the ear canals of normal, pigmented guinea pigs using an Otodynamics ILO88 analyser. Emissions were present in 18 out of 19 animals tested and the major frequencies observed were consistently present in different measurements over periods of up to ten weeks provided recording conditions were satisfactory. The frequency spectra of the TEOAEs resembled those measured in humans but the latencies of the responses were considerably shorter. In one acute experiment, the TEOAEs were shown to be dependent on metabolic energy as they were lost rapidly following termination with an overdose of anaesthetic. In another case, evoked emissions of long duration (sustained) at about 1 kHz were obtained from both ears. All cochleae examined showed irregularities, especially patches of mainly apical outer hair cell loss of differing extents. However, there was no evidence that substantial lesions coincided consistently with the frequency regions corresponding to the major emissions. Nevertheless, it was noted that the total energy level of emissions was proportional to the total outer hair cell loss, except in one case, where the outer hair cell loss was substantial and the energy level of TEOAEs was considerably lower. Although there is no clear relationship between TEOAEs of specific frequencies and abnormalities at the corresponding cochleotopic location in the organ of Corti which could represent impedance discontinuities, the degree of irregularity may determine the overall emission level. This finding is consistent with the idea that emissions arise as a result of irregularity producing variations in the reflection coefficient.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by a progressive cognitive decline in which memory, initiation, learning and conceptualization are severely affected. The main histopathological alterations are the presence of amyloid beta/A4-containing plaques, tangles and amyloid angiopathy. It is believed that these brain alterations are associated with abnormal expression and/or processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and with abnormal assembly of cytoskeletal proteins. Recent quantitative studies with the electron microscope and with immunochemical/immunocytochemical assays, using molecular markers for synaptic proteins, have shown that synaptic loss in the cortex is the major correlate of the patterns of cognitive decline in AD. The synaptic loss in AD is accompanied by neuronal loss and aberrant sprouting, and studies in incipient AD cases have shown that this alteration occurs very early in the progression of the disease preceding tangle formation and neuronal loss. These results suggest that damage to the synaptic terminal plays a central role in the pathogenesis of AD. The mechanisms of synaptic pathology in AD are not yet clear, however, studies in transgenic animal models support the possibility that APP participates in synaptic stabilization and that abnormal metabolism of this molecule could lead to synaptic dysfunction which, in turn, results in neurodegeneration and dementia.

A written examination based on material covered in the first year of medical school (anatomy, physiology, biochemistry, and neuroscience) was administered to medical students immediately before they began the pathology course to assess their knowledge of the basic science content that is important for the study of pathology. In alternate years the questions were presented in the standard multiple choice question (MCQ) format or in an open-ended, uncued question (Un-Q) format. The students' mean scores obtained by these two testing methods were comparable. The discrimination indices, which measure the ability of the test questions to distinguish between students of varying ability, were comparable. The Kuder-Richardson Formula 20 (KR-20), an estimate of the precision of the test given, was 0.53 for MCQ and 0.63 for Un-Q. We conclude that the Un-Q format is an acceptable alternative to the MCQ format and it has several advantages over MCQ. Because the answer sheets for Un-Q tests can be scanned optically and graded by computers, we recommend them as an alternative to MCQ tests.

Microcephaly with mental retardation forms a distinct subgroup among mentally retarded individuals. The paucity of studies on the etiology of this condition in India made the investigators to study this population. It HTO aimed to study the demographic and clinical characteristics, and the etiologic pattern in children with microcepltaly and mental retardation The sample consisted of 82 children who were examined by detailed clinical assessment and a battery of investigations. A definite etiology could be found in 56% of children which have been grouped into prenatal embryonic, prenatal maternal/environmental, and birth and neonatal causes. Non-genetic causes were the most common. The prenatal etiology constituted nearly twice that of birth and neonatal causes. Majority of the etiologic factors were preventable. The role of socio-environmental factors has been discussed As a group, the neurological disorders were found to be the most commonly associated medical condition. Malnutrition, specially of severe degree, was significantly associated with this group compared to the general population. The study findings indicate that there is a significant place for prevention.
The clinical, angiographic and computed tomographic features in eight children with Moyamoya disease were evaluated. The CT Scan findings were correlated with the angiographic features and the stage of the vascular disease. Stenosis/occlusion of the supraclinoid internal carotid artery (ICA) and the proximal parts of the anterior (ACA) and middle cerebral arteries (MCA) were commonest angiographic findings. The cervical ICA was narrow in four patients. Infarcts (100%), abnormal enhancement patterns (63%) and cerebral atrophy (88%) were the frequent CT scan findings. Although the CT scan findings did not correlate entirely with the angiographic and clinical findings, they were more frequently abnormal in later stages of the disease. The volume of Moyamoya increased progressively up to stage 3 of the disease only to decrease with further progression. The etiology of Moyamoya disease in Indian children is not clear. However, the clinical and radiological features are similar to that in the Japanese.
We previously reported that the nude mouse-derived splenic T cell clone, N-9F, exhibits a proliferative response to the SL10.3 thymic epithelial cell clone. In the present study we generated an Armenian hamster mAb, HS9, specific for SL10.3, which inhibited the N-9F's proliferative response to SL10.3. We performed thymocyte repopulation experiments using fetal liver cells and 2'-deoxyguanosine-treated thymic rudiments. After 14 days of culture, donor fetal liver cells proliferated and differentiated to CD4+CD8+ and CD4-CD8+ with some CD4+CD8- cells in the host thymic rudiments. However, most of the thymocytes remained at a CD4-CD8- immature stage in the presence of HS9 and the cell recovery was reduced to 30% of the control. Immunohistostaining and flow cytometry studies revealed that HS9 reacted with stromal cells of fetal thymus at the earliest from day 14 gestation. Neither thymocytes nor lymph node T cells were stained with HS9. HS9 antigen was distributed not only on thymic subcapsular and cortical stromal cells, but also on peripheral B cells in adult mice. The antigen that HS9 detected was found to be a 50 kDa surface membrane protein on thymic stromal cells. On the other hand, the 50 kDa molecule is associated with two other molecules of 80 and 100 kDa on the B cells. These data indicate that the HS9 antigen may have an important role for early T cell development, especially at a stage from CD4-CD8- to CD4+CD8+, and may have some unknown function on B cells.
The course of postnatal development of noradrenaline (NA) and its unconjugated free metabolite 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG), as well as the influence on early chronic vasopressin treatment, were investigated in various brain regions of the hereditary vasopressin-deficient (homozygous di/di) Brattleboro rat. In addition, the densities of the adrenergic receptor subtypes were measured in adult brain. Brain NA levels of di/di pups appeared enhanced already at 7 days of age when compared with data of heterozygous (+/di) controls. This was also seen in areas not known to receive a vasopressinergic input, e.g. the frontal cortex. Levels of MHPG also differed between genotypes, but changes were slight and either a decrease or increase, depending on age and region tested. Saturation analyses of alpha 1-, alpha 2-, and beta-adrenoceptor binding on crude membrane preparations of some brain regions revealed no differences in adulthood. Chronic treatment with vasopressin between 6 and 13 days of age reduced the enhanced NA brain levels throughout the brain of the di/di Brattleboro pups. The known vasopressin-mediated enhancement of NA turnover in adult brain was also measurable in +/di pups of this neonatal period (MHPG/NA ratios), indicating the early maturation of the interaction of vasopressinergic and NAergic systems. However, the dose-response in the di/di Brattleboro rat was biphasic with a decrease at a low dose of vasopressin. Since changes were found throughout the brain, it was concluded that vasopressin deficiency had altered the maturation of NA neurons of the locus coeruleus which may be due to the absence of a presumed inhibitory control of vasopressin on synthesis and storage mechanisms at the perikaryal level.
Unilateral injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the caudate nucleus of rat caused degeneration of dopaminergic terminals, evidenced by significant (P &lt; 0.05) elevation of spontaneous and drug-induced motor behaviour, enhanced DA receptor binding and significant increase in the neuronal firing rate of caudate neurons, suggesting supersensitivity of dopaminergic receptors. Eight weeks following the transplantation of embryonic cell suspensions from caudate at the lesioned site, a significant restoration of the enhanced 3H spiperone binding and neuronal activity of caudate neurons was observed in comparison with lesioned rats. These results clearly demonstrate that transplanted embryonic neuronal tissue at the lesioned site is capable of restoring the neuronal deficits caused by 6-OHDA as evidenced by significant amelioration in neurochemical, behavioral and electrophysiological alterations.

Fourteen patients suffering from dementia of the Alzheimer type were treated with tacrine (tetrahydroaminoacridine, THA) for 1 year in an open trial. Clinical results were evaluated every third month with neuropsychological tests and rating scales. During the dose-finding, two patients were temporarily withdrawn from medication and one patient was excluded because of elevated levels of liver enzymes. With individualized doses the treatment caused few side effects. Plasma levels of THA varied substantially among patients and correlated with elevation of liver enzymes but not with clinical response. Two patients showed a gradual increase in plasma levels of THA despite unchanged doses. Although results of the neuropsychological tests and clinical ratings were mostly negative, the study indicates that THA can be administered safely for prolonged periods of time. Clinical observations and dose-titration strategy in relation to side effects are discussed.
Before working on conditioned reflexes, Pavlov completed a research program designed to investigate the physiological controls of salivary, gastric, and pancreatic secretions. The originality and significance of this work resulted in a Nobel Prize in 1904, the first awarded to a physiologist. The first part of this manuscript focuses on the experimental analysis of the controls of gastric secretion. This demonstrates Pavlov's experimental skill and his ability to draw strong inferences about how a psychic factor like appetite grew into a physiological effect, such as gastric secretion. The second part of the manuscript reviews Pavlov's ideas about the central neural mechanism for appetite and its stimulatory effect on gastric secretion, and demonstrates that Pavlov's &quot;conceptual nervous system&quot; is very similar to our own.
Consciousness and the disorders of consciousness can be more fully understood once they are integrated with the neurobiology of mental events. After a review of animal and human research, we found several anatomical structures in the central nervous system are required for consciousness. Identification of the critical structures, however, depends on what is meant by consciousness. In the general sense of mental responsivity, the reticular activating system must be intact. Consciousness has also been defined as the awareness of the sights, sounds, and feelings of everyday experience. In this sense, the system of sensory inputs and outputs of the anterior temporal cortex, amygdala, and the hippocampus must be functional. There is no neural evidence for &quot;higher&quot; consciousness.


We describe a patient with rapidly progressive Whipple's disease confined to the central nervous system (CNS). The diagnosis was made pre-mortem following stereotactic and open brain biopsis and confirmed at autopsy. Despite appropriate antibiotic treatment, the disease ran a fulminant course to death after nine weeks.
The efficacy of aluminium tetrasulfonated phthalocyanine (AISPc) as a photosensitizer for photodynamic therapy (PDT) was investigated in the C6 glioma model in Wistar rats. The depth and extent of tumour necrosis was dependent on both the dosage of intravenously (IV) administered AISPc, and the dose and time post-sensitization of 675 nm light administration. There was no effect on tumour or normal brain if the sensitizer dose was less than 0.5 mg/kg. Selective necrosis of tumour was evident 6 hours post-sensitization at an AISPc dose up to 1 mg/kg and light doses up to 200 J/cm(2). Necrosis occurred in normal brain at higher doses of light and sensitizer. There was no photosensitizer effect in animals treated 24 hours post AISPc administration. The ability of AISPc to act as a selective photosensitizer causing photonecrosis provides a basis for the generation of modified AISPc species as future agents in the PDT of brain tumours, especially as these sensitizers absorb light at a higher wavelength than those that are currently available.

Abstract Alfonso Caramazza is the David T. McLaughlin Distinguished Professor at Dartmouth College. He received the B.A. degree in psychology from McGill University in 1970 and the Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins University in 1974. He joined the Hopkins faculty in 1974 and taught there first in the Psychology Department and then in the Cognitive Science Department, which he helped create. In 1993 he joined the faculty at Dartmouth College. Although his research has focused primarily on the neuropsychology of language processes, he has also made contributions in the areas of normal psycholinguistics, naive physics, and, more recently, perception and attention. Caramazza has been the recipient of a Javits Neuroscience Award and an honorary doctorate from the Catholic University of buvain.


Free radicals have been implicated in the etiology of many neurodegenerative conditions. Yet, because these species are highly reactive and thus short-lived it has been difficult to test these hypotheses. We adapted a method in which hydroxyl radicals are trapped by salicylate in vivo, resulting in the stable and quantifiable products, 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (DHBA) and 2,5-DHBA. After systemic (100 mg/kg i.p.) or intraventricular (4 mumol) administration of salicylate, the amount of DHBA in striatal tissue correlated with tissue levels of salicylate. After systemic salicylate, the ratio of total DHBA to salicylate in neostriatum was at least 10-fold higher than that observed after central salicylate. In addition, systemic salicylate resulted in considerably higher concentrations of 2,3- and 2,5-DHBA in plasma than in brain. Therefore, a large portion of the DHBA present in brain after systemic salicylate may have been formed in the periphery. A neurotoxic regimen of methamphetamine increased the concentration of DHBA in neostriatum after either central or systemic administration of salicylate. The increase in 2,3-DHBA after the central administration of salicylate was significant at 2 h, but not at 4 h, after the last dose of methamphetamine. These results suggest that (1) when assessing specific events in brain, it is preferable to administer salicylate centrally, and (2) neurotoxic doses of methamphetamine increase the hydroxyl radical content in brain in a time-dependent manner.
Mice infected with the LP-BM5 murine leukemia virus mixture develop severe immunosuppression and an encephalopathy characterized by spatial learning deficits. Twelve weeks after infection of C57BL/6J mice with LP-BM5, significant (50-60%) reductions in Met-enkephalin and substance P levels were observed in the striatum, whereas somatostatin levels were unchanged. In addition, a 39% decrease in hypothalamic substance P concentrations was observed, with no alteration in Metenkephalin levels. The apparent selectivity of the decrease in neuropeptide concentrations indicates that a functional alteration of the primary striatal efferent neurons occurs in this infection, which may contribute to the impairment of spatial learning observed in these mice. Moreover, this decrease in striatal neuropeptide levels is similar to the neuropathological changes in basal ganglia observed in HIV-infected individuals and is consistent with previous studies suggesting that the LP-BM5-infected mouse may serve as a useful model of AIDS dementia.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY), a 36 amino acid residue peptide, is involved in stimulation of LHRH and LH surges on proestrus and those induced by ovarian steroids in ovariectomized (ovx) rats. Recently, we observed that NPY gene expression in the medial basal hypothalamus (MBH) was increased before the onset of the LH surge in the ovarian steroid-primed ovx rats. Since the ovarian steroidal milieu during the estrous cycle is markedly different from that prevailing after ovarian steroid injections in ovx rats, we evaluated in cycling rats the temporal relationship between MBH preproNPY mRNA levels and the preovulatory LH surge on the day of proestrus and compared that with diestrus II, concomitant with basal LH levels. PreproNPY mRNA levels in the MBH were measured by solution hybridization/RNAse protection assay, using a cRNA probe. On the day of diestrus II, preproNPY mRNA levels changed little between 1000 and 1800 h. Quite unexpectedly, preproNPY mRNA levels at 1000 h on proestrus were similar to diestrus II levels, despite additional exposure to ovarian steroids during this interval. However, from these low levels at 1000 h, the preproNPY mRNA profile displayed a biphasic rise. During the first phase, preproNPY mRNA rose significantly at 1200 h and remained elevated at 1300 and 1400 h concomitant with basal serum LH levels. Thereafter, a second rise in preproNPY mRNA began at 1500 h, peaked rapidly at 1600 h and declined significantly at 1800 h.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Recently, we developed a panel of monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) to rat IL-1 beta and found that MoAbs binding to the aminoacid sequences 66-85 and 123-143 of mature rIL-1 beta inhibited the binding of rIL-1 beta to murine EL4 cells. Here we study whether MoAbs to these and other domains of IL-1 interfere with the biological effects of rIL-1 beta in adult male rats in vivo. Administration of rIL-1 beta (1 or 5 micrograms/kg i.v.) enhanced the plasma concentrations of ACTH, corticosterone (CORT) and of IL-6 in a time- (0.5-4 h) and dose-dependent manner. Because 2 h after 5 micrograms/kg i.v., all three parameters were consistently elevated, this dose and time interval was used for further studies. Prior to injection, rIL-1 beta was incubated alone or in the presence of a MoAb (10 mg/kg) for 30 min at 37 degrees C or at 4 degrees C. Plasma ACTH, CORT and IL-6 responses to these mixtures are compared to those obtained after preincubation of rIL-1 beta with a non-IL-1 binding MoAb (PEN7). SILK 3, a MoAb that binds to the 66-85 domain of rIL-1 beta, reduced the ACTH and IL-6 responses by 48 and 45% respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Two cases of alternating hemiparesis are reported, one in a black Sudanese woman, the other in a Saudi man, who had two episodes of alternating hemiparesis separated in time by six and three years respectively. Based on the typical appearance of the MRI and the results of brain biopsy, the diagnosis of multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis was made rather than that of multiple sclerosis. This entity is also differentiated from recurrent disseminated encephalomyelitis, where the relapses are symptomatically stereotyped although the appearance of the MRI is similar and in which new lesions do not occur. Because of the unusual appearance of these MRI lesions, brain biopsy is often performed but recognising their relevance should obviate that need.

1. This paper describes two novel population patterns in the dentate gyrus of the awake rat, termed type 1 and type 2 dentate spikes (DS1, DS2). Their cellular generation and spatial distribution were examined by simultaneous recording of field potentials and unit activity using multiple-site silicon probes and wire electrode arrays. 2. Dentate spikes were large amplitude (2-4 mV), short duration (&lt; 30 ms) field potentials that occurred sparsely during behavioral immobility and slow-wave sleep. Current-source density analysis revealed large sinks in the outer (DS1) and middle (DS2) thirds of the dentate molecular layer, respectively. DS1 and DS2 had similar longitudinal, lateral, and interhemispheric synchrony. 3. Dentate spikes invariably were coupled to synchronous population bursts of putative hilar interneurons. CA3 pyramidal cells, on the other hand were suppressed during dentate spikes. 4. After bilateral removal of the entorhinal cortex, dentate spikes disappeared, whereas sharp wave-associated bursts, reflecting synchronous discharge of the CA3-CA1 network, increased several fold. 5. These physiological characteristics of the dentate spikes suggest that they are triggered by a population burst of layer II stellate cells of the lateral (DS1) and medial (DS2) entorhinal cortex. 6. We suggest that dentate spike-associated synchronized bursts of hilar-region interneurons provide a suppressive effect on the excitability of the CA3-CA1 network in the intact brain.
1. We recorded single vestibular nucleus neurons shown by electrical stimulation to receive floccular inhibition [flocculus receiving neurons (FRNs)] and/or to project toward midbrain motoneuronal pools [midbrain projecting neurons (MPNs)] in awake, head-fixed rabbits during compensatory eye movements. Stimuli included head rotation in the light, head rotation in the dark, and rotation of an optokinetic drum about the animal. We employed sinusoidal and triangular position profiles in the 0.05- to 0.8-Hz frequency band. We also examined transient responses to step changes in eye position. 2. We found identified vestibular nucleus cells (i.e., FRN/non-MPNs, FRN/MPNs, and non-FRN/MPNs) in the parvocellular and magnocellular portions of the medial vestibular nucleus, at the rostrocaudal level of the dorsal acoustic stria. 3. All identified vestibular nucleus neurons were excited during ipsilateral (relative to side of recording) head rotation and contralateral eye rotation. 4. The neuronal firing rates could be related to eye position and its time derivatives, and that relationship could be approximated by a two-pole, one-zero linear transfer function. As with abducens neurons, a more detailed approximation requires inclusion of two nonlinearities-a hysteresis and a variable sensitivity term that increases as eye movement amplitude decreases. 5. When the vestibuloocular reflex is suppressed by a conflicting full-field visual stimulus [visual vestibular conflict condition (VVC)], vestibular nucleus neuron modulation is largely suppressed. The remaining modulation is motoric in nature, because it can be related to the residual eye movements. Cells with &quot;sensory vestibular signals,&quot; i.e., cells whose modulation during VVC correlates better with head rotation than eye movement, were not encountered. 6. We examined the dependence of firing rate parameters on stimulus modality. All neurons exhibited increased phase lead with respect to abducens nucleus neurons during stimuli involving head rotation. This finding could indicate that vestibular-derived inputs are inhomogeneously distributed on premotor neurons and that the studied premotor population receives a stronger vestibular input than another premotor group, not recorded in the current experiments. 7. FRNs and non-FRNs were similar in their qualitative response to the fast phases, the applicability of the two-pole, one-zero transfer function, hysteresis, and the amplitude nonlinearity. 8. FRNs differed from non-FRNs in having a phase advanced firing rate at all stimulus frequencies during visual and vestibular stimuli. The phase difference suggests that one role of the rabbit flocculus is to regulate phase of the net premotor signal.
1. We recorded abducens neurons, identified by electrical stimulation as internuclear neurons or motoneurons, in awake rabbits. The relationship of firing rate to eye movement was determined from responses during stable fixations, sinusoidal rotation in the light (0.05-0.8 Hz), and triangular optokinetic stimulation at 0.1 Hz. 2. All abducens neurons were excited during temporal movement of the ipsilateral eye. Temporal and nasal saccades were associated with bursts or pauses, respectively, in the firing rate. 3. Motoneurons and internuclear neurons are qualitatively indistinguishable. There was no significant quantitative difference between the phase and sensitivity of the two groups for 0.2-Hz sinusoidal rotation in the light. 4. On the basis of the response to stable eye positions, we determined static eye position sensitivity of the abducens neuron pool to be 8.2 +/- 2.5 (SD) spikes.s-1/0, with a static hysteresis of 8.9 spikes/s (1.14 +/- 0.37 degrees). 5. We determined apparent eye position sensitivity (k) and apparent eye velocity sensitivity (r) from the responses to sinusoidal rotation in the light. k increases and r decreases with stimulus frequency, which indicates that the simplest transfer function mediating conversion of abducens nucleus (VI) firing rate to eye position (E) has two poles and one zero. 6. The VI--&gt;E relationship has an &quot;amplitude nonlinearity,&quot; manifest as a tendency for k, r, and firing rate phase lead to decrease as eye movement amplitude increases at a fixed frequency. On a percentage basis, phase is less affected than are the sensitivities. The nonlinearity becomes less pronounced for stimulus amplitudes &gt; 2.5 degrees, and consequently a linear model of the VI--&gt;E transformation remains useful, provided that consideration is restricted to the appropriate range of stimulus/response amplitudes. 7. We determined time constants of the linear two-pole, one-zero transfer function from the variation of r/k versus stimulus frequency. The pole time constants were T1 = 3.4 s and T2 = 0.28 s, and the zero time constant (Tz) = 1.6 s. The magnitude of Tz was corroborated by measuring the time constant of the exponential decay in firing rate after step changes in eye position. This transient method yielded a Tz of 1.1 s. 8. The time constants of the VI--&gt;E transfer function are roughly 10 times larger than those reported for the rhesus macaque. The difference is attributable to the reported 10-fold lower stiffness of the rabbit oculomotor plant, which may in turn relate to rabbits postulated lower degree of activation of extraocular muscles at any given position.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Since the lifetime of synaptically released glutamate is thought to be very brief, reflecting diffusion and glutamate uptake, the decay of synaptic currents is thought to represent the average elementary lifetime of a receptor channel bound only once by transmitter molecules. We show here that the decay of evoked non-NMDA synaptic currents can reflect presynaptic factors, in particular, the prolonged action of transmitter at postsynaptic receptors under conditions of enhanced transmitter release. We show that diffusion, high-affinity glutamate uptake, and non-NMDA receptor desensitization are insufficiently rapid to limit the decays of evoked synaptic currents to those of miniature synaptic currents in microcultures of rat hippocampal cells. Our results are consistent with recent studies suggesting that during evoked release, multiple glutamate quanta can interact with overlapping postsynaptic receptor domains.
Evidence from electrophysiological studies has suggested an inhibitory interaction between GABAergic neurons in substantia nigra pars reticulata and dopaminergic neurons in pars compacta. However, that this inhibitory interaction is due to a projection from pars reticulata to pars compacta has never been demonstrated directly, nor has the GABAergic neuron that mediates the interaction been identified either electrophysiologically or anatomically. To more closely examine interactions between substantia nigra pars reticulata GABA neurons and dopaminergic neurons, single unit extracellular recordings were obtained from antidromically identified nigrostriatal neurons and their response to antidromic activation of nigral GABAergic projection neurons observed. Stimulation of superior colliculus or thalamus produced a short latency inhibition of dopaminergic neurons. This inhibition was blocked by local application of bicuculline but not 2-hydroxysaclofen. Bicuculline caused most dopaminergic neurons to fire in a bursty mode, whereas saclofen caused most dopaminergic neurons to fire in a pacemaker-like mode. The thalamic-evoked inhibition was not affected by kainate lesions of the globus pallidus, but these lesions produced effects on firing pattern identical to those produced by saclofen. These data demonstrate a short latency inhibition of nigral dopaminergic neurons mediated by GABAA receptors that arises from the axon collaterals of pars reticulata projection neurons. We propose a model in which the firing pattern of nigral dopaminergic neurons in vivo is modulated differentially by disinhibition of GABAA inputs arising from pars reticulata projection neuron axon collaterals and disinhibition of pallidonigral GABAergic inputs mediated by GABAB receptors.
A number of studies have begun to describe the effects of nerve growth factor (NGF) and the closely related brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on the function of basal forebrain neurons. Little is known, however, about the effects of neurotrophins on membrane calcium conductances, which may play a role in growth factor signal transduction as well as regulation of neuronal excitability. Using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique, we investigated the effects of both NGF and BDNF on voltage-gated Ca(2+)-channel currents in cultured embryonic basal forebrain neurons. Exposure for 4-6 d to NGF significantly increased both the L-type and N-type components of the whole-cell current. Conversely, similar exposure to BDNF had no effect on Ca(2+)-channel currents. Consequently, one of the important effects of NGF may be to enhance calcium entry via voltage-dependent channels.
Primary fibroblasts modified to secrete nerve growth factor (NGF) were implanted into the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) of aged memory impaired rats. The NGF-producing fibroblasts survived for 6 weeks following transplantation and continued expressing NGF mRNA through the duration of the experiment. A significant amelioration of the memory impairment and a significant increase in size and number of low-affinity NGF receptor (p75)-positive neurons in the basal forebrain were observed. Implantation of NGF-producing cells into normal young adult rats resulted in a transient but significant memory impairment and hypertrophy of low-affinity NGF receptor-positive neurons. These results show that naturally occurring age-related memory loss can be reversed by grafting cells engineered to secrete NGF directly to the NBM, and that either cholinergic hyper- or hypofunction may lead to cognitive impairments.
Separate mechanoreceptor systems in humans were isolated by varying the spectra of vibrotactile stimuli. First, the function relating threshold to frequency of a sinusoid was obtained on the fingertip for each of four subjects, and it was found to comprise two limbs: a Pacinian and a non-Pacinian limb. The peak sensitivity within the Pacinian limb (mediated by Pacinian corpuscles) was around 250 Hz and spanned the region from 65 to 400 Hz. The non-Pacinian limb showed no detectable change in sensitivity in the region between 10 and 65 Hz. These two limbs were then treated as psychophysical channels in experiments in which narrow band noise and individual sinusoids were used to excite one or both channels. In the second and third experiments, the noise stimuli varied in bandwidth from 8 to 70 Hz and varied in center frequency from 25 to 218 Hz. Masking functions were obtained for ON-frequency conditions (the sinusoidal test and noise masker occupied the same frequency region) and for OFF-frequency conditions (the test and masker occupied different frequency regions). The ON-frequency experiments were used to estimate the signal-to-noise ratio (S/N) of the Pacinian channel at threshold. The OFF-frequency masking experiments were used to infer the shape of the Pacinian channel at frequencies below 65 Hz, where thresholds for Pacinian activation were above detection threshold. The results of these three experiments predicted the findings of a fourth masking experiment with a parameter free model that treated the Pacinian channel as a filter that integrates stimulus power. The results show that the Pacinian channel is analogous to a critical band in the auditory system.
The properties of GABA receptor-mediated responses were examined in noncultured astrocytes, acutely isolated from the mature rat hippocampus. Whole-cell patch clamping revealed a GABA-activated Cl- conductance that was mimicked by the GABAA receptor agonist muscimol and depressed by the GABAA antagonists bicuculline and picrotoxin. The GABAA-activated currents were potentiated by the barbiturate pentobarbital and the benzodiazepine diazepam. The benzodiazepine inverse agonist DMCM either enhanced or depressed the astrocytic GABAA-mediated responses, suggesting receptor heterogeneity with respect to pharmacologic profiles. In addition, GABA evoked an increase in [Ca2+]n measured by indo-1 fluorometry, which was depressed in the presence of verapamil or picrotoxin. A GABAA-induced depolarization, therefore, causes Ca2+ influx through voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. The expression and subcellular localization of GABAA receptors and its subunits were examined using immunohistochemical and fluorescent benzodiazepine binding techniques. Polyclonal antisera raised against the GABAA/benzodiazepine receptor, which recognizes multiple subunit isoforms, labeled receptors on the astrocytic cell body and most large processes. In contrast, antisera generated against either alpha 1 or beta 1 subunit peptides revealed immunoreactivity predominantly on a subset of processes. To determine the subcellular distribution of membrane-bound receptors, a fluorescent benzodiazepine derivative was superfused over live astrocytes and visualized with laser-scanning confocal microscopy. Specific fluorescence was distributed in discrete clusters on the cell soma and a subset of distal processes. Collectively, these data support the view that astrocytes, like neurons, express GABAA receptors and target subunit isoforms to distinct cellular localizations. Astrocytic GABAA receptors may be involved in both [Cl-]o and [pH]o homeostasis, and a GABA-evoked increase in [Ca2+]i could serve as a signal between GABAergic neurons and astrocytes.
The developing cerebellum expresses genes which encode for both neurotrophins and their receptors. The present study was designed to determine at what stages during cerebellar granule cell neurogenesis neurotrophin family molecules may act. We report here that in purified, well-characterized granule cell cultures (Gao et al., 1991; 1992), none of the neurotrophins stimulated proliferation of granule cell precursors or rescued phenotypic defect of mutant weaver granule cell precursors in the initiation of neuronal differentiation. However, neurotrophin-4/5 (NT-4/5) and BDNF, but not neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) or NGF, promoted neurite extension and survival of differentiated cerebellar granule cells. Both of these effects were blocked by the specific inhibitor for Trk tyrosine kinases, K-252a. NT-4/5 and BDNF also enhanced neurite extension by weaver granule cells which were rescued by wild-type granule cells during differentiation. Moreover, TrkB immunohistochemistry performed on sections of the developing wildtype and weaver cerebella revealed that only differentiated granule cells, but not the precursor cells, make high levels of TrkB receptor. These findings together suggest that NT-4/5 and BDNF promote the maturation and maintenance of differentiated granule cells, effects which are downstream to the weaver gene. Since no additive effects were seen with the combination of NT-4/5 and BDNF, it seems likely that the two neurotrophins activate the same receptor trkB for signal transduction.
The distributions of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and ryanodine receptors (InsP3R and RyR) and the patterns of increase in intracellular calcium ion concentration ([Ca2+]i) elicited by their activation were compared in cultured hippocampal neurons. InsP3R and RyR were labeled using specific antibodies and formed small aggregations in the somata and dendrites of pyramidally shaped neurons. Both receptors were densest in somata. In dendrites the InsP3R and RyR were not distributed homogeneously; InsP3R was found in all regions, while RyR was least dense in fine processes. Increases in [Ca2+]i elicited by acetylcholine (to activate InsP3 receptors via muscarinic receptors) and caffeine (to stimulate ryanodine receptors) were measured in dendrites using Ca(2+)-sensitive fluorescent dyes and confocal microscopy. Ca2+ responses to acetylcholine were transient and observed in proximal and distal dendritic regions. In contrast, caffeine-induced responses were sustained and restricted to proximal dendrites. Thus the patterns of calcium release in fine dendrites mirrored the distributions of InsP3R and RyR. Calcium responses to both acetylcholine and caffeine were observed in the absence of external calcium and thus were dependent on Ca2+ release. Ca2+ responses showed localized fluctuations and variations in response delay times. Sequential activation of InsP3R and RyR in somata resulted in mutual occlusion of Ca2+ release. The existence of InsP3-gated and Ca(2+)-induced Ca2+ release as spatially distinct, but mutually interacting, mechanisms may be important in the generation of oscillations and propagating Ca2+ waves in somata and dendrites of hippocampal neurons.
Due to its predominantly nociceptive innervation, viral tracing from the tooth pulp provides a potential means for tracing central pain pathways. The neural pathways from the tooth pulp to cortex were determined using in situ hybridization to detect the anterograde transneuronal spread of herpes simplex virus type 1 strain H129 following inoculation into the murine mandibular incisor pulp. Virus first appeared in the brain at day 3 in the dorsomedial region of all three subnuclei of the spinal trigeminal nucleus and the principal sensory nucleus. By days 5-6 virus had spread to the contralateral medial nucleus of the medial geniculate complex, posterior thalamus, and ventroposteromedial thalamus. At days 7-8 virus was detected in laminae IV and Va of the primary somatosensory cortex and lamina IV of the secondary somatosensory cortex in regions previously shown to receive input from the lower jaw. Several mice also showed infection of laminae II/III of the ipsilateral dysgranular insular cortex, along with labeling for virus in the ipsilateral external lateral parabrachial nucleus, posterior thalamus, and posterior basolateral amygdala. Our results are highly consistent with previous tracing and electrophysiological studies utilizing the tooth pulp and with studies implicating the infected structures in nociception. Viral spread appeared to define two separate afferent systems with infection of structures which have been implicated in the sensory-discriminative aspects of pain, such as the ventroposteromedial thalamus and somatosensory cortex, as well as in the dysgranular insular cortex and related subcortical nuclei which may have a role in the affective-motivational aspects of pain.
Neurotensin (NT) has been reported to have antinociceptive effects at the spinal level. In situ hybridization, electrophysiology, immunohistochemistry, and electronmicroscopy were used to investigate the distribution of NT receptors, possible effects of NT on primary sensory neurons, and the effect of nerve injury on the expression of NT receptors and NT. NT receptor (R) mRNA was observed in more than 25% of the small dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, which lacked neuropeptide Y NPY-R mRNA and essentially other neuropeptide mRNAs. Intracellular recording using voltage-clamp mode showed that NT evokes an outward current in NPY-insensitive small neurons, and NPY an outward current in NT-insensitive small neurons. Both peptides lacked effect on several small DRG neurons. In the superficial dorsal horn NT immunoreactive (IR) terminals directly contacted primary afferent terminals without synaptic specializations. This new category (&gt; 25%) of the small DRG neurons expressing NT-R mRNA was complementary to the around 60% of small neurons expressing NPY-R mRNA (and also substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide mRNAs) and to the rest exhibiting somatostatin mRNA expression. The electrophysiological results support this classification, showing that NT and NPY have inhibitory effects on separate subpopulations of small DRG neurons. After sciatic nerve transection, a marked decrease was observed in (1) the number of NT-R mRNA-positive neurons in DRGs, (2) NT mRNA-positive neurons in the dorsal horn, and (3) NT-IR cell bodies and fibers in laminae I-II. Thus, axotomy causes downregulation of several NT systems at the spinal level, suggesting that the possible effects of NT on primary sensory neurons is attenuated after peripheral axotomy.
We have developed a hardware and software package for real-time discrimination of multiple-unit activities recorded simultaneously from multiple microelectrodes using a VME-Bus system. Compared with other systems cited in literature or commercially available, our system has the following advantages. (1) Each electrode is served by its own preprocessor (DSP32C); (2) On-line spike discrimination is performed independently for each electrode. (3) The VME-bus allows processing of data received from 16 electrodes. The digitized (62.5 kHz) spike form is itself used as the model spike; the algorithm allows for comparing and sorting complete wave forms in real time into 8 different models per electrode.
A novel, inexpensive apparatus (locometer) was designed to measure behavioral activity of rats including gross locomotor activity, rearing, and structural characteristics of movement patterns (i.e. fractal dimension). Measurements were done in 3 dimensions at a resolution of approximately 1 cm. To test the sensitivity and specificity of the system, saline or D-amphetamine (0.5, 1, 2, and 4 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered to rats and locomotor activity, rearing and the structure of motor behavior calculated as the fractal dimension, were analyzed. The results obtained with the locometer were consistent with previous reports using other devices to measure basal and stimulant-induced behavior (i.e., infrared photobeam, visual observation, video tracking, etc.). Based on these data, the novel apparatus, described herein, provides a sensitive, versatile, and inexpensive tool for the analysis of locomotor behavior in the rat.
One technique for studying the cortex entails mapping the distribution of neuronal response properties across a cortical zone. In sensory cortex, 'receptive fields' are arranged in an orderly way such that they form a topographical representation, or 'map', of the sensory surface on the cortex. Detailed maps can be constructed by making many microelectrode penetrations across the cortex and measuring the receptive field at each site. A computer program called MAP was designed to aid in the efficient generation of these maps. MAP allows the user to mark penetration sites on digitized images of the cortical surface and to draw receptive fields on digitized images of the skin surface being studied. Penetration sites are then automatically assigned a category based on the location of the receptive field. MAP has significantly increased the speed of this experimental process. MAP contains a number of mechanisms designed to facilitate analysis. For example, it can automatically generate cortical maps based on receptive field locations. It can also show recorded neurophysiological data at each penetration site allowing the experimenter to visualize activity across the cortical zone. These features along with several others make MAP an effective tool for cortical mapping.
EXP is a Macintosh program for doing quantitative neurophysiology. It supports signal design, simultaneous signal output and data collection, spike sorting, histogram production, and many other analysis features. The hierarchical structure used to design protocols provides a straightforward method for designing complex experiments. The degree of automation supported by the program makes it possible to perform large-scale experiments and to collect and analyze large quantities of data in a reasonable amount of time. It has been used successfully in a large number of experimental paradigms by several different researchers. EXP is one of several cooperative programs designed to help perform neurophysiological experiments. These programs can be used in tandem not only to collect and analyze data but to help interpret and present results as well. The programs contain mechanisms to encourage re-analysis or 'virtual experiments' on data collected previously by oneself or other researchers.
Maintaining the pressure/volume balance in the brain is a challenging goal for the neuroscience team caring for patients with traumatic brain insults. Often, standard therapies are not effective in controlling increased intracranial pressure (ICP). Four severe traumatic brain injury patients given continuous infusions of midazolam and atracurium showed control of otherwise unstable ICPs. Midazolam and atracurium infusions are now considered an acceptable form of therapeutic intervention for our patients requiring such treatment. Intensive nursing care considerations for patients using the combined pharmacologic therapy are essential.
Lumbar spinal fusion is a major surgical procedure that joints together two or more vertebral bodies to restore stability to the lower spine. Spinal fusion may be indicated as a result of a variety of causes. Regardless of the underlying problem, if instability of the spine occurs, fusion may be necessary. In recent years there have been a number of new spinal instrumentation systems introduced that provide stabilization and immobilization of the spine while bony fusion occurs. Neuroscience nurses must be prepared to care for patients undergoing this procedure as their ability to educate, assess and intervene throughout the perioperative period can have a positive effect on the outcome of lumbar spinal fusion.
Neuroscience intensive care unit (NICU) patients are frequently transported out of the critical care environment for diagnostic and interventional procedures. Four hundred and seventy-one such transports from seventeen clinical centers were studied to identify the characteristics of intrahospital transport. Data collected included the destination and duration of transport, number and type of personnel involved, changes in monitoring and treatment during transport, adverse patient responses and the impact on patients left in the unit. Differences between transports characterized as elective or emergent in nature were noted. Results validate that intrahospital transport of NICU patients is both time and labor intensive. The study also suggests that the optimal process for safe and efficient transport is yet to be designed.
Cranial nerve dysfunction is frequently seen in neuroscience patients. Deficits range in severity and can present many challenges for nurses. Patients are at risk for complications such as worsening vision, corneal damage, improper nutrition, aspiration and respiratory difficulty. With a proper understanding of how to manage these patients, nurses can perform interventions that will minimize complications and assure better outcomes for the patient. Multidisciplinary care is often needed for these patients but it is the nurse who is in a pivotal role to provide appropriate care, coordinate the multidisciplinary needs and offer patient and family education and support.
The potential role of certain important immunoregulatory and effector cytokines in autoimmune neuroinflammation have been studied. We have examined the expression of mRNA, with in situ hybridization, of interferon gamma (IFN-gamma), interleukin 4 (IL-4) and transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) both in sections of spinal cords and the antigen-induced expression of these cytokines by lymphoid cells after stimulation with a dominant encephalitogenic peptide of MBP (MBP 63-88) during the course of actively induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in Lewis rats. In spinal cords, the target organ in EAE, cells expressing mRNA for IFN-gamma, first appeared at the onset of clinical signs, i.e., day 10 postimmunization (p.i.), peaked at the height of disease (day 13 p.i.) and then gradually decreased concomitant with recovery. Very few IL-4 mRNA-expressing cells appeared in the spinal cord with no clear relation to clinical signs or histopathology. In contrast, expression of mRNA for TGF-beta did not increase until day 13 p.i., at height of the disease, shortly preceding recovery. These data are consistent with a disease upregulating role of IFN-gamma, while TGF-beta may act to limit central nervous system (CNS) inflammation. In lymphoid organs, primed MBP 63-88 reactive T cells showed an interesting time-dependent evolution of their cytokine production in vitro. Thus, early after immunization there was a conspicuous MBP 63-88-induced production of both IFN-gamma and IL-4. Such cells may act in the initiation and promotion of the disease. Later, in the recovery phase, MBP 63-88 induced lymphoid cells to TGF-beta production. Thus, an autoantigen-specific production of TGF-beta occurred during EAE and hypothetically such a mechanism may serve to downregulate aggressive autoimmunity systemically.
We sought to extend the therapeutic window for acute stroke therapy using the combination of a glutamate antagonist and a GABA agonist, which in prior studies was effective if given 5 min after stroke. We used a quantal bioassay to measure neuroprotective potency after injection of several thousand microspheres into the cerebral circulation of rats. The GABA-A agonist muscimol, but not MK-801, was effective if given 30, 45, or 60 min after embolization (potency ratio compared with saline of 3.0, 2.3, 1.8, respectively). If muscimol was combined with MK-801 at lower doses of each drug, the combination was neuroprotective (potency ratio of 4.2). Agonists of GABA-A, but not GABA-B, receptors blocked the toxic vacuolization seen in the cingulate and retrosplenial cortex after MK-801 treatment. Combination chemotherapy appears to extend the time window for acute stroke therapy in rats to 1 h and to result in fewer side effects.
The aim of the present study was to develop a high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method for determination of the serotonin metabolite 5-hydroxytryptophol (5HTOL) in human urine. 5HTOL was liberated from its conjugated form by enzymatic hydrolysis and isolated by a sample clean-up procedure on a small Sephadex G-10 column. The eluate was injected onto an isocratically eluted C18 reversed-phase column and 5HTOL was converted into a fluorescent oxazole derivative by on-line post-column reaction with benzylamine in the presence of potassium hexacyanoferrate(III). The limit of detection was about 10 nM and the intra-assay coefficients of variation were below 4% with urine samples and standard solutions. The results indicate that the method can be used as a screening method to discriminate between normal and elevated levels of total (free + conjugated) 5HTOL in urine.
The development of behavioral sensitization during repeated administration of psychomotor stimulants is a well characterized phenomenon which involves alterations in dopaminergic neurotransmission within the mesoaccumbens system. However, recent evidence indicating that both behavioral sensitization and certain of its neuronal correlates can be prevented by excitatory amino acid receptor antagonists suggests an integral role for glutamate systems in sensitization processes. Therefore, we have determined whether repeated psychomotor stimulant administration can alter responsiveness of the mesoaccumbens dopamine (DA) system to glutamate. After five daily injections of either cocaine (15.0 mg/kg) or d-amphetamine (5.0 mg/kg), rats were subjected to in vivo single cell recording to determine the efficacy of iontophoretically administered glutamate in altering the firing of ventral tegmental area DA neurons and nucleus accumbens neurons. Current-response determinations indicated that the responsiveness of ventral tegmental area DA neurons to glutamate was significantly enhanced in d-amphetamine-treated and cocaine-treated rats in that the neurons entered a state of apparent depolarization block at significantly lower iontophoretic currents. In contrast, nucleus accumbens neurons in psychomotor stimulant-treated rats were significantly less sensitive to the rate-enhancing effects of glutamate. Thus, sensitization appears to be associated with alterations in glutamate transmission at both the origin and termination of the mesoaccumbens DA pathway.
Although plasma levels of Met-enkephalin and beta-endorphin are elevated in patients suffering from liver failure, it is not known whether central nervous system (CNS) opioidergic neurotransmission is altered in these patients. Such changes may contribute to the motor dysfunction, psychiatric abnormalities and CNS depression observed in hepatic encephalopathy (HE). Therefore, Met- and Leu-enkephalin, dynorphin A and beta-endorphin levels were measured in discrete brain regions and plasma from thioacetamide-treated rats in Stages II to IV of HE. Pituitary and plasma beta-endorphin, Met- and Leu-enkephalin concentrations increased with the severity of HE by 50 to 290%. Pituitary and brainstem dynorphin A levels increased whereas plasma levels decreased in rats with thioacetamide-induced fulminant hepatic failure. Both striatal Met- and Leu-enkephalin levels increased and hypothalamic concentrations decreased in HE. Concurrent with the increase in striatal Met-enkephalin levels was a 26 to 48% decrease in the density of striatal and hypothalamic delta receptors. No change in either the density or affinity of radioligand binding to mu or delta receptors was observed in the CNS. Finally, administering (+/-)-naloxone (5 and 10 mg/kg) or (+/-)-naltrexone (5-15 mg/kg), but not (+)-naloxone (10 mg/kg), significantly increased the motor activity of rats with Stage III HE. Whereas elevated plasma levels of opioid peptides may play a role in the peripheral manifestations of hepatic failure (ascites and hypotension), increased CNS levels of these peptides may be involved in the neuropsychiatric abnormalities characteristic of HE. Thus, opioid antagonists may be effective in ameliorating some of the neurological manifestations of HE.
Children with growth failure, whether secondary to an endocrinopathy such as growth hormone deficiency or secondary to neurological handicap with poor nutrient intake, grow at a subnormal rate but it is most unusual for a child to have complete growth arrest.



Immunoperoxidase labeling of lucifer yellow provides a sensitive method for morphological characterization of neurons recorded intracellularly in vitro or in vivo. However, the reaction product is often so dense that it obscures ultrastructural details necessary for the analysis of synaptic contacts onto individually filled neurons. In the present study, we describe a silver intensification procedure using 1 nm gold labeling of lucifer yellow as an optimal means for immunocytochemically identifying single physiologically characterized neurons at the ultrastructural level. Single neurons in the frontal cortex of anesthetized rats were impaled in vivo and filled with lucifer yellow. The brains were then perfused with an acrolein fixative. Single vibratome sections through the recording site were reacted with a rabbit antibody directed against lucifer yellow followed by goat anti-rabbit 1 nm gold-labeled IgG and silver intensified. For comparison, additional sections were processed for immunoperoxidase detection of lucifer yellow. Labeled sections were processed for light microscopy or embedded in plastic for electron microscopy. The immunogold-silver label as well as peroxidase reaction product of lucifer yellow was readily detected in cell bodies, proximal and distal dendrites, and spines. However, in contrast to immunoperoxidase, the immunogold-silver reaction did not obscure subcellular organelles. Most importantly, the synaptic junctions formed by afferents to the filled neuron were more easily identifiable following the immunogold-silver procedure. This clear visualization of postsynaptic densities is essential for examining synaptic circuitry between afferents and physiologically characterized neurons.
A mechanism has been characterized by which the transcription factor CREB regulates neurotrophin-induced gene expression. Whereas CREB can mediate calcium- or cyclic AMP-induced c-fos transcription independently of other promoter-bound transcription factors, CREB mediates NGF induction of c-fos transcription via a novel mechanism that appears to require a cooperative interaction with another transcription factor, the serum response factor. A similar transcriptional mechanism may explain how neurotrophins and growth factors induce distinct subsets of delayed response genes. Neurotrophins induce the phosphorylation of CREB at a key regulatory site, Serine 133, with prolonged kinetics that are distinct from the transient kinetics of CREB phosphorylation elicited by growth factors. These results indicate that CREB is a versatile transcription factor that activates transcription via distinct mechanisms in a stimulus-specific manner. In addition, by selectively activating delayed response genes, CREB may confer specificity to neurotrophin signals that promote the survival and differentiation of neurons.
Multiple genetic and epigenetic events determine neuronal phenotype during nervous system development. After the mature mammalian neuronal phenotype has been determined it is usually static for the remainder of life, unless an injury or degenerative event occurs. Injured neurons may suffer one of three potential fates: death, persistent atrophy, or recovery. The ability of an injured adult neuron to recover from injury in adulthood may be determined by events that also influence neuronal phenotype during development, including expression of growth-related genes and responsiveness to survival and growth signals in the environment. The latter signals include neurotrophic factors and substrate molecules that promote neurite growth. Several adult CNS regions exhibit neurotrophic-factor responsiveness, including the basal forebrain, entorhinal cortex, hippocampus, thalamus, brainstem, and spinal cord. The specificity of neurotrophic-factor responsiveness in these regions parallels patterns observed during development. In addition, neurons of several CNS regions extend neurites after injury when presented with growth-promoting substrates. When both neurotrophic factors and growth-promoting substrates are provided to adult rats that have undergone bilateral fimbria-fornix lesions, then partial morphological and behavioral recovery can be induced. Gene therapy is one useful tool for providing these substances. Thus, the mature CNS remains robustly responsive to signals that shape nervous system development, and is highly plastic when stimulated by appropriate cues.
Neurotrophins, which are structurally related to nerve growth factor, have been shown to promote survival of various neurons. Recently, we found a novel activity of a neurotrophin in the brain: Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) enhances expression of various neuropeptides. The neuropeptide differentiation activity was then compared among neurotrophins both in vivo and in vitro. In cultured neocortical neurons, BDNF and neurotrophin-5 (NT-5) remarkably increased levels of neuropeptide Y and somatostatin, and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) also increased these peptides but required higher concentrations. At elevating substance P, however, NT-3 was as potent as BDNF. In contrast, NGF had negligible or no effect. Neurotrophins administered into neonatal brain exhibited slightly different potencies for increasing these neuropeptides: The most marked increase in neuropeptide Y levels was obtained in the neocortex by NT-5, whereas in the striatum and hippocampus by BDNF, although all three neurotrophins increased somatostatin similarly in all the brain regions examined. Overall spatial patterns of the neuropeptide induction were similar among the neurotrophins. Neurons in adult rat brain can also react with the neurotrophins and alter neuropeptide expression in a slightly different fashion. Excitatory neuronal activity and hormones are known to change expression of neurotrophins. Therefore, neurotrophins, neuronal activity, and hormones influence each other and all regulate neurotransmitter/peptide expression in developing and mature brain. Physiological implication of the neurotransmitter/peptide differentiation activities is also discussed.
A polymerase chain reaction product was used to isolate mouse brain cDNA clones coding for isoforms of the beta subunit of voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels. The two mouse brain beta 2 subunit cDNA clones described, beta 2a and beta 2b, differed by alternative splicing within the coding region but possessed a unique amino terminus not yet reported in other beta 2 subunit cDNAs. Northern blot and RNase protection analyses demonstrated that both mRNA isoforms could be detected in highest abundance in heart and brain and at lower levels in lung, kidney, and testis. In a novel assay for beta 2 subunit function, COS-1 cells were transfected with alpha 1 and beta 2 subunit expression vectors and assayed for increases in intracellular Ca2+ concentration by using fura-2 imaging. Co-transfection of COS-1 cells with the mouse brain class C-1 alpha 1 subunit expression vector and either of the beta 2 subunit expression vectors resulted in increases in intracellular Ca2+ concentration after stimulation with elevated K+ and the dihydropyridine agonist Bay K 8644. Transfection of either alpha 1 or beta 2 subunit expression vectors alone did not result in an elevation of intracellular Ca2+ concentration. Electrophysiological recording of human embryonic kidney 293 cells transfected with the expression vector for the alpha 1 subunit alone or with either beta 2 subunit demonstrated expression of voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels that were dihydropyridine sensitive. Currents formed by expression of only the alpha 1 subunit were small and slowly inactivated. In contrast, the currents formed by coexpression of alpha 1 subunits with either beta 2 subunit were larger and inactivated more rapidly. Dihydropyridine binding studies demonstrated that coexpression of alpha 1 subunits with beta 2 subunits increased the density of functional receptors, compared with expression of alpha 1 subunits alone. These experiments suggested that coexpression of the alpha 1 and beta 2 subunits produced functional dihydropyridine-sensitive Ca2+ channels and that both beta subunit isoforms had modulatory effects on these channels.
The effect of the intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester and NG-monomethyl-L-arginine, two inhibitors of nitric oxide (NO) synthase, on penile erection and yawning induced by 1-(3-chlorophenyl)-piperazine (m-CPP)- and N-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl)-piperazine (TFMPP), two selective 5HT1c receptor agonists, was studied in male rats. Both NO synthase inhibitors (50-500 micrograms i.c.v.) prevented dose-dependently the behavioural responses induced by m-CPP (0.5 mg/kg s.c.) or by TFMPP (1 mg/kg s.c.), but NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester was about 4-5 times more potent than NG-monomethyl-L-arginine. The D-isomer of NG-monomethyl-L-arginine, which does not inhibit nitric oxide synthase, was ineffective. The inhibitory effect of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester on m-CPP- and TFMPP-induced responses was prevented by the administration of L-arginine (1 mg i.c.v.). In contrast, NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (20 micrograms) was ineffective when injected in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, a brain area that plays a key role in the expression of these behavioural responses. m-CPP- and TFMPP-induced penile erection and yawning was prevented also by the i.c.v. administration of LY 83583 (50-200 micrograms) or methylene blue (50-400 micrograms), two inhibitors of guanylate cyclase but not by reduced hemoglobin (50-400 micrograms), a NO scavenger. The results suggest that central nitric oxide is involved in the expression of penile erection and yawning induced by 5-HT1c receptor agonists.
Neurones in the rat substantia nigra compacta (SNC) are initially resistant to transient forebrain ischaemia in contrast to vulnerable neurones in the striatum that die within 24 h. Animals were exposed to 20 min of four vessel occlusion and killed 1 and 3 weeks after reperfusion. All ischaemic animals had striatal neurone loss. Analysis of the number of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive neurones (THir) in the SNC was comparable between controls and ischaemic animals killed 1 week after reperfusion. However, there was a significant reduction in THir neurone number (24%), SNC volume (17%), and THir dendritic arborization in the substantia nigra reticulata (SNR) that occurred 3 weeks after reperfusion, despite the persistence of THir axons in the striatum. Detailed morphological analysis of areas distant from the initial ischaemic injury suggest delayed degeneration may play an important role in the brain's response to ischaemia, and may provide insights for clinical stroke treatment and management.
In sagittal brain sections of newborn male rats (1-day-old) there were no regional differences in the IC50 values of dopamine at [125I]iodosulpride binding sites. In contrast, in 20- and 60-day-old rats, there was a selective increase in the IC50 values of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens, caudate-putamen, and olfactory tubercule. The IC50 values of these regions decreased in 262-day-old rats. Some of the other brain areas appeared to behave in a similar, but much less pronounced, fashion. Thus, there were significant regional differences in the IC50 values of young, adult, and old rats. In addition, there was a rapid increase in [125I]iodosulpride binding between the newborn and the 20-day-old rats, which leveled off thereafter, and selectively decreased in the substantia nigra of the 262-day-old rats. In conclusion, these results indicate that a biphasic decrease-increase in the affinity of D2 agonist binding sites occurs selectively in the basal ganglia. These findings may be of relevance for developmental diseases in which dopaminergic mechanisms have been implicated, such as schizophrenia and Parkinson's disease.
We have previously reported elevated brain tissue contents of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity (NPY-LI) following 3 weeks of oral treatment with the antidepressants zimelidine and imipramine. Other studies have not reproduced this finding. To eliminate the possibility that this has been due to insufficient treatment duration, dosage, or differences in route of administration or assay specificity, we have administered the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor citalopram and the preferential noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor desmethylimipramine parenterally for 6 weeks. NPY-LI was assayed using both the assay employed in the original study, and an assay based on a different antiserum which has been extensively examined for cross-reactivity. To exclude the possibility that differential processing rather than altered synthesis rate is responsible for apparent changes in NPY-LI, HPLC analysis of immunoreactive fragment profiles was used. No differences in NPY-LI levels were seen in the brain regions examined, and no differences in HPLC profiles of NPY-LI were present with either drug. We conclude that chronic parenteral administration of antidepressant drugs in nave (non-depressed) animals does not affect the synthesis or processing of NPY. Another neuropeptide implicated in mechanisms of depression, corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) was also found to be unaffected by a similar analysis.
We examined the effects of endogenous basic proteins rich in the amino acid L-arginine on neuronal NO synthase activity by monitoring cyclic GMP formation in intact neuron-like neuroblastoma N1E-115 cells. Histone, protamine and myelin basic protein significantly stimulated cyclic GMP formation, both in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. These effects were blocked by hemoglobin and NO synthase inhibitors. Removal of the extracellular/intracellular Ca2+ gradient by a Ca2+ chelator completely abolished the cyclic GMP responses elicited by histone and protamine, suggesting that influx of extracellular Ca2+ might be involved in their activation of NO synthase. The effects of myelin basic protein on cyclic GMP formation, however, appeared to be due to Ca2+ release from intracellular stores. In cytosolic preparations of rat cerebellum, these basic proteins inhibited the metabolism of L-arginine into L-citrulline by NO synthase. We conclude from our findings that endogenous basic proteins might be involved in the regulation of neuronal NO synthase activity. Their effects on the enzyme could be either stimulatory or inhibitory, depending on whether the basic proteins exert their effects extracellularly or intracellularly, respectively.
Nicotinic cholinergic agonists stimulate ACTH secretion by a central mechanism involving brainstem catecholamines. In vivo microdialysis studies were conducted to measure the release of norepinephrine (NE) in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) in response to the administration of nicotine (Nic) or another nicotinic cholinergic (NAch) agonist, cytisine (Cyt), directly into the IVth ventricle. Alert, freely mobile rats, equipped 24 h previously with a chronic guide cannula in the IVth ventricle and microdialysis probe in the PVN, were injected with artificial cerebrospinal fluid (CSF, 500 nl/60 s), Nic (1-5 micrograms), or Cyt (1-25 micrograms) after three 20-min baseline samples had been taken. Analysis of the dialysates by HPLC with electrochemical detection demonstrated the dose-dependent secretion of PVN NE to Nic or Cyt with ED50s of approximately 1 or 6 micrograms, respectively; these were completely blocked by prior IVth ventricular injection of the NAch antagonist, mecamylamine (4 micrograms). In contrast, alpha-bungarotoxin, which antagonizes the action of NAch agonists by acting through the alpha 7 bungarotoxin-type NAchR, failed to reduce the NE response to Nic. Partial, but significant desensitization of NE secretion in response to a second injection of Nic (2.5 or 5 micrograms) 100 min after the first was seen, whereas NE responses to the second injection of Cyt (5 or 25 micrograms) were completely desensitized. However, cross-desensitization of each agonist to the other did not occur. This may reflect heterogeneity of the NAch receptor subtypes involved. The results of this study establish a correlation between the action of nicotine on brainstem norepinephrinergic regions and the resultant release of NE in the PVN, which would lead to the release of ACTH secretagogues.
We evaluated the ability of monoclonal antibodies directed against leukocyte adhesion molecules (intercellular adhesion molecule-1 [ICAM-1], CD18) to enhance the efficacy of thrombolysis in a rabbit cerebral embolism stroke model. Both tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) and anti-CD18 (alpha-CD18) monoclonal antibody administered 5 minutes after embolization increased the quantity of clots required to produce neurologic damage, although the combination was no more effective than either substance alone. Neither alpha-CD18 nor anti-ICAM-1 (alpha-ICAM-1) improved neurologic outcome at postischemic delays of 15 or 30 minutes. However, the combination of alpha-ICAM-1 (15 minutes after embolization) and tPA (2 hours after embolization) significantly improved neurologic outcome even though neither substance was effective alone at these postembolization delays. These findings suggest that prevention of leukocyte adhesion increases the postischemic duration at which thrombolytic therapy remains effective.
We assessed performance on selected tests of verbal memory in 48 patients who had undergone either anterior temporal lobectomy or selective amygdalo-hippocampectomy for the relief of pharmacologically intractable epilepsy. We related performance both to the side of surgical excision and to the presence or absence of abnormalities in the contralateral, unoperated, temporal lobe, as revealed by proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H MRS) or T2 relaxometry. There were abnormalities on the unoperated side detected by 1H MRS in 50% of the 34 patients who successfully underwent spectroscopy, and by T2 relaxometry in 33% of the complete series of 48 patients. There was no systematic relationship between seizure outcome and the presence or absence of abnormalities on the unoperated side. Verbal memory deficits were present in patients with left-sided excision, regardless of whether there were abnormalities on the unoperated side. The patients with right-sided excision also had verbal memory deficits, but only in the group with magnetic resonance abnormalities on the contralateral (ie, left) side and only on delayed recall. The study extends previous findings on the role of the temporal lobes in memory and highlights the role of these new magnetic resonance techniques in relating cognitive processes to brain structures.
Currently, there is no biochemical marker clinically available to test for the presence of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent studies suggest that the core component of AD-associated neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), the microtubule-associated protein tau, might be present in CSF. This study focuses on establishing both the presence of tau in CSF and its potential utility in the diagnosis of AD. We obtained CSF from 181 individuals; 71 of these were diagnosed as having probable AD by NINCDS-ADRDA criteria. The remaining 110 individuals were divided into three groups: (1) age-matched demented non-AD patients (n = 25), (2) neurologic controls (n = 59), and (3) other controls (n = 26). We developed a sensitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent tau assay using monoclonal antibodies prepared against recombinant human tau. We confirmed specificity of the antibodies by a combination of immunoprecipitation and immunoblot results. By this assay we measured that the AD population has a mean level of tau 50% greater than the non-AD dementia patients. Comparing AD patients with all other groups, the difference in tau levels as analyzed by one-way ANOVA is highly statistically significant (p &lt; 0.001). Postmortem analysis of two AD patients with high levels of CSF tau revealed a high density of NFTs in the hippocampus. There was no significant correlation between tau and age in the non-AD groups. This study suggests that CSF tau is elevated in AD and might be a useful aid in antemortem diagnosis.
Induction of prodynorphin gene expression by psychostimulant drugs may represent a compensatory adaptation to excessive dopamine stimulation and may contribute to the aversive aspects of withdrawal. We therefore investigated the molecular mechanisms by which dopamine psychostimulant drugs induce prodynorphin gene expression in vivo and in rat primary striatal cultures. We demonstrate that three recently described cAMP response elements (CREs), rather than a previously reported noncanonical AP-1 site, are critical for dopamine induction of the prodynorphin gene in striatal neurons. CRE-binding protein (CREB) binds to these CREs in striatal cell extracts and is phosphorylated on Ser-133 after dopamine stimulation in a D1 dopamine receptor-dependent manner. Surprisingly, following chronic administration of amphetamine, levels of phosphorylated CREB are increased above basal in rat striatum in vivo, whereas c-fos mRNA is suppressed below basal levels. D1 receptor-mediated CREB phosphorylation appears to mediate adaptations to psychostimulant drugs in the striatum.
Homozygous Igf1-/- mice at 2 months of age had reduced brain weights, with reductions evenly affecting all major brain areas. The gross morphology of the CNS was normal, but the size of white matter structures in brain and spinal cord was strongly reduced, owing to decreased numbers of axons and oligodendrocytes. Myelinated axons were more strongly reduced in number than unmyelinated axons. The volume of the dentate gyrus granule cell layer was reduced in excess of the decrease in brain weight. Among populations of calcium-binding protein-containing neurons, there was a selective reduction in the number of striatal parvalbumin-containing cells. Numbers of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons, striatal and basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, and spinal cord motoneurons were unaffected. Cerebellar morphology was unaltered. Our findings suggest cell type- and region-specific functions for IGF-I and emphasize prominent roles in axon growth and maturation in CNS myelination.
Here we describe a technique that uses a recombinant vaccinia virus to transfect neurons in rat hippocampal slices. This technique allows the use of molecular biological manipulations on neuronal tissue while maintaining intact synaptic function. This method should be useful in testing specific hypotheses regarding the role of synaptic proteins.
Studies of neurotransmitter release in guinea pig and human brain indicate that the 5-HT terminal autoreceptor is the 5-HT1D subtype and that it regulates the depolarization evoked release of 5-HT. Thus, blockade of the terminal 5-HT autoreceptor should enhance 5-HT release in vivo. In the present study, we have used the recently described, selective and potent 5-HT1D receptor antagonist, GR127935, to determine if blockade of the terminal 5-HT autoreceptor enhanced 5-HT neurotransmission in the guinea pig. Neurochemical studies showed that GR127935 (0.1, 0.3 and 1.0 mg/kg i.p.) significantly increased 5-HT metabolism in forebrain regions but not in the raphe nucleus of the guinea pig. However, using in vivo dialysis, GR127935 did not significantly increase cortical 5-HT efflux when given either systemically (1 and 5 mg/kg i.p.) or by infusion via the probe directly into the cortex (10, 33 and 100 microM). Fast cyclic voltammetry studies in the guinea pig dorsal raphe slice in vitro failed to observe any significant effects of GR127935 (0.01-1 microM) on electrically evoked 5-HT release. Behavioural studies in the guinea pig were also unable to demonstrate any effects of GR127935 (0.1-3.0 mg/kg i.p.) per se or in combination with the 5-HT precursor 5-hydroxytryptophan. Taken together, results from the present neurochemical and behavioral studies in the guinea pig provide little substantial evidence that blockade of the terminal 5-HT autoreceptor following the acute administration of GR127935 increased brain 5-HT neurotransmission in vivo.
The paper recalls the experiences of the author over the past forty-eight years in a field which later became known as psychopharmacology. The author began in physical chemistry and traditional pharmacology. His interest in the nervous system stemmed from X-ray diffraction studies on the structure of living myelin, and led, by way of studies on the distribution of cholinesterases and the effects of atropine, to the study of the effects of drugs on the electrical activity of the brain in the conscious animal. At the clinical level it included studies of the effects of drugs on catatonic schizophrenic stupor. These studies took place before the discovery of chlorpromazine. They led to the creation, in 1951, of the Department of Experimental Psychiatry in Birmingham, England, the first department of its kind in the world. The department included neurochemical, electrophysiological, and animal behavior laboratories and a strong clinical facility (the Uffculme Clinic). The first blind trial of chlorpromazine was carried out in that department in 1953 and 1954. The existence of families of neuroregulatory compounds, having uneven distribution in the brain, and exerting regional chemical field effects in relation to function was postulated on the basis of experimental and clinical findings. The work of colleagues and participants in the various studies is gratefully acknowledged in the text. In 1954 the author served as convening executive secretary of the first International Symposium on Neurochemistry at Oxford, England, the first meeting of its kind. He came to the United States in 1957 and founded, and served as first director of, the new Clinical Neuropharmacology Research Center, now the Center for Neuroscience at St. Elizabeth's Hospital, Washington, DC. He directed this program from 1957 to 1963. Subsequent activities at Johns Hopkins, the World Health Organization, and the International Brain Research Organization (IBRO) are recalled. In 1961 he was elected first president of the American College of Neuropsychopharmacology. In looking back, he notes the sparse and personal nature of the field in the late 1940s and early 1950s, its explosive growth in the wake of the major clinical discoveries, and above all, the emergence of a new science through the interaction of neurochemistry, electrophysiology, studies of animal behavior, and the refinement of the clinical trial. He regards the emergence of concepts of regional chemistry of the brain as particularly significant, and feels that psychopharmacology is ideally positioned to act as an intermediary between classical pharmacology and quantrum biology. The transdisciplinary nature of psychopharmacology provides a template for a comprehensive psychiatry of the future--a discipline which is now positioned to lead.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) is the normal reduction in a startle response that occurs when a weak stimulus (&quot;prepulse&quot;) precedes the startling stimulus by 30 to 500 msec. Schizophrenic patients are deficient in this operational measure of sensorimotor gating; therefore, animal models of deficient PPI may provide information useful in the understanding and treatment of schizophrenia. Prepulse inhibition is disrupted in rats by systemic administration of direct dopamine agonists having affinity for the D2 subtype family (D2, D3, and D4) of dopamine receptors. This study tested the hypothesis that dopamine agonists and antagonists with different affinities for D3 and D2 receptors differ in their relative potencies to modulate PPI. The dopamine agonists quinpirole, 7-hydroxy-N,-N-di-n-propyl-2-aminotetralin (7-OH-DPAT) and apomorphine were approximately equipotent in decreasing PPI. Pretreatment with haloperidol (13 to 130 nmol/kg sc), but not equimolar doses of UH 232, prevented the disruption of PPI produced by the highest dose (0.6 mumol/kg sc) of each agonist. Given the 100-fold higher affinity of haloperidol relative to UH 232 for D2 receptors, and equal relative affinities of these antagonists for D3 receptors, these data are consistent with previous studies suggesting that dopamine agonists may modulate PPI in the rat through the D2 subtype of dopamine receptors.
Conditioned taste avoidances (CTAs) are an important component of behavioral regulation of ingestion. In the laboratory CTAs can be produced by pairing a novel taste stimulus with the physiological feedback produced by a toxin, such as lithium. Such toxins putatively activate a chemosensitive brainstem structure, the area postrema, which ultimately results in the production of a CTA. The present review describes a series of studies which examined conditioned changes in taste reactivity responses (TRRs) when a novel intraoral sucrose taste was paired with the effects of an intraperitoneal (IP) injection of LiCl, and the role of the area postrema in the formation of conditioned palatability shifts. It was first of all necessary to examine the effects of area postrema ablations on TRRs to a range of intraoral sucrose and quinine stimulus intensities. In the first study area postrema lesioned rats exhibited concentration dependent changes in TRRs to these taste stimuli that were very similar to those exhibited by sham lesioned rats. The second study demonstrated that 30 s intraoral infusions of sucrose (0.3 M), presented at 5 or 10 min intervals following an IP injection of LiCl (3.0 meq), resulted in conditioned changes in TRRs. These were characterized by orderly, gradual reductions in ingestive responses and increases in aversive responses. Finally, when area postrema lesioned rats (Study 3) were subjected to this conditioning procedure (brief sucrose presentations paired with the effects of LiCl) no evidence for conditioned or unconditioned changes in TRRs to sucrose were obtained. Lesioned rats injected with LiCl behaved similarly to sham lesioned rats injected with NaCl. These series of studies provide evidence indicating that the chemosensitive area postrema mediates the formation of conditioned palatability shifts induced by treatment with a toxin such as lithium.
Among central neurotransmitters involved in the control of sexual behavior, dopamine is certainly one of the most extensively studied. Our attempt to review old and recent neuropharmacological, biochemical, electrophysiological, and psychobiological studies performed so far only in rats, monkeys, and humans, provides evidence that dopamine through its different neuronal systems and receptor subtypes plays different roles in the control of several aspects of sexual behavior. In fact, while the nigrostriatal system is necessary for the control of the sensory-motor coordination required for copulation, the mesolimbic-mesocortical system plays a key role in the preparatory phase of the behavior, mainly in sexual arousal, motivation and possibly reward. Conversely, the incertohypothalamic system plays a major role in the consummation of the behavior, mainly in seminal emission and erectile performance, but evidence for its involvement in sexual motivation also exists. The dopaminergic receptors playing the major role in the control of male sexual behavior belong to the D2 receptor subtype. However a D1/D2 receptor interaction is well established and an opposite role for D1 and D2 receptors in the preoptic area suggested. Despite some differences, most studies show that treatments that increase or decrease, respectively, brain dopaminergic activity improve or worsen, respectively, several parameters of copulatory activity, supporting a facilitatory role of dopamine in male sexual behavior. In contrast, no conclusion can be deduced from the available studies on the role of central dopaminergic systems in the control of proceptivity and receptivity, the two main components of female sexual behavior.
The expression of the nerve growth factor-inducible gene VGF has been examined by in situ hybridization. Western blot and immunohistochemical studies in the developing and adult rat central nervous system, with particular emphasis on the visual system. Both the messenger RNA and the protein are particularly abundant in the developing dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, appearing, respectively, at embryonal day 16 and 18. After its onset at E16, VGF messenger RNA expression increases progressively in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus and remains high during the first two post-natal weeks; afterwards, it gradually decreases and, at the offset of the plasticity period, it reaches very low levels maintained in adulthood. A similar time course has been observed for VGF protein in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus area, by semi-quantitative Western blots. In addition to the presence of the protein in the geniculate neurons, a strong, transient immunoreactivity has been found at the embryonic cortical subplate at E18, reflecting the presence of the antigen in axonal terminals originating from thalamic neurons. Interestingly, we found that the blockade of afferent electrical activity by intraocular injection of tetrodotoxin strongly reduces the level of VGF messenger RNA in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. Although the function of the VGF protein is not known, it had been previously proposed that VGF could be a precursor for neuropeptide/s. The spatiotemporal expression of VGF, together with the observation of a regulation by electrical activity, suggest that this protein may be relevant in the process of synaptogenesis and/or synaptic stabilization in the developing geniculocortical connections.
To determine the role of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I in immunological rejection of neural xenotransplants, F(ab')2 fragments of a monoclonal antibody to porcine MHC class I were used to mask this complex on porcine fetal striatal cells transplanted into rat striata previously lesioned with quinolinic acid. Presence of MHC class I on the surface of porcine striatal cells was confirmed by fluorescence-activated cell sorting prior to F(ab')2 treatment. At three to four months post-transplantation, survival of F(ab')2-treated xenografts was assessed by means of donor-specific immunostaining and compared to that of untreated xenografts in non-immunosuppressed rats and in rats immunosuppressed with cyclosporine A. In this study, masking of donor MHC class I by F(ab')2 treatment resulted in enhanced xenografts survival compared to the non-immunosuppressed controls (graft survival rates, 52% and 7%, respectively; P &lt; 0.005) at survival times up to four months. While xenograft survival in F(ab')2-treated animals was not significantly different from that in cyclosporine-treated rats (74% graft survival), mean graft volume in F(ab')2-treated animals was smaller than that in cyclosporine-treated animals (1.07 +/- 0.30 mm3 versus 3.14 +/- 0.51 mm3; P &lt; 0.005). The cytoarchitectonic organization of the xenografts was similar in F(ab')2- and cyclosporine-treated animals, and grafts in both groups exhibited long distance target-directed axonal outgrowth. The pattern of immunoreactivity to porcine MHC class I in the xenografts corresponded to the regional distribution of donor glia. In xenografts undergoing rejection, infiltration with host inflammatory cells was restricted to necrotic graft remnants and spared the nearby host structures. We conclude that MHC class-I-restricted immune mechanisms play an important role in neural xenograft rejection and that masking of this complex on donor cells may provide a useful strategy for immunoprotection of neural xenografts.
Morphological and biochemical methods were applied to assess the effects of implanting cultured astrocytes into the hemisected adult rat spinal cord. Astrocytes were purified from neonatal rat cortex and introduced into the lesioned spinal cord either in suspension injection or cultured on gelfoam first. The control groups were rats which had hemisection with injection of culture media or with gelfoam grafted alone. At various time points after surgery (two weeks to two months), the spinal cord was removed and processed for routine light microscopy, immunofluorescence, gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting. As early as two weeks after surgery, a significantly smaller volume of scar tissue was consistently found in the experimental groups. This reduced scarring was also confirmed by immunofluorescence staining and immunoblotting for glial fibrillary acidic protein in the specimens two months after hemisection. Compared to the control groups, the experimental groups also had more intense staining for neurofilaments, which was confirmed by immunoblotting. However, labelling of the astrocytes with Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin conjugated with fluorescein showed that the astrocytes migrated at a rate of 0.6 mm/day from the original implanted site. The results therefore suggested that the cultured astrocytes probably exerted their effects over a short time period (less than two weeks) around the lesion site. They could have altered the microenvironment and as a result less scar tissue was formed. Hence, there was less barrier to the regrowth of nerve fibres.
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, found throughout the mammalian brain, are a component of the major excitatory transmitter system. Strong evidence exists that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, by promoting excessive entry of Ca2+ into neurons, play a role in neuronal damage that follows head injury, strokes, and epileptic seizures, and is associated with degenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease. Huntington's disease, Parkinson's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. We have investigated whether N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors exist in peripheral neurons, and, if so, whether their activation may result in tissue injury. We report that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors exist in the lung, that their activation triggers acute injury, and that, as in toxicity to central neurons, this injury is associated with stimulation of nitric oxide synthesis, and can be attenuated by inhibition of this synthesis. Finally, vasoactive intestinal peptide, which protects the lung and heart against oxidant injury and promotes neuronal survival and differentiation also prevented N-methyl-D-aspartate lung injury, apparently by inhibiting a key neurotoxic action of nitric oxide, but not its production. The findings suggest that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors exist in the peripheral nervous system and that activation of these receptors, resulting in damage to peripheral neurons, may be a novel mechanism of lung and other organ injury.
Many of the different morphological types of interneurons in mammalian neocortex are presumed to be inhibitory, but to date, conclusive functional data have been lacking. Using paired intracellular recordings in slices of adult rat somatosensory cortex, we present a sparsely spiny, burst firing interneuron that elicits in a simultaneously recorded pyramid a fast inhibitory postsynaptic potential, reversing at -78 mV. Neither inhibitory postsynaptic potential time course, nor paired pulse depression (inter-spike interval 15-120 ms), was affected by addition of the GABAB antagonist/partial agonist 2-OH-Saclofen (250 microM), but increasing extracellular [Ca2+] enhanced inhibitory postsynaptic potential amplitude at low firing rates and increased paired pulse depression at higher rates. Light microscopic examination of the biocytin-filled neurons revealed the presynaptic cell to be a sparsely spiny interneuron and the postsynaptic to be a small pyramidal neuron, both in layer II. Ultrastructural examination of 16 terminals of the presynaptic interneuron revealed that they formed symmetric contacts with unlabelled neurons, four with neuronal somata, 10 with dendritic shafts and two with spine shafts. This, therefore, is the first report of the properties of a single axon inhibitory postsynaptic potential in neocortex resulting from action potentials in an electro-physiologically and morphologically identified interneuron. We propose that at least some of the sparsely spiny, burst firing interneurons inhibit pyramidal neurons via GABAA receptors.
Disruption of dopaminergic neurotransmission in the striatum by neurotoxic lesions of the substantia nigra leads to increases in glutamic acid decarboxylase and proenkephalin messenger RNA expression, and to decreases in preprotackykinin (the precursor molecule for substance P) messenger RNA expression in the two populations of striatal medium-sized spiny projection neurons. These cells also express TrkB, the neurotrophin receptor for brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin 4/5, and TrkC, the receptor for neurotrophin-3. Since there is some indication that exogenous brain-derived neurotrophic factor can exert neuromodulatory effects in the basal ganglia, we studied the effects of repeated intrastriatal injections of the four members of the neurotrophin family of neural growth factors, nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3, and neurotrophin-4/5 on the expression of striatal neurotransmitter-related genes in the unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rat using in situ hybridization histochemistry. We found that 4 micrograms/day of brain-derived neurotrophic factor or neurotrophin-4/5 when injected intrastriatally for eight consecutive days led to a normalization of the denervation-induced decrease of preprotachykinin messenger RNA when compared to animals injected with equivalent doses of nerve growth factor, neurotrophin-3, or vehicle. Neurotrophin-4/5 alone also normalized expression of messenger RNA encoding the 67 x 10(3) mol. wt isoform of glutamate decarboxylase, while none of the neurotrophins had a significant effect on preproenkephalin messenger RNA expression.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The aim of the present study was to characterize vasopressin receptors within the two circumventricular organs located in the lamina terminalis of the rat brain, namely the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis and the subfornical organ. Cells derived from both structures were isolated, cultured and intracellular Ca2+ concentrations were measured in single fura-2 loaded neurons and astrocytes after application of vasopressin and various vasopressin analogues. Subsequent to Ca2+ measurements, the identification of neurons and astrocytes was verified using immunocytochemistry with cell type-specific antibodies. High proportions of subfornical organ (34%) and organum vasculosum laminae terminalis (28%) neurons exhibited increased intracellular Ca2+ concentration after exposure to 1-1000 nM vasopressin. Within single cells, the response was dose-dependent. Similar results were obtained in subfornical organ (62%) and organum vasculosum laminae terminalis (38%) astrocytes with minor differences in the transient amplitude and pattern distribution when compared with neurons. Since omission of extracellular Ca2+ preserved vasopressin responsiveness, it is likely that intracellular stores were the main source of mobilized Ca2+. The preincubation of neurons and astrocytes with the V1 receptor-specific antagonist d(CH2)5[Tyr(Me)2]8-arginine vasopressin (10-100 nM) selectively and reversibly blocked the vasopressin-mediated response. Oxytocin-induced Ca2+ transients (0.32-1000 nM), which were observed in 32% (63%) or organum vasculosum laminae terminalis and in 54% (42%) of subfornical organ neurons (astrocytes), were not affected by the V1-specific antagonist. These data indicate the presence of a V1-like vasopressin receptor and an oxytocin receptor in cultured neurons and astrocytes from both circumventricular organ structures. In addition, the exposure to the highly selective V2 receptor agonist, 1-desamino,8-D-arginine vasopressin, evoked Ca2+ transients almost exclusively in organum vasculosum laminae terminalis neurons (eight of 18 tested). Only 1 (n = 14) subfornical organ neuron and none of the astrocytes tested (n = 26) responded to 1-desamino,8-D-arginine vasopressin. Since 1-desamino,8-D-arginine vasopressin acting via &quot;classical&quot; V2 receptors is not expected to affect the intracellular Ca2+ concentration, these data indicate the tissue and cell type-specific expression of a 1-desamino,8-D-arginine vasopressin-sensitive vasopressin receptor in neurons of the organum vasculosum laminae terminalis. In summary, the results indicate a heterogeneity of neurohypophyseal peptide receptor subtypes in the primary cell culture of both circumventricular structures.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We give an account of an effort to make quantitative morphological distinctions between motoneurons innervating functionally different muscles in the trigeminal and facial motor nuclei of the frog. Six groups of neurons were considered in the two nuclei on the basis of their peripheral targets. One group consisted of neurons (n = 7) innervating the levator bulbi muscle, which separates the orbital cavity from the oral cavity. In the second, third and fourth groups, motoneurons (n = 27) innervating jaw closer muscles (temporalis, masseter, pterygoideus) were studied. Neurons (n = 6) innervating the submaxillary muscle comprised the fifth group. This muscle forms the muscular floor of the mouth. It is active in deglutition and contributes to the opening of the mouth. The sixth group is formed by neurons of the facial nucleus (n = 7), which innervate the depressor mandibulae muscle. This is the main opener of the mouth. Neurons were selectively stained by cobalt labelling through the muscle nerves and the morphometric values of successfully labelled neurons were fed into a IBM AT 386 computer through a digitizing tablet for three-dimensional reconstruction. Four neurons labelled directly through the motor root of the trigeminal nerve but innervating unidentified muscles were added to the investigation. Two sets of quantitative measurements were taken from the neurons. In the first set (neurometric data), 17 quantitative variables were measured in the perikaryon and the dendritic arbor. In the second set, 15 variables concerned with the orientation and shape of the dendritic tree, the relation of the perikaryon to the dendritic tree and the spatial expansion of dendrites were measured in the three dimensions of Cartesian space (product-moment data). The data were subjected to multivariant statistical analysis. First, they were partitioned with cluster analysis. The average linkage between groups algorithm and the cosine of vectors of variables, or the Pearson correlation similarity coefficients were used. Neurometric data and product-moment data were analysed separately and in combination, and six to seven clusters were considered. In each case, the majority of neurons innervating jaw closer muscles were grouped into clusters different from neurons innervating jaw opener muscles. The best separation of functionally different neurons was achieved with the neurometric data set. The groups of neurons obtained from cluster analysis were subjected to non-parametric discriminant analysis with the eight nearest-neighbour classification criterion, and the results were checked with a cross-validation technique.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The action of thapsigargin on intracellular calcium homeostasis and voltage-activated calcium currents was studied on freshly isolated adult mouse dorsal root ganglia neurons. The cytoplasmic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) was measured using indo-1-based microfluorimetry; transmembrane Ca2+ currents were recorded under voltage-clamp in the whole-cell configuration of the patch-clamp technique. Extracellular applications of thapsigargin at concentrations of 20-2000 nM did not cause substantial changes of basal [Ca2+]i level in the majority of neurons studied. However, 5-10 min incubation of neurons with 20 nM thapsigargin completely and almost irreversibly inhibited caffeine-mediated Ca2+ release from intracellular pools. This inhibition was associated with deceleration of the recovery of depolarization-induced [Ca2+]i transients, presumably due to the inhibition of Ca2+ uptake by intracellular calcium stores. At concentrations between 200 and 2000 nM, thapsigargin markedly depressed the amplitudes of depolarization-triggered [Ca2+]i transients due to the inhibition of transmembrane Ca2+ entry through voltage-activated Ca2+ channels. We found that thapsigargin discriminates between low- and high-voltage-activated Ca2+ channels: 2000 nM of thapsigargin decreased the amplitudes of high-voltage-activated currents by 60%, while the amplitudes of low-voltage-activated Ca2+ currents were reduced by only 25%. Thus, thapsigargin exerts a dual action on [Ca2+]i handling mechanisms in mouse sensory neurons: at low concentrations (&lt; 50 nM) it inhibits Ca2+ accumulation by endoplasmic reticulum pools, whereas at higher concentrations (200-2000 nM) thapsigargin blocks high-voltage-activated Ca2+ currents, reducing Ca2+ entry into the cell.
We examined the mechanism by which capsaicin produces its toxic effects on cultures of rat sensory neurons. Capsaicin caused a robust increase in [Ca2+]i in a subpopulation of cultured rat dorsal root ganglion neurons. Similarly, a brief exposure to capsaicin resulted in delayed degeneration of a subpopulation of the cells. This subpopulation (about 35% of the cells present) was characterized by a capsaicin-induced uptake of Co2+, which could be detected cytochemically. Both capsaicin-induced Co2+ uptake and capsaicin-induced cell death were blocked by the capsaicin antagonist Ruthenium Red. Cell death was also prevented by removal of external calcium or by inhibiting calcium-activated proteases such as calpain. Evidence that calpain activity was increased was provided by examining the amount of degradation of the preferred calpain substrate alpha-spectrin. Capsaicin treatment produced a significant increase in the levels of the 150,000 molecular weight spectrin breakdown product. Furthermore, applying the protease inhibitors E64 or MDL 28,170 reduced capsaicin-mediated cell death. It is concluded that capsaicin kills a subpopulation of sensory neurons by activating a receptor-operated channel. The consequent Ca2+ ion influx causes large increases in [Ca2+]i and subsequent activation of Ca(2+)-sensitive proteases. This model provides support for the role of [Ca2+]i as the orchestrator of delayed neuronal degeneration.
In situ hybridization histochemistry for somatostatin receptors-1, -2, -3 and -4 section and receptor autoradiography using [125I]CGP 23996, [125I]somatostatin-28, [125I]seglitide and [125I]Tyr3 octreotide were carried out to determine the expression of somatostatin receptor messenger RNAs and binding sites in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex of rats 21 days following generalized limbic seizures induced by subcutaneous injection of 12mg/kg kainic acid. In control rats, somatostatin-1 to somatostatin-4 receptor messenger RNAs were found in the pyramidal layer and granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus. After kainate treatment, the CA1 subfield displayed a selective decrease in somatostatin-3 and somatostatin-4 receptor hybridization signals of 35 and 41%, respectively, whereas no changes were observed in the remaining hippocampal areas. Somatostatin-1 and somatostatin-2 receptor messenger RNA expression in the hippocampus remained unaffected by kainate treatment. No effect of kainate was observed in the expression of somatostatin receptor messenger RNAs in the cerebral cortex. In control rats, the selective somatostatin-2 receptor ligands, [125I]seglitide and [125I]Tyr3 octreotide and the non-selective somatostatin receptor ligands [125I]CGP 23996 and [125I]somatostatin-28, labelled preferentially the stratum oriens and radiatum CA1, the granule and molecular layers of the dentate gyrus and the deep layers of the cerebral cortex. [125I]somatostatin-28 and [125I]CGP 23996 labelled sites were selectively decreased by 32 and 39%, respectively, in the stratum radiatum CA1 after kainate treatment. [125I]CGP 23996 binding was also decreased by 35% in the stratum oriens CA1 and by 36% on average in the stratum oriens and radiatum CA3. [125I]seglitide and [125I]Tyr3 octreotide binding was not affected by kainate in any hippocampal region. The granule and molecular layers of the hippocampus and the layers IV-VI of the cerebral cortex did not show changes in binding sites for any of the radioligands analysed. A 18 and 35% decrease in the spontaneous and 50 mM KCl-induced somatostatin release from hippocampal slices was found two days after kainate, a likely reflection of neuronal cell loss. No differences in somatostatin release were observed 21 days after kainate treatment. At this latter time, the rats had an enhanced susceptibility to tonic-clonic seizures induced by intraperitoneal injection of 30 mg/kg pentylenetetrazol, a subconvulsant dose in naive rats. Bilateral infusion of 6 micrograms RC 160, a selective somatostatin-2 receptor agonist, in the dentate gyrus 21 days after kainate, significantly reduced (P &lt; 0.05) the number of animals with tonic-clonic seizures induced by pentylenetetrazol.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
A previous in situ hybridization study by Wisden et al., J. Neurosci. 12, 1040-1062, showed a high expression of the GABAA receptor alpha 1, beta 2 and gamma 2 subunit messenger RNAs in the medial septal nucleus and nucleus of the diagonal band of the rat. The aim of the present study was to determine whether this high expression of GABAA receptor subunit messenger RNAs is found in the cholinergic neurons of these areas. Adjacent 4-5 microns sections of rat forebrain were submitted to choline acetyltransferase immunocytochemistry or to in situ hybridization histochemistry using oligonucleotides complementary to parts of the GABAA receptor alpha 1, alpha 2, beta 2, delta 1 and gamma 2 subunit messenger RNAs. It was found that the high expression for the GABAA receptor alpha 1, beta 2 and gamma 2 subunit messenger RNAs in the medial septal nucleus, the nucleus of the diagonal band and the nucleus basalis is located almost exclusively in non-cholinergic neurons. It was also found that these non-cholinergic cells are also continuous in distribution with neurons in the globus pallidus and ventral pallidum that similarly express high levels of messenger RNA for the GABAA receptor alpha 1, beta 2 and gamma 2 subunits. It was concluded that the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons may not be as sensitive to GABAA receptor influences as their non-cholinergic neighbours.
Covalent cross-linking of cell surface proteins by the calcium-dependent enzyme transglutaminase C may be implicated in cell-cell interactions and growth regulation. We demonstrate the presence of the enzyme in rat cerebellar cortex during postnatal development. Transglutaminase C was induced in cerebellar granule neurons in culture by retinoic acid, dibutyryl- and 8-bromo-cyclic AMP analogues and by cultivation on a biomatrix substratum. Cyclic AMP analogues stimulated transglutaminase activity in protein synthesis-dependent and -independent phases. The enzyme was distributed at focal adhesion sites on the axon. By calcium-dependent covalent incorporation of the primary amine acceptor substrate, 5-(biotinamido)pentylamine, an increase in the Ca(2+)-dependent cross-linking of at least 11 substrate proteins in the presence of retinoic acid and dibutyryl-cyclic AMP was detected. Of these substrates, a subset was labelled on the surface of living granule neurons. A low-molecular-weight substrate, p18, was tentatively identified as the retinoic acid-inducible neurite-promoting factor, midkine. Transglutaminase-mediated amine incorporation, midkine and isopeptide cross-links were co-localized to axonal adhesion sites. The results provide evidence of transglutaminase C-catalysed protein cross-linking activity in cerebellar granule neurons and its possible implication in cell-substratum interactions.
Haloperidol has been shown to induce rapid and transient expression of c-fos messenger RNA and Fos protein in striatal neurons via dopamine D2 receptors. Regulation of the c-fos gene by cyclic AMP and Ca2+ has been shown to be dependent on a DNA regulatory element within its promoter that binds the constitutively expressed transcription factor cyclic AMP response element binding protein. Cyclic AMP response element binding protein binds to an oligonucleotide containing the calcium/cyclic AMP response element of the c-fos promoter sequence in striatal cell extracts; the amount of binding is not regulated by haloperidol treatment. We have previously shown that haloperidol induces cyclic AMP response element binding protein phosphorylation in the striatum. Here we show by intrastriatal injection of antisense oligonucleotides that haloperidol-induced Fos expression is dependent on cyclic AMP response element binding protein. Intrastriatal injections of phosphorothioate oligonucleotides, in antisense orientation to cyclic AMP response element binding protein messenger RNA, reduce levels of cyclic AMP response element binding protein and completely prevent haloperidol-mediated induction of Fos. Oligonucleotides in sense orientation have no such effect. We observed a markedly different time course of the Fos protein inhibition by cyclic AMP response element binding protein antisense oligonucleotides compared to c-fos antisense oligonucleotides. This most likely reflects the different half-lives of c-fos and cyclic AMP response element binding protein messenger RNA and proteins. Neither cyclic AMP response element binding protein nor c-fos antisense oligonucleotide injection reduced c-Jun immunostaining in the striatum. We conclude that haloperidol induces Fos via transcription factor cyclic AMP response element binding protein.
Repeated administration of amphetamine results in the well known phenomenon of reverse tolerance or sensitization. However, little is known about cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying acute versus chronic response to amphetamine. In this paper, we investigated the effects of acute (1.5 or 5 mg/kg) and chronic (5 mg/kg/day for 14 days) amphetamine treatment on locomotor activity, stereotypy, Fos immunoreactivity and messenger RNA levels of molecules implicated in dopamine transmission in the rat striatum and substantia nigra. In agreement with other studies, acute amphetamine induced a dose dependent increase in locomotor activity and stereotypy. Also, a comparison between the behavior observed after the first injection and the last injection of amphetamine in chronically treated rats showed sensitization as demonstrated by a higher rating of stereotypy. We have found that acute and chronic amphetamine treatments differently modulate the activity of several output neurons. A double labeling procedure with Fos immunohistochemistry coupled with in situ hybridization demonstrated that acute amphetamine treatment induces Fos immunoreactivity predominantly in striatal neurons expressing substance P messenger RNA (77.07 +/- 1.42%). Only 32.6 +/- 2.07% of Fos immunoreactive neurons expressed preproenkephalin A messenger RNA. In chronic amphetamine treated rats, 56.21 +/- 1.32% of the Fos immunoreactive neurons expressed substance P messenger RNA while 52.12 +/- 1.84% expressed preproenkephalin A messenger RNA. Statistical analysis revealed that this difference is mainly due to a decrease in the density of substance P immunoreactive neurons in chronically treated rats in comparison to acute. Amphetamine treatments induced Fos immunoreactivity in the substantia nigra in non-dopamine neurons. As measured by quantitative in situ hybridization, acute amphetamine induced an increase in substance P, preproenkephalin A and dynorphin messenger RNA levels (+23 +/- 0.05%, +45 +/- 0.07% and +24 +/- 0.05%, respectively). No difference in these increases was observed in relation with the dose injected (1.5 or 5 mg/kg). Chronic amphetamine treatment enhanced only substance P and dynorphin messenger RNA levels (+23 +/- 0.04% and +42 +/- 0.04%, respectively). Neither acute nor chronic amphetamine treatment had any effects on D1 or D2 dopamine receptor messenger RNA levels. Our main conclusions are: (1) in acutely treated rats Fos is essentially expressed by substance P neurons; (2) in chronically treated rats, Fos immunoreactivity is expressed by the two efferent striatal populations (i.e. preproenkephalin A and substance P neurons) and the number of Fos immunoreactive neurons is reduced as compared with acute; (3) neuropeptide messenger RNA levels, but not dopamine receptor messenger RNAs, are affected in the response to acute or chronic treatment with amphetamine.
The role of vesicular and newly synthesized dopamine in the action of amphetamine was investigated by studying the effect of reserpine and alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine pretreatment on amphetamine-induced changes in extracellular dopamine and acetylcholine, estimated by brain microdialysis, and on c-fos expression, estimated by quantitative immunohistochemistry of the Fos antigene, in the dorsal caudate-putamen of rats. Blockade of dopamine synthesis by alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine pretreatment (1 or 2 h) only partially prevented the increase in extracellular dopamine concentrations elicited by 0.5 and 2 mg/kg s.c. of amphetamine. Inactivation of vesicular amine uptake by reserpine pretreatment (3 h) reduced the increase in extracellular dopamine by 2 mg/kg but not by 0.5 mg/kg of amphetamine. Combined pretreatment with reserpine (3 h) and alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (1 h) drastically reduced the increase in extracellular dopamine by both doses of amphetamine (0.5 and 2 mg/kg s.c.). alpha-Methyl-p-tyrosine pretreatment reduced c-fos expression stimulated by amphetamine (2 mg/kg) in the dorsomedial and dorsolateral caudate-putamen while reserpine pretreatment reduced it only in the dorsolateral caudate-putamen. Amphetamine (2 mg/kg s.c.) stimulated acetylcholine release but this effect was not modified by reserpine or alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine pretreatment. The results indicate that blockade of dopamine synthesis, by itself, is insufficient to prevent the stimulation of dopamine transmission by amphetamine and, conversely, that inactivation of vesicular dopamine significantly reduces amphetamine effects at pre- and postsynaptic levels. Therefore, vesicular dopamine appears to contribute to the stimulation of dopamine transmission elicited by amphetamine in the dorsal caudate-putamen.
The pyroantimonate method was used for the ultrastructural localization of calcium ions (Ca2+) in Xenotoca Mauthner cells under normal conditions and after prolonged natural stimulation. In normal state, the highest concentration of these ions was observed as compact electron-dense precipitates inside the synaptic cleft exactly at the synaptic active zones. Some amount of dotted precipitates was revealed in the synaptic boutons. In the extracellular space and in the cytoplasm the precipitates are seen mainly as single membrane-bound dots. After prolonged stimulation significant redistribution of the precipitates was observed. They were entirely absent in the presynaptic areas, became diffuse and discontinuous or disappeared completely at the synaptic active zones. On the contrary, in the cytoplasmic organelles (subsynaptic cisternae, vacuoles, smooth reticulum, mitochondria) the precipitates were aggregated into continuous dense clusters inside the membranous compartments or on their surfaces. Also, large amounts of granules, not associated with membranes, were localized inside the cytoplasm directly at the cytoskeletal elements. It is suggested that membrane subsynaptic organelles are the primary structures which sequestrate, accumulate and retain Ca2+. Thus, these elements, together with deeper elements of smooth cytoplasmic reticulum, may control the cytoplasmic activity of Ca2+ and, as a consequence, control many physiologically significant reactions of the neurons.
The involvement of syntaxin, an omega-conotoxin-sensitive Ca2+ channel-associated protein, in acetylcholine release was studied at synapses formed between rat sympathetic neurons in culture. Transmission at these synapses involved omega-conotoxin-sensitive Ca2+ channels because a dose-dependent inhibition was observed when omega-conotoxin was bath-applied. Confocal microscope examination of immunofluorescent staining showed that syntaxin had a similar distribution to synaptic vesicle-associated membrane proteins, synaptophysin and vesicle-associated membrane protein/synaptobrevin-2, indicating that syntaxin molecules are concentrated in the presynaptic terminals. Botulinum neurotoxin C1 applied extracellularly or intracellularly into presynaptic neurons blocked synaptic transmission. Introduction of a monoclonal antibody, or polyclonal antibodies, to syntaxin into the presynaptic neuron depressed the evoked release of acetylcholine without affecting Ca2+ influx through Ca2+ channels. These results suggest that syntaxin plays an important role in release of neurotransmitter by a nerve impulse and that this mechanism is downstream of Ca2+ influx.
Control of sympathetic preganglionic neurons appears to be mediated, in part, through polysynaptic pathways using spinal interneurons. To identify spinal interneurons antecedent to adrenal sympathetic preganglionic neurons, we injected herpes simplex virus type 1 into the adrenal gland of hamsters as this virus is an effective trans-synaptic tracer of neural pathways. After a three day survival period, immunocytochemistry was used to visualize virus-infected spinal cord cells. Infected sympathetic preganglionic neurons with somata that were either kite-shaped, elliptical or fusiform and that had extensive dendrite arbors were identified as well as a group of smaller round cells with finer processes. For comparison, in additional hamsters, labelling with the retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold and histochemical reactions for the enzyme nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase were used to identify sympathetic preganglionic neurons. Sympathetic preganglionic neurons identified with Fluoro-Gold or herpes virus were present mostly in the nucleus intermediolateralis, pars intermediolateralis and nucleus intermediolateralis, pars funicularis of the spinal cord. The smaller herpes virus-infected cells were found mostly medial to the preganglionic neurons in lamina VII and also dorsally in lamina V of the spinal cord. Assessing immunoreactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein demonstrated that the smaller herpes virus-infected cells were not reactive astrocytes. Furthermore, these cells were immunoreactive for two neuronal markers, neuron-specific enolase and for microtubule-associated protein 2. These findings suggest that these smaller round cells with finer processes are distinct from sympathetic preganglionic neurons and astrocytes and may be interneurons antecedent to the sympathetic preganglionic neurons.
C-terminals on motoneurons are defined as those accompanied by characteristic postsynaptic specializations termed subsurface cisterns. We have previously shown, by light microscope immunolabelling methods, that subsurface cisterns occur regularly beneath choline acetyltransferase- and acetylcholinesterase-containing boutons on motoneurons. In the present study, the cholinergic nature of C-terminals suggested by these results was further investigated by immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy in adult rats and in neonates treated with a murine monoclonal acetylcholinesterase antibody which was previously shown to cause immunological lesions of central cholinergic systems. In both the facial nucleus and lumbar segment of spinal cord of adult rats, C-terminals were seen intensely immunostained for the cholinergic markers choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase. Immunolabelled terminals made contact with either neuronal somata or large calibre dendrites, which were positive for the cholinergic markers, and exhibited club-shaped or thin elongated morphologies suggestive of terminal or en passant type synaptic interactions. The close relationship found between cholinergic markers and immunolabelled subsurface cisterns in adults was maintained on motoneurons of eight-day-old rats. While subcutaneous treatment of newborn rat with acetylcholinesterase antibody appeared to have no effect on the distribution of immunopositive subsurface cisterns in motoneurons when examined on postnatal day 8, the density of labelling for the two cholinergic markers around these neurons was reduced. Areas of neuropil immediately surrounding motoneurons in treated animals often showed signs of extensive swelling and deterioration indicative of a lesion event, and these motoneurons frequently displayed subsurface cisterns unapposed to C-terminals. These results support our earlier conclusion, based on light microscope investigation, that the majority if not all C-terminals are cholinergic in the areas investigated and demonstrate the potential utility of immunolesion methods in the study of C-terminal function.
Extracellular recordings were carried out in the paraventricular nucleus of halothane-anesthetized male rats. Responses of neurons identified by antidromic criteria with projections to the nucleus tractus solitarius or to the ventral lateral medulla were compared to those of neurohypophysial neurons following alterations in blood pressure and osmolarity, hemorrhage and after intravenous injection of cholecystokinin. Neurohypophysial neurons displayed the well-described responses to blood pressure for putative vasopressin neurons and increases in excitability after cholecystokinin for putative oxytocin neurons. Twenty per cent of the ventral lateral medulla-projecting neurons were responsive to cardiovascular perturbations, with these displaying reduced activity after either decreases or increases in blood pressure. None of nine neurons projecting to the ventral lateral medulla responded to i.v. cholecystokinin. Two of 20 nucleus tractus solitarius-projecting neurons showed reduced activity after cholecystokinin and none increased their firing rate. Nitroprusside-induced hypotension was associated with reduced activity in 10% of this population. Three neurons displayed axon projections to both pituitary and medulla; two of these which projected to the nucleus tractus solitarius were activated by cholecystokinin. We conclude that some of the paraventricular nucleus neurons projecting to the medulla respond to recognized cardiovascular stimuli for neurohypophysial neurons, but neurons in these populations are generally unresponsive to cholecystokinin. The former group of neurons may act to coordinate autonomic and endocrine responses to cardiovascular perturbation; however, there may be other stimuli, such as cholecystokinin, which act only on one of the populations of paraventricular nucleus neurons. Furthermore, many neurons in the descending pathways may respond to stimuli not presently associated with activation of magnocellular neurons.
The effects of bath application of dopamine and serotonin (10(-10)-10(-8) M) were studied in the superfused dorsal root ganglia of 30-36-day-old rats by means of the intracellular technique. In the majority of cells, dopamine and serotonin caused depolarization (60% and 64% of the tested cells, respectively). In other cells hyperpolarization, biphasic reactions or absence of responses have been observed. All reactions were dose dependent and reversible. Depolarization was accompanied by a decrease of input membrane resistance and hyperpolarization by its increase. Some cells did not show these alterations. Monoamines were also capable of modulating spikes. In some cases dopamine (10(-8)-10(-7) M) decreased the amplitude of the action potential and increased its duration, but the same concentration of serotonin produced the opposite effect on these parameters. The correlation between the electrophysiological properties of the dorsal root ganglion neurons and their responses to monoamines were discovered. Neurons with high input membrane resistance, prolonged action potential and slow conduction velocity (small cells) were influenced much more by monoamines than neurons with low input membrane resistance, &quot;fast&quot; action potential and rapid conduction velocity (large cells). (1) Small cells had lower threshold to monoamines (10(-8)-10(7) M) than large ones, some of which did not respond even to 10(-6) M. (2) The amplitude and duration of monoamine-induced depolarization in small cells were on average about two to three times higher than those in large cells. These data provide evidence for the modulatory role of monoamines in spinal afferent sensory functions.
The rat preprotachykinin-A promoter, which is able to direct reporter gene expression in adult dorsal root ganglia neurons grown in culture, has no detectable activity in HeLa and PC12 cells. DNAase 1 footprinting and electrophoretic mobility shift analyses with HeLa nuclear extract indicated the presence of a protein complex binding to a region of the rat preprotachykinn-A gene promoter between the TATA box and the major transcriptional start site. We demonstrate that the sequence of the preprotachykinin-A promoter spanning nucleotides -47 to +92 functions to repress reporter gene expression in HeLa and PC12 cells but not in adult rat dorsal root ganglia grown in culture, and that this repression is correlated with a protein(s) binding to the element between the TATA box and major transcription initiation site. These results indicate that the tissue-specific expression of the preprotachykinin-A gene could require the interaction of both positive and negative regulatory DNA elements.
Repeated episodes of cerebral hypoxia-ischemia can cause primarily striatal neuronal loss in the developing brain. We investigated the effect of repeated episodes of asphyxia on specific neuronal sub-populations of the basal ganglia in late-gestation fetal sheep. Asphyxia was induced in 10 fetal sheep (118-126 days gestation) by occluding the umbilical cord for 5 min. This procedure was repeated four times at 30 min intervals and the brains were fixed 3 days later for histopathology. Immunohistochemical markers were used to identify various populations of neurons in the striatum. Antibodies to calbindin were used to stain the GABAergic medium-sized striatal projection neurons and antibodies to somatostatin and parvalbumin to identify striatal interneurons. Striatal projection neurons to the globus pallidus were recognized by enkephalin immunoreactivity, while the striatonigral terminals were identified in the substantia nigra pars reticulata by substance P immunohistochemical labelling. The results showed a marked loss of calbindin staining in the striatum, evident by both reduced cell numbers and a decrease in neuropil staining. The number of parvalbumin immunoreactive cells was also reduced in the striatum, while somatostatin interneurons were selectively preserved. In addition, immunostaining for enkephalin in the globus pallidus and for substance P in the substantia nigra was markedly reduced. These results show that the stiatal GABAergic medium-sized projection neurons are severely affected by recurrent episodes of asphyxia. These findings are confirmed and extended by the results demonstrating that both the enkephalin/GABA striatopallidal and the substance P/GABA stiatonigral pathways are affected. The results of this study therefore suggest that the efferent striatal projections to the globus pallidus and to the substantia nigra may be involved in asphyxial episodes resulting in cerebral palsy.
Interleukin-1 plays an important role as mediator of endotoxin-induced responses in the brain such as fever, sleep, anorexia, behavioural and neuroendocrine changes. In the present study, interleukin-1 beta immunocytochemistry has been performed at the light and electron microscopic level to study the cellular and subcellular localization of interleukin-1 beta in the brains of rats given endotoxin or saline. Light microscopic analysis of rats killed 4, 8 or 24h after endotoxin (2.5 mg/kg) given intraperitoneally or intravenously revealed a region-specific localization of immunoreactive interleukin-1 beta in macrophages and microglial cells. After saline treatment, no induction of interleukin-1 beta immunoreactivity occurred in the brain. After administration of endotoxin, many interleukin-1 beta-positive cells were found in the meninges, choroid plexus, circumventricular organs, cerebral cortex and hypothalamus. The number of interleukin-1 beta-positive microglial cells reached a maximum 8 h after administration of endotoxin, irrespective of the route of administration. In general, more interleukin-1 beta-positive microglial cells were found after intravenous than after intraperitoneal administration of endotoxin. Interleukin-1 beta-positive microglial cells were often grouped in patches in the vicinity of blood vessels. At the surface of the cerebral cortex, in the meninges, intermediate cell forms between interleukin-1 beta-positive macrophages and microglial cells were found. interleukin-1 beta-positive perivascular microglia were localized at the brain side of the basal lamina. Immunoreactive interleukin-1 beta was found at the luminal side of the endothelial cells lining the venules. Furthermore, microglial cells that extended their processes into the ependymal layer of the third ventricle were observed. Results of the electron microscopic studies revealed immunoreactive interleukin-1 beta in many cells with the cellular characteristics of microglial cells, but also, in some cells, identified as astrocytes. In microglial cells, immunoreactive interleukin-1 beta was found in the cytoplasm but not in the endoplasmatic reticulum or Golgi apparatus. These results show that after peripheral administration of endotoxin, immunoreactive interleukin-1 beta is induced in macrophages in the meninges and in the choroid plexus, as well as in microglial cells in parenchyma. Interleukin-1 beta produced by these cells may serve as a signal for adjacent or more distant targets (neurons, endothelial cells, microglial cells) to play a role in the induction of non-specific symptoms of sickness.
It has been postulated that brain aging and the accompanying neurodegenerative processes associated with aging result from a deterioration of mechanisms that regulate the maintenance of basic cellular processes. In the present study, it was hypothesized that decreased availability and/or diminished responsiveness of tissues to growth factors such as insulin-like growth factor-1 may be partly responsible for decreases in total protein synthesis previously observed in aging animals. Male Brown Norway rats (5-7 and 27-28 months old) were used to determine (1) whether in vivo protein synthesis in cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamus and cerebellum decreases with age and (2) whether these deficiencies are associated with age-related alterations in response to insulin-like growth factor-1, des (1-3) IGF-1 or insulin. Analysis of in vivo protein synthesis rates revealed a decline of 20% in cortex of old rats (P &lt; 0.05) but no changes were observed in hippocampus, hypothalamus, or cerebellum. Stimulation of cortical slices in vitro with insulin-like growth factor-1, des (1-3) insulin-like growth factor-1, or insulin increased protein synthesis rates in young animals, but the response to these growth factors was blunted in old animals. Analysis of type 1 insulin-like growth factor receptor densities by quantitative autoradiography demonstrated age-related decreases in receptor levels in cerebellar cortex and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus but no changes in cortex. Regional distribution of type 1 insulin-like growth factor receptors within each of these tissues did not appear to change with age.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In vivo studies reported that cholinergic agents affect mammalian circadian rhythmicity. To study phase resetting properties of cholinergic compounds more directly, we carried out experiments in rat suprachiasmatic nuclei slices. Compounds were added to the perfusate for 1 h at specific phases of the circadian cycle. On the following day, the time of peak neuronal activity, a measure of the phase of the endogenous circadian pacemaker, was assessed by means of extracellular recording in the suprachiasmatic nuclei. The peak of neuronal activity occurred at circadian time 5.8 +/- 0.7 (mean +/- 95% confidence limits) in the control slice (circadian time 0: lights-on). Ten-micromolar carbachol had no effect on the phase of the circadian rhythm when given at circadian times 6 and 15, while at circadian time 21 a phase advance of one hour was observed. By contrast, 10 microM nicotine significantly phase advanced (&gt; 1 h) the neuronal circadian rhythm at all but one experimental circadian phase. The circadian times of maximal nicotinic phase advances were 15 (+2.6 h) and 21 (+2.8 h). A concentration response curve for nicotine was generated and pharmacological blocking experiments were performed at circadian time 15. The estimated maximum response of nicotine was 3.4 h, and the estimated concentration for half maximal response was 5 microM. The Hill coefficient (= 1.08) indicated that the effects of nicotine may be explained by a single receptor occupancy model. Mecamylamine (20 microM) almost completely antagonized the nicotinic phase-advances, whereas tetrodotoxin (1 microM) or high Mg2+ (10 mM) did not significantly attenuate the nicotinic phase-advances.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Expression of the opioid peptides dynorphin and enkephalin is altered within the first 24 h after acutely induced seizures in certain experimental models of epilepsy. Using in situ hybridization, we examined the expression of prodynorphin and preproenkephalin messenger RNA acutely following induction of kindling with recurrent seizures and in two models of chronic temporal lobe epilepsy: (i) rats fully kindled with rapidly recurring hippocampal seizures; and (ii) rats surviving after self-sustaining limbic status epilepticus induced with focal electrical stimulation of the hippocampus. In naive animals, a ventral-dorsal gradient was identified in the expression of both prodynorphin and preproenkephalin messenger RNA in the dentate gyrus and expression of prodynorphin message was demonstrated for the first time in the ventral portion of cornu Ammonis regio superior. After stimulation producing rapidly recurring hippocampal seizures, acute decreases in prodynorphin messenger RNA were seen in the dentate gyrus and cornu Ammonis regio superior at 24 h after the last seizure. In contrast, increases in preproenkephalin messenger RNA expression were seen acutely in the dentate gyrus, with a decrease seen in the entorhinal cortex. The change in prodynorphin message expression in cornu Ammonis regio superior persisted in kindled animals that were studied after one month seizure-free period. There were no changes in preproenkephalin message in kindled animals studied after the one month seizure-free interval. No statistically significant changes were found for either prodynorphin or preproenkephalin message in the post-self-sustaining limbic status epilepticus group at one month following induced seizures. Acute changes in peptide expression may contribute to increased excitation in the dentate gyrus during induction of kindling, while the chronic change identified in cornu Ammonis regio superior may contribute directly to persistently increased excitability in this region.
Lateral ventricle-cisterna magna perfusion in the halothane-anesthetized rat was used as a model to study beta-endorphin release in the brain. Microinjection of N-methyl-D-aspartate into the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus released beta-endorphin immunoreactivity into perfusate and the release was blocked by systemic pretreatment with the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist dizocilpine (MK-801). N-methyl-D-aspartate microinjections did not increase beta-endorphin immunoreactivity in plasma, and pretreatment with dexamethasone did not prevent release of beta-endorphin immunoreactivity into perfusate, emphasizing that the released beta-endorphin immunoreactivity did not come from plasma. The non-N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor agonist alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid hydrobromide did not release beta-endorphin immunoreactivity. High-performance liquid chromatography characterization of perfusates collected after N-methyl-D-aspartate microinjection showed that a major part, but not all, of the beta-endorphin immunoreactivity co-eluted with authentic beta-endorphin. Microinjection of N-methyl-D-aspartate provoked an algogenic response in the anesthetized rat, and inhibited the motor and cardiovascular responses to tail immersion in 52.5 degrees C water. This block was reversed by pretreatment with MK-801, but not naloxone. Injection of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionic acid hydrobromide elicited the same behavioral response and blocked the nociceptive tail-dip reaction, but did not release beta-endorphin immunoreactivity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In vivo voltammetry was used to measure changes in ascorbate, which are an index of changes in the release of glutamate, and microdialysis was used to measure changes in dopamine in the striatum of freely moving rats. A 5 min tail pinch produced a rapid rise in striatal ascorbate paralleled by an increase in motor activity and a slower, more prolonged rise in dopamine. Systemic administration of ketamine or dizocilpine maleate, non-competitive antagonists of the N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor, produced an increase in the basal level of ascorbate but not dopamine; however, the tail pinch-evoked rise in both ascorbate and dopamine was completely abolished by these drugs. The rise in dopamine was also abolished by local infusion of dizocilpine maleate into the striatum. Local application of N-methyl-D-aspartate produced a dose-dependent increase in dopamine, which was partially reduced in the presence of tetrodotoxin. The results show that the tail pinch-evoked increase in motor activity involves an increase in the release of striatal dopamine which requires the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the striatum. This suggests that phasic increases in striatal dopamine release are triggered by the action of glutamate on dopaminergic nerve terminals.
The effects of left, right or bilateral depletion of the mesocortical dopamine innervation (medial prefrontal and anterior cingulate) with 6-hydroxydopamine were examined in male Sprague-Dawley rats tested for susceptibility to cold restraint-induced gastric stress pathology. All three types of lesions tended to potentiate the development of stress pathology (i.e. ulceration) in comparison to restrained shams, but only right cortical dopamine depletion produced a highly significant increase. The results support a protective role for mesocortical dopamine in helping the organism cope with stressful situations, and extend previous findings suggesting that dopamine activation in the right cortex is preferentially associated with uncontrollable stress. The right cortex is hypothesized to be at the top of a hierarchy in the processing of such stressful inputs, and endogenous dopaminergic modulation facilitates adaptive responses. Subcortical dopamine terminal regions were also examined for dopamine content and turnover. In addition to depleting cortical dopamine, the three lesion groups showed highly specific alterations in the status of subcortical dopamine systems, compared to either restrained or non-restrained shams. Left brain lesions resulted in significant bilateral increases in amygdala dopamine turnover. Right cortical lesions induced significant bilateral reductions of striatal dopamine content. Bilateral lesions increased dopamine content in the left amygdala and decreased dopamine in the right nucleus accumbens. Also in this group, dopamine turnover was increased in the right nucleus accumbens and decreased in the right amygdala. The data suggest that increases in stress vulnerability induced by cortical lesions may be related, in part, to neurochemical alterations in subcortical structures previously shown to modulate gastric stress pathology. The results also indicate that brain organization is inherently asymmetrical with respect to the regulation of responses to stress, which may be of significance for human psychopathology and its exacerbation by stress.
The atypical antipsychotic clozapine produces distinctly different regional patterns of c-fos expression in rat forebrain than does the prototypical neuroleptic haloperidol. While haloperidol-induced c-fos expression appears to be mediated by its D2 dopamine receptor antagonist properties, the mechanisms by which clozapine increases c-fos expression remain uncertain. Using a combination of brain lesion, pharmacological and immunohistochemical techniques, the present study sought to determine the receptor mechanisms by which clozapine increases the number of Fos-like immunoreactive neurons in various regions of the forebrain. To test whether serotonergic and/or noradrenergic systems are involved in clozapine-induced c-fos expression, rats received either 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine lesions of the medial forebrain bundle or 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the dorsal noradrenergic bundle two weeks prior to clozapine (20 mg/kg) injections. Neither type of lesion affected clozapine-induced c-fos expression in the rat forebrain, suggesting that neither serotonergic nor noradrenergic mechanisms are involved in this action of clozapine. In another experiment, the 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptor antagonist ritanserin (5 mg/kg), either alone or in combination with haloperidol (1 mg/kg), failed to mimic the pattern of c-fos expression produced by clozapine. This suggests that clozapine's antagonist actions at 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptors cannot explain the unique pattern of regional c-fos expression produced by this compound. To determine whether the blockade of subtypes of the D2 dopamine receptor family may contribute to clozapine's effects, the dopamine receptor agonists quinpirole and 7-hydroxy-N,N-di-n-propyl-2-aminotetralin (7-OH-DPAT) were injected 15 min prior to clozapine. Quinpirole produced a small but significant decrease in clozapine-induced c-fos expression in the medial prefrontal cortex, had larger effects in the lateral septum, and blocked clozapine's actions in the nucleus accumbens and major island of Calleja. Pretreatment with 7-OH-DPAT attenuated clozapine-induced c-fos expression in the nucleus accumbens and lateral septum, completely blocked the expression in the major island of Calleja, but was without effect in the medial prefrontal cortex. Given the different affinities of quinpirole and 7-OH-DPAT for D2, D3 and D4 receptors, these data suggest that clozapine-induced increases in c-fos expression in the nucleus accumbens, major island of Cajella and lateral septal nucleus are due to antagonist actions of this antipsychotic at D3 dopamine receptors. They also indicate that while antagonist actions at D4 receptors may contribute, the primary mechanisms by which clozapine increases c-fos expression in the medial prefrontal cortex remain to be determined.
We have established the cellular distribution of the dopamine D3 receptor using tritiated 7-hydroxy-N-N-di-n-propyl-2-aminotetralin and a complementary RNA probe to visualize autoradiographically the protein in binding studies and the gene transcripts by in situ hybridization, respectively. Studies with these two markers confirm the restricted expression of the D3 receptor in few brain areas, i.e. mainly the ventral striatal complex, the substantia nigra-ventral tegmental area and the cerebellum. In nucleus accumbens, the D3 receptor was mainly expressed in medium-sized neurons of the rostral pole and ventromedial shell subdivisions, but not of the core or septal pole, i.e. accumbal subdivisions expressing the D2 receptor. In the ventromedial shell, about 60% of the D3 receptor-expressing neurons were neurotensin neurons, presumably projecting to the ventral pallidum. In the islands of Calleja, both D3 receptor binding and messenger RNA were abundant in the entire population of granule cells. These cells are known to make sparse contacts with dopaminergic axons and also to express the D1 receptor. In the mesencephalon, low levels of D3 messenger RNA were detected in few dopamine neurons of substantia nigra pars lateralis and ventral tegmental area. In addition, some D3 receptor binding but not messenger RNA was detected in medial substantia nigra and lateral ventral tegmental area, where the receptor is presumably located presynaptically on afferents. In the archicerebellum, Purkinje cell perikarya in lobules 9 and 10 expressed the D3 receptor messenger RNA, whereas binding sites were found in the molecular layer, where corresponding dendrites but no known dopaminergic projection from mesencephalon are found. The occurrence of D3 receptor gene expression in some brain areas receiving low dopamine innervation supports the hypothesis that this receptor may mediate non-synaptic actions of dopamine.
The modulatory actions of dopamine on the flow of cortical information through the basal ganglia are mediated mainly through two subtypes of receptors, the D1 and D2 receptors. In order to examine the precise cellular and subcellular location of these receptors, immunocytochemistry using subtype specific antibodies was performed on sections of rat basal ganglia at both the light and electron microscopic levels. Both peroxidase and pre-embedding immunogold methods were utilized. Immunoreactivity for both D1 and D2 receptors was most abundant in the neostriatum where it was mainly contained within spiny dendrites and in perikarya. Although some of the immunoreactive perikarya had characteristics of interneurons, most were identified as medium-sized spiny neurons. Immunoreactivity for D1 receptor but not D2 receptor was associated with the axons of the striatonigral pathway and axons and terminals in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and the entopeduncular nucleus. In contrast, D2 immunoreactivity but not D1 immunoreactivity was present in the dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta and ventral pars reticulata. In the globus pallidus, little immunoreactivity for either D1 or D2 receptor was detected. At the subcellular level, D1 and D2 receptor immunoreactivity was found to be mainly associated with the internal surface of cell membranes. In dendrites and spines immunoreactivity was seen in contact with the membranes postsynaptic to terminals forming symmetrical synapses and less commonly, asymmetrical synapses. The morphological features and membrane specializations of the terminals forming symmetrical synapses are similar to those of dopaminergic terminals previously identified by immunocytochemistry for tyrosine hydroxylase. In addition to immunoreactivity associated with synapses, a high proportion of the immunoreactivity was also on membranes at non-synaptic sites. It is concluded that dopamine receptor immunoreactivity is mainly associated with spiny output neurons of the neostriatum and that there is a selective association of D1 receptors with the so-called direct pathway of information flow through the basal ganglia, i.e. the striatoentopeduncular and striatonigral pathways. Although there is an association of receptor immunoreactivity with afferent synaptic inputs a high proportion is located at extrasynaptic sites.
Having provided an anatomical description of the efferent projections of the dorsal midbrain anticonvulsant zone [Shehab S. et al. (1995) Neuroscience 65, 681-695], our purpose in the present study was to establish which outputs from this region are responsible for mediating the anticonvulsant and behavioural properties of dorsal midbrain activation. The ability of unilateral injections of bicuculline into the dorsal midbrain anticonvulsant zone to suppress tonic hindlimb extension in the electroshock model of epilepsy was tested before and after three different knife cuts: (i) a transection of ipsilateral descending projections on the same side as the injection of bicuculline; (ii) an identical cut except it was placed contralateral to the injection; (iii) a cut which transected rostral projecting fibres from the dorsal midbrain anticonvulsant zone including most ipsilateral ascending and crossed descending projections. A fourth group of operated control animals was included to establish a baseline for the schedule of repeated testing. Qualitative observations of behaviour were taken immediately prior to administration of the electroshocks. Unilateral transection of ipsilateral descending efferents prevented the suppression of electroshock-induced hindlimb extension by injections of bicuculline into the dorsal midbrain anticonvulsant zone on the same side of the brain. Both the control cuts on the opposite side of the brain and the rostral cuts were ineffective. Transection of the ipsilateral descending projection on the same side as the injection of bicuculline also reduced the incidence of defensive reactions induced by the GABA antagonist, including explosive motor behaviour, oral attack and vocalization. Damage to this projection on the opposite side had little effect on the expression of behavioural reactions, neither did transection of the ascending efferents. These data suggest that ipsilateral descending efferents are critical for the suppression of electroshock-induced extension of the hindlimbs and the expression of defensive reactions elicited by activation of the dorsal midbrain.
Microinjections of bicuculline methiodide into the dorsal midbrain anticonvulsant zone, a region which includes the caudal deep layers of the superior colliculus, the adjacent mesencephalic reticular formation and the intercollicular nucleus, suppress tonic hindlimb extension induced by maximal electroshock. The purpose of the present experiments was to establish the most effective and convenient method for eliciting anticonvulsant properties from the dorsal midbrain using the electroshock model of epilepsy. A comparison of different injections of excitatory amino acids and bicuculline into the dorsal midbrain of the rat showed: (i) injections of kainate suppressed hindlimb extension but only at substantially larger doses (i.e. 200-400 pmol) than 50 pmol of bicuculline, which produced generally superior effects; (ii) quisqualate provided only weak protection against tonic seizures at doses that produced neurotoxic effects (2-40 nmol); (iii) N-methyl-D-aspartate was ineffective at doses which produced mild clonic seizure in their own right (2-4 nmol) and also produced some evidence of neurotoxicity; (iv) the suppression of hindlimb extension by bicuculline was dose related, and the lowest bilateral dose for producing reliable suppression was 50 pmol/400 nl per side; and (v) a unilateral injection of 100 pmol/400 nl also reliably suppressed hindlimb extension. The latter finding had important implications for the design and interpretation of the following lesion study. Injections of bicuculline into the dorsal midbrain also produced defence-like behavioural responses that included running and biting; the intensity of these responses correlated with the suppression of hindlimb extension.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Electroconvulsive therapy is used in the treatment of affective disorders and schizophrenia and experimental electroconvulsive shock may serve as an animal model for this treatment. The aim of this study was to investigate a possible role for neurotrophins in the mechanism of action of experimental electroconvulsive shock and thus in clinical electroconvulsive therapy. The effect of electroconvulsive shock on levels of messenger RNAs encoding the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor and the receptor trkB in rat hippocampus was determined by in situ hybridization with RNA probes 1, 3, 9 and 27 h following the shock. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA levels were increased at 1, 3 and 9 h following the shock and normalized after 27 h. Granule cells of the dentate gyrus showed a more rapid response as compared to hilar cells and pyramidal cells of CA1. Total trkB messenger RNA levels, including the transcripts for both the truncated and full length trkB receptor protein (gp95trkB and gp145trkB, respectively), showed a pattern of increase very similar to that of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA. However, using a probe selective for the full length (gp145trkB) trkB messenger RNA, we determined a delayed pattern of activation with significant increase only at 3 and 9 h after the shock. In hippocampus total trkB messenger RNA was found to consist of approximately one-quarter of mRNA encoding gp145trkB and three-quarters encoding gp95trkB as revealed by RNAase protection. While brain-derived neurotrophic factor and the truncated trkB messenger RNAs appear to increase with a similar pattern, suggesting a similar mechanism of activation by electroconvulsive shock, full length receptor trkB messenger RNA appears to increase with a delayed pattern suggesting a separate mechanism of activation. Electroconvulsive shock-induced seizures seem to include activation of a brain neurotrophin known to be important for neuronal plasticity.
Long-term consumption of ethanol both in human and rodent induces a process of chronic degeneration of cholinergic basal forebrain neurons which results in a cholinergic deafferentation of the cortical mantle. We have used quantitative northern blot analysis and in situ hybridization to demonstrate that these degenerative events in rat evoke an increase in the expression of the nerve growth factor gene in a number of brain areas, including the cholinergic basal forebrain nuclei and their cortical target regions. By combining non-radioactive in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry activated astrocytes were identified as the major source of altered nerve growth factor gene expression. This increased nerve growth factor expression is paralleled by a dendritic remodelling of basal forebrain neurons, while the expression of choline acetyltransferase in surviving neurons remains the same. This failure of nerve growth factor to rescue the expression of choline acetyltransferase differs from the effects of exogenously administered nerve growth factor in acutely lesioned systems. The results indicate that under certain conditions of chronic neurodegeneration, the utilization of nerve growth factor might be impaired, which could be due to a defective nerve growth factor signalling mechanism.
