One subject with full forebrain commissurotomy (L.B.), two with callosotomy (J.W. and M.E.), one with callosal agenesis (R.B.) and 10 normal subjects performed a simple reaction time task in which visual stimuli were either presented singly in one or other visual field, or in both visual fields simultaneously. Reaction times were faster to double stimuli than to single ones, but in the normal subjects this 'redundancy gain' did not exceed that predicted by probability summation (the horse-race model). In the four subjects lacking the corpus callosum, the gain did exceed that predicted by probability summation when the stimuli were brighter than the background, implying subcortical neural summation. In the three surgical cases (L.B., J.W. and M.E.) the gain was greatly diminished when the stimuli were equiluminant with the background, suggesting that neural summation occurred at the collicular level. In normal subjects, callosal transfer may ensure that at least some degree of interhemispheric neural summation occurs, even with unilateral input. The acallosal subject (R.B.) was anomalous in that neural summation was not diminished by equiluminance.
Centrally mediated sympathetic stimulation of subjects who have suffered a spinal cord injury (SCI) does not activate the decentralized part of the body below the level of the lesion, whereas experimental data indicate an exaggerated response above the level of the lesion. SCI subjects may exhibit an autonomic dysreflexia reaction following afferent stimulation below the level of the lesion. In order to investigate the function of the sympathetic nervous system above and below the level of the lesion, regional noradrenaline spillover was measured by means of steady-state isotope dilution technique above (forearm) and below (leg) the level of the lesion at baseline, during mental stress and following bladder stimulation in nine SCI subjects (mean age 41 years; level of injury C7-T4; mean duration of injury 13.8 years). The results from the SCI subjects were also compared with those from 10 weight- and age-matched control subjects, both at rest and during mental stress. Body composition was determined by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry scanning and arm/leg blood flow by occlusion plethysmography. At baseline, total and regional noradrenaline spillover did not differ between the groups. Mental stress increased mean arterial pressure in both groups. Heart rate (76 versus 64 beats/min; P &lt; 0.05) and arm noradrenaline spillover (2.73 versus 1.71 pmol/min/100 g; P &lt; 0.05) increased more in spinal cord injury subjects than in control subjects, whereas total body (2826 versus 3783 pmol/min; P &lt; 0.01) and leg noradrenaline spillover (0.23 versus 0.41 pmol/min/100 g; P &lt; 0.05) increased only in the control group. During bladder stimulation, SCI subjects reacted with a marked increase in mean arterial pressure and leg noradrenaline spillover (from 0.06 to 0.91 pmol/min/100 g; P &lt; 0.05) and their leg blood flow decreased. Regional and total noradrenaline clearance were similar in the two groups. In conclusion, peripheral afferent stimulation below the level of the lesion in spinal cord injury subjects gives rise to a marked noradrenaline spillover from the decentralized part of the sympathetic nervous system suggesting a remaining, but qualitatively altered, neuronal function. Centrally mediated stimulation induced an exaggerated response above the level of the lesion.
To study brain-immune relations, we correlated positron emission tomographic (PET) measures of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) with immune measures in 10 female volunteers. The natural killer (NK) activity correlated negatively with activity bilaterally in the secondary sensory cortex, whereas the Concanavalin A (Con A) response correlated positively with rCBF bilaterally in secondary visual, motor, and sensory cortices, the thalamus, the putamen, and the left hippocampus. Although representing preliminary data from a small number of subjects, these observations provide further support for the presence of interactions between the brain and the immune system.
Many studies have demonstrated that ablation of the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) alters subsequent immune responses. Researchers have presumed that the altered immune responses are predominantly the result of the peripheral phenomenon of denervation. We, however, hypothesized that chemical sympathectomy will signal and activate the central nervous system (CNS). Activation of the CNS was determined by immunocytochemical visualization of Fos protein in brains from male C57BL/6 mice at 8, 24, and 48 h following denervation. A dramatic induction of Fos protein was found in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus and other specific brain regions at 8 and 24 h compared to vehicle control mice. Dual-antigen labeling demonstrates that corticotrophin releasing factor (CRF)-containing neurons in the PVN are activated by chemical sympathectomy; however, neurons containing neurotransmitters which may modulate CRF neurons, such as vasopressin, tyrosine hydroxylase, and adrenocorticotropin, do not coexpress Fos. Our findings suggest an involvement of the CNS in sympathectomy-induced alterations of immunity.
This study focuses on the relation between verb position and verb inflection in the speech production of Dutch agrammatic patients. In Dutch, the finite verb is moved to second position in the matrix clause (de jongen leest een boek: the boy reads a book), but remains in its base generated, that is final, position in the embedded clause (ik zie dat de jongen een boek leest: lit. I see that the boy a book reads). Nonfinite verbs (infinitives and participles) are always in clause final position. Spontaneous speech analysis shows that agrammatics are sensitive to this relation between finiteness and structural position, although they are reluctant to produce finite verbs. Experimental data shows that verb inflection as such is not the problem: these patients are perfectly able to produce a finite verb in final position in an embedded clause; this is not more difficult than producing a nonfinite verb in the same position. If the finite verb has to be produced in Verb Second position in the matrix clause, however, the patients' performance drops dramatically.
Olfactory bulb (OB) transplantation is a well characterized model that has been widely used for studying neuronal plasticity and regeneration [G. Sekerkov, Z. Katarova, E. Mugnaini, F. Jo, J.R. Wolff, S. Prodan, G. Szab, Intrinsically labeled relay neurons of homotopic olfactory bulb transplants establish proper afferent and afferent synaptic connections with host neurons, Neuroscience, 80 (1997) 973-979 [10]; G. Sekerkov, Z. Malatov, J. Orendcov, T. Zigov, Transplantation of dorsal root ganglion into the olfactory bulb of neonatal rats: a histochemical study, Restor. Neurol. Neurosci., 6 (1993) 1-8 [11]; E. Racekov, I. Vanick, T. Zigov, Correlation of functional alteration with lesion extent after olfactory bulbectomy in rats, Int. J. Neurosci., 79 (1994) 13-20 [12]; T. Zigov, P.P.C. Graziadei, A.G. Monti Graziadei, Olfactory bulb transplantation into the olfactory bulb of neonatal rats: an autoradiographic study, Brain Res., 539 (1991) 51-58 [13]]. In previous studies, the OB grafts have been routinely labeled by tritiated thymidine [S.M. Onifer, L.A. White, S.R. Whittemore, V.R. Holets, In vitro labelling strategies for identifying primary neural tissue and neuronal cell line after transplantation in the CNS, Cell Transplant., 2 (1993) 131-149 [7]; [13]] allowing distinction of graft from the surrounding tissue by the presence of silver grains over the cell nuclei of the transplant. However, this approach has some disadvantages, namely: partial or insufficient labeling of a defined neuronal subclasses due to the length of the period of their generation, variation in the number of labeled cells due to differences in the gestation stage between individual embryos at the time of i.p. injection of tritiated thymidine, inability to follow the dendritic arborization and axonal outgrowth of the transplanted neurons or to detect directly their actual synaptic contacts, and finally, the need to work with radioactive isotopes. In this paper, we describe an alternative approach, in which the donor OBs in a homotopic OB transplantation were derived from transgenic mice carrying the bacterial gene lacZ under control from the regulatory region of GAD67 gene. In these mice, beta-galactosidase (beta-gal), encoded by lacZ is stably, ectopically expressed in the vast majority of mitral/tufted (M/T) cells of the OB and served as their intrinsic cellular marker in the OB transplant. By using a simple histochemical reaction for beta-gal or immunocytochemistry with anti-beta-gal antibody, we could detect the cell bodies and processes of the donor M/T cells and their synaptic contacts with host neurons after long-term survival using both light and electron microscopy. Given the great number of existing transgenic mouse lines that express in the nervous system, this approach may have an even wider application in neural transplantation.
The availability of neuronal tract-tracing techniques has been fundamental to the development of the neurosciences. While most of the previously described methods are performed in vivo, in the present paper, detailed protocols are reported for tracing neuronal connections in an in vitro preparation. This technique, tested in various neural systems of the teleost brain, allows precise application of tracer substance(s) under visual control. After the isolation of the brain, the tissue is kept alive by superfusion with oxygenated artificial cerebrospinal fluid in a slice chamber. Neuronal connections are traced by the application of crystals of biocytin or dextran-tetramethylrhodamine to the region of interest. Following intracellular transport over 8-18 h, the tissue is fixed and processed histochemically for visualization of structures filled with the tracer substance. This method can readily be modified for double labelling. Step-by-step procedures are outlined for (a) the simultaneous detection of two tracer substances in the same tissue sample, (b) the combination of tract tracing with the immunohistochemical identification of various biochemical markers such as 'classical' transmitters and neuropeptides, and (c) the visualization of both traced structures and mitotically active cells labelled with the thymidine analogue 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine. By exhibiting a high degree of efficiency, the described in vitro tract-tracing technique represents also a significant contribution towards a reduction of living animals in neurobiological experimentation.
Self-stimulation (SS) rewarding experience induced structural changes in CA3 hippocampal and layer V motor cortical pyramidal neurons in adult male Wistar rats has been demonstrated. In the present study, whether these structural changes are transient or of a permanent nature was evaluated. Self-stimulation experience was provided for 1 h daily over a period of 10 days through bilaterally implanted bipolar electrodes in the lateral hypothalamus and the substantia nigra-ventral tegmental area. Following 10 days of SS experience, the rats were sacrificed after an interval of 30 and 60 days for the quantitative analysis of the dendritic morphology in Golgi stained CA3 hippocampal and layer V motor cortical pyramidal neurons. The results revealed a significant increase in the dendritic branching points and intersections in apical and basal dendrites in both types of neurons in 30 days post-SS group compared to sham control. The total number of apical and basal dendrites were significantly increased in both 30 and 60 days post-SS groups of rats. This study suggests that SS experience induced structural changes are sustainable, even in the absence of rewarding experience.
Expression of the alpha1B-adrenergic receptor was investigated immunohistochemically in the rat iris, cornea and superior cervical ganglion by using antibodies raised in chickens immunised with a peptide corresponding to a portion of the 3rd intracellular loop common to the human, hamster and rat alpha1B-adrenergic receptor. Antibodies stained COS and HEK cell membranes of cells transfected with DNA encoding and expressing the hamster alpha1B-adrenergic receptor but not membranes from cells transfected with DNA encoding and expressing the rat alpha1A-adrenergic receptor or the rat alpha1D-adrenergic receptor. Staining was abolished by preincubation of the antibodies with the peptide used for immunisation. The distribution of alpha1B-adrenergic receptor was examined immunohistochemically with this antibody (1BI3) and a previously characterised antibody (Ab506) raised in rabbits against the carboxyl-terminal decapeptide of the receptor. In the iris, alpha1B-adrenergic receptor was detected in the dilator muscle, ciliary processes and posterior epithelium but no staining was observed in the superior cervical ganglion with either antibody. By contrast, differences in tissue staining between 1BI3 and Ab506 were observed for the sphincter muscle of the iris and for the cornea. 1BI3 stained both tissues intensely, whereas Ab506 only stained the cornea weakly and the sphincter not at all. Reverse transcription/polymerase chain reaction and nucleotide sequencing confirmed the presence of mRNA encoding the epitopes recognised by 1BI3 and Ab506 in cornea and other tissues. We conclude that (1) there is a good correlation between alpha1B-adrenergic receptor mRNA and protein expression in the iris, (2) mRNA, but not protein, is detected in the superior cervical ganglion and (3) additional processes may regulate receptor expression in the cornea.
To examine the correlates of dependent living after ischemic stroke, a consecutive cohort of 486 patients aged 55-85 years was examined 3 months after the index stroke. Detailed medical, neurological and radiological stroke evaluation, structured measures of cognition, emotion and behavior, activities of daily living (ADL), physical disability, and assessment of dependent living were performed. Independent correlates of dependent living 3 months after stroke were the presence of the major hemispheral stroke syndrome (odds ratio, OR, 11.8, 95% confidence interval, CI, 7.2-19.9), and a combination of handicap (Rankin Scale, OR 3.9, 95% CI 2.6-6.1), cognition (DSM-III-R dementia, OR 3.9, CI 1.5-10.7, any cognitive decline, OR 4.5, CI 2.0-11.2), and ADL [Functional Activities Questionnaire (FAQ), OR 1.2, 95% CI 1.1-1.2]. The Rankin Scale explained 51.5%, FAQ 5.9% and presence of DSM-III-R dementia or any cognitive decline 3.4% of the total variance between dependent and independent patients after stroke. Independent of the effects of physical disability, presence of cognitive impairment has important functional consequences on stroke patients. Our findings emphasize the importance of the evaluation of cognitive functions in both observational and interventional clinical trials, as well as in treatment planning, rehabilitation and guidance of patients with ischemic stroke.

Familial cerebellar medulloblastomas occurred in monozygotic twin siblings during infancy, and they had a rapid downhill course. Both twins underwent surgery for the tumours. This was followed by chemotherapy in the second twin. Both died after a short time. The tumours were seen to arise from the cerebellum and both had almost identical histomorphological features. To the best of our knowledge, this is the second report of familial medulloblastoma in twin siblings. Our observation suggests an underlying genetic influence in the histogenesis of these tumours.
Fetal neurografts containing the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) can restore the circadian locomotor and drinking rhythm of SCN-lesioned (SCNX) rat and hamster. This functional outcome finally proves that the endogenous biological clock autonomously resides in the SCN. Observations on the cellular requirements of the &quot;new&quot; SCN for restoration of the arrhythmic SCNX animals have led to some new insights and confirmed findings from other studies. A critical mass of SCN neurons appeared necessary for functional effects, whereas the temporal profile of reinstatement of rhythm correlated with the delayed maturation of the grafted SCN. Cytoarchitectonically, the grafted SCN does not seem to develop normally for all anatomical aspects. Complementary clusters of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide(VIP)- and vasopressin(VP)ergic neurons are formed, but somatostatin(SOM)ergic neurons do not always &quot;join&quot; this group, as is normally seen in situ. Nevertheless, these new SCNs can restore the ablated functions. As the period length of restored rhythms tends to vary, it might be that the grafted SCN underwent an altered or impaired maturation that resulted in a different setting of its clock mechanism. A prominent role of VIPergic neurons seems indicated by their presence in all functional grafts, but, although they may be required, these cells do not appear to be a sufficient condition for restoration of rhythm. Many grafts exhibit the presence of VIPergic cells without counteracting the arrhythmia, whereas VP- and SOMergic SCN neurons are usually present as well. Findings with VP-deficient Brattleboro rat grafts indicated that VP is not the primary obligatory signal of circadian activity. It is argued that perhaps the role of SOMergic neurons in the clock function of the (grafted) SCN has been insufficiently considered. However, one should keep in mind that the peptides of the various types of SCN neurons may function only as cofactors, mutually modulating molecular or bioelectrical cellular activities within the nucleus or the message of the main transmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid.
Photic entrainment of circadian rhythms occurs as a consequence of daily, light-induced adjustments in the phase and period of the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) circadian clock. Photic information is acquired by a unique population of retinal photoreceptors, processed by a distinct subset of retinal ganglion cells, and conveyed to the SCN through the retinohypothalamic tract (RHT). RHT neurotransmission is mediated by the release of the excitatory amino acid glutamate and appears to require the activation of both NMDA- and non-NMDA-type glutamate receptors, the expression of immediate early genes (IEGs), and the synthesis and release of nitric oxide. In addition, serotonin appears to regulate the response of the SCN circadian clock to light through postsynaptic 5-HT1A or 5-ht7 receptors, as well as presynaptic 5-HT1B heteroreceptors on RHT terminals.

Psychosis induced by the standard drugs for treating idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) occurs, in the long term, in approximately 5-8% of patients. Until the development of atypical antipsychotic drugs, treatment of this psychosis was extremely limited and unsatisfactory. Clozapine has been reported to be an effective and well-tolerated treatment for this problem. Clozapine, however, is a difficult drug to use as a result of the monitoring system mandated by the Food and Drug Administration because of the potential for agranulocytosis. Treatment with risperidone has been shown to be poorly-tolerated. This article reports on the authors' open label experience with the newest atypical antipsychotic, olanzapine, and the switching of stable patients from clozapine to olanzapine. Nine of twelve subjects were unable to make the transition because of worsened parkinsonism. Most subjects preferred taking clozapine, despite the onerous monitoring procedure.
The objective of this study was to see whether outcome of infants of larger birth weight (1,000-1,499 grams) has changed with advances in neonatology. The outcome of infants born in a recent time period (1989-1991) was compared with that of infants born previously, in 1984-1986 and 1979-1981. Univariate analyses were conducted on the association of medical risk factors and date of birth with outcome. More than 90% of infants in each time period were neurologically normal and more than 80% were cognitively normal. Predictor variables were intracranial hemorrhage for poor neurologic outcome and days on oxygen for poor cognitive outcome. We found that neurodevelopmental outcome was stable over three time periods.
In alphabetic writing systems like English or French, many words are composed of more letters than phonemes (e.g. BEACH is composed of five letters and three phonemes, i.e./biJ/). This is due to the presence of higher order graphemes, that is, groups of letters that map into a single phoneme (e.g. EA and CH in BEACH map into the single phonemes /i/ and /J/, respectively). The present study investigated the potential role of these subsyllabic components for the visual recognition of words in a perceptual identification task. In Experiment 1, we manipulated the number of phonemes in monosyllabic, low frequency, five-letter, English words, and found that identification times were longer for words with a small number of phonemes than for words with a large number of phonemes. In Experiment 2, this 'phoneme effect' was replicated in French for low frequency, but not for high frequency, monosyllabic words. These results suggest that subsyllabic components, also referred to as functional orthographic units, play a crucial role as elementary building blocks of visual word recognition.
Longitudinal changes in memory, visuospatial and verbal functioning in a sample of demented persons were examined. The role of several demographic, psychometric, and biological indices in predicting the rate of cognitive deterioration was also investigated. The sample consisted of 31 very old (mean age at entry = 83.5 years, range = 75-95) persons with Alzheimer's disease (n = 22) and vascular dementia (n = 9) from a community-based study. Subjects were tested on two occasions separated by approximately 2.5 years. Results indicated significant longitudinal decline in verbal fluency and visuospatial ability, but only on 1 of 3 measures of episodic memory. Results from regression analyses indicated that a variety of putatively important variables, including age, gender, education, digit span, as well as a number of biological (vitamin B12, TSH), dementia etiology, and psychometric (digit span) indicators, exhibited no relationship to rate of memory, visuospatial, or verbal decline. The results suggest that the rate of cognitive deterioration in dementia is highly variable, and this variability in change appears to include a variety of characteristics. A possible reason thereof may be that the role of individual-difference variables for cognitive functioning in dementia is overshadowed by the pathogenetic process itself.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) is important for the survival and maintenance of central cholinergic neurons, a signalling system impaired in Alzheimer's disease. We have treated 3 patients with Alzheimer's disease with a total of 6.6 mg NGF administered continuously into the lateral cerebral ventricle for 3 months in the first 2 patients and a total of 0.55 mg for 3 shorter periods in the third patient. The patients were extensively evaluated with clinical, neuropsychological, neurophysiological and neuroradiological techniques. Three months after the NGF treatment ended, a significant increase in nicotine binding was found in several brain areas in the first 2 patients and in the hippocampus in the third patient as studied by positron emission tomography. A clear cognitive amelioration could not be demonstrated, although a few neuropsychology tests showed slight improvements. The amount of slow-wave cortical activity as studied by electroencephalography was reduced in the first 2 patients. Two negative side effects occurred with NGF treatment: first, a dull, constant back pain was observed in all 3 patients, which in 1 patient was aggravated by axial loading resulting in sharp, shooting pain of short duration. When stopping the NGF infusion, the pain disappeared within a couple of days. Reducing the dose of NGF lessened the pain. Secondly, a marked weight reduction during the infusion with a clear weight gain after ending the infusion was seen in the first 2 patients. We conclude from this limited trial that, while long-term intracerebroventricular NGF administration may cause certain potentially beneficial effects, the intraventricular route of administration is also associated with negative side effects that appear to outweigh the positive effects of the present protocol. Alternative routes of administration, and/or lower doses of NGF, perhaps combined with low doses of other neurotrophic factors, may shift this balance in favor of positive effects.
The orthodenticle orthologue Lox22-Otx was isolated from an annelid worm, the leech Helobdella triserialis. In situ hybridization reveals that embryonic expression of Lox22-Otx RNA is primarily restricted to an unsegmented head domain, including tissues in the foregut, surface ectoderm, and the head ganglion of the central nervous system. The patterns of head expression form concentric rings about the stomadeum and mark tissue domains that exhibit discrete behaviors during later morphogenesis and differentiation. Expression was also observed in one to two bilateral pairs of neurons in each segmental ganglion or neuromere of the body trunk. The largely head-specific expression of Lox22-Otx in this annelid species supports data from two other bilaterian phyla in suggesting the existence of a genetically defined head/trunk distinction. We suggest here that this head/trunk distinction is a synapomorphy of the Bilateria as a whole, and that it reflects the body plan of an early bilaterian ancestor. In addition, we discuss the possibility that the radial organization of gene expression and cell lineages in the leech's head domain may reflect the symmetry properties of a prebilaterian ancestor that had a radially symmetric body plan.
Due to the action of testicular hormones in the perinatal period, juvenile male rats engage in more play fighting than juvenile females. Also, following puberty, males, but not females, switch to using adultlike defensive tactics more frequently during play. This change in play is also due to the action of testicular hormones perinatally. In this study, two experiments were conducted to determine if the pubertal transition in defense could be induced in females. For Experiment 1, male and female cagemates were tested before and after puberty with familiar and unfamiliar partners. Even when playfully interacting with subadult males, females did not increase the use of the adultlike defensive tactics. For Experiment 2, neonatal females were either injected with testosterone propionate (TP) or ovariectomized (OVX), and again tested before and after puberty. While the TP-treated females had higher frequencies of play fighting, they did not change their pattern of defense following puberty. The OVX females exhibited the lower frequency of play fighting typical of females, but changed their pattern of defense with increased age. Thus, it appears that the pattern of pubertal change in playful defense typical of males is inhibited by ovarian hormones. The mechanisms by which ovarian hormones could exert this effect on developing females are discussed.
A Chicago City-Wide Mini-Conference on Cocaine and the Amphetamines was held on the 13 May 1996 at Loyola University Chicago. The purpose of the one day symposium was to facilitate the dissemination of recent research findings of investigators in the Chicago area working in drug abuse research. The speakers discussed recent concepts relating to the consequences of the amphetamines and cocaine on different biologic processes including the development of neuronal pathways, adaptational responses to chronic administration and neurotoxicity. Some of the specific areas discussed were: (a) psychostimulant-induced effects on brain serotonin and dopamine systems, (b) amphetamine-induced neurotoxicity, (c) the long-term consequences of prenatal exposure to cocaine, (d) effects of cocaine withdrawal on hormone responses, and (e) mechanisms underlying drug-taking behavior and dependence. The potential clinical consequences of the research findings and how they impact on medications-development and community efforts in dealing with the problems of drug abuse were also discussed. Progress on these issues, which was presented at the First Annual Follow-Up Meeting, held on the 17 July 1997, are also included in this report.
Cysteine string proteins (CSPs) are novel synaptic vesicle-associated protein components characterized by an N-terminal J-domain and a central palmitoylated string of cysteine residues. The cellular localization and functional role of CSP was studied in pancreatic endocrine cells. In situ hybridization and RT-PCR analysis demonstrated CSP mRNA expression in insulin-producing cells. CSP1 mRNA was present in pancreatic islets; both CSP1 and CSP2 mRNAs were seen in insulin-secreting cell lines. Punctate CSP-like immunoreactivity (CSP-LI) was demonstrated in most islets of Langerhans cells, acinar cells and nerve fibers of the rat pancreas. Ultrastructural analysis showed CSP-LI in close association with membranes of secretory granules of cells in the endo- and exocrine pancreas. Subcellular fractionation of insulinoma cells showed CSP1 (34/36 kDa) in granular fractions; the membrane and cytosol fractions contained predominantly CSP2 (27 kDa). The fractions also contained proteins of 72 and 70 kDa, presumably CSP dimers. CSP1 overexpression in INS-1 cells or intracellular administration of CSP antibodies into mouse ob/ob beta-cells did not affect voltage-dependent Ca2+-channel activity. Amperometric measurements showed a significant decrease in insulin exocytosis in individual INS-1 cells after CSP1 overexpression. We conclude that CSP is associated with insulin secretory granules and that CSP participates in the molecular regulation of insulin exocytosis by mechanisms not involving changes in the activity of voltage-gated Ca2+-channels.
Developmental disorders of neuronal migrations in the human brain are referred to as 'cortical dysplasia', and current knowledge of cortical dysplasia is limited to varied pathologic descriptions which lack specific investigations of glutamate receptor mechanisms. In this study, immunocytochemistry was used to study the expressions of glutamate receptor subunit proteins for NMDAR2A/B, NMDAR1 and AMPA Glu-R2/3 in human brain resected for intractable epilepsy associated with cortical dysplasia. Seventeen patients were studied with batch-matched glutamate subunit reagents on adjacent 30-microm sections. The most striking microscopic abnormalities identified in cresylecht violet stains were cortical dyslaminations, disoriented neurons, and unexpectedly, very dark Nissl body staining of those dysplastic neurons. NMDAR2A/B intensely labeled dysplastic neurons, showing staining in both the cell bodies and dendritic profiles. However, non-dysplastic neurons were not immunoreactive to NMDAR2A/B. Dysplastic neurons were also labeled by antibodies selective to NMDAR1. Both dysplastic neurons and non-dysplastic neurons were immunoreactive to AMPA GluR2/3. Our results suggest that the epileptic hyperexcitability of dysplastic cortical regions may result, at least in part, from the heteromeric coassembly and expressions of NMDAR2A/B subunits with selectively expressed NMDAR1 splice variants in dysplastic neurons. AMPA receptors are probably also essential but not sufficient to explain the 'epileptic' properties of these dysplastic neurons. A longer, detailed report of some of these findings have been previously published (Ying et al., 1998. J. Neuropathol. Exp. Neurol. 57, 47-62).
In organ-specific autoimmune diseases, T cells involved in the disease development bear a particular type of TCR and infiltrate the target organ predominantly. However, it is difficult to identify disease-inducing T cells in peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) because such T cells are very few in number in a large pool of unrelated T cells. In the present study, we demonstrate that CDR3 spectratyping can identify experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE)-specific patterns (oligoclonal expansion of Vbeta8.2 with the shortest CDR3) in PBL at the preclinical and clinical stages of acute EAE. Analysis of nucleotide and predicted amino acid sequences of Vbeta8.2 CDR3 of spectratype-derived clones revealed that CASSDSSYEQYFGPG, which is one of the representative sequences of encephalitogenic T cell clones, constituted the predominant population in both PBL and spinal cord T cells. In chronic relapsing EAE, the EAE-specific spectratype pattern in PBL was observed during the 1 st and 2nd attacks, but not at the remission and full recovery stage. These findings indicate that the spectratyping pattern in PBL reflects the disease activity of acute and chronic relapsing EAE. Thus, CDR3 spectratyping using PBL can be used for diagnosis and assessment of T cell-mediated autoimmune diseases and is applicable to human autoimmune diseases.
In the cerebellum, the mRNAs for neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) and its high-affinity tyrosine kinase receptor trkC are expressed by both the differentiated granule cells of the internal granule cell layer (IGL) and their precursors in the external germinal layer (EGL). We have investigated the effects of chronic application of exogenous NT-3 in vivo on cerebellar granule cell genesis and differentiation. NT-3 was applied to the posterior surface of the rat cerebellum from P6 onwards using Elvax implants. At P10 the EGL of cerebellar lobules VII and VIII was significantly reduced in thickness in NT-3 implanted rats when compared with controls. Immunocytochemical analysis of the EGL using antibodies to proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) revealed that the number of postmitotic, premigratory (PCNA-immunonegative) granule cell precursors was preferentially reduced in the NT-3 implanted rats. In situ DNA fragmentation labelling confirmed that this was not accompanied by increased cell death in the EGL. These results suggest that NT-3 promotes the differentiation of postmitotic, premigratory granule cell precursors, accelerating cell exit from the EGL.
In young rats, low frequency (1-2 Hz) stimulation of the Schaffer collaterals for 15 min induces in the CA1 area of the hippocampus a homosynaptic and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent form of long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic efficacy. In the adults, while a similar stimulation paradigm is able to depress previously potentiated synapses, it leads to conflicting results when applied to naive synapses. In the present experiments, different stimulation paradigms have been used to induce LTD in the CA1 area of the adult rat hippocampus in vitro. Thus, stimulation of the afferent pathway at frequencies higher than those used to produce LTD in young animals (5-10 Hz, for 15 min) reliably induced a homosynaptic form of LTD. This form of LTD was associated with a significant increase in paired-pulse facilitation ratio and was insensitive to ionotropic (CNQX, 10 microM and CPP, 20 microM) and metabotropic (S-MCPG, 1 mM) glutamate receptors antagonists, suggesting a presynaptic mechanism for both LTD induction and expression. In conclusion, our experiments clearly show that LTD is not a purely developmental phenomenon but is present also in mature rats, which possess the whole machinery for LTD induction and this will greatly enhance the flexibility and the storing capacity of neuronal circuits.
The central nucleus of the amygdala is interconnected with a variety of visceral and autonomic nuclei of the brainstem. These include the parabrachial nucleus, the nucleus of the solitary tract, the nucleus ambiguus and the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. Despite repeated attempts, neurochemical characterization of the major subcortical connections of the central nucleus has not yet been accomplished. Based on earlier immunohistochemical and in situ hybridization evidence indicating the presence of numerous GABAergic neurons in the macaque monkey central nucleus, we predicted that a sizeable portion of the descending projections may be GABAergic. We tested this hypothesis using a novel double labelling method with gold conjugated WGA-apoHRP as a retrograde tracer and in situ hybridization for detecting the mRNA that encodes the enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD67) as a marker for GABAergic cells. Following WGA-apoHRP-gold injections into the brainstem, a large number of retrogradely labelled cells was observed in the medial and lateral divisions of the central nucleus. Of the retrogradely labelled cells observed in the medial division of the central nucleus, approximately half were double-labelled for GAD67 mRNA; about 30% double labelling was observed in the lateral division. These data support the view that a sizeable component of the central nucleus projection to the brainstem is GABAergic.
We have examined the morphological relationship of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and GABAergic neurons in the lamprey spinal cord, and the physiological effects of NPY and GABA(B) receptor agonists on afferent synaptic transmission. NPY-containing fibres and cell bodies were identified in the dorsal root entry zone. NPY immunoreactive (-ir) fibres made close appositions with primary afferent axons. Co-localization of NPY and GABA-ir was found in the dorsal horn and dorsal column. Fifty-two per cent of NPY-ir profiles showed immunoreactivity to GABA at the ultrastructural level. Electron microscopic analysis showed that NPY-immunoreactivity was present throughout the axoplasm, including over dense core vesicles, whereas GABA-immunoreactivity was mainly found over small synaptic vesicles. Synthetic lamprey NPY, and the related peptide, peptide YY, reduced the amplitude of monosynaptic afferent EPSPs in spinobulbar neurons. NPY had no significant effect on the postsynaptic input resistance or membrane potential, the electrical component of the synaptic potential, or the response to glutamate, but it could reduce the duration of presynaptic action potentials, suggesting that it was acting presynaptically. NPY also reduced the excitability of the spinobulbar neurons, suggesting at least one postsynaptic effect. Because NPY and GABA colocalize, we compared the effects of NPY and the GABA(B) agonist baclofen. Both presynaptically reduced EPSP amplitudes, baclofen having a larger effect and a faster onset and recovery than NPY. The GABA(B) antagonist phaclofen reduced the effect of baclofen, but not that of NPY. We conclude that NPY and GABA are colocalized in terminals in the dorsal spinal cord of the lamprey, and that they have complementary actions in modulating sensory inputs.
Multivariate descriptors of sway were used to test whether altered sensory conditions result not only in changes in amount of sway but also in postural coordination. Eigenvalues and directions of eigenvectors of the covariance of shnk and hip angles were used as a set of multivariate descriptors. These quantities were measured in 14 healthy adult subjects performing the Sensory Organization test, which disrupts visual and somatosensory information used for spatial orientation. Multivariate analysis of variance and discriminant analysis showed that resulting sway changes were at least bivariate in character, with visual and somatosensory conditions producing distinct changes in postural coordination. The most significant changes were found when somatosensory information was disrupted by sway-referencing of the support surface (P = 3.2 x 10(-10)). The resulting covariance measurements showed that subjects not only swayed more but also used increased hip motion analogous to the hip strategy. Disruption of vision, by either closing the eyes or sway-referencing the visual surround, also resulted in altered sway (P = 1.7 x 10(-10)), with proportionately more motion of the center of mass than with platform sway-referencing. As shown by discriminant analysis, an optimal univariate measure could explain at most 90% of the behavior due to altered sensory conditions. The remaining 10%, while smaller, are highly significant changes in posture control that depend on sensory conditions. The results imply that normal postural coordination of the trunk and legs requires both somatosensory and visual information and that each sensory modality makes a unique contribution to posture control. Descending postural commands are multivariate in nature, and the motion at each joint is affected uniquely by input from multiple sensors.
Activity in single C-fiber afferents, whose cutaneous receptive fields were on the dorsal side of the foot (n=10), were recorded in the peroneal nerve of healthy voluntary subjects. Characterization of the fibers with respect to thresholds and field areas were made before and after cutaneous inflammation, which was induced with mustard oil. To test the nociceptive heat modality, a high-intensity argon laser was used and single 200-ms light pulses were focused onto the skin. The mechanical properties were tested with von Frey-type filaments. In the uninflamed skin, heat and mechanical stimulation activated single C-fibers in matching skin areas. The areas were all within the receptive field borders defined by electrical cutaneous stimulation. The mustard-oil-induced cutaneous inflammation was subjectively reported by the subjects as being moderately painful. In six of the units, a spontaneous activity was induced in the sample of ten previously non-active units. Before the inflammation, the 200-ms argon-laser pulse evoked a highly reproducible pattern of spike-trains. Following inflammation, this pattern was reproducible, but appeared with a significantly reduced activation rate despite the same energy being delivered to the skin both before and after the inflammation. A reduction in slope of the stimulus-response relationship was also observed after inflammation. Following inflammation, changes occurred with expansion both of the mechanical- and heat-receptive fields. The expansion was delineated by the areas defined by electrical stimulation. Following inflammation, the threshold to heat was decreased, but that to mechanical stimuli was not. No relation was detected between the threshold change and the degree of receptive-field expansion. The subjective pain reported changed following inflammation with an increase in the perceived pain in relation to the recorded action potentials, which emphasizes the importance of either an increase in sensitivity in the central nervous system or an increase in peripheral spatial summation after inflammation.
Recordings were made in the peroneal nerve of healthy volunteer subjects from C-mechano-heat (CMH) nociceptors (n=25) with their receptive fields in the skin on the dorsum of the foot. The investigation focused on afferent single C-fiber activity induced by short (200 ms) high-intensity argon-laser light pulses projected to localized spots of the skin. Cutaneous heat stimulation with the argon laser, 2-3 times the activation threshold, induced inter-burst spike frequencies in the nerve, reaching 50 Hz, while mechanical stimulation 10-20 times threshold only evoked frequencies reaching 10 Hz. The decrease in conduction velocity of action potentials in the C-fiber afferents following mechanical and heat stimulation was closely related to the degree of activation. Following a laser pulse of 200 ms, a spike pattern with highly reproducible inter-spike intervals was evoked with a fast saturation. On the contrary, a high variability in the number of action potentials evoked by both heat and mechanical stimuli was found, depending on the location of stimuli within the receptive field. A relation between the conduction velocity and the peak firing within the spike train following laser stimulation was detected. Heat and mechanical stimulation activated single C-fibers in matching spots within the same skin areas, in line with the assumption that the two modalities in the CMH-fibers share matching morphological cutaneous substrates. No correlation was found in thresholds or excitability to mechanical and heat stimulation, respectively. This suggests that subsets of receptors exist within nerve endings of the cutaneous receptive fields, with the ability to generate action potentials independent of heat and mechanical stimuli. Unexpectedly, no signs of sensitization or other inflammatory responses were observed after repeated laser pulses; on the contrary, a rapidly developing fatigue was observed when single spots were repeatedly stimulated. However, no fatigue was observed if neighboring spots were stimulated, indicating a localized generator of the fatigue. In each subject, a good correlation was observed between the reported pain sensation and the activity evoked in the afferent C-fibers by the laser. However, the magnitude of the reported pain sensation to comparable degrees of C-fiber activation showed a high variability between different subjects. A fairly good subjective estimate of the afferent-fiber activation was observed when skin spots from 3- down to 1-mm diameter were stimulated. In a few individuals, no painful sensation was reported when the stimulated spots were reduced to 1-mm diameter, despite the occurrence of multiple spikes in single C-fiber afferents, amplifying the importance of spatial summation in the perception of pain.
In the past few years, matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometry has emerged as a powerful tool for the direct analysis of peptide profiles contained in single neuroendocrine cells, tissue biopsies, as well as in releasates (after a simple sample clean-up). These studies were performed in both invertebrate (the pond snail) and vertebrate (xenopus and rat) species. The present article provides an overview of these data with a special emphasis on the sample handling required for each application.
During development, neurotrophic factors play an important role in the guidance and outgrowth of axons. Our working hypothesis is that neurotrophic factors involved in the development of axons of a particular CNS tract are among the most promising candidates for stimulating and directing the regrowth of fibers of this tract in the lesioned adult animal. The neurotrophin NT-3 is known to be involved in the target selection of outgrowing corticospinal tract (CST) fibers. We studied the capacity of locally applied NT-3 to stimulate and direct the regrowth of axons of the CST in the lesioned adult rat spinal cord. We also studied the effect of NT-3 application on the functional recovery of rats after spinal cord injury, using the gridwalk test. NT-3 was applied at the site of the lesion dissolved into rat tail collagen type I. Four weeks after spinal cord injury and collagen implantation, significantly more CST fibers had regrown into the collagen matrix containing NT-3 (22 +/- 6%, mean +/- SEM) than into the control collagen matrix without NT-3 (7 +/- 2%). No CST fibers grew into areas caudal to the collagen implant. Despite the absence of regrowth of corticospinal axons into host tissue caudal to the lesion area, functional recovery was observed in rats with NT-3 containing collagen implants.
Posterior cingulate cortex is the site of earliest reductions in glucose metabolism and qualitatively different laminar patterns of neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study used multivariate analyses of area 23 in 72 cases of definite AD to assess relationships between laminar patterns of neurodegeneration, neurofibrillary tangle (NFT) and senile plaque (SP) densities, age of disease onset and duration, and apolipoprotein E (ApoE) genotype. No age-related changes in neurons occurred over four decades in 17 controls and regression analysis of all AD cases showed no relationships between neuron, SP, and tau-immunoreactive NFT densities. Principal components analysis of neurons in layers III-Va and eigenvector projections showed five subgroups. The subgroups were independent because each had a full range of disease durations and qualitatively different laminar patterns in degeneration suggested disease subtypes (ST). Cases with most severe neuron losses (STSevere) had an early onset, most SP, and highest proportion of ApoE epsilon4 homozygotes. Changes in the distribution of NFT were similar over disease course in two subtypes and NFT did not account for most neurodegeneration. In STII-V with moderate neuron loss in most layers, cases with no NFT had a disease duration of 3.5 +/- 0.9 years (mean +/- SEM), those with most in layers IIIc or Va had a duration of 7.3 +/- 1 years, and those with most in layers II-IIIab had a duration of 12.1 +/- 1 years. In STSevere, cases with highest NFT densities in layers II-IIIab also were late stage. Finally, epsilon4 homozygotes were most frequent in STSevere, but four statistical tests showed that this risk is not directly involved in neurodegeneration. In conclusion, multivariate pattern recognition shows that AD is composed of independent neuropathological subtypes and NFT in area 23 do not account for most neuron losses.
This study demonstrates the involvement of the MT2 (Mel1b) melatonin receptor in mediating phase advances of circadian activity rhythms by melatonin. In situ hybridization histochemistry with digoxigenin-labeled oligonucleotide probes revealed for the first time the expression of mt1 and MT2 melatonin receptor mRNA within the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the C3H/HeN mouse. Melatonin (0.9 to 30 microg/mouse, s.c.) administration during 3 days at the end of the subjective day (CT 10) to C3H/HeN mice kept in constant dark phase advanced circadian rhythms of wheel running activity in a dose-dependent manner [EC50=0.72 microg/mouse; 0.98+/-0.08 h (n=15) maximal advance at 9 microg/mouse]. Neither the selective MT2 melatonin receptor antagonists 4P-ADOT and 4P-PDOT (90 microg/mouse, s.c.) nor luzindole (300 microg/mouse, s.c.), which shows 25-fold higher affinity for the MT2 than the mt1 subtype, affected the phase of circadian activity rhythms when given alone at CT 10. All three antagonists, however, shifted to the right the dose-response curve to melatonin, as they significantly reduced the phase shifting effects of 0.9 and 3 microg melatonin. This is the first study to demonstrate that melatonin phase advances circadian rhythms by activation of a membrane-bound melatonin receptor and strongly suggests that this effect is mediated through the MT2 melatonin receptor subtype within the circadian timing system. We conclude that the MT2 melatonin receptor subtype is a novel therapeutic target for the development of subtype-selective analogs for the treatment of circadian sleep and mood-related disorders.


Morphogen gradients of secreted molecules play critical roles in the establishment of the spatial pattern of gene expression. During midgut development in Drosophila, secreted molecules of Decapentaplegic (Dpp) and Wingless (Wg) establish unique transcriptional regulation within target cells to specify the resultant cell types. Here we report the identification of a novel homeobox gene, defective proventriculus (dve), which is required for the midgut specification under the control of Dpp and Wg. In dve mutants, two distinct parts of the midgut, the proventriculus and middle midgut, are abnormally organized. The Wg signal regulates dve expression during proventriculus development. On the other hand, dve is a downstream target of Dpp in the middle midgut and defines the functional specificity of copper cells along with another Dpp target gene, labial. Thus, the dve gene acts under the two distinct extracellular signals at distant parts of the midgut primordia.

As part of our effort to clone positionally the oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) gene, we constructed a YAC contig, a cosmid contig, and an EcoRI restriction map of the OPMD candidate region. The YAC contig spans more than 2 Mb and encompasses the loci D14S283 and D14S990 and the cardiac alpha and beta myosin heavy chain genes (MYH6 and MYH7). A 700-kb cosmid contig containing the D14S990 and the myosin genes and a long-range restriction map covering the region between D14S990 and the MYH6 and MYH7 gene cluster were established. A detailed EcoRI restriction map of the cosmid contig was determined, and five putative CpG islands were identified. Based on these data, the four loci were mapped within an approximately 600-kb region with the following centromere to telomere order: D14S283, D14S990, MYH6, and MYH7. The YAC and cosmid contigs will facilitate the identification of genes lying within the OPMD candidate interval.
Microglia, a type of perineuronal glial cells in the central nervous system, have been suggested to play various important roles in normal and pathologic brains. In this article, first, we described the association or roles of activated microglia in injury and various brain diseases, and subsequently, summarized microglia-derived physiologically active molecules which will affect the neuronal survival and neuronal growth, and glial function, and finally, discussed the molecular mechanism of microglial activation.
To investigate autoimmunity to glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) 65 in Japanese patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM, type I diabetes), we established seven CD4+ T-cell clones, by stimulating peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of six IDDM patients, using a mixture of overlapping human GAD65 peptides. No GAD65 autoreactive T-cell clones were evidenced in four healthy controls. Specificities of T-cell clones were as follows: (a) two clones specific to GAD65 p111-131 (residue 111 to 131) + DR53 (DRB4*0103); (b) one clone specific to GAD65 p413-433 + DR1 (DRB1*0101); (c) two clones specific to GAD65 p200-217 + either DR9 (DRB1*0901) or DR8 (DRB1*0802); and (d) two clones specific to GAD65 p368-388 + DP2 (DPA1*01 or 0201-DPB1*0201). Two DR53-restricted and one DR1-restricted T-cell clones, responded to a recombinant human GAD65 protein, and showed cytotoxicity against B lymphoblastoid cell lines pre-pulsed with the peptides. Six T-cell clones exhibited the Th1-like phenotype. Interestingly, two DR53-restricted T-cell clones killed a Fas-deficient B lymphoblastoid cell line, thereby indicating that cytotoxicity was not completely dependent on a Fas-Fas ligand interaction. Thus, the T-cell epitopes were mapped in a limited portion of GAD65 protein, with a tendency to be restricted by disease-associated HLA-DR, but not DQ molecules.
The psychopathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is varied and includes both behavioural and psychological symptoms. Behavioural and psychological symptoms are common and contribute to the difficulties experienced by carers. However, the mechanism whereby these symptoms occur in some individuals with AD is not understood. We hypothesized that common genetic polymorphisms in neurotransmitter systems are risk factors for these symptoms in the course of AD. A total of 211 subjects from a population-based prospective study of psychopathology within late-onset AD were genotyped for the 5-HT2A receptor polymorphism 102-T/C and the 5-HT2C receptor polymorphism Cys23Ser. Associations were found between the presence of the C102 allele and the presence of visual (Fisher's exact test, one-tailed, P = 0.003) and auditory hallucinations (Fisher's exact test, one-tailed, P = 0.004) and between the presence of the Ser23 allele and visual hallucinations (chi2 = 7.5, df = 1, P = 0.006) (P = 0.03, 0.04 and 0.06, respectively, after Bonferroni correction). In addition, there was an association between the Cys23Ser polymorphism and hyperphagia (chi2 = 6.7, df = 2, P = 0.03) (P = 0.3 after Bonferroni correction). We conclude that common 5-HT2A and 5-HT2C genetic polymorphisms previously showing only weak associations with psychotic illness are associated with psychotic symptoms in AD but are clinically silent until the onset of the neurodegenerative process.
Using histological parameters with high recognition reliability, we retrospectively analyzed all newly diagnosed patients under the age of 16 years (n = 100) with brain and spinal cord tumors presenting to the National Neuroscience Centres of the Richmond and Beaumont Hospitals, Dublin, Ireland, between 1985 and 1990, allowing analysis of 5-year survival in all cases. Tumor histology was reviewed by two neuropathologists blinded to previous histological diagnosis and to the site of lesion. We found that certain histological features such as very low cell density and microcyst formation had a positive effect on prognosis. Mitoses and pleomorphism had a negative effect on prognosis, whereas necrosis and meningeal involvement had no effect on prognosis. It is suggested that identification of reliably recognized histological features rather than assignation of tumors to particular diagnostic categories may be a more reliable predictor of tumor behavior in the pediatric age-group.
In the general population, mean systolic and diastolic blood pressure increases up to age 75 years but decreases thereafter. The brain has a role in blood pressure regulation; it is not clear whether the cerebral changes that occur with aging contribute to the decline in blood pressure in the very elderly. We examined a population-based sample of 484 85-year-old persons (344 nondemented and 140 demented, 61 with Alzheimer's disease, 65 with vascular dementia, and 14 with other types of dementia) with a neuropsychiatric examination and blood pressure measurements. Dementia was diagnosed according to the criteria proposed in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, edition 3, revised. Brain atrophy was measured by CT of the brain. In the nondemented group, frontal (r=-0.18, P=0.037) and parietal (r=-0.23, P=0.008) cortical atrophy and bifrontal ratio (r=-0.20, P=0.013) were associated with lower systolic blood pressure, and frontal (r=-0.23, P=0.010) and parietal (r=-0.24, P=0.008) cortical atrophy and bifrontal ratio (r=-0.23, P=0.006) with lower diastolic blood pressure. Systolic blood pressure was lower in subjects with Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia, and diastolic blood pressure was lower in those with vascular dementia compared with the nondemented. Systolic (r=-0.27, P&lt;0.0001) and diastolic (r=-0.10, P=0.020) blood pressure was negatively correlated to dementia severity. In the demented subjects, frontal cortical atrophy was correlated to lower diastolic blood pressure (r=-0.21, P=0.043). Our findings suggest that age-related changes in brain structure may contribute to the decrease in blood pressure in the very elderly and that low blood pressure in dementia disorders is mainly a secondary phenomenon.
In this paper, the details of processing algorithms used in a training program with language learning-impaired children (LLI's) are described. The training program utilized computer games, speech/language training exercises, books-on-tape and educational CD-ROM's. Speech tracks in these materials were processed using these algorithms. During a four week training period, recognition of both processed and normal speech in these children continually increased to near age-appropriate levels. We conclude that this form of processed speech is subject to profound perceptual learning effects and exhibits widespread generalization to normal speech. This form of learning and generalization contributes to the rehabilitation of temporal processing deficits and language comprehension in this subject population.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the frequency of DSM-III-R personality disorders in depressed patients treated in primary care, and to examine the effect of sertraline or citalopram on the diagnosis of personality disorders. A total of 308 patients with a major depressive disorder were assessed with the Swedish version of the Structured Clinical Interview for Personality Disorders (SCID) screen questionnaire, before and after 24 weeks double-blind treatment with sertraline (50-150 mg/day) or citalopram (20-60 mg/day). Following treatment, significant reductions in the frequency of paranoid, borderline, avoidant and dependent personality disorder diagnoses were seen in both treatment groups. When the personality disorders were analysed as continuous, dimensional personality traits significant reductions were seen for most personality categories. To elucidate if the observed reductions in personality disorder criteria could be explained by the improvement in depressive symptomatology, a series of multiple regressions were made. Reduction of depression scores was of some importance for the changes in most personality disorders. However, the multiple R never exceeded 0.24 (cluster C). Type of drug was of importance only as concerns obsessive-compulsive personality disorder. Overall, the results suggest that sertraline and citalopram may be beneficial in the treatment of certain personality disorder traits in patients with major depressive disorders.
There are some differences between younger and older people regarding the symptomatology of depressive disorders. Elderly people report less depressed mood. There is a high rate of anxiety in elderly patients with major depressive disorders compared with younger depressive patients. The high coexistence of anxiety and depression in the elderly suggests that depression is part of a depression-anxiety syndrome. Depression in elderly people is often hidden behind somatic symptoms, either because of somatization of the disorder or because of accentuation of symptoms of concomitant illness. Cognitive impairment caused by depression is usually referred to as pseudo-dementia or depression with dementia, and it is important to differentiate this condition from predementia. These types of symptoms are more common in elderly than in younger patients. Psychotic symptoms are also seen to a greater extent in the elderly. Some of the differences seen between younger and older people regarding the symptomatology of depressive disorders may be due to pathoplastic effects of aging and to differences between birth cohorts. Moreover, the aetiology of depression is more heterogeneous in elderly people than in younger. Inheritance has a lower impact in elderly people. However, biochemical changes in the aging brain and changes in neurodegenerative disorders are of importance. In these disorders, disturbances of the monoamines are recorded which evidently reduce the threshold for depression in the elderly. Depression is seen concomitantly with some somatic disorders. In several of these disorders, the illness presents initially with depression. Psychosociogenic factors also have importance for depression in late life. Married adults are at lower risk for depression than unmarried ones, and 30% of spouses of demented patients develop depressive disorders.
Gastrin has been shown to stimulate growth of human pancreatic cancer, and does so in an autocrine fashion. In this study, a relationship between gastrin mRNA, peptide, and gastrin receptors were studied in a variety of human pancreatic tissues. Low levels of gastrin mRNA were detected in normal human pancreas by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, but gastrin peptide was not present using radioimmunoassay. Pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells and tissues had 34- to 530-fold higher gastrin mRNA and peptide levels than normal pancreas. Gastrin mRNA and peptide levels were 8,000- and 15,000-fold, respectively, greater in a pancreatic islet cell gastrinoma tumor than in normal pancreas. In comparison to age-matched controls, fasting gastrin plasma levels were 2-fold higher in patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma and 131-fold greater in subjects with gastrinomas. Receptor binding assays revealed that pancreatic cancer cells had a binding capacity 200-fold greater than gastrinoma tumors, and 10-fold greater than normal pancreas; no differences in K(d) values were recorded between specimens. In contrast to the normal pancreas and gastrinoma tumor, the aggressive behavior of pancreatic adenocarcinoma may be attributed to the autocrine production of gastrin and to the presence of its growth-related receptor.
The Draw-a-Bicycle Test is employed in neuropsychological testing of cognitive skills since the bicycle design is widely known and also because of its complex structure. The Draw-a-Bicycle Test has been administered routinely to patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and other neurodegenerative disorders to evaluate the effect of transcranial applications of AC pulsed electromagnetic fields (EMFs) in the picotesla flux density on visuoconstructional skills. A seminal observation is reported in 5 medicated PD patients who demonstrated reversal of spontaneous drawing direction of the bicycle after they received a series of transcranial treatments with AC pulsed EMFs. In 3 patients reversal of the bicycle drawing direction was observed shortly after the administration of pulsed EMFs while in 2 patients these changes were observed within a time lag ranging from several weeks to months. All patients also demonstrated a dramatic clinical response to the administration of EMFs. These findings are intriguing because changes in drawing direction do not occur spontaneously in normal individuals as a result of relateralization of cognitive functions. This report suggests that administration of AC pulsed EMFs may induce in some PD patients changes in hemispheric dominance during processing of a visuoconstructional task and that these changes may be predictive of a particularly favourable response to AC pulsed EMFs therapy.

The vocalizations from two, captive false killer whales (Pseudorca crassidens) were analyzed. The structure of the vocalizations was best modeled as lying along a continuum with trains of discrete, exponentially damped sinusoidal pulses at one end and continuous sinusoidal signals at the other end. Pulse trains were graded as a function of the interval between pulses where the minimum interval between pulses could be zero milliseconds. The transition from a pulse train with no inter-pulse interval to a whistle could be modeled by gradations in the degree of damping. There were many examples of vocalizations that were gradually modulated from pulse trains to whistles. There were also vocalizations that showed rapid shifts in signal type--for example, switching immediately from a whistle to a pulse train. These data have implications when considering both the possible function(s) of the vocalizations and the potential sound production mechanism(s). A short-time duty cycle measure was developed to characterize the graded structure of the vocalizations. A random sample of 500 vocalizations was characterized by combining the duty cycle measure with peak frequency measurements. The analysis method proved to be an effective metric for describing the graded structure of false killer whale vocalizations.
Multidimensional functional assessment is the basis of individualized care. It is especially important in the care of elderly, with the complexity of symptomatology and often with cognitive impairment present. An assessment instrument for elderly persons, used in this study, is the Resident Assessment Instrument/Minimum Data Set (RAI/MDS) and its incorporated MDS Cognitive Performance Scale (CPS). The purposes of the study were to demonstrate the cognitive performance in elderly persons in different levels of care by using the CPS and to elicit the views of staff on use of the RAI/MDS. Cognitive impairment was found in 1276 elderly persons in six levels of care studied, an important factor to consider when organizing care of elderly. An intervention study was carried out for 1 year in three nursing home wards, with training and supervision in implementation of the RAI/MDS including individualized and documented care. Part of a questionnaire was used to evaluate staff (n = 50) views on using the instrument. A majority of the staff thought that the RAI/MDS could contribute to the improvement of quality of care, documentation in nursing records, and in co-operation and engagement. Further research is necessary to elicit more knowledge on the usefulness and benefits of the instrument.
In the literature, psychological and biological theories of panic disorder are often regarded as mutually exclusive. The present article presents an integrative theory that explains how and why cognitive misinterpretations and &quot;false threat alarms&quot; leading to irrational fear and anxiety can arise from a neurobiological dysfunction in the amygdala and ascending transmitter systems. According to this view, physiological symptoms (such as palpitations and respiration manoeuvres) and psychological symptoms of anxiety (perception of threat and anticipation of catastrophe) are elicited simultaneously by a subcortical threat detection mechanism. This perspective might help to integrate conflicting earlier approaches. It is discussed with respect to theoretical, empirical, and clinical implications.

Several approaches have been applied for quantification of D2 dopamine receptors in positron emission tomography studies using [11C]raclopride. Initial approaches were based on analyses of data obtained after rapid bolus injection of [11C]raclopride. A continuous infusion paradigm has more recently been applied. The current study compares these approaches in healthy men. Two positron emission tomography measurements were performed in each of six healthy men, the first with rapid bolus injection and the second with continuous infusion of [11C]raclopride. In rapid bolus injection, the binding potential was calculated by the following methods. One approach is the kinetic analysis using the standard three-compartment model. Another is to define a transient equilibrium at the moment when the specific binding reaches its maximum. In continuous infusion, binding potential was calculated by using time-activity data at equilibrium condition. All methods gave almost identical binding potential, representing cross-validation of these methods. The continuous infusion method can provide &quot;true&quot; equilibrium condition. The kinetic analysis is a sophisticated approach but requires determination of an arterial input function. The transient equilibrium method thus is suitable for routine clinical research, since it does not require determination of an arterial input function.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) has been described within varicosities that have a uniform distribution throughout the cerebellar nuclei of the cat. To date, however, no data are available as to the source of these nuclear afferents. Thus, a double-label technique was used to identify brainstem neurons which give rise to the CRF-containing afferents in the nucleus interpositus anterior (NIA) of the cat's cerebellum. Injections of fluorescent-tagged microspheres, which are retrogradely transported by cells with axons in the injection site, were made into lateral and medial aspects of the nucleus. The same sections were also processed for CRF immunohistochemistry. The primary source of CRF afferents to the NIA are the medial and dorsal accessory olivary nuclei. In addition to the inferior olive, several other brainstem nuclei also provide CRF afferents to the cerebellar nuclei. The medial aspect of the NIA receives afferents from the lateral reticular nucleus, external cuneate nucleus, perihypoglossal nucleus, medial vestibular nucleus and inferior central raphe nucleus. Additional afferents to more lateral aspects of the NIA are derived from the lateral reticular nucleus, external cuneate nucleus, and the magnocellular, lateral and gigantocellular tegmental areas. The brainstem nuclei that give rise to the CRF projection to the NIA receive input primarily from the spinal cord and likely relay information related to the status of an ongoing movement. A previous physiological study by Bishop has shown that CRF enhances the excitatory activity of nuclear neurons. CRF released from these afferents likely would enhance nuclear cell activity and thus provide a stronger or more prolonged effect on their respective target neurons in the brainstem.
This study was designed to examine the classification performance of diagnostic rules for pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified (PDD-NOS) and multiple complex developmental disorder (McDD), with clinical diagnosis as the gold standard. McDD is an heuristic concept of a developmental disorder characterised by social impairments, affective dysregulation, and thought disturbance. Detailed information on the symptoms, reliably extracted from the charts of 103 children with PDD-NOS and McDD, 32 with autistic disorder, and 96 with non-PDD disorders, was used to determine the presence of the DSM-IV criteria of autistic disorder and the criteria of McDD. A scoring rule for PDD-NOS based on a short set of seven DSM-IV criteria with a cut-off point of three items and one social interaction item set as mandatory had the best balance between high sensitivity and high specificity. The most effective and simple rule based on McDD criteria had a cut-off of three items, out of six items of anxieties and thought disturbance.

This article has focused on a brief review of major psychophysiologic response measures in emotions research, and has attempted to acquaint the reader with basic findings and interpretive issues in this vast and rapidly growing research area. It seems clear that measures of autonomic, somatic motor, and central nervous system activity in emotion provide one perspective on a complex biopsychosocial domain. We have moved from believing that physiologic arousal is sufficient for emotional experience to believing in multiple response systems that interact in complex ways to produce emotional experiences and expressions. The past decade has seen significant advances in our understanding of what is indexed by such responses, and it is now evident that important aspects of the underlying cognitive structure of emotions is revealed through multiple physiologic response channels. Thus, an exciting new era in the psychophysiology of emotions has begun. What will the next decade bring? I believe that the major advances in the next 10 years will emerge through an emerging cognitive neuroscience of emotions that weds traditional psychophysiology, neuroscience, neuroimaging, and neuropsychology through the development of cross-platform technologies. For example, combined psychophysiologic and functional imaging investigations will shed new light on the neural generators for specific response channels. Standardized, parametrically defined emotional stimuli will gain widespread use and will speed progress through experimentation in multiple laboratories. Well-designed and theoretically driven psychophysiologic investigations of emotional responding will continue to play a central role in many of these advances, as they have in the last 50 years of emotion research.

Research with the mismatch negativity component of event-related potentials has uncovered a system that detects change in the acoustic environment on an automatic basis. The system is considered to compare incoming stimuli to representations of the past and to emit an MMN if change is detected. Previous investigations have shown that the relevant memory of the past can become dormant and then be reactivated by a reminder stimulus. It is unclear, however, whether what is reactivated is an holistic representation of stimuli or separate representations of features of stimuli. The present study provides data that supports the latter possibility but leaves open the former one.
Apostolos P. Georgopoulos studied Medicine and Physiology at the University of Athens in Greece where he obtained his M.D. and Ph.D. degrees. He was trained in neurophysiology by Vernon B. Mountcastle at Johns Hopkins and, after a brief return to Athens, he came back to Johns Hopkins. He ascended the faculty ranks and promoted to Professor of Neuroscience in 1986. He was a member of the Philip Bard Laboratories of Neurophysiology at the Department of Neuroscience until 1991 when he moved to Minnesota as the American Legion Brain Sciences Chair at the Minneapolis Veterans Affairs Medical Center and the University of Minnesota.
Recent work suggests that fluctuations in dopamine delivery at target structures represent an evaluation of future events that can be used to direct learning and decision-making. To examine the behavioral consequences of this interpretation, we gave simple decision-making tasks to 66 human subjects and to a network based on a predictive model of mesencephalic dopamine systems. The human subjects displayed behavior similar to the network behavior in terms of choice allocation and the character of deliberation times. The agreement between human and model performances suggests a direct relationship between biases in human decision strategies and fluctuating dopamine delivery. We also show that the model offers a new interpretation of deficits that result when dopamine levels are increased or decreased through disease or pharmacological interventions. The bottom-up approach presented here also suggests that a variety of behavioral strategies may result from the expression of relatively simple neural mechanisms in different behavioral contexts.
A taxonomy of the movement patterns of the 8 flexible arms of octopuses is constructed. Components consist of movements of the arm itself, the ventral suckers and their stalks, as well as the relative position of arms and the skin web between them. Within 1 arm, combinations of components result in a variety of behaviors. At the level of all arms, 1 group of behaviors is described as postures, on the basis of the spread of all arms and the web to make a 2-dimensional surface whose position differs in the 3rd dimension. Another group of arm behaviors is actions, more or less coordinated and involving several to all arms. Arm control appears to be based on radial symmetry, relative equipotentiality of all arms, relative independence of each arm, and separability of components within the arm. The types and coordination of arm behaviors are discussed with relationship to biomechanical limits, muscle structures, and neuronal programming.
This article reviews the major neurobiologic effects of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) implicated in its antidepressant actions. These effects are organized into three main groups: (1) the action of ECT on the monoamine neurotransmitter system, norepinephrine, serotonin, and dopamine; (2) the neurotrophic action of ECT; and (3) the anticonvulsant effect of ECT. This review emphasizes clinical studies, but relevant animal studies are used to infer more details about changes in neurotransmitter turnover, peptides, and changes in gene expression. There are significant differences in the actions of ECT compared with antidepressant medications, for example, on monoaminergic systems, which may explain why ECT is such an effective antidepressant.
We have examined the accumulative transport properties of the Malpighian (excretory) tubules of the tobacco hornworm Manduca sexta to test the hypothesis that a P-glycoprotein-like multidrug transporter is active and is responsible for the excretion of dietary nicotine in this tissue. Isolated tubules were cannulated and exposed to radiolabelled forms of either nicotine (5 min exposure) or the P-glycoprotein substrate vinblastine (60 min exposure) in the bathing (basal surface) fluid. The luminal (apical) contents were then flushed, and lumen-to-bath ratios were measured. Although these ratios provide conservative estimates of the physiological ability of Malpighian tubules to move compounds from blood to lumen, tubules concentrated nicotine 10-fold from an initial bath concentration of 0.5 mmol l-1 and vinblastine threefold (from an initial concentration of 1 micromol l-1). Vectorial transport of vinblastine and nicotine was eliminated by 25 micromol l-1 verapamil (a P-glycoprotein inhibitor) and was not dependent on the presence of a transepithelial electrical potential. Nicotine transport was inhibited by atropine (3 mmol l-1), while nicotine (&gt; or = 50 micromol l-1) significantly reduced vinblastine transport. Verapamil was effective at reducing vinblastine transport when applied to the basal side alone, but not when applied to the apical side alone. Taken together, these results are consistent with the idea that the active excretion of nicotine and other alkaloids by the tobacco hornworm is mediated by a P-glycoprotein-like mechanism.
The T domain of diphtheria toxin, which extends from residue 202 to 378, causes the translocation of the catalytic A fragment (residues 1-201) across endosomal membranes and also forms ion-conducting channels in planar phospholipid bilayers. The carboxy terminal 57-amino acid segment (322-378) in the T domain is all that is required to form these channels, but its ability to do so is greatly augmented by the portion of the T domain upstream from this. In this work, we show that in association with channel formation by the T domain, its NH2 terminus, as well as some or all of the adjacent hydrophilic 63 amino acid segment, cross the lipid bilayer. The phenomenon that enabled us to demonstrate that the NH2-terminal region of the T domain was translocated across the membrane was the rapid closure of channels at cis negative voltages when the T domain contained a histidine tag at its NH2 terminus. The inhibition of this effect by trans nickel, and by trans streptavidin when the histidine tag sequence was biotinylated, clearly established that the histidine tag was present on the trans side of the membrane. Furthermore, the inhibition of rapid channel closure by trans trypsin, combined with mutagenesis to localize the trypsin site, indicated that some portion of the 63 amino acid NH2-terminal segment of the T domain was also translocated to the trans side of the membrane. If the NH2 terminus was forced to remain on the cis side, by streptavidin binding to the biotinylated histidine tag sequence, channel formation was severely disrupted. Thus, normal channel formation by the T domain requires that its NH2 terminus be translocated across the membrane from the cis to the trans side, even though the NH2 terminus is &gt;100 residues removed from the channel-forming part of the molecule.
An increasing body of evidence indicates that aging-related impairments of nervous functions are caused by damage to neuron integrity rather than by loss of neurons. By using electron microscopy, we have examined axosomatic boutons on spinal cord motoneurons derived from aged and young adult Sprague-Dawley rats. The main finding was that about half of the examined motoneuron somata from aged rats had a reduced (50%) bouton coverage, which seemed to be caused by a smaller number of axosomatic bouton profiles. Long stretches of the cell body plasma membrane were apposed by pale processes, and immunolabeling for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) disclosed that a number of the aged motoneurons appeared embedded in GFAP immunopositive processes. Lumbar motoneurons seemed to be more severely affected than cervical motoneurons. At the ultrastructural level, affected motoneurons disclosed plasma membrane irregularities with appendages/sprout-like extensions that in some cases were sites for axosomatic contacts.

The neuronal effects of the metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist (1S,3R)-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid have been studied in cultured rat cerebellar granule cells, and compared with those of the endogenous excitotoxin glutamate, and the dietary excitotoxin beta-N-methylamino-L-alanine. Glutamate, beta-N-methylamino-L-alanine, and (1S,3R)-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid all caused concentration-dependent cerebellar granule cell death over a 24-h exposure period. The metabotropic antagonist (RS)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine reduced glutamate-, beta-N-methylamino-L-alanine-, and (1S,3R)-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid-induced death by 50, 37, and 90%, respectively. (1S,3R)-Aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid-induced death was unaffected by the group I antagonist (RS)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid, increased by the group II antagonist ethylglutamic acid, and markedly decreased by the group III antagonist (RS)-alpha-methylserine-O-phosphate. Neither (1S,3R)-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid nor the group I agonist (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine caused an increase in intracellular free calcium levels. The group III agonist L-(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid also induced concentration-dependent cerebellar granule cell death, and so it was suggested that the group III metabotropic glutamate receptors were responsible for (1S,3R)-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid-induced death. Blocking these receptors with (RS)-alpha-methylserine-O-phosphate also prevented a proportion of glutamate- and beta-N-methylamino-L-alanine-induced death.
This study examined gamma-aminobutyric acidA (GABA(A)) receptor function in cultured rat cerebellar granule cells by using microphysiometry following chronic flunitrazepam exposure, and correlated the findings with the alpha1 and beta2/3 subunit protein expression and [3H]muscimol binding after the same treatment paradigm. Flunitrazepam treatment reduced (p &lt; 0.05) the maximal GABA-stimulated increase in extracellular acidification rate (Emax) (16.5 +/- 1.2% and 11.3 +/- 1.0%, 2-day control and treated cells, respectively; 17.4 +/- 1.0% and 9.9 +/- 0.7%, 7-day control and treated cells, respectively; best-fit Emax +/- SEM, n = 7), without affecting the GABA concentration required to elicit 50% of maximal response (EC50) (1.2 +/- 1.7 and 2.3 +/- 1.8 microM, 2-day control and treated cells, respectively; 1.7 +/- 1.5 and 1.5 +/- 1.5 microM, 7-day control and treated cells, respectively; best-fit EC50 +/- SEM, n = 7). Flunitrazepam exposure also abolished the flunitrazepam potentiation of the GABA response, caused a transient reduction of the GABA(A) receptor alpha1 and beta2/3 subunit proteins over the initial 2 days, but did not alter [3H]muscimol binding compared with vehicle-treated cells. The results suggest that changes in GABA(A) receptor subunit protein expression, rather than loss of [3H]muscimol binding sites, underlie the chronic flunitrazepam-mediated desensitisation of GABA(A) receptor function.
We have investigated the possibility that the synthesis/accumulation of neurosteroids, i.e., brain-produced steroids putatively endowed with modulatory actions in the CNS, is regulated by monoaminergic receptor-mediated mechanisms. In minces of rat brain cortex, L-ascorbic acid concentration-dependently (0.07-1.0 mM) increases the levels of pregnenolone, allotetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone, and dehydroepiandrosterone. This effect of L-ascorbic acid is region-dependent: in hippocampus, progesterone and allopregnanolone are also increased, whereas dehydroepiandrosterone is unchanged, and in corpus striatum only progesterone is increased significantly. 5-Hydroxytryptamine (10 microM), 1-(3-chlorophenyl)piperazine (1.0 microM), and 5-methoxytryptamine (0.4 microM) mimic the effect of L-ascorbic acid, whereas a pretreatment with p-chlorophenylalanine (400 mg/kg i.p., 2 days) reduces the amplitude of the L-ascorbic acid effect on brain cortical neurosteroids. The effect of L-ascorbic acid is blocked by the nonselective serotonin antagonists methiothepin, clozapine, methysergide, and pizotifen, but not mesulergine, spiperone, MDL 72222, and DL-propranolol, nor by the catecholaminergic receptor antagonists prazosin and S(-)-sulpiride. L-Ascorbic acid is not additive with dibutyryl-cyclic AMP and, furthermore, the inhibition of adenylate cyclase by MDL 12330A, but not of phospholipase C by U-73122, markedly attenuates the L-ascorbic acid-induced increase of pregnenolone in rat brain cortical minces. Together these data suggest that L-ascorbic acid plays a role in the modulation of neurosteroidogenesis, presumably by favoring the activation of the purported serotonin type 6 receptor by endogenous serotonin.
We have investigated the effect of endogenous adenosine on the release of [3H]acetylcholine ([3H]ACh) in cultured chick amacrine-like neurons. The release of [3H]ACh evoked by 50 mM KCl was mostly Ca2+ dependent, and it was increased in the presence of adenosine deaminase and in the presence of 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX), an adenosine A1 receptor antagonist. The effect of adenosine on [3H]ACh release was sensitive to pertussis toxin (PTX) and was due to a selective inhibition of N-type Ca2+ channels. Ligand binding studies using [3H]DPCPX confirmed the presence of adenosine A1 receptors in the preparation. Using specific inhibitors of the plasma membrane adenosine carriers and of the ectonucleotidases, we found that the extracellular accumulation of adenosine in response to KCl depolarization was due to the release of endogenous adenosine per se and to the extracellular conversion of released nucleotides into adenosine. Activation of adenosine A1 receptors was without effect on the intracellular levels of cyclic AMP under depolarizing conditions, but it inhibited the accumulation of inositol phosphates. Our results indicate that in cultured amacrine-like neurons, the Ca2+-dependent release of [3H]ACh evoked by KCl is under tonic inhibition by adenosine, which activates A1 receptors. The effect of adenosine on the [3H]ACh release may be due to a direct inhibition of N-type Ca2+ channels and/or secondary to the inhibition of phospholipase C and involves the activation of PTX-sensitive G proteins.
One important aspect of synaptic plasticity is that transient stimulation of neuronal cell surface receptors can lead to long-lasting biochemical and physiological effects in neurons. In long-term potentiation (LTP), generation of autonomously active protein kinase C (PKC) is one biochemical effect persisting beyond the NMDA receptor activation that triggers plasticity. We previously observed that the expression of early LTP is associated with a phosphatase-reversible alteration in PKC immunoreactivity, suggesting that autophosphorylation of PKC might be elevated in LTP. In the present studies we tested the hypothesis that PKC phosphorylation is persistently increased in the early maintenance of LTP. We generated an antiserum that selectively recognizes the alpha and betaII isoforms of PKC autophosphorylated in the C-terminal domain. Using western blotting with this antiserum we observed an NMDA receptor-mediated increase in phosphorylation of PKC 1 h after LTP was induced. How is the increased phosphorylation maintained in the cell in the face of ongoing phosphatase activity? We observed that dephosphorylation of PKC in vitro requires the presence of cofactors normally serving to activate PKC, i.e., Ca2+, phosphatidylserine, and diacylglycerol. Based on these observations and computer modeling of the three-dimensional structure of the PKC catalytic core, we propose a &quot;protected site&quot; model of PKC autophosphorylation, whereby the conformation of PKC regulates accessibility of the phosphates to phosphatase. Although we have proposed the protected site model based on our studies of PKC phosphorylation in LTP, phosphorylation of protected sites might be a general biochemical mechanism for the generation of stable, long-lasting physiologic changes.
Overactivation of glutamate receptors mediates neuronal death in several acute and chronic neurodegenerative diseases. The intracellular processes underlying this form of death, however, remain poorly understood. Depending on the severity of insult, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation induces either apoptosis or necrosis. Cysteine proteases related to interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme (ICE), recently termed caspases, appear necessary for neuronal apoptosis in vivo and in vitro. To determine whether caspases play a role in NMDA-induced apoptosis, we used two functionally distinct approaches to decrease substrate cleavage by caspases. One is a novel peptide (V-ICEinh) that contains the caspase catalytic site and acts as a pseudoenzyme that binds caspase substrates and prevents their cleavage. The other is a pseudosubstrate peptide (Z-VAD x fmk) that inhibits caspase activity. Pretreatment with either V-ICEinh or Z-VAD-fmk protects cerebrocortical neurons from NMDA-induced apoptosis, suggesting a role for caspases in NMDA-induced apoptosis. To explore the signaling pathways involved, we looked at the effects of NMDA receptor activation on Ca2+ influx, production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), mitochondrial membrane potential, and lipid peroxidation. Neither NMDA-induced Ca2+ influx nor the initial collapse of mitochondrial membrane potential could be prevented by pretreatment with V-ICEinh or Z-VAD x fmk. In contrast, ROS formation and lipid peroxidation were completely blocked by both V-ICEinh and Z-VAD x fmk. Taken together, our results suggest that Ca2+ influx and mitochondrial depolarization occur upstream from caspase activation, whereas ROS formation and lipid peroxidation may be downstream events in the cascade leading to cortical neuronal apoptosis.
Myelin sheath formation depends on appropriate axo-glial interactions that are mediated by myelin-specific surface molecules. In this study, we have used quantitative morphological analyses to determine the roles of the prominent myelin lipids galactocerebroside (GalC) and sulfatide in both central and peripheral myelin formation, exploiting mutant mice incapable of synthesizing these lipids. Our results demonstrate a significant increase in uncompacted myelin sheaths, the frequency of multiple cytoplasmic loops, redundant myelin profiles, and Schmidt-Lanterman incisures in the CNS of these mutant mice. In contrast, PNS myelin appeared structurally normal in these animals; however, at post-natal day 10, greater than 10% of the axons withered and pulled away from their myelin sheaths. These results indicate that GalC and sulfatide are critical to the formation of CNS myelin. In contrast, PNS myelin formation is not dependent on these lipids; however, GalC and sulfatide appear to be instrumental in maintaining Schwann cell-axon contact during a specific developmental window.

Parkinson's disease is a common neurodegenerative disorder of unknown aetiology. A pathogenic point mutation within the a-synuclein gene has recently been identified in one Italian-American kindred and three families of Greek origin with parkinsonism. DNA from 70 patients with Parkinson's disease was screened for this G209A mutation. No samples were positive for the mutation, suggesting that it is not relevant for most patients with sporadic idiopathic Parkinson's disease.

Both achalasia and Hirchsprung's disease arise from defects of innervation of the oesophagus and distal large bowel respectively. Their consequences are confined to disorders of motility in the relevant part of the gastrointestinal tract. Many neurogenic and primary muscle disorders are associated with abnormalities of gut motility. Stroke, even when unilateral, is commonly associated with dysphagia. Transcranial magnetoelectric stimulation has established that the pharyngeal phase of swallowing tends to receive its innervation principally from one hemisphere. In many neurological disorders, dysphagia is only one part of the clinical picture but in some--for example, the Chiari malformation--dysphagia may be the sole or major feature. Disturbances of small and large bowel motility, when seen in neurogenic disorders, are associated with autonomic neuropathy and are particularly common in diabetes mellitus. Primary muscle disorders can lead to dysphagia (for example, with polymyositis or oculopharyngeal dystrophy) or defects of large bowel motility (for example, with Duchenne's muscular dystrophy). Primary gut disorders particularly associated with neurological disease include pernicious anaemia, nicotinamide and thiamine deficiencies, selective vitamin E deficiency, and coeliac disease. Inflammatory bowel disease is associated with thromboembolic complications which may include the CNS, inflammatory muscle disease, and abnormalities on MRI of the brain of uncertain relevance. Whipple's disease is a rare condition which sometimes is largely or entirely confined to the CNS. In such cases, a particular neurological presentation can indicate the diagnosis.

The perforant path forms a monosynaptic connection between the cells of layer II of the entorhinal cortex and the pyramidal cells in hippocampal area CA3. Although this projection is prominent anatomically, very little is known about the physiological properties of this input. The distal location of these synapses suggests that somatically recorded perforant-path excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) may be influenced by the activation of voltage-dependent channels in CA3 cells. We observed that perforant-path EPSPs are reduced (by approximately 25%) by blockade of postsynaptic low-voltage-activated calcium and sodium channels, indicating that perforant-path EPSPs are amplified by the activation of these channels. These data suggest that the perforant path may represent an important and highly modifiable direct connection between the entorhinal cortex and area CA3.
Free radical (FR) production was linked to the generation of epileptiform activity. We performed electrophysiological recordings in rat thalamocortical slices to investigate the effects of FRs on the intrinsic and synaptic properties of thalamic and cortical neurons. Whole cell recordings from identified cortical pyramidal neurons and thalamic neurons of the ventrobasal nucleus revealed that exposure to the FR-forming agent H2O2 (2.5 mM) decreased gamma-aminobutyric acid-A- and gamma-aminobutyric acid-B-mediated inhibition to 35.3 +/- 13.4% and 13.7 +/- 4.4% (means +/- SE) of control in cortical neurons and to 41.8 +/- 14.8% and 33.6 +/- 11.6% of control in thalamic neurons. H2O2 application increased excitatory transmission in thalamic neurons to 162.9 +/- 29.6% of control but caused no change in cortical neurons. H2O2 altered significantly the characteristic low-pass filter behavior of cortical and thalamic cells as determined by their input impedances. After 35 min of superfusion, the impedance of cortical neurons decreased by 67.0 +/- 14.5%, and thalamic decreased by 76.3 +/- 2.7% for the frequencies in the range 1-50 Hz while remaining constant for frequencies &gt; 200 Hz. Neuronal hyperexcitability was manifested during H2O2 exposure by continuous firing and long depolarizing shifts in response to extracellular stimulation in both thalamocortical and cortical neurons only in slices preserving thalamocortical connections. In slices with severed thalamocortical connections, cortical neurons did not show signs of hyperexcitability. These observations indicate that FRs could promote hyperexcitability of thalamocortical circuits by altering the balance between excitation and inhibition and by transforming the characteristic low-pass filter behavior into a flat band-pass filter.
The mammalian prefrontal cortex receives a dense cholinergic innervation from subcortical regions. We previously have shown that cholinergic stimulation of layer V pyramidal neurons of the rat prefrontal cortex results in a depolarization and the appearance of a slow afterdepolarization (sADP). In the current report we examine the mechanism underlying the sADP with the use of sharp microelectrode and whole cell recording techniques in in vitro brain slices. The ability of acetylcholine (ACh) and carbachol to induce the appearance of an sADP in pyramidal cells of layer V of prefrontal cortex is antagonized in a surmountable manner by atropine and is mimicked by application of muscarine or oxotremorine. These results indicate that ACh acts on muscarinic receptors to induce the sADP. In many cell types afterpotentials are triggered by calcium influx into the cell. Therefore we examined the possibility that calcium influx might be the trigger for the generation of the sADP. Consistent with this possibility, buffering intracellular calcium reduced or abolished the sADP but had little effect on the direct muscarinic receptor-induced depolarization also seen in these cells. These results, coupled to the previous observation that calcium channel blockers inhibit the sADP, indicated that the sADP results from a rise in intracellular calcium secondary to calcium influx into the cell. The ionic basis for the current underlying the sADP (IsADP) was examined with the use of ion substitution experiments. The amplitude of IsADP was found to be reduced in a graded fashion by replacement of extracellular sodium with N-methyl-D-glucamine (NMDG). In contrast no clear evidence for the involvement of potassium or chloride channels in the generation of the sADP or IsADP could be found. This result indicated that IsADP is carried by sodium ions flowing into the cell. However, the dependence of IsADP on extracellular sodium was less pronounced than expected for a pure sodium current. We interpret these results to indicate that the sADP is most likely mediated by nonselective cation channels. Examination of the current underlying the sADP at different voltages indicated that this current was also voltage dependent, turning off with hyperpolarization. We conclude that the sADP elicited by muscarinic receptor activation in rat cortex is mediated predominantly by a calcium- and voltage-sensitive nonselective cation current. This current could represent an important mechanism through which ACh can regulate neuronal excitability in prefrontal cortex.
One must be prudent when selecting potential saccadic targets because the eyes can only move to one location at a time, yet movements must occur quickly enough to permit interaction with a rapidly changing world. This process of efficiently acquiring relevant targets may be aided by advanced planning of a movement toward an upcoming target whose location is gathered via environmental cues or situational experience. We studied how saccadic reaction times (SRTs) and early pretarget neuronal activity covaried as a function of saccadic probability. Monkeys performed a saccadic task in which the probability of the required saccade being directed into the response field of a neuron varied systematically between blocks of trials. We recorded simultaneously the early pretarget activity of saccade-related neurons in the intermediate layers of the superior colliculus. We found that, as the likelihood of the saccade being generated into the response field of the neuron increased, the level of neuronal activity preceding target presentation also increased. Our data suggest that this early activity codes motor preparation because its activity was related to not only the metrics but also the timing of the saccade, with 94% (29/31) of the neurons tested having significant negative correlations between discharge rate and SRT. This view is supported by cases in which exceptionally high levels of pretarget activity were associated with anticipatory saccades into the response field of a neuron that occurred in advance of the target being presented. This study demonstrates how situational experience can expedite motor behavior via the advanced preparation of motor programs.
We investigated the role of nitric oxide (NO) in inflammatory hyperalgesia. Coinjection of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) with the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor NG-methyl-L-arginine (L-NMA) inhibited PGE2-induced hyperalgesia. L-NMA was also able to reverse that hyperalgesia. This suggests that NO contributes to the maintenance of, as well as to the induction of, PGE2-induced hyperalgesia. Consistent with the hypothesis that the NO that contributes to PGE2-induced sensitization of primary afferents is generated in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons themselves, L-NMA also inhibited the PGE2-induced increase in tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium current in patch-clamp electrophysiological studies of small diameter DRG neurons in vitro. Although NO, the product of NOS, often activates guanylyl cyclase, we found that PGE2-induced hyperalgesia was not inhibited by coinjection of 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ), a guanylyl cyclase inhibitor. We then tested whether the effect of NO depended on interaction with the adenylyl cyclase-protein kinase A (PKA) pathway, which is known to mediate PGE2-induced hyperalgesia. L-NMA inhibited hyperalgesia produced by 8-bromo-cAMP (a stable membrane permeable analog of cAMP) or by forskolin (an adenylyl cyclase activator). However, L-NMA did not inhibit hyperalgesia produced by injection of the catalytic subunit of PKA. Therefore, the contribution of NO to PGE2-induced hyperalgesia may occur in the cAMP second messenger pathway at a point before the action of PKA. We next performed experiments to test whether administration of exogenous NO precursor or donor could mimic the hyperalgesic effect of endogenous NO. Intradermal injection of either the NOS substrate L-arginine or the NO donor 3-(4-morphinolinyl)-sydnonimine hydrochloride (SIN-1) produced hyperalgesia. However, this hyperalgesia differed from PGE2-induced hyperalgesia, because it was independent of the cAMP second messenger system and blocked by the guanylyl cyclase inhibitor ODQ. Therefore, although exogenous NO induces hyperalgesia, it acts by a mechanism different from that by which endogenous NO facilitates PGE2-induced hyperalgesia. Consistent with the hypothesis that these mechanisms are distinct, we found that inhibition of PGE2-induced hyperalgesia caused by L-NMA could be reversed by a low dose of the NO donor SIN-1. The following facts suggest that this dose of SIN-1 mimics a permissive effect of basal levels of NO with regard to PGE2-induced hyperalgesia: (1) this dose of SIN-1 does not produce hyperalgesia when administered alone, and (2) the effect was not blocked by ODQ. In conclusion, we have shown that low levels of NO facilitate cAMP-dependent PGE2-induced hyperalgesia, whereas higher levels of NO produce a cGMP-dependent hyperalgesia.
Developmental cell death in the nervous system usually is controlled by the availability of target-derived trophic factors. It is well established that dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons require the presence of their peripheral target for survival, but because of their central projections, it is possible that the spinal cord also may be required. Before examining this possibility in rat embryos, we first used terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotinylated UTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) to determine that thoracic DRG cell death occurred from embryonic day 15 (E15) to E18. To determine the target requirements of DRG neurons, we used organotypic slice cultures of E15 thoracic trunk segments. After peripheral target removal, essentially all DRG neurons disappeared within 5 d. In contrast, after removal of the spinal cord, approximately half of the DRG neurons survived for at least 8 d. Hence, some E15 DRG neurons could survive without the spinal cord. However, those DRG neurons that died after spinal cord ablation apparently required trophic factors from both central and peripheral targets, because the presence of only one of these tissues was not adequate by itself to support this cell group. Addition of neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) to the culture medium rescued some DRG neurons after CNS removal, suggesting a possible role for NT-3 in vivo. In other experiments, cultures were established from older (E16) embryos, and essentially all neurons survived after spinal cord ablation, even without added factors. These and other experiments indicated that approximately 65% of DRG neurons are transiently dependent on the CNS early in development.
The time course of Ca2+ channel activation and the amplitude and rate of change of Ca2+ influx are primarily controlled by membrane voltage. G-protein-coupled signaling pathways, however, modulate the efficacy of membrane voltage on channel gating. To study the interactions of membrane potential and G-proteins on Ca2+ influx in a physiological context, we have measured N-type Ca2+ currents evoked by action potential waveforms in voltage-clamped chick dorsal root ganglion neurons. We have quantified the effect of varying action potential waveforms and frequency on the shape of Ca2+ current in the presence and absence of transmitters (GABA or norepinephrine) that inhibit N current. Our results demonstrate that both the profile of Ca2+ entry and the time course and magnitude of its transmitter-induced inhibition are sensitive functions of action potential waveform and frequency. Increases in action potential duration enhance total Ca2+ entry, but they also prolong and blunt Ca2+ signals by slowing influx rate and reducing peak amplitude. Transmitter-mediated inhibition of Ca2+ entry is most robust with short-duration action potentials and decreases exponentially with increasing duration. Increases in action potential frequency promote a voltage-dependent inactivation of Ca2+ influx. In channels exposed to GABA or norepinephrine, however, this inactivation is counteracted by a time- and frequency-dependent relief of modulation. Thus, multiple stimuli are integrated by Ca2+ channels, tuning the profile of influx in a changing physiological environment. Such variations are likely to be significant for the control of Ca2+-dependent cellular responses in all tissues.
Stimulus response latency is the delay in the onset of stimulus-evoked neuronal activity. We develop maximum likelihood and least squares estimators of stimulus response latency and present a comparison of the performance of these methods with estimators commonly used in the neuroscience literature. The formal statistical change-point estimation problem is nontrivial due to the inclusion of a 'nuisance parameter', the end of stationarity in the stimulus-evoked activity. Our results suggest that the automation of the estimation of stimulus response latency will benefit from the use of the maximum likelihood estimator.
Microbore column liquid chromatography with post-column immobilized enzyme reactor (IMER) and electrochemical detection on redox polymer coated electrodes was used for detection of acetylcholine (ACh) and choline (Ch) in microdialysis samples. The sensitivity of the coated electrodes, decreased gradually by about 10%/day, with highest reduction of 30% within the first 16 h of use. A number of choline derivatives were tested as possible internal standards, of those acetylethylhomocholine (AEHCh) and butyrylcholine (BCh) were found the most suitable candidates since they both provided high enzymatic conversion in the IMER. Physostigmine produced a negative peak, possibly reflecting oxidation of eseroline--a decarbamoylated product of reversible reaction of physostigmine with immobilized acetylcholine esterase. The probes, implanted in the ventral hippocampi of awake rats were perfused at a flow-rate of 1.25 microl/min with Ringer solution containing 10 microM physostigmine or with artificial cerebrospinal fluid only. The concentrations of ACh in 10-microl samples at basal conditions were between 0.9-2.5 nM, whereas in the presence of physostigmine the ACh levels raised to 41-48 nM. Physostigmine concentration was reduced to 8.8 microM, indicating its in vivo delivery of about 12%. The coefficients of variation were reduced from 7.4% for external standard method after every sixth sample to 5.8% and 5.9% for internal standardization with AEHCh and BCh, respectively. The latter method shortened the total analysis time by about 15%, thus being especially suitable for continuous long-lasting off-line or on-line monitoring. Additionally, other endogenous cholines such as butyrylcholine or synthetic choline derivatives could be detected by the present method.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2; EC 1.14.99.1) RNA message abundance in 25 control and Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease (CERAD)-confirmed sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains is remarkably heterogeneous when compared with 55 other AD brain RNA message levels that were previously characterized (Lukiw and Bazan: J Neurosci Res 50:937-945, 1997). Examination of nuclear protein extracts (NPXTs) that were derived from control and AD-affected brain neocortical nuclei (n = 20; age range, 60-82 years; postmortem interval, 0.5-6.5 hours) by using gel shift, gel supershift, and cold oligonucleotide competition assay revealed a highly significant relationship between the extent of inflammatory transcription factor, nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB: DNA binding and the abundance of the COX-2 RNA signal (P &lt; 0.0001; analysis of variance). No strong correlation with AP-1-DNA binding was noted (P &gt; 0.045). These data are the first linking inflammation-related transcription factor NF-KB-DNA binding to up-regulation of transcription from a key inflammatory gene, COX-2, in both normally aging brain and in AD-affected neocortex. Systematic deletion of NF-KB-DNA binding sites in human COX-2 promoter constructs attenuates COX-2 transcriptional induction by mediators of inflammation. Strong NF-kappaB-DNA binding has been reported previously to temporally precede COX-2 gene transcription in human epithelial (A549), hamster B-cell (HIT-T15), human endothelial (HUVEC), human lymphoblast (IM9), human fibroblast (IMR90), rat glioma/mouse neuroblastoma (NG108-15), human keratinocyte (NHEK), mouse fibroblast (NIH 3T3), rat neuroblastoma (SH-SY5Y) cell lines and in mouse and rat brain hippocampus, indicating a highly conserved inflammatory signaling pathway that is common to diverse species and cell types. The mouse, rat, and human COX-2 immediate promoters, despite 7.5 x 10(7) years of DNA sequence divergence, each retain multiple recognition sites specific for NF-kappaB-DNA binding. These data suggest that basic gene induction mechanisms, which have been conserved over long periods of evolution, that increase NF-kappaB-DNA binds ing may be fundamental in driving transcription from inflammation-related genes, such as COX-2, that operate in stressed tissues, in normally aging cell lines, and in neurodegenerative disorders that include AD brain.
mRNA for bone morphogenetic protein receptor type II (BMPR-II) was mapped to different neurons in peripheral ganglia and spinal cord of the chicken embryo. The expression of this serine/threonine kinase receptor partially overlaps with that of tyrosine kinase receptors Trk and Ret. Biological activities of osteogenic protein-1 (OP-1), a documented ligand for BMPR-II, were tested in explanted embryonic chicken ganglia and dissociated ganglionic neurons. OP-1 had only a limited stimulatory effect on neuronal survival. However, OP-1 combined with either neurotrophin-3 (NT-3, a relative of nerve growth factor) or glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) potentiated neuronal survival three- to fourfold. We also show that OP-1 strongly potentiates nerve fiber outgrowth from ganglia stimulated with NT-3 or GDNF. Signaling by BMPR-II in neurons may potentiate the tyrosine kinase pathway activated by NT-3 and GDNF. The data suggest that morphogenetic proteins may modulate neurotrophic activities during neuronal development and plasticity.
We describe the application of a revised version of the Dubowitz neurologic examination of the newborn in 224 low-risk, term newborn infants. The method has been updated by eliminating less useful items and including new items evaluating general movements and patterns of distribution of tone. An optimality score is included to make the evaluation more quantitative and for comparison with sequential examinations with neurophysiologic and imaging findings. The score is based on the distribution of the scores for each item in the population of low-risk term infants. We defined not only the most common pattern for each item but also the variability of the findings by using 10th and 5th centiles. Because most of the items assessing tone and the Moro reflex varied with gestational age between 37 and 42 weeks, the changes were incorporated in the scoring system. The total optimality score was the sum of the optimality scores of individual items. Although the association of 4 or more deviant scores was found in less than 10% of our infants, deviant results on 1 or 2 single items could be observed in a third of this normal population, suggesting that isolated deviant signs have little diagnostic value. In contrast, an abnormal distribution of tone patterns, which we have commonly observed in infants with brain lesions, was not found in this cohort.
Iloperidone, [1-[4-[3-[4-(6-fluoro-1, 2-benzisoxazol-3-yl)-1-piperidinyl]propoxy]-3-methoxyphenyl]eth anone, 1, is currently undergoing clinical trials as a potential antipsychotic agent. The metabolism of iloperidone was studied in human liver microsomes to define the metabolic pathways and to identify the cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoforms responsible for the formation of major iloperidone metabolites. Iloperidone was extensively metabolized in vitro via hydroxylation, reduction and O-demethylation to produce 1-[4-[3-[4-(6-fluoro-1, 2-benzisoxazol-3-yl)-1-piperidinyl]propoxy]-3-methoxyphenyl]-2- hydrox yethanone, 4; 4-[3-[4-(6-fluoro-1, 2-benzisoxazol-3-yl)-1-piperidinyl]propoxy]-3-methoxy-alpha-met hylben zene methanol, 3, and 1-[4-[3-[4-(6-fluoro-1, 2-benzisoxazol3-yl)-1-piperidinyl]propoxy]-3-hydroxyphenyl]etha none, 2, respectively, in decreasing order of abundance. The major in vitro metabolite, 4, present in trace quantities in urine, was postulated to be either eliminated in bile as a conjugate or further metabolized to a phenol, 4-[3-[4-(6-fluoro-1, 2-benzoisoxazol-3-yl)-piperidin1-yl]propoxy]-3-methoxyphenol , 5. The formation of the three major in vitro metabolites 2, 3 and 4 was NADPH dependent. The major circulating and urinary metabolite in humans dosed with 1 was metabolite 3. The mean apparent Km and Vmax for formation of 2 by human liver microsomes was 7.4 +/- 3.0 microM and 0.0343 +/- 0.0134 nmol min-1 mg-1, respectively. The mean apparent Km and Vmax for 3 was 101.2 +/- 34.7 microM and 0.1414 +/- 0.0346 nmol min-1 mg-1, respectively. The mean apparent Km and Vmax for 4 was 39.7 +/- 10.8 microM and 0.1372 +/- 0.056 nmol min-1 mg-1, respectively. The CYP isoenzymes responsible for the formation of metabolites 2, 3 and 4 were determined by using selective chemical inhibitors and by correlation studies. Metabolites 2 and 4 were formed by CYP3A4 and by the polymorphic CYP2D6 respectively. Metabolite 3 is postulated to be produced mainly by a cytosolic enzyme(s), although CYP3A, CYP1A2 and CYP2E1 isozymes were shown to be involved in its formation as well. The power of liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry in greatly accelerating the process of identifying the human liver CYP isoforms involved in the metabolism of iloperidone was demonstrated in this study. Liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry was used in the initial studies to confirm the identities of the metabolites. This was followed by accurate and reliable quantitation of individual metabolites present in biological extracts by operating the mass spectrometer in the selected ion monitoring mode.
To explore the mechanism by which methohexital (MTH) activates epileptiform activity in patients with epilepsy, we examined the effects of MTH on hippocampal CA1 and neocortical neurons via extracellular and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in rat brain slices. Perfusion of slices with 10 to 100 microM MTH caused no significant change in glutamatergic transmission in the hippocampal CA1 region, but enhanced gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents and induced spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents in neocortical and hippocampal CA1 neurons. In addition, MTH induced a tonic, bicuculline-sensitive hyperpolarization in association with increases in membrane conductance, suggesting a direct stimulation of GABAA receptors by MTH. Spontaneous epileptiform activity was not observed in the neocortex and hippocampus after exposure of slices to MTH, neither in the standard in vitro condition nor in the presence of 4-aminopyridine, which promotes rhythmic synaptic activities. We suggest that the activation of epileptiform activity in vivo by MTH may result from increased neuronal synchrony via the potentiation of GABAA-mediated synaptic inhibition.
1. The transient outward K+ current (ITO) was studied using whole-cell recording in immunocytochemically identified oxytocin (OT; n = 23) and vasopressin (VP; n = 67) magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) acutely isolated from the supraoptic nucleus of adult rats. 2. The peak density of ITO during steps to -10 mV was 26 % smaller in OT-MNCs (355 +/- 23 pA pF-1; mean +/- s.e. m.; n = 18) than in VP-MNCs (478 +/- 17 pA pF-1; n = 52). No differences were observed in the voltage dependence of activation or inactivation. 3. Kinetic analysis revealed two components of ITO inactivation in both OT-MNCs (tau1 = 9.2 +/- 0.4 ms and tau2 = 41.2 +/- 1.6 ms; n = 18) and VP-MNCs (tau1 = 12.4 +/- 0.4 ms and tau2 = 37.1 +/- 1.2 ms; n = 52). Although the density of the rapid component (tau1) was not different (275 +/- 13 versus 265 +/- 16 pA pF-1, respectively), the slow component (tau2) was markedly smaller in OT-MNCs (183 +/- 19 versus 331 +/- 16 pA pF-1 in VP-MNCs). 4. In unidentified MNCs, 0.5 mM 4-aminopyridine reduced ITO amplitude by 29% and decreased the latency to spike discharge by about 70% during depolarization from -70 mV. Latency to discharge from potentials less negative than -60 mV, where ITO is inactivated, was unaffected. 5. Comparison of latency to spike discharge in identified cells showed that OT-MNCs achieve spike threshold twice as fast as VP-MNCs when depolarized from -70 mV. The lower density of ITO in OT-MNCs, therefore, accelerates the rate at which excitation can occur in response to depolarizing stimuli and may facilitate the occurrence of higher frequency discharges in OT-MNCs during physiological activation.
Awareness regarding cancer diagnosis and its relationship to psychiatric morbidity was studied in 294 newly admitted cancer patients at an oncology center in South India. Fifty-four percent of patients were aware that they had cancer and were able to discuss their diagnosis; 46% of patients reported nonawareness of diagnosis. Discriminant function analysis revealed that oral cancers and relatives' awareness of the cancer was more prevalent in the group aware of diagnosis. More patients in the &quot;unaware&quot; group refused treatment for psychological distress. There was no difference between the two groups in patterns and prevalence of psychiatric morbidity. The study emphasizes the complexities in assessing awareness in cancer patients and a need to study its various components and relationship to psychological distress.
The catastrophic epidemic of subacute myelo-optic neuropathy (SMON) affected Japan around 1970 with thousands of victims. The cause was attributed to high doses of locally acting oxyquinolines. It has been speculated that oxyquinoline derivatives of the clioquinol type can disturb the retention of vitamin B12 through chelation of Co2+. In the present paper, possible effects of clioquinol on the uptake and tissue distribution of [57Co]-cyanocobalamin have been studied in mice. In vivo experiments showed markedly decreased accumulation of radiolabelled vitamin B12 in the kidney and skin in animals that were pre-treated with clioquinol. The chloroform:water partition coefficients for [57Co]-cyanocobalamin in the presence or absence of clioquinol were also determined. No statistically significant alterations in the partition coefficient for [57Co]-cyanocobalamin in the presence of clioquinol was evident, indicating that clioquinol does not bind cobalt. In addition, transmethylation reactions in the CNS in mice treated with clioquinol were studied. Specific activities of methionine adenosyltransferase, and S-adenosylhomocysteine levels were not affected. In contrast, clioquinol treatment caused a significant increase in the levels of S-adenosylmethionine in the brain. The data of the present study show that clioquinol treatment can affect the accumulation of vitamin B12 in the kidney and the skin but not in the brain. These results do not support the hypothesis that clioquinol causes its damage to the nervous system by a direct chemical interaction with vitamin B12.
Human mast cells can be divided into two subtypes: MCTC cells, which contain tryptase and chymase, and MCT cells, which contain tryptase only. Herein we have used a combination of histamine, tryptase and chymase immunohistochemistry as a novel approach to the study of mast cells. Using this technique, we have discovered a new type of MCTC mast cell in biopsies of the nasal mucosa from healthy subjects and allergic patients. These mast cells have histamine-positive, dendrite-like cellular processes. Some cells have only one slender process, whereas other cells have several long processes extending from different parts of the cell body. Some of the cellular processes divide into two or three terminal branches, and histamine is sometimes found in small swellings along the course of the processes. Our findings contribute new aspects to the concept of mast cell heterogeneity. Thus, human mast cells may vary not only with respect to mediator content, but also with respect to gross morphologic features such as the presence of dendrite-like cellular processes. The recognition of this extreme heterogeneity may be an important step toward a better understanding of mast cell biology.
The precursor of the non-Abeta component of Alzheimer's disease amyloid (NACP) (also known as alpha-synuclein) is a presynaptic terminal molecule that abnormally accumulates in the plaques of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and in the Lewy bodies (LBs) of Lewy body variant of AD, diffuse Lewy body disease, and Parkinson's disease. To better understand the distribution of NACP/alpha-synuclein and its fragments in the LB-bearing neurons and neurites, as well as to clarify the patterns of NACP/alpha-synuclein compartmentalization, we studied NACP/alpha-synuclein immunoreactivity using antibodies against the C-terminal, N-terminal, and NAC regions after Proteinase K and formic acid treatment in the cortex of patients with LBs. Furthermore, studies of the subcellular localization of NACP/alpha-synuclein within LB-bearing neurons were performed by immunogold electron microscopy. These studies showed that the N-terminal antibody immunolabeled the LBs and dystrophic neurites with great intensity and, to a lesser extent, the synapses. In contrast, the C-terminal antibody strongly labeled the synapses and, to a lesser extent, the LBs and dystrophic neurites. Whereas Proteinase K treatment enhanced NACP/alpha-synuclein immunoreactivity with the C-terminal antibody, it diminished the N-terminal NACP/alpha-synuclein immunoreactivity. Furthermore, formic acid enhanced LB and dystrophic neurite labeling with both the C- and N-terminal antibodies. In addition, whereas without pretreatment only slight anti-NAC immunoreactivity was found in the LBs, formic acid pretreatment revealed an extensive anti-NAC immunostaining of LBs, plaques, and glial cells. Ultrastructural analysis revealed that NACP/alpha-synuclein immunoreactivity was diffusely distributed within the amorphous electrodense material in the LBs and as small clusters in the filaments of LBs and neurites. These results support the view that aggregated NACP/alpha-synuclein might play an important role in the pathogenesis of disorders associated with LBs.
In addition to their trophic functions, neurotrophins are also implicated in synaptic modulation and learning and memory. Although gene knockout techniques have been used widely in studying the roles of neurotrophins at molecular and cellular levels, behavioral studies using neurotrophin knockouts are limited by the early-onset lethality and various sensory deficits associated with the gene knockout mice. In the present study, we found that in a spontaneous mutant mouse, waggler, the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) was selectively absent in the cerebellar granule cells. The cytoarchitecture of the waggler cerebellum appeared to be normal at the light microscope level. The mutant mice exhibited no sensory deficits to auditory stimuli or heat-induced pain. However, they were massively impaired in classic eye-blink conditioning. These results suggest that BDNF may have a role in normal cerebellar neuronal function, which, in turn, is essential for classic eye-blink conditioning.
In this study, the processes associated with retrieving object forms and object locations from working memory were examined with the use of simultaneously recorded event-related potential (ERP) activity. Subjects memorized object forms and their spatial locations and made either object-based or location-based recognition judgments. In Experiment 1, recognition performance was higher for object locations than for object forms. Old responses evoked more positive-going ERP activity between 0.3 and 1.8 sec poststimulus than did new responses. The topographic distribution of these old/new effects in the P300 time interval was task specific, with object-based recognition judgments being associated with anteriorly focused effects and location-based judgments with posteriorly focused effects. Late old/new effects were dominant at right frontal recordings. Using an interference paradigm, it was shown in Experiment 2 that visual representations were used to rehearse both object forms and object locations in working memory. The results of Experiment 3 indicated that the observed differential topographic distributions of the old/new effects in the P300 time interval are unlikely to reflect differences between easy and difficult recognition judgments. More specific effects were obtained for a subgroup of subjects for which the processing characteristics during location-based judgments presumably were similar to those in Experiment 1. These data, together with those from Experiment 1, indicate that different brain areas are engaged in retrieving object forms and object locations from working memory. Further analyses support the view that retrieval of object forms relies on conceptual semantic representation, whereas retrieving object locations is based on structural representations of spatial information. The effects in the later time intervals may play a functional role in post-retrieval processing, such as recollecting information from the study episode or other processes operating on the products of the retrieval process, and presumably are mediated by right frontal cortical areas. The results support the view of functionally dissociable object and spatial visual working memory systems.
Expression of the fos family of transcription factors is stimulated by growth factors that induce quiescent cells to reenter the cell cycle, but the cellular targets of the Fos family that regulate cell cycle reentry have not been identified. To address this issue, mice that lack two members of the fos family, c-fos and fosB, were derived. The fosB-/- c-fos-/- mice are similar in phenotype to c-fos-/- mice but are 30% smaller. This decrease in size is consistent with an abnormality in cell proliferation. Fibroblasts derived from fosB-/- c-fos-/- mice were found to have a defect in proliferation that results at least in part from a failure to induce cyclin D1 following serum-stimulated cell cycle reentry. Although definitive evidence that c-Fos and FosB directly induce cyclin D1 transcription will require further analysis, these findings raise the possibility that c-Fos and FosB are either direct or indirect transcriptional regulators of the cyclin D1 gene and may function as a critical link between serum stimulation and cell cycle progression.
We have established a novel strategy for introducing exogenous Bcl-2 into neuronal cells that is mediated by Cre/loxP recombination using recombinant adenoviral vectors. An on/off-switching cassette for Bcl-2 (CALNLbcl-2) was designed to express Bcl-2 by recombinase Cre-mediated excisional deletion of a spacer DNA flanked by a pair of loxP sites. Exogenous Bcl-2 was clearly induced in PC12 cell lines carrying CALNLbcl-2 after infection with recombinant adenovirus producing recombinase Cre (AxCANCre). Dual infection with both AxCANCre and a recombinant adenovirus bearing CALNLbcl-2 showed efficient delivery of exogenous Bcl-2 into a hybrid motoneuronal cell line and primary chicken spinal motoneurons. The delivery of foreign Bcl-2 promoted survival of motoneurons in medium either containing or lacking trophic support. Thus, this strategy for delivery of exogenous Bcl-2 will be useful for studying neuronal death as well as for introducing foreign genes into postmitotic neurons under the control of recombinase Cre.
Mutations in the cell adhesion molecule L1 cause severe developmental anomalies in the human nervous system. Recent descriptions of L1 gene knock-out mice from three research groups demonstrate that these mice are strikingly similar to humans with mutations in the L1 gene. In both humans and mice there are defects in the development of the corticospinal tract and cerebellar vermis, hydrocephalus, and impaired learning. The production of a viable animal model for X-linked hydrocephalus suggests that unanswerable questions posed by the human disease will finally be approachable using modern experimental methods.
Drugs acting via alpha2-adrenoceptors modulate cognitive functions mediated via frontostriatothalamic feedback loops. The alpha2C-adrenoceptor subtype is expressed in the basal ganglia, hippocampus, and neocortex, areas that are involved in memory and other cognitive functions. alpha2C-Overexpressing (OE) mice were impaired in spatial or nonspatial water maze (WM) tests, and alpha2 antagonist treatment fully reversed the WM escape defect in OE mice. However, alpha2C-overexpression did not influence open field and passive avoidance behaviors or cortical EEG arousal or the actions of alpha2 agonist or antagonist drugs on these functions. Our results suggest that alpha2C-adrenoceptors can modulate navigation to a hidden or visible escape platform, whereas many other actions of alpha2-adrenergic agents, such as sedation, are not mediated via alpha2C-adrenoceptors. Therefore, alpha2-agonists lacking alpha2C-AR affinity or alpha2C-AR subtype-selective alpha2 antagonists could modulate functioning of frontostriatothalamic feedback loops more effectively than the current subtype-nonselective drugs.
We compared three strategies for diagnosing carpal tunnel syndrome: using a single test; requiring one, two, or three of three tests to be abnormal; or utilizing a single summary variable incorporating data from three tests. Sixty-five hands of subjects without clinical carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) were compared with 66 hands with clinical CTS. Three latency differences were measured: median-ulnar (8 cm) midpalmar orthodromic (palmdiff); median-ulnar ring finger (14 cm) antidromic (ringdiff); and median-radial thumb (10 cm) antidromic (thumbdiff). The combined sensory index (CSI) was the sum of these three differences. Sensitivity for the tests was palmdiff 69.7%, ringdiff 74.2%, thumbdiff 75.8%, and CSI 83.1%. Specificity was 95.4-96.9%. Requiring one, two, or three of three tests to be abnormal yielded sensitivities of 84.8%, 74.2%, or 56.1%, respectively, but specificities of 92.3%, 98.5%, and 100%, respectively. We conclude that a combined index improves diagnostic classification over use of single test results.
The effects of carbamate anticholinesterases, pyridostigmine and physostigmine, on the function of the nicotinic receptor (nAChR) in TE671 cells was studied, precluding their inhibition of acetylcholine hydrolysis by carbachol usage. In radioassay, the simultaneous application of carbachol and carbamates dose-dependently decreased carbachol-induced 22Na+ influx, compared with carbachol activation alone. Increasing cell preincubation in the presence of carbamates, however, potentiated influx at low concentrations in a time-dependent manner. This facilitating effect of carbamates, even at high concentrations, was significantly increased by washing out these drugs and was blocked by pretreatment with diisopropylfluorophosphate. Similar results were also obtained in whole-cell patch-clamp study. There were insignificant changes in desensitization properties during facilitation. It is thus supposed that facilitation cannot be explained by the inhibition of acetylcholine hydrolysis. These results support a previous hypothesis that acetylcholinesterase might modulate nAChR by an unknown mechanism. In addition, the clinical effects of carbamates may be partly attributed to this facilitation.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a common recessive disorder characterized by the loss of lower motor neurons in the spinal cord. The disease has been classified into three types based on age of onset and severity. SMA I-III all map to chromosome 5q13 (refs 2,3), and nearly all patients display deletions or gene conversions of the survival motor neuron (SMN1) gene. Some correlation has been established between SMN protein levels and disease course; nevertheless, the genetic basis for SMA phenotypic variability remains unclear, and it has been postulated that the loss of an additional modifying factor contributes to the severity of type I SMA. Using comparative genomics to screen for such a factor among evolutionarily conserved sequences between mouse and human, we have identified a novel transcript, H4F5, which lies closer to SMN1 than any previously identified gene in the region. A multi-copy microsatellite marker that is deleted in more than 90% of type I SMA chromosomes is embedded in an intron of this gene, indicating that H4F5 is also highly deleted in type I SMA chromosomes, and thus is a candidate phenotypic modifier for SMA.
CaMKII is a calcium-activated kinase that is abundant in neurons and has been strongly implicated in memory and learning. Here we show that low-frequency stimulation of glutamatergic afferents in hippocampal slices from juvenile domestic chicks results in long-term depression of synaptic transmission. This reduction does not require activation of NMDA or metabotropic glutamate receptors and does not require a rise in postsynaptic calcium. However, buffering presynaptic calcium prevents the reduction of the excitatory postsynaptic potential or current that is induced by low-frequency stimulation. In addition, application of the calmodulin antagonist calmidazolium, or the specific CaMKII antagonist KN-93, completely blocks long-term depression. These findings demonstrate a newly discovered form of long-term synaptic depression in the avian hippocampus.
The concentrations of the monoamine metabolites homovanillic acid (HVA), 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (HMPG) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients with clinical frontotemporal dementia (FTD; n = 30), early onset Alzheimer's disease (EAD; n = 33), late onset Alzheimer's disease (LAD, n = 27) and normal controls (n = 31) were determined using HPLC. ANCOVA showed no significant effect of neuroleptic medication, extrapyramidal signs, myoclonia or gender on the CSF levels of the monoamine metabolites. Homovanillic acid was significantly reduced in all diagnostic groups (FTD, p = 0.0002; EAD, p = 0.016; LAD, p = 0.013). 5-Hydroxyindoleacetic acid was significantly reduced in EAD (p = 0.013) and in LAD (p = 0.0014), and HMPG was reduced in LAD only (p = 0.020). HMPG was significantly higher in FTD compared to EAD (p = 0.0005) and LAD (p = 0.0003). CSF-5-HIAA was significantly reduced in patients with antidepressant medication (p = 0.006). ANCOVA within the FTD group showed no significant effect of neuroleptic or antidepressant medication, extrapyramidal signs, myoclonia, gender or FTD subtype on the CSF levels of the monoamine metabolites. The results suggest that CSF-HMPG might differentiate FTD from EAD and LAD, but not from normals.
Several alterations in fibroblasts of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients have been described, including alterations in calcium regulation, protein kinase C (PKC), and potassium (K+) channels. Studies have also found reduced levels of the alpha isoform of PKC in brains and fibroblasts of AD patients. Since PKC is known to regulate ion channels, we studied K+ channel activity in fibroblasts from AD patients in the presence of (2S, 5S)-8-(1-decynyl)benzolactam (BL), a novel activator of PKC with improved selectivity for the alpha, beta, and gamma isoforms. We present evidence for restoration of normal K+ channel function, as measured by TEA-induced [Ca2+]i elevations, due to activation of PKC by BL. Representative patch-clamp data further substantiate the effect of BL on restoration of 113pS K+ channel activity. Immunoblotting analyses using an alpha-isozyme-specific PKC antibody confirm that BL-treated fibroblasts of AD patients show increased PKC activation. The present study suggests that PKC activator-based restoration of K+ channels may offer another approach to the investigation of AD pathophysiology, which in turn could lead to the development of a useful model for AD therapeutics.
Plasminogen activators play key roles in several developmental events. In previous works we demonstrated the existence of typical developmental patterns of protease activity in the chick optic lobe and cerebellum. The aim of this work is to study the temporal pattern of development of plasminogen activator activity in the brain hemispheres. Plasminogen activator activity was assayed in soluble fractions derived by ultracentrifugation from Triton X-100 treated membrane fractions by using a radial fibrinolytic assay. Employing different inhibitors and anti-plasminogen activators antibodies we showed that developing brain hemispheres express only one type of enzyme which corresponds to the urokinase-type. Other results indicate that the protease activity displays a temporal pattern which completely differs from those of general parameters of development. This suggests that the plasminogen activator activity is developmentally regulated and could display specific functions during particular stages of development.
The effects of chronic ovarian steroid treatment on the secretory activity of individual lactotropes and the mechanisms modulating their responsiveness to dopamine (DA) were studied. Female rats were ovariectomized (OVX) and implanted with Silastic capsules containing progesterone (P4), 17beta), 17beta-estradiol (E2) or both E2 (E2+P4). Ten days after surgery, anterior pituitaries were enzymatically dispersed and the reverse hemolytic plaque assay (RHPA) was performed to assess the release of prolactin (PRL) from individual lactotropes. RHPA was combined with immunocytochemistry (ICC) for PRL, Galphas or Gialpha3/Galphao proteins. E2 treatment alone or in combination with P4 increased the percentage of immunoreactive lactotropes among anterior pituitary cells. Incidence of active (plaque-forming) lactotropes, however, was increased both in P4-, and E2-treated rats and E2+P4 treatment increased it even further. While P4 treatment did not affect the frequency distribution of lactotropes, both E2 and E2+P4 treatments increased the large plaque-forming lactotrope population. This increase was reflected by the significantly greater mean plaque areas of lactotropes from E2- and E2+P4-treated rats compared to OVX or P4-treated animals. The responsiveness of lactotropes to DA from P4-treated rats did not differ from that of OVX rats: thus challenge with 1 microM DA inhibited the release of PRL, while 100 pM DA had no effect. E2 and E2+P4 treatments, however, profoundly changed the lactotrope's responsiveness: challenge with 1 microM DA had no effect and 100 pM DA resulted in moderate stimulation of PRL release in E2+P4 rats. Double-label ICC revealed that ovarian steroid treatments did not affect the expression of Galphas in lactotropes. The incidence of Gialpha3/Galphao-immunoreactive lactotropes, however, decreased after E2 treatment, alone or in combination with P4. Although expression of Galphas was similar in all plaque-forming cells regardless of plaque size, lactotropes expressing Gialpha3/Galphao were more likely to form small plaques in all treatment groups. These data suggest: (1) ovarian steroid treatment recruits quiescent lactotropes to release PRL; (2) E2 treatment alone or in combination with P4 increases the amount of PRL rleased by individual lactotropes; (3) E2-induced alterations in the frequency distribution and lactotrope responsiveness to DA may be due in part to a decreased expression of Gialpha3/Galphao.
Electrical stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus (LH) in rats increased splenic natural killer (NK) cell activity, whereas electrical ablation of the LH decreased it. However, the percentage of NK cells, as detected by the anti-NKR-P1 monoclonal antibody, in the spleen did not change significantly. These results suggest that the LH does not modulate the splenic NK cell activity by increasing the NK cell number but by increasing the intrinsic NK cell activity itself.
The effects of pulsed direct current (dc) electric fields on the frequency of spontaneous bursting in a model epileptic focus were studied. The high potassium hippocampal slice model was used to generate spontaneous burst firing activity similar to interictal spikes in the pyramidal cell layer of CA3. Electric fields were generated from platinum subdural electrodes placed in the perfusion bath. Three hundred and seventy-eight experimental trials were performed on 10 hippocampal slices from 10 rats and the effects of field polarity, field strength and duration of stimuli on firing frequency was examined. Hippocampal slices were oriented horizontally with the CA3 layer towards the positive electrode, the average interburst interval did not correlate significantly with polarity of the delivering pulses (one-way ANOVA, p = 0.96). Average interburst interval showed a significant correlation with pulse duration of 200 and 400 msec (p = 0.030 and p = 0.004, respectively). As a function of field strength, there were significant average interval changes for fields of 33, 46, and 73 mV/mm (p = 0.024, p = 0.001 and p = 0.001, respectively). In conclusion, CA3 burst firing activity in high potassium concentration can therefore be altered by electric fields.
We treated four patients affected by orthostatic tremor (OT) with gabapentin in increasing doses (300 to 2,400 mg/d). OT was evaluated with patients' self-monitoring scales, tremor rating scales, electromyography (EMG) showing the 14- to 18-Hz frequencies, and EMG frequency analysis. All patients had transitory responses to clonazepam. Gabapentin induced disappearance of OT in three patients and consistent reduction in one. Crossover to placebo induced reappearance of tremor.

Interferon beta (IFN-beta) has been shown in several clinical trials to have efficacy in MS. Its mechanism of action, however, remains unclear. In this review, several biological activities of IFN-beta are highlighted, including its inhibitory effects on proliferation of leukocytes and antigen presentation. Furthermore, IFN-beta may modulate the profile of cytokine production toward that of the anti-inflammatory phenotype, and this appears to occur in the systemic circulation and within the CNS. Finally, IFN-beta can reduce T-cell migration by inhibiting the activity of T-cell matrix metalloproteinases. These activities are likely to act in concert to account for the mechanism of IFN-beta in MS.
The concept of ischemic penumbra has extended our understanding of the focal ischemic process and in many ways has revitalized our research. Simply stated, the penumbra is the part of the brain that is sandwiched between brain regions committed to die and those that receive enough blood to communicate. Therefore, it is ischemic brain tissue that has just enough energy to survive for a short time but not enough to communicate and function. The life expectancy of the penumbra is short. Although the penumbra is an elegant concept, in practice it has been a difficult one to exploit. For one thing, it is unstable in both time and space. Depending on the severity and the duration of the focal ischemia, it may be anywhere in the ischemic brain. We believe that nimodipine binding experiments have taught us a great deal about the ischemic penumbra. Second, cells in the penumbra may die not by necrosis but by apoptosis. If that is true, then our concepts about the benign transient ischemic attack may need revision. Third, the penumbra may regain its ability to survive not only through reperfusion but also by interrupting the process of commitment to apoptosis.
Aspirin's benefit in preventing vascular outcomes is well established. It reduces the relative risk for stroke, myocardial infarction, and vascular death by about 25% compared with placebo. Almost 10 years ago we learned that ticlopidine is more effective than aspirin (about 12% relative risk reduction for stroke or death). However, ticlopidine has important adverse effects. In 1996, the Clopidogrel versus Aspirin in Patients at Risk of Ischemic Events (CAPRIE) trial showed that clopidogrel, a new thienopyridine similar to ticlopidine, is also more effective than aspirin (by a similar amount) and is as safe as aspirin. Also in 1996, the European Stroke Prevention Study 2 (ESPS-2) showed that dipyridamole alone prevents stroke and that when combined with aspirin it is more effective, probably comparable to ticlopidine and clopidogrel. Dipyridamole combined with aspirin reduced the relative risk for stroke or death by about 13% compared with aspirin alone. Both clopidogrel and dipyridamole are safe but will cost more than aspirin. Aspirin also appears beneficial for acute stroke treatment. The Chinese Acute Stroke Trial (CAST) and the International Stroke Trial (IST) demonstrated that aspirin given at the time of an acute ischemic stroke reduces the risk for early death (about 5 less/1,000 treated), recurrence or death (about 10 less/1,000 treated), and dependence (about 5 less/1,000 treated). Overall, the benefits of aspirin in acute stroke treatment and stroke prevention are definite but modest. Combination therapy with antiplatelet agents that act through different mechanisms is a promising way to maximize the benefits of antiplatelet treatment.
There are two potential purposes for cardiac evaluation in patients with cerebrovascular disease: to identify possible cardioembolic pathophysiology for ischemic symptoms and to identify concomitant coronary artery disease. Both have important implications for patient prognosis and treatment, and testing therefore appears to be warranted. On the other hand, the cost conservation movement in medicine dictates that physicians limit unnecessary, costly, possibly risky testing when the diagnostic yield is low. For example, the overall yield of cardiac testing in &quot;usual stroke patients&quot; who have no suggestive history or findings on examination, chest X-ray, or electrocardiogram is less than 10% and may not be indicated routinely. Conversely, young patients with stroke of unknown cause are likely to benefit from aggressive cardiac testing. Many reported series and clinical trials have demonstrated that patients with cerebrovascular disease are more likely to die in follow-up from cardiovascular than from cerebrovascular causes. This risk is best defined and may be highest in patients with carotid disease, in whom the 5-year cardiac mortality rate may be as high as 40 to 50%. Studies have shown that such patients are also likely to have abnormal tests for cardiac ischemia, even when a history of cardiovascular events or symptoms or electrocardiographic abnormalities are lacking. These results, combined with further investigations into which cerebrovascular patients are at highest risk for cardiovascular disease and what testing best identifies underlying, treatable cardiovascular disease, are needed to direct the care and improve the cardiovascular prognosis of patients with cerebrovascular disease.

We have tested whether action potential-evoked Ca2+ influx is required to initiate clathrin-mediated synaptic vesicle endocytosis in the lamprey reticulospinal synapse. Exo- and endocytosis were temporally separated by a procedure involving tonic action potential stimulation and subsequent removal of extracellular Ca2+ (Ca2+e). A low concentration of Ca2+ ([Ca2+]e of 11 microM) was found to be required for the induction of early stages of endocytosis. However, the entire endocytic process, from the formation of clathrin-coated membrane invaginations to the generation of synaptic vesicles, proceeded in the absence of action potential-mediated Ca2+ entry. Our results indicate that the membrane of synaptic vesicles newly incorporated in the plasma membrane is a sufficient trigger of clathrin-mediated synaptic vesicle endocytosis.
Capsaicin, the main pungent ingredient in &quot;hot&quot; chili peppers, elicits buming pain by activating specific (vanilloid) receptors on sensory nerve endings. The cloned vanilloid receptor (VR1) is a cation channel that is also activated by noxious heat. Here, analysis of heat-evoked single channel currents in excised membrane patches suggests that heat gates VR1 directly. We also show that protons decrease the temperature threshold for VR1 activation such that even moderately acidic conditions (pH &lt; or = 5.9) activate VR1 at room temperature. VR1 can therefore be viewed as a molecular integrator of chemical and physical stimuli that elicit pain. Immunocytochemical analysis indicates that the receptor is located in a neurochemically heterogeneous population of small diameter primary afferent fibers. A role for VR1 in injury-induced hypersensitivity at the level of the sensory neuron is presented.

To better understand the effects of weak as well as strong agonists at the human alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (human alpha7 nAChR), the abilities of several classic nAChR agonists to both activate and inhibit (desensitize) the human alpha7 nAChR expressed in Xenopus oocytes were quantified and compared. Activation was measured during 0.2-20 s agonist application, as required to elicit a peak response. Inhibition was measured as the reduction in the agonist response to 200 microM ACh in the presence of inhibitor during a 5-20 min incubation. Acetylcholine (ACh), (-)-nicotine, (+)-nicotine, and 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium (DMPP) were 62- to 130-fold more potent as inhibitors than as activators, with excellent correlation between the IC50 and EC50 values (r2 = 0.924). Agonist concentrations that elicited only 0.6-1.2% nAChR activation were sufficient to inhibit the response to ACh by 50%. Thus, even a very weak agonist could appear to be a potent and effective inhibitor through receptor desensitization. (-)-Lobeline, in contrast, acted as an antagonist at the human alpha7 nAChR, eliciting no detectable agonist-like response at concentrations up to 1 mM, but inhibiting the response to ACh with an IC50 value of 8.5 microM. (-)-Cotinine and the novel ligand ABT-089 [2-methyl-3-(2-(S)-pyrrolidinylmethoxy)pyridine] acted as weak agonists at the human alpha7 nAChR (1 and 1.5% response at 1 mM, respectively) and inhibited the response to ACh with IC50) values of 175 and 48 microM, respectively. These effects could be explained by receptor desensitization, at least in part.
This study examined the effect of age at symptom onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD) on the pattern of language disturbance. We assessed 150 consecutive patients with a clinical diagnosis of mild-to-moderate AD using the Western Aphasia Battery and a 100-item picture-naming test. A multivariate linear regression analysis examined the effect of age at onset after controlling for gender, education, severity of dementia and duration of the disease. Patients with early onset performed significantly worse than did patients with late onset on the word comprehension and sequential commands subtests. On the other hand, late-onset patients performed more poorly than early-onset patients on the picture-naming test in a subgroup with mild language deficits. However, the trend disappeared in other subgroups with more degraded language function. We consider that the concomitant effects of normal aging worsened the picture-naming deficits in the late-onset patients, and the rapid decline of naming ability in the early-onset patients masked the aging effect with the progression of language deficits. The deterioration of word comprehension and the rapid decline of naming ability are the characteristics of early-onset patients. The different patterns of language deficits between early- and late-onset patients may correspond to the genetic heterogeneity of AD.
The ability to suppress reflexive responses in favor of voluntary motor acts is crucial for everyday life. Both abilities can be tested with an oculomotor task, the antisaccade task. This task requires subjects to suppress a reflexive prosaccade to a flashed visual stimulus and instead to generate a voluntary saccade to the opposite side. This article reviews what is currently known about the neural structures and processes which are involved in the performance of this task. Current data show that a variety of brain lesions, neurological diseases and psychiatric disorders result in errors, i.e. prosaccades towards the stimulus, in this task. Brain imaging studies have shown that a widely distributed cortical and subcortical network is active during the generation of antisaccades. These findings are discussed and the potential of the antisaccade task for diagnostic purposes is evaluated.
Nerve circuits within the proximal duodenum were investigated using a combination of immunohistochemistry for individual neuron markers and lesion of intrinsic nerve pathways to determine axon projections. Cell shapes and axonal projections were also studied in cells that had been injected with a marker substance. Several major neuron populations were identified. Calbindin immunoreactivity occurred in a population of myenteric nerve cells with Dogiel type II morphology. These had axons that projected to other myenteric ganglia, to the circular muscle and to the mucosa. All were immunoreactive for the synthesizing enzyme for acetylcholine, choline acetyltransferase, and some were also immunoreactive for calretinin. Myenteric neurons with nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity projected anally to the circular muscle. These were also immunoreactive for vasoactive intestinal peptide, and proportions of them had enkephalin and/or neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity. It is suggested that they are inhibitory motor neurons to the circular muscle. A very few (about 2%) of nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurons had choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity. Tachykinin (substance P)-immunoreactive nerve cells were numerous in the myenteric plexus. Some of these projected orally to the circular muscle and are concluded to be excitatory motor neurons. Others projected to the tertiary plexus which innervates the longitudinal muscle and others provided terminals in the myenteric plexus. Two groups of descending interneurons were identified, one with somatostatin immunoreactivity and one with vasoactive intestinal peptide immunoreactivity. The two most common nerve cells in submucous ganglia were neuropeptide Y- and vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactive nerve cells. Both provided innervation of the mucosa. There was also a population of calretinin-immunoreactive submucous neurons that innervated the mucosal glands, but not the villi. Comparison with the ileum reveals similarities in the chemistries and projections of neurons. Differences include the almost complete absence of nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity from vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactive interneurons in the duodenum, the projection of calbindin-immunoreactive Dogiel type II neurons to the circular muscle and the absence of tachykinin-immunoreactivity from these neurons.
The cytoarchitecture of the optic tectum of the Japanese quail, Coturnix coturnix japonica, was studied using the Golgi-Kopsch method, parvalbumin, calbindin and GABA immunohistochemistry and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase histochemistry. Our results reveal a large number of different types of interneurons in the quail tectum opticum, only part of which are described in the chick or pigeon. Application of parvalbumin and calbindin immunohistochemistry and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase histochemistry reveals the following lamination pattern: The stratum opticum, stratum griseum centrale and stratum album centrale remain unstained, while the laminae of the stratum griseum et fibrosum superficiale exhibit a roughly complementary staining pattern of calbindin (laminae c, d, e, f, g, i) and parvalbumin (laminae a, h, i). Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase histochemistry yields a dense band in lamina i. The Golgi material reveals the following cell types in the stratum griseum et fibrosum superficiale: marginal cells in the stratum opticum and in lamina h and i, horizontal cells in laminae a and c, large and small radial cells in laminae b, d, h and i, multiform cells in lamina b, bitufted cells in lamina d and e, large pear-shaped cells in lamina g, wide-field cells in lamina j, and stellate cells in lamina j and in the stratum griseum centrale. We consider horizontal cells, bitufted cells, multiform cells and small radial cells to be GABAergic interneurons of the stratum griseum et fibrosum superficiale which seem to be more numerous than in the pigeon tectum opticum. Golgi impregnation and injection of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin into the pretectal nucleus lentiformis yielded regularly distributed clusters of telodendra of pretectal axons in lamina d of the stratum griseum et fibrosum superficiale, which are identical in shape and position with axon plexus revealed by Golgi staining.
The objective of the present study was the identification and characterization of the trigemino-diencephalic target areas in the Madagascan lesser hedgehog tenrec in order to get a more comprehensive view on the mammalian somatosensory thalamus, its evolution and representation in different species. Such an analysis has been considered important because in lower mammals the head and face are relatively well represented, but their ascending trigeminal projections have scarcely been analysed. Following injections of different tracer substances into the rostral and caudal portions of the trigeminal nuclear complex the most prominent area of termination was found in the medial ventroposterior nucleus. These projections were patchy and scarcely overlapped the region previously shown to receive spinal and dorsal column nuclear afferents. On the basis of the laterality and the intensity of the projections, two subdivisions were distinguished, the principal portion and the accessory portion receiving a dense contralateral and a weak bilateral input, respectively. They were considered equivalents to the magnocellular and parvocellular subdivisions of the medial ventroposterior nucleus in more differentiated mammals. In the latter species, however, the overlap between trigeminal and parabrachial fibres appears less extensive than in the tenrec. In addition, a weak bilateral projection was shown from the caudal trigeminal nucleus to the caudal and dorsal subdivision of the nucleus submedius. There was little, if any evidence for a trigeminal projection to the intralaminar nuclei and we failed to identify a correlate to the posterior nuclear complex of higher mammals. On the other hand, there was a distinct contralateral projection to the ventral portion of the zona incerta. This projection was of similar strength as the projection to the medial ventroposterior nucleus; it supports the notion that the zona incerta may play a crucial role in relaying trigeminal information.
The midline thalamic nuclei have been known to send projection fibres to the ventral striatum and the autonomic/limbic-associated areas of the prefrontal cortex. In the present study, we sought to determine whether or not single midline thalamic neurons project both to the ventral striatum and to the cerebral cortical areas. Experiments were performed on chloral hydrate-anaesthetized male Sprague Dawley rats; two fluorescent retrograde tracers were centred on the medial or lateral part of the nucleus accumbens--the major part of the ventral striatum--and the medial or lateral prefrontal viscerolimbic cortex. Our retrograde double-labelling study revealed that a subset of midline thalamic neurons send projection fibres to both the nucleus accumbens and the cerebral cortex. Such neurons projecting to both targets were principally identified in the paraventricular thalamic nucleus. The majority of the dually-labelled neurons in the paraventricular thalamic nucleus projected to the lateral part of the nucleus accumbens and the medial wall of the prefrontal cortex. Dually-labelled neurons were additionally found in other midline nuclei, including the paratenial, intermediodorsal, rhomboid, and reuniens nuclei, as well as in the medial part of the parafascicular thalamic nucleus. Dually-projecting neurons identified in the present study may represent a potential link between the limbic striatum and the viscerolimbic-associated cortex, thus suggesting that non-discriminative information relayed to the prefrontal cortex might exert an influence through the same neurons on the nucleus accumbens implicated in affective behaviour.
Although tumour necrosis factor alpha is said to play a key role in bacterial meningitis and other CNS diseases, the effects of this pro-inflammatory cytokine have only been studied in part and are incompletely understood. In a rat model, we investigated the effect of intracisternal injection of recombinant rat-specific tumour necrosis factor alpha (5, 35, 70 and 280 microg tumour necrosis factor alpha) (i) alone, (ii) combined with pneumococcal cell wall components, on regional cerebral blood flow, intracranial pressure, white blood cell count in the cerebrospinal fluid, and brain water content. Tumour necrosis factor a dose-dependently caused an increase in regional cerebral blood flow (up to 221 +/- 43% of baseline values) over the six hour observation period and mild cerebrospinal fluid leukocytosis; intracranial pressure and brain water content were unchanged. Hypothesizing that regional cerebral blood flow changes are dependent on nitric oxide, tumour necrosis factor alpha-induced regional cerebral blood flow increase was abolished by Aminoguanidine, a selective inhibitor of inducible nitric oxide synthase. Combination of the lowest tumour necrosis factor alpha dose and a low dose pneumococcal cell wall preparation magnified the inflammatory effect of both. We conclude that intrathecally injected tumour necrosis factor alpha alone results in only minor inflammatory changes, whereas it dramatically augments experimental meningitis.
In the present study, the presence of an endogenous capsaicin-like substance and the role of capsaicin receptors in nociception during inflammation were assessed using Fos immunohistochemistry and the paw-withdrawal test in rats. Intradermal injection of carrageenan in the hind-paw produced inflammation in the foot pad, increased the number of cells exhibiting Fos-like immunoreactivity in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, and decreased the paw-withdrawal latency. Intradermal injection of capsazepine, a capsaicin-receptor antagonist, significantly reduced the number of cells exhibiting Fos-like immunoreactivity, significantly increased the paw-withdrawal latency, but did not decrease inflammation induced by carrageenan injection. Intradermal injection of capsaicin or formalin also increased Fos-positive neurons. Capsaicin- or formalin-induced Fos expression was reduced in both cases by pretreatment of capsazepine, but to a much lesser extent for formalin. The capsazepine inhibition of carrageenan inflammation-induced hyperalgesic responses strongly suggests that an endogenous capsaicin-like substance is released in inflamed tissues and produces nociceptive neural impulses by acting on capsaicin receptors present on sensory neurons. Furthermore, our results indicate that capsaicin receptors take part only in generating nociceptive signals in sensory neurons, but not in activating the inflammation-promoting cells.
Extension of neuronal processes is fundamental for the establishment of the intricate network of the nervous system. The rat PC12 pheochromocytoma cell line is a well-known model system for the study of neuronal differentiation. In the present study the effect of a high-voltage-activated calcium channel blocker, nifedipine, on the cell differentiation was investigated. In cells cultured in a modified medium containing nifedipine (at 2.5 microM or 5.0 microM) a decrease of mitotic activity took place on the third day of culturing. An increase of total length and number of processes occurred on the fifth day. A higher concentration of nifedipine (10.0 microM) considerably suppressed vital functions of the cells. Retraction of processes together with blocking of proliferation activity was observed. In parallel with these changes, a reduction of [Ca2+]i from 100 +/- 6 nM to 50 +/- 2 nM was detected on the second day of cultivation in 2.5 microM and 5.0 microM nifedipine containing medium. At 10.0 microM concentration of nifedipine in the medium a decrease in [Ca2+]i was observed on the first day only (to 76 +/- 8 nM); then the level of free calcium concentration rose dramatically. The data obtained allow us to suggest that the decrease of [Ca2+]i during first two days of PC12 cells culturing in a nifedipine-containing medium could be a factor which stimulated their morphological differentiation.
In the nervous system serine proteases, like thrombin, are involved in developmental and repair processes, but serve also as extracellular signalling molecules, acting via protease-activated receptors. Cellular responses of glial cells to thrombin are transduced by proteolytic activation of the G protein-coupled thrombin receptor. A second member of the protease-activated receptor family, protease-activated receptor-2, is activated by trypsin. We assessed whether glial cells express protease-activated receptor-2 together with the thrombin receptor. By reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and Ca2+ imaging studies we demonstrate that rat astrocytes and C6 glioma cells functionally express protease-activated receptor-2. Short-term stimulation of the glial cells with thrombin, thrombin receptor agonist peptide, trypsin and protease-activated receptor-2 activating peptide dose-dependently induced a transient rise of [Ca2+]i. In astrocytes omission of extracellular Ca2+ attenuated the amplitude of the [Ca2+]i transient induced by protease-activated receptor-stimulation. The decrease was strongest for the trypsin-evoked response and a reduction comparable in size (40%) was observed by pre-treatment with pertussis toxin. In astrocytes concentration-effect curves reveal that (i) the proteases had a higher potency than the respective receptor-activating peptides to induce a Ca2+ response, (ii) proteolytic activation of the receptors by thrombin or trypsin resulted in a double-sigmoidal concentration-effect curve, whereas non-proteolytic activation by receptor activating peptides resulted in a sigmoidal concentration dependence, and (iii) trypsin evoked a significantly greater Ca2+ response than thrombin. Preceding stimulation with trypsin nearly abolished the subsequent response to thrombin, whereas the trypsin-evoked Ca2+ transient was only slightly attenuated after a prior challenge with thrombin. This is the first study to show that neural cells (glial cells) functionally express both thrombin receptor and protease-activated receptor-2 coupled to the mobilization of intracellular calcium. Since calcium is the premier second messenger mediating adaptive changes within the CNS, these findings emphasize an important physiological function of serine proteases in mammalian brain.
Bilateral olfactory bulbectomy in the rat produces a well-characterized syndrome that is independent of anosmia. This syndrome is reversed by chronic antidepressant administration, which provides the basis for the olfactory bulbectomy model of depression. The present experiments focused on neuropeptide plasticity in central olfactory/limbic structures following olfactory bulbectomy in rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received bilateral surgical ablation of the olfactory bulbs, sham surgery, or no surgery and were killed either three, seven, 14 or 28 days later. Relative levels of messenger RNA encoding neuropeptide Y, somatostatin, thyrotropin-releasing hormone, and corticotropin-releasing factor precursors in the forebrain were measured by quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry using oligonucleotide probes. Prepro-neuropeptide Y messenger RNA levels in the piriform cortex and dentate gyrus were significantly elevated in bulbectomized rats 14 and 28 days after surgery compared to sham-operated and surgically naive rats. Prepro-somatostatin messenger RNA levels in the piriform cortex were marginally increased in bulbectomized rats at these time-points. Thyrotropin-releasing hormone and corticotropin-releasing factor precursor messenger RNA levels were not altered in the brain regions studied. The results indicate that olfactory bulbectomy causes long-term increases in the expression of the neuropeptide Y gene. These findings suggest that neuropeptide Y plasticity in the olfactory/limbic system may contribute to the olfactory bulbectomy syndrome in rats, and they provide further evidence of a role for neuropeptide Y in the pathophysiology of depression.
Ponto-geniculo-occipital waves and rapid eye movements (eye saccades) are two prominent phasic events of paradoxical sleep which occur in conjunction. Although they have been studied intensively, the neuronal link between these two events is still poorly understood. On the basis of our previous results, combining brainstem transections and carbachol microinjections, we postulated that the oculomotor and ponto-geniculo-occipital systems do not work in series, but in parallel, and that the caudoventral pontine tegmentum might represent a structure controlling and/or co-ordinating the simultaneous production of the two phenomena. This hypothesis was further supported by the demonstration that, during paradoxical sleep, the instantaneous velocity of eye saccades in bursts is higher than that of isolated ones which, in turn, are more rapid than waking saccades. This acceleration of eye saccades in bursts also seems to be under the cholinergic control of the caudoventral pontine tegmentum. In order to test the hypothesis that this area may be a prime mover leading to the simultaneous appearance of these two phasic events as a whole, we investigated, in the present study, the effects of pharmacological stimulation (with carbachol) and inhibition (with atropine) of the caudoventral pontine tegmentum on the production and the characteristics of eye saccades and ponto-geniculo-occipital waves. Cats' eye movements were recorded using the technique of the scleral search coil in a magnetic field, together with sleep-waking parameters. We found that: (i) unilateral microinjections of carbachol (0.4 microg) induced, during waking, a majority of long bursts of ponto-geniculo-occipital waves (i.e. bursts containing at least five waves) which had intra-burst intervals similar to natural ones (48-259 ms) and decreased the frequency of isolated ponto-geniculo-occipital waves; (ii) unilateral microinjections of atropine (2.4 microg) strongly decreased, during paradoxical sleep, the frequency (number/min) of eye saccades in bursts directed contralaterally to the side of the injection (by 48-54%) and reduced the velocity of these saccades to that of isolated eye saccades. Atropine also significantly reduced the frequency (by 60%) of all types of bursts of ponto-geniculo-occipital waves, with a maximal effect (80% reduction) on long bursts of ponto-geniculo-occipital waves, while it increased the frequency of isolated ponto-geniculo-occipital waves. However, atropine did not change the value of intra-burst intervals. These findings support the hypothesis that eye saccades in bursts and associated ponto-geniculo-occipital waves are generated as a whole by a common structure and that this structure is at least partly defined by the caudoventral pontine tegmentum.
Electrical stimulation of the nucleus pontis oralis during wakefulness enhances somatic reflex activity; identical stimuli during the motor atonia of active (rapid eye movement) sleep induces reflex suppression. This phenomenon, which is called reticular response-reversal, is based upon the generation of excitatory postsynaptic potential activity in motoneurons during wakefulness and inhibitory postsynaptic potential activity during the motor atonia of active sleep. In the present study, instead of utilizing artificial electrical stimulation to directly excite brainstem structures, we sought to examine the effects on motoneurons of activation of sensory pathways by exogenously applied stimuli (auditory) and by stimulation of a peripheral (sciatic) nerve. Accordingly, we examined the synaptic response of masseter motoneurons prior to and during cholinergically induced motor atonia in a pharmacological model of active sleep-specific motor atonia, the alpha-chloralose-anesthetized cat, to two different types of afferent input, one of which has been previously demonstrated to elicit excitatory motor responses during wakefulness. Following the pontine injection of carbachol, auditory stimuli (95 dB clicks) elicited a hyperpolarizing potential in masseter motoneurons. Similar responses were obtained upon stimulation of the sciatic nerve. Responses of this nature were never seen prior to the injection of carbachol. Thus, stimulation of two different afferent pathways (auditory and somatosensory) that produce excitatory motor responses during wakefulness instead, during motor atonia, results in the inhibition of masseter motoneurons. The switching of the net result of the synaptic response from one of potential motor excitation to primarily inhibition in response to the activation of sensory pathways was comparable to the phenomenon of reticular response-reversal. This is the first report to examine the synaptic mechanisms whereby exogenously or peripherally applied stimuli that elicit motor excitation during wakefulness instead elicit inhibitory motor responses during the motor atonia of active sleep. Thus, not only are motoneurons tonically inhibited during active sleep, but the selective elicitation of inhibitory motor responses indicates that this inhibition can be phasically increased in response to sensory stimuli, possibly in order to maintain the state of active sleep. The data provided the foundation for the hypothesis that, during naturally occurring active sleep, there is a change in the control of motor systems so that motor suppression occurs in response to stimuli that would otherwise, if present during other behavioral states, result in the facilitation of motor activity.
Electrophysiological measurements of voltage-dependent Na+ influx using patch-clamp methodology were combined with optical monitoring of the free intracellular Na+ concentration in isolated rat neurohypophysial nerve endings to determine the relationship between Na+ influx generated by repetitive stimulation and change in [Na+]i. Application of step depolarizations under voltage-clamp-evoked tetrodotoxin-sensitive inward currents that were dependent upon extracellular Na+ and that exhibited rapid activation and inactivation properties. These characteristics substantiated the evoked current as a voltage-dependent Na+ current. Application of stimulus trains consisting of step depolarizations that mimick in frequency and duration those of action potentials were found to result in increases in [Na+]i. The induced change in [Na+]i was found to be related to the frequency and period of stimulation. Changes in [Na+]i were greatest at frequencies of 40 Hz and gave maximal changes with 30 s of continuous stimulation of approximately 2.4 mM. Sodium influx expressed as a molar quantity resulted in a nearly directly proportional increase in [Na+]i during the initial period of stimulation at low Na+ loads. When expressed as a charge density (pC/microm2) Na+ influx was found to increase with smaller diameter nerve endings as did the rate of change in [Na+]i in response to applied repetitive step depolarizations. Repetitive step depolarizations which simulate impulse activity that invade neuroendocrine nerve endings in vivo in response to physiological demand for hormone secretion resulted in an increased [Na+]i. It is postulated that this increased [Na+]i may provide a modulatory influence on the secretory response indirectly via alteration of intracellular calcium regulation or, perhaps, via a direct action on the secretory mechanism.
The purpose of this study was to characterize neuronal activity in the deep cerebellar nuclei of the unanesthetized genetically dystonic rat during the neonatal period when the clinical signs of the dystonic syndrome first appear. Previous lesion studies have established cerebellar output as critical to the expression of the dystonic rat's motor syndrome, a disorder that closely resembles generalized dystonia in humans. In the dystonic rat, both cerebellectomy and selective lesions of the deep cerebellar nuclei decrease the frequency of abnormal motor signs and improve performance on tests of motor function. Single-unit activity was recorded from the medial, interpositus and lateral cerebellar nuclei in awake normal (N=49) and dystonic (N=54) rats at postnatal days 12-26. One hundred and eighty-three cells were isolated, 91 from normal and 92 from dystonic rats. Interspike interval histograms, autocorrelations and ratemeter histograms were generated for each cell's spike train. Interspike interval histograms were modeled with single and double gamma distributions. Cells from dystonic rats as young as 12 days of age showed bursting firing patterns, positively skewed or bimodal interspike interval histograms, and sinusoidal autocorrelations. Bursting activity increased linearly with postnatal age in dystonic rats. Cells from normal rats demonstrated non-sinusoidal autocorrelations and unimodal interspike interval histograms. Spike frequency increased linearly with postnatal age in both normal and dystonic rats. There were no statistically significant group differences in spike frequency between normal and dystonic rats. These findings show that functional neuropathology can be detected at the level of single neurons in the deep cerebellar nuclei at the earliest behavioral stages of the dystonic rat's movement disorder. The degree of abnormality in spike train parameters correlates with the severity of the movement disorder. Independent of neuronal firing rates, abnormal neuronal firing patterns can serve as a guide to the localization of pathological cell populations within the central nervous system. These results provide additional evidence that abnormal cerebellar output plays a critical role in the pathophysiology of the dystonic rat's motor syndrome.
To assess the interaction of dopamine and acetylcholine systems in the rat nucleus accumbens in response to direct D-amphetamine administration, in vivo microdialysis measures of acetylcholine were used during reverse dialysis of amphetamine alone and in combination with D1 and D2 receptor antagonists SCH 23390 and sulpiride, respectively. During a 15-min exposure to amphetamine (50 microM) in the nucleus accumbens, acetylcholine increased to 33% above pre-infusion levels, became maximal at 15 min post-infusion (+41%) and gradually returned to baseline levels by 60 min post-amphetamine. Conversely, amphetamine (1 mM) administration caused a biphasic change in acetylcholine release with a trend toward a decrease (-14%) during exposure followed by a significant increase (+36%) at 30 min post-amphetamine that returned to baseline levels by 60 min after infusion. The increases observed during amphetamine (50 microM) exposure and during recovery from amphetamine (1 mM) were both blocked by co-administration with the D1 antagonist, SCH 23390 (10 microM), but not with the D2 antagonist, sulpiride (10 microM). Co-infusion of sulpiride eliminated the trend toward reduced acetylcholine release observed during 1 mM amphetamine whereas co-administration of SCH 23390 potentiated this decrease. A possible tonic D1 facilitation of nucleus accumbens acetylcholine release was indicated by the consistent reductions in acetylcholine release observed during infusion of SCH 23390. These results suggest that amphetamine administration in the nucleus accumbens induces a bidirectional change in acetylcholine release that is dependent on dose and opposing effects of nucleus accumbens D1 and D2 activation. In general, relatively low doses of amphetamine administered into the nucleus accumbens caused an increase in acetylcholine release that was dependent on dopamine D1 receptors whereas higher doses of amphetamine resulted in a D2-mediated decrease.
Susceptibility to develop Parkinson's disease has been linked to abnormalities of P450 enzyme function. Multiple P450 enzymes are expressed in brain but the relationship of these to Parkinson's disease is unknown. We have investigated the expression of P450 enzymes in the rat substantia nigra and their co-localization in tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons and astrocytes. Immunohistochemistry was performed using anti-peptide antisera against the following P450 enzymes: CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2B1/2, CYP2C12, CYP2C13/2C6, CYP2D1, CYP2D4, CYP2E1, CYP3A1, CYP3A2 and NADPH-P450 oxidoreductase. Immunoreactivity in nigral cells was found only for CYP2E1 and CYP2C13/2C6. CYP2E1 immunoreactivity was localized to many midbrain nuclei including the substantia nigra pars compacta but not the substantia nigra pars reticulata while immunoreactivity to CYP2C13/2C6 was found in the substantia nigra pars compacta, substantia nigra pars reticulata and many other midbrain nuclei. Sections of rat midbrain double labelled for either CYP2E1 or CYP2C13/2C6 and tyrosine hydroxylase or glial fibrillary acidic protein were examined for co-localization by confocal laser scanning microscopy. CYP2E1 and CYP2C13/2C6 immunoreactivity was found in tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta but not in glial cells. CYP2C13/2C6, but not CYP2E1, was also found in non-glial, non-tyrosine hydroxylase-expressing cells in the substantia nigra pars reticulata. Isoniazid induction increased CYP2E1 fluorescence signal intensity from nigral dopaminergic neurons. At least two P450 enzymes are found in nigral dopamine containing cells and one, namely CYP2E1, is selectively localized to this cell population. CYP2E1 is a potent generator of free radicals which may contribute to nigral pathology in Parkinson's disease. The expression of CYP2E1 in dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra raises the possibility of a causal association with Parkinson's disease.
In order to explore the role of CREM (cyclic-AMP responsive element modulator) gene expression in the function of the central nervous system, the gene transcripts were investigated in the rat brain in several conditions linked to increased neuronal activity. Up-regulation of CREM messenger RNA levels in the hippocampus was found to follow intraperitoneal administration of kainate (10 mg/kg). This increase was observed in both the dentate gyrus and hippocampus proper (CA subfields) and reached its maximum at 6 h after the treatment. Intrahippocampal injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate (200 nmol) resulted in elevated CREM messenger RNA expression as well. A similar increase of the messenger RNA abundance was also observed in the retrosplenial cortex after treating the female rats with a high dose (5 mg/kg) of dizocilpine maleate, an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist. All these conditions are linked to neuronal excitation and neurodegeneration. However, an increase in CREM messenger RNA accumulation was also observed in the visual cortex after exposure of dark-adapted animals to the light, a procedure linked to neuronal plasticity. In the latter condition, it was found that CREM messenger RNA reached its highest levels at 6 h, i.e. later than the maximal increase of expression of immediate early genes such as c-fos, jun B and zif268, observed 45 min following the onset of visual stimulation. The ICER (inducible cyclic-AMP early repressor) form of CREM messenger RNA was identified to be induced by the light exposure. Finally, it was also found that cycloheximide, an inhibitor of protein synthesis, overinduces CREM/ICER gene expression. Together, these data suggest that CREM/ICER may be responsive to neuronal activation. Furthermore, given that CREM products have been shown previously to down-regulate expression of immediate early genes in vitro, they suggest that ICER may function as a molecular switch involved in down-regulation of immediate early gene expression in the rat brain.
Activation of 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A receptors increases the frequency of excitatory postsynaptic currents through a focal action at apical, but not basilar, dendrites of neocortical layer V pyramidal cells. Since mu-, delta- and kappa-opiate receptors are known to inhibit depolarization-induced glutamate release in cerebrocortical slices, we examined the opiate receptor subtype(s) that suppress(es) 5-hydroxytryptamine-induced excitatory postsynaptic currents in the medial prefrontal cortex and whether this suppression was occurring through a presynaptic or a postsynaptic mechanism. Only opioid agonists that act upon mu-receptors (i.e. [D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly-ol5]enkephalin, the endogenous mu-selective agonist endomorphin-1 and the non-selective opioid agonist [Met]enkephalin) suppressed 5-hydroxytryptamine-induced excitatory postsynaptic currents. The delta-agonist [D-phen(2,5)]enkephalin and the kappa-agonist U50,488 were ineffective. Only the selective mu-antagonist CTOP blocked the suppressant effect of enkephalin, while the selective delta-antagonist naltrindole and the selective kappa-antagonist norbinaltorphimine were ineffective. Since the 5-hydroxytryptamine-induced excitatory postsynaptic currents are mediated by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA)-type excitatory amino acid receptors, the failure of mu-agonists to either block postsynaptic AMPA responses or induce outward currents in layer V pyramidal cells suggest that mu-agonists are acting at a presynaptic site to block 5-hydroxytryptamine-induced excitatory postsynaptic currents. Strikingly, a regional selectivity in the suppressant effect of mu-receptor activation on 5-hydroxytryptamine-induced excitatory postsynaptic currents exists, as 300 nM [D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly-ol5]enkephalin suppressed 5-hydroxytryptamine-induced excitatory postsynaptic currents in the medial prefrontal cortex by nearly 100%, while in the frontoparietal cortex 1 microM [D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly-ol5]enkephalin suppressed 5-hydroxytryptamine-induced excitatory postsynaptic currents by only 58%. This is the first demonstration of a previously unsuspected physiological interaction between 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A and mu-opiate receptors and may be relevant to the relationship between these receptors and both mood and psychotic disorders.
Peripheral injection of the indolocarbazole CEP-1347/KT-7515 into rats that have sustained ibotenic acid lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis has been shown to prevent the loss of cortically-projecting neurons in that basal forebrain region. The present study tested whether this neuroprotective activity would lead to chronic sparing of a behaviour known to be impaired by that lesion, as well as to chronic maintenance of cholinergic activity in cortical target regions of the nucleus basalis. CEP-1347/KT-7515 was injected into adult rats that had sustained bilateral ibotenic acid lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis; the first injection occurred 18-24 h after lesioning, with subsequent injections of CEP-1347/KT-7515 occurring every other day over 12 days. One day following the last injection the animals were tested for retention of a previously-learned delayed alternation task. Animals that received CEP-1347/KT-7515 committed significantly fewer errors than lesioned animals receiving vehicle. These same animals were tested again eight to 10 weeks later (which was 10-12 weeks post-dosing), without receiving further drug or behaviour training during the test-retest interval. The animals that had received CEP-1347/KT-7515 continued to commit significantly fewer errors than vehicle animals. Furthermore their performance at this time point was indistinguishable from normal controls. Analysis of errors showed that CEP-1347/KT-7515 prevented a lesion-induced increase in perseverative errors, suggesting the drug improved attention in the lesioned animals. Choline acetyltransferase activity in the frontal cortex of the behaviourally tested animals that received CEP-1347/KT-7515 three months previously showed a significant 40% recovery of the lesion-induced loss seen in the vehicle animals. These results demonstrate that treatment with CEP-1347/KT-7515 over 12 days following excitotoxic damage to the nucleus basalis magnocellularis produces long-term sparing of an attention-demanding behaviour.
We have identified a class of small organic molecules, derived from the indolocarbazole K-252a, that promote the survival of cultured neurons. However, many of these indolocarbazoles inhibit protein kinase C and neurotrophin-activated tyrosine kinase receptors. These kinase inhibitory activities may limit the utility of these compounds for neurological disorders. A bis-ethyl-thiomethyl analogue of K-252a, CEP-1347/KT-7515, has been identified that lacks protein kinase C and tyrosine kinase receptor inhibitory activities, yet retains the ability to promote survival of cultured neurons, including cholinergic neurons derived from the basal forebrain. In the present studies, CEP-1347/KT-7515 was assessed for neurotrophic activity on basal forebrain neurons of in vivo rats following excitotoxic insult. Ibotenate infusion into the nucleus basalis magnocellularis reduced levels of choline acetyltransferase activity in the cortex, as well as reduced numbers of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive and retrogradely (FluoroGold)-labelled cortically-projecting neurons in the nucleus basalis. Systemically administered CEP-1347/KT-7515 attenuated the loss of cortical choline acetyltransferase activity and the loss of the number of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive and retrogradely-labelled FluoroGold neurons in the nucleus basalis. Moreover, CEP-1347/KT-7515 ameliorated the loss of cortical choline acetyltransferase if administration was initiated one day, but not seven days post-lesion. Together, these results demonstrate that CEP-1347/KT-7515 protects damaged cortically-projecting basal forebrain neurons from degeneration. Thus, CEP-1347/KT-7515 may have therapeutic potential in neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, in which basal forebrain cholinergic neurons degenerate.
The hippocampus plays an important role in central stress integration. The present study tests the hypothesis that the ventral subiculum, as a principal source of hippocampal efferents, is involved in co-ordination of hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical and behavioural responses to cognitively-processed information. Basal hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical activation appears to be normal in ventral subiculum lesion rats, as basal corticosterone and adrenocorticotropic hormone secretion, anterior pituitary pro-opiomelanocortin and type 1 corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor messenger RNA expression, adrenal and thymus weight, and splenic mitogen activity are not affected by lesion. Lesions of the ventral subiculum induce glucocorticoid hypersecretion following restraint stress or open field exposure, whereas responses to ether inhalation are unaffected. Interestingly, ventral subiculum lesion does not affect fast glucocorticoid negative feedback inhibition of restraint-induced adrenocorticotropic hormone release. Corticotropin-releasing hormone immunoreactivity is increased in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus of ventral subiculum lesion rats, and is differentially depleted by acute stress exposure (relative to sham-lesion rats). However, ventral subiculum lesion does not affect basal and stress-induced corticotropin-releasing hormone, arginine vasopressin and cFOS messenger RNA expression in paraventricular nucleus neurons. Behavioural analysis reveals that ventral subiculum lesion rats are hyper-responsive to open field exposure, showing decreased total ambulation and reduced incidence of central square entry. The results suggest that the ventral subiculum plays a specific role in integrating cognitively-processed stimuli (e.g., restraint and open field exposure) into appropriate neuroendocrine and behavioural responses to stress. Enhanced stress-induced glucocorticoid secretion and increased corticotropin-releasing hormone biosynthesis are likely due to removal of oligosynaptic inhibitory input to the paraventricular nucleus subsequent to ventral subiculum lesion.
Growth-associated protein-43 is involved in maturational and plasticity-associated processes, and changes in growth-associated protein-43 expression are a marker of altered plasticity following experimental and neuropathological lesions. Using in situ hybridization, we have investigated growth-associated protein-43 mRNA in the medial temporal lobe and cerebral cortex in 11 normal subjects and 11 matched subjects with schizophrenia, a disorder in which perturbed neurodevelopment and aberrant plasticity are implicated. In the schizophrenia group, growth-associated protein-43 messenger RNA was decreased in the medial temporal lobe, primary visual cortex and anterior cingulate gyrus, but was unaltered in the superior temporal and dorsolateral prefrontal cortices. Correlations of growth-associated protein-43 messenger RNA signal between areas were stronger and more numerous in the schizophrenics than in the controls, suggesting a more global regulation of growth-associated protein-43 expression. Finally, the ratio of growth-associated protein-43 messenger RNA to synaptophysin messenger RNA--a putative index of the production of new synapses--was decreased in the medial temporal lobe in the schizophrenics. Our findings imply that neuronal plasticity as indexed by growth-associated protein-43 expression is impaired, and perhaps aberrantly regulated, in schizophrenia. The data support the emerging view that the disease pathophysiology is one which affects the hippocampal and cortical circuitry and that the abnormalities are reflected in the altered expression of specific neuronal genes.
In the CA1 area of the hippocampus, low frequency and tetanic conditioning stimuli are known to trigger long-term depression and potentiation of synaptic responses respectively and to produce irreversible excitatory postsynaptic potential/spike potentiation, i.e. an increase of the probability of discharge of the neurons. Using simultaneous extracellular recordings in stratum radiatum and stratum pyramidale in the CA1 area of the rat hippocampus, brief application of the K+ channel blocker tetraethylammonium resulted both in long-term potentiation of synaptic responses and in excitatory postsynaptic potential/spike potentiation that could be reversed by subsequent low frequency or tetanic stimuli. Excitatory postsynaptic potential/spike potentiation and its subsequent reversal by an electrical conditioning stimulus were found to have an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-independent component. We conclude that the reversal of excitatory postsynaptic potential/spike potentiation can occur and that it does not require the induction of long-term modification of synaptic responses.
The importance of both the activation of second messenger cascades and an increase of the intracellular Ca2+ concentration for the induction of synaptic plasticity in hippocampal CA1 neurons is well established. Using the dye Calcium Green-1, we analysed the Ca2+ increases evoked by different 100-Hz tetanization paradigms commonly used to induce long-term potentiation. We found that the normalized total area of fluorescence intensity changes (F/F0) was correlated with both the strength and the duration of tetanization. Furthermore, the normalized area of fluorescence intensity changes during the time of tetanization (tetanic component) correlated strongly in a linear manner with the tetanization duration. Moreover, the tetanic component strongly determined the area of the post-tetanic Ca2+ signal. Interestingly, the normalized relationship of the post-tetanic Ca2+ signal to the total Ca2+ change decreased with prolonged tetanizations. In contrast, with an increased stimulation strength, a positive correlation of the relationship of the post-tetanic component to the total amount Ca2+ could be obtained. The time constants of the Ca2+ extrusion depend linearly on both the tetanization duration and the amount of the tetanic Ca2+ signal. Our data demonstrate that augmenting the stimulation strength leads to a respective increase of the post-tetanic Ca2+ portion within the total Ca2+ signal, whereas a prolongation of the tetanization duration does not. Thus, no further significant prolongation of the Ca2+ signal occurs during increased durations of tetanization.
Brief elevation in postsynaptic calcium in hippocampal CA1 neurons leads to prolonged changes in synaptic strength. The calcium may enter the postsynaptic neuron via different routes, such as voltage-gated calcium channels or glutamate receptor channels of N-methyl-D-aspartate type, and/or be released from intracellular stores. The manner in which the synapse is altered, leading to the expression of an enhanced/depressed synaptic strength, is still unclear. The present study, performed using whole-cell recording from CA1 pyramidal cells of three- to five-week-old guinea-pigs, shows that postsynaptic depolarization alone, allowing for calcium influx through voltage-gated calcium channels, leads to a synaptic potentiation characterized by an altered time-course of the evoked excitatory synaptic response, an unaltered coefficient of variation of that response and a decreased paired-pulse facilitation likely related to a postsynaptic mechanism. These characteristics contrasted with those of long-term potentiation induced via activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels, where the time-course was unaltered, the coefficient of variation was decreased and no change in paired-pulse facilitation was observed. Synapses can thus have mechanistically separate, but co-existent, potentiations of synaptic transmission initiated from separate sources for postsynaptic calcium.
The neurotrophins, nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3 and neurotrophin-4/5, have--in addition to their known effects as neuronal survival factors--recently been found to modulate synaptic transmission in the rat hippocampus and neocortex. Using standard whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, we have now investigated the acute effects of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-4/5 on unitary (i.e. single cell activated) glutamatergic synaptic connections in microcultures of postnatal rat hippocampal neurons. We show that, in approximately 30% of the cells, glutamatergic synaptic transmission is enhanced to 170 +/- 52% (neurotrophin-4/5, 100 ng/ml) and 143 +/- 35% (brain-derived neurotrophic factor, 100 ng/ml) of control values, respectively. The enhancement is abolished in the presence of the specific Trk tyrosine kinase inhibitor k252a (200 nM). Depending on the particular cell investigated, the enhancement consisted of transient and sustained components in varying quantities. A minority of neurons (10%) showed a depression of glutamatergic synaptic transmission to 64 +/- 14% (brain-derived neurotrophic factor) and 61 +/- 11% of control (neurotrophin-4/5). The enhancement of unitary glutamatergic synaptic transmission is mediated predominantly by presynaptic modifications, as is evident from (i) the concomitant decrease in paired-pulse facilitation, (ii) the concomitant increase in the variance of the evoked unitary synaptic currents and (iii) the enhanced miniature excitatory postsynaptic/autaptic current frequencies that could be observed in the absence of an effect on miniature excitatory postsynaptic/autaptic current amplitudes. Finally, we show that the successful enhancement of synaptic transmission by neurotrophin-4/5 critically depends on the degree of paired-pulse facilitation prior to the start of neurotrophin application, with autapses/synapses initially showing a higher degree of paired-pulse facilitation being enhanced more effectively. Taken together, these results suggest that the brain-derived neurotrophic factor- and neurotrophin-4/5-mediated enhancement of unitary glutamatergic synaptic transmission in hippocampal cultures results predominantly from a presynaptic modulation of transmitter release, and this modulation could participate in the neurotrophin-dependent modification of glutamatergic synaptic transmission in the hippocampus in situ.
Although the textbook function of dorsal root ganglion neurons is to signal information to the brain, a group of C-fibre and some A delta-fibre afferents have the capacity to release peptide transmitters from their peripheral terminations and thereby to regulate vascular and other tissue activities. Depending on the species under study, vasoactive dorsal root ganglion neurons in the skin belong to heat nociceptors or a subclass of polymodal nociceptors, and it has been a matter of long-standing discussion how the local effector role of dorsal root ganglion neurons is related to their afferent function. The observation that local vascular regulation may take place independently of nociception has commonly been explained by a number of transductional differences between peripheral peptide release and afferent nerve activity. However, the view that it is only one population of dorsal root ganglion neurons that can work in either mode is increasingly challenged, and after consideration of the available information we hypothesize that some dorsal root ganglion neurons are specialized in controlling peripheral effector mechanisms but have no role in sensation. These local effector neurons represent a novel class of autonomic neurons that lack a preganglionic input, but operate in an efferent-like mode after stimulation by internal or external stimuli.
Our understanding of the organization of the basal ganglia has advanced markedly over the last 10 years, mainly due to increased knowledge of their anatomical, neurochemical and physiological organization. These developments have led to a unifying model of the functional organization of the basal ganglia in both health and disease. The hypothesis is based on the so-called &quot;direct&quot; and &quot;indirect&quot; pathways of the flow of cortical information through the basal ganglia and has profoundly influenced the field of basal ganglia research, providing a framework for anatomical, physiological and clinical studies. The recent introduction of powerful techniques for the analysis of neuronal networks has led to further developments in our understanding of the basal ganglia. The objective of this commentary is to build upon the established model of the basal ganglia connectivity and review new anatomical findings that lead to the refinement of some aspects of the model. Four issues will be discussed. (1) The existence of several routes for the flow of cortical information along &quot;indirect&quot; pathways. (2) The synaptic convergence of information flowing through the &quot;direct&quot; and &quot;indirect&quot; pathways at the single-cell level in the basal ganglia output structures. (3) The convergence of functionally diverse information from the globus pallidus and the ventral pallidum at different levels of the basal ganglia. (4) The interconnections between the two divisions of the pallidal complex and the subthalamic nucleus and the characterization of the neuronal network underlying the indirect pathways. The findings summarized in this commentary confirm and elaborate the models of the direct and indirect pathways of information flow through the basal ganglia and provide a morphological framework for future studies.
The possibility that circadian rhythms can be modulated by emotional state is suggested by clinical evidence of altered physiological and endocrine rhythms in primary depression and related affective disorders and is supported by experiments in humans and laboratory animals showing that stress disrupts circadian rhythmicity. How emotional state might modulate circadian rhythms is not known. Here we report that induction of the emotional state of fear disrupts a process essential for stable entrainment of circadian rhythms, the resetting of the circadian clock by environmental light. A cellular correlate of light-induced clock resetting, expression of the transcription factor Fos in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus (the circadian clock), and a behavioral measure of clock resetting, phase shifts in free-running activity rhythms, were found to be suppressed in rats exposed to light in a context made to induce fear by previous pairings with intermittent footshock. These findings show that fear disrupts a physiological process mediating light-induced clock resetting and suggest a mechanism through which emotional state could modulate circadian rhythms.
The development and use of serotonin-1B/1D agonists to treat the acute attack of migraine has been a significant advance, but their vasoconstrictor effects have lead to a search for non-vasoconstrictor approaches to the management of the acute attack of migraine. One such suggested approach has been substance P (neurokinin-1) antagonists, since substance P is involved in mediating neurogenic plasma protein extravasation and has long been held to have a role in pain transmission. In this study, one such candidate compound, GR205171, a highly lipophilic potent neurokinin-1 antagonist, has been tested in a model of trigeminovascular nociception with considerable predictive value for anti-migraine activity. The superior sagittal sinus was isolated in the alpha-chloralose (60 mg/kg, i.p., and 20 mg/kg, i.v., supplemented every 2 h)-anaesthetized cat. The sinus was stimulated electrically (100 V, 250 micros duration, 0.3 Hz) and neurons in the dorsal C2 spinal cord monitored using electrophysiological methods. In separate experiments, the animals were prepared for stimulation and then maintained for 24 h before stimulation and perfusion for Fos immunohistochemistry. Stimulation of the superior sagittal sinus resulted in activation of cells in the dorsal horn of C2. Cells fired with a probability of 0.7 +/- 0.1 at a latency of 10.7 +/- 0.2 ms. Administration of GR205171 (100 microg/kg, i.v.) had no effect on probability of firing or latency. Stimulation of the sinus in separate cats resulted in increased expression over control levels in the superficial laminae of the trigeminal nucleus caudalis and C1/2 dorsal horns. GR205171 in the same dose had no effect upon Fos expression. Inhibition of substance P by the potent, selective and brain penetrant neurokinin-1 antagonist GR205171 had no effect upon either cell firing or Fos expression in the central trigeminal cells activated by stimulation of the superior sagittal sinus. These data and the published clinical data for other compounds suggest that neurokinin-1 blockade alone will not be an effective anti-migraine strategy. Further data will be required to assess whether neurokinin-1 antagonists will have any more general value in pain.
In urethane-anaesthetized rats, stimulation of carotid body chemoreceptors desynchronizes the cortical electroencephalogram and increases the sensitivity of thalamic and cortical somatosensory neurones to peripheral sensory nerve stimulation. Peripheral chemoreceptors were stimulated by injecting a bolus (30 ml) or infusing 100 ml of 0.18 M NaCl solution equilibrated with 100% CO2 into an internal carotid artery, the cortical electroencephalogram and ventilation were monitored routinely. This stimulus induced hyperventilation and desynchronization of the cortical electroencephalogram. Anaesthetized rats also showed spontaneous periodic increases in ventilation rate accompanied by changes of the cortical electroencephalogram from high-voltage low frequency to low-voltage high frequency which seemed to be identical with those evoked by stimulating chemoreceptors. The activity of identified somatosensory neurons in the thalamic ventrobasal complex, layer IV of the somatosensory cortex, or the cuneate nucleus was recorded extracellularly during and following chemoreceptor activation. Neurones in the ventrobasal thalamus and somatosensory cortex showed a decrease in latency and an increase in probability of discharge to supramaximal electrical stimulation of the forepaw which was more pronounced following infusion stimulation of the carotid body than following bolus stimulation. In contrast, neurons within the cuneate nucleus showed a slight increase in latency to onset and a decrease in the probability of firing following the same stimulus. The results indicate that stimulation of the carotid body chemoreceptors leads to an enhancement of the response of somatosensory neurons to their normal physiological input.
The effect of neuropeptide FF in the periaqueductal gray on pain behaviour was studied in rats with a chronic neuropathy induced by unilateral ligation of two spinal nerves. Neuropeptide FF produced in a non-monotonic fashion a significant attenuation of tactile allodynia. The antiallodynic effect was not significantly modulated by naloxone administered systemically or intracerebrally. The dose of neuropeptide FF producing a significant antiallodynic effect was not antinociceptive in a test of mechanical or thermal nociception. The thermal antinociceptive effect induced by morphine administered in the periaqueductal gray was significantly attenuated by neuropeptide FF, whereas that induced by systemically administered morphine was not. The interaction of neuropeptide FF with intracerebrally or systemically administered morphine in a test of tactile allodynia was not significant. The results indicate that neuropeptide FF in the periaqueductal gray may produce a selective attenuation of tactile allodynia in neuropathic rats. This antiallodynic effect is at least partly independent of naloxone-sensitive opioid receptors. Furthermore, neuropeptide FF in the periaqueductal gray attenuates antinociception induced by intracerebrally but not systemically administered morphine.
Recent evidence indicates that neuropathic pain from partial peripheral nerve injury is maintained by electrophysiologically abnormal signals from injured sensory neurons. To gain an insight into the mechanisms underlying this electrophysiological abnormality, we examined the effects of S1 spinal nerve transection on the membrane properties of S1 dorsal root ganglion neurons one to two weeks after injury. This injury produced significant action potential broadening [40% (1 ms) in C-, 149% (1.5 ms) in A delta- and 84% (0.5 ms) in A alpha/beta-cells], which was primarily due to the enhancement of the &quot;shoulder&quot; appearing on the falling phase of the action potential in C- and A delta-cells and the emergence of a shoulder in A alpha/beta-cells, and significant cell-type specific changes in the time-course of the rising phase of the action potential; i.e. an increase in rise time (A delta: 35%, 0.15 ms; A alpha/beta: 13%, 0.04 ms) and a decrease in the maximal rate of rise (A delta: 17%, 77 V/s; A alpha/beta: 13%, 79 V/s). In addition, the nerve injury led to a significant reduction of the rheobase, an index of neuronal excitability, in all types of cells (by 41% in C-, 71% in A delta- and 59% in A alpha/beta-cells). The reduction of rheobase in A-cells was associated with a concomitant increase in apparent input resistance (by 269% in A delta- and 192% in A alpha/beta-cells), which was measured near the resting membrane potential. By contrast, the rheobase reduction in C-cells was associated with a concurrent depolarizing shift (approximately 4 mV) of the resting membrane potential. The nerve injury-induced reduction of rheobase was not accompanied by related change in input resistance or threshold potential in any of the cell populations. The present results indicate that chronic peripheral axotomy of dorsal root ganglion neurons, which gives rise to neuropathic pain, produces profound changes in the action potential waveform of dorsal root ganglion neurons in a cell type-specific fashion. Furthermore, the results suggest that the axotomy increases the excitability of dorsal root ganglion neurons not by altering input resistance (i.e. leak conductance) or threshold potential, but by increasing apparent input resistance near the resting membrane potential in A-cells and decreasing the resting membrane potential in C-cells.
Tibialis anterior and extensor digitorum longus muscles were partially denervated by cutting the L4 spinal nerve in three-day-old rats. The ultrastructure of the intact axons to these muscles in the L5 spinal nerve was examined in nine-day-old rats. In the control L5 spinal nerve, myelinated and unmyelinated axons were intermingled throughout the cross-section of the nerve, while on the operated side the nerve contained areas with predominantly small unmyelinated immature axons. The number of motoneurons innervating the partially denervated muscles was established by retrograde labelling with Diamidino Yellow. In nine- and 21-day-old rats, the number of labelled motoneurons on the partially denervated side, expressed as a percentage of the control side, was 26.1 +/- 5.5% and 20.7 +/- 3.0%, respectively. The response of these uninjured motoneurons to axotomy was tested. The axons of the motoneurons to the partially denervated muscles were crushed at nine days and the numbers of labelled motoneurons in the spinal cord of these rats counted at 21 days of age. Only 4.9 +/- 2.0% labelled motoneurons were seen on the operated side, as opposed to 20.7 +/- 3.0% present in animals without sciatic nerve injury. In normal animals, nerve injury at nine days does not cause motoneuron death. Thus, motoneurons to partially denervated muscles (i) have axons with several immature features and (ii) remain susceptible to axotomy-induced death for much longer than normal.
Several inhibitors of mitochondrial complex II cause neuronal death in vivo and in vitro. The goal of the present work was to characterize in vitro the effects of malonate (a competitive blocker of the complex) which induces neuronal death in a pattern similar to that seen in striatum in Huntington's disease. Exposure of striatal and cortical cultures from embryonic rat brain for 24 h to methylmalonate, a compound which produces malonate intracellularly, led to a dose-dependent cell death. Methylmalonate (10 mM) caused &gt;90% mortality of neurons although cortical cells were unexpectedly more vulnerable. Cell death was attenuated in a medium containing antioxidants. Further characterization revealed that DNA laddering could be detected after 3 h of treatment. Morphological observations (videomicroscopy and Hoechst staining) showed that both necrotic and apoptotic cell death occurred in parallel; apoptosis was more prevalent. A decrease in the ATP/ADP ratio was observed after 3 h of treatment with 10 mM methylmalonate. In striatal cultures it occurred concomitantly with a decline in GABA and a rise in aspartate content and the aspartate/glutamate ratio. Changes in ion concentrations were measured in similar cortical cultures from mouse brain. Neuronal [Na+]i increased while [K+]i and membrane potential decreased after 20 min of continuous incubation in 10 mM methylmalonate. These changes progressed with time, and a rise in [Ca2+]i was also observed after 1 h. The results demonstrate that malonate collapses cellular ion gradients, restoration of which imposes an additional load on the already compromised ATP-generation machinery. An early elevation in [Ca2+]i may trigger an increase in activity of proteases, lipases and endonucleases and production of free radicals and DNA damage which, ultimately, leads to cells death. The data also suggest that maturational and/or extrinsic factors are likely to be critical for the increased vulnerability of striatal neurons to mitochondrial inhibition in vivo.
We evaluate a novel set-up for scanning functional connectivity in brain slices from the somatosensory cortex of the rat. Upright infrared video microscopy for targeted placement of electrodes is combined with rapid photolysis of bath-applied caged neurotransmitter induced by a xenon flash lamp. Flash photolysis of caged glutamate and electrical stimulation produce comparable field potential responses and demonstrate that the viability of the submerged slices exceeds several hours. Glutamate release leads to field potential responses whose two phases are differentially affected by selective blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate- and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate-type glutamate receptors with DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid and 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulphonamide, respectively. Rapid computer-controlled scanning of hundreds of distinct stimulation sites with simultaneous recordings at a fixed reference site allows construction of functional input maps from peak amplitudes and delays to peak of field potential responses. Selective laminar expansion of the functional input maps after bicuculline application demonstrates that the combination of this conveniently assembled set-up with pharmacological and physical manipulations can provide insights into the determinants of functional connectivity in brain slices.
Recent studies show that neuropeptide Y acts indirectly, via release of a neurotrophic factor(s) from the spinal cord, to increase the neurite outgrowth of dissociated adult rat dorsal root ganglion cells. This study examines further the neuropeptide Y-induced increase in neurite outgrowth. To characterize the factor(s) mediating the neuropeptide Y-induced increase in neurite outgrowth, we have examined whether antisera to either nerve growth factor or neurotrophin-3 influence the neuropeptide Y-induced increase in neurite outgrowth. Spinal cord slices were incubated with media alone or in combination with 10 nM neuropeptide Y for 2 h at 37 degrees C. The supernatant of spinal cord incubated with neuropeptide Y significantly enhanced the neurite outgrowth of normal dorsal root ganglion cells. Antiserum against nerve growth factor had no effect on the trophic actions of the supernatant. Antiserum against neurotrophin-3, however, significantly attenuated the increase in neurite outgrowth. Consistent with this finding, neurotrophin-3 also increased the percentage of cells with neurites. Transganglionic labelling of A-fibres with choleragenoid-horseradish peroxidase in animals treated intrathecally with neurotrophin-3 for 14 days via an osmotic pump showed that the area of choleragenoid-horseradish peroxidase label expanded into lamina II. In comparison, saline-treated animals had no label in lamina II. In addition, neurotrophin-3-treated animals also had a significant decrease in mechanical nociceptive threshold. The results suggest that neuropeptide Y acts via neurotrophin-3 to mediate an increase in neurite outgrowth of dorsal root ganglion cells. These results have important implications for the mechanisms underlying neuropathic pain.
The hyaluronan receptor for hyaluronic acid-mediated motility (RHAMM) plays a role in cell migration and motility in many systems. Recent observations on the involvement of RHAMM in neurite motility in vitro suggest that it might also be important in axon outgrowth in situ. This was addressed directly by investigating both RHAMM expression in the rat CNS and the ability of anti-RHAMM reagents to interfere with tissue growth and axon outgrowth in intraocular brainstem transplants. By western blotting, anti-RHAMM antibody detected a RHAMM isoform of 75,000 mol. wt in both whole brain homogenate and synaptosome preparations, and a 65,000 mol. wt isoform in synaptosomes. Immunofluorescence of adult brain sections revealed RHAMM-like immunoreactivity in varicose fibers that were also positive for the noradrenergic marker dopamine-beta-hydroxylase. Not all noradrenergic fibers contained RHAMM, nor was RHAMM detected in other monoaminergic fiber types. Lesions of noradrenergic fiber systems with beta-halobenzylamine-N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4) eliminated RHAMM-positive fibers, but noradrenergic axons that sprouted extensively after this treatment were strongly RHAMM-positive. To assess RHAMM's role in fiber outgrowth, fetal brainstem tissue containing noradrenergic neurons was grafted into the anterior chamber of the eye. Treatment of grafts with anti-RHAMM antibody caused significant inhibition of tissue growth and axon outgrowth, as did a peptide corresponding to a hyaluronan binding domain of RHAMM. These agents had no such effects on transplants containing serotonergic and dopaminergic neurons. These results suggest that RHAMM, an extracellular matrix receptor previously shown to contribute to migratory and contact behavior of cells, may also be important in the growth and/or regenerative capacity of central noradrenergic fibers originating from the locus coeruleus.
The electrogenic Na+-K+ pump current in horizontal cells acutely dissociated from the carp retina was investigated using a nystatin-perforated patch recording configuration under voltage-clamp conditions. In the presence of suitable blockers for known voltage-dependent Na+, K+ and Ca2+ conductances, the pump current was activated in a concentration-dependent manner by adding K+ ions to external solution. The EC50 value and Hill coefficient for the external K+ concentration were 0.66 mM and 1.39, respectively. The pump current did not show any significant voltage dependency at the physiological potential range between -90 and 20 mV either with or without external Na+ ions. In the presence of 120 mM external Na+ concentration, the addition of 3 mM K+ to the external solution induced a steady outward pump current even when the patch-pipette (internal) solution did not contain Na+. A large outward shift of the holding current was observed by removing external Na+. The result thus suggests that continuous Na+ influxes exist across the plasma membrane in the presence of external Na+. When Na+ was removed from both external and internal solutions, a transient outward pump current was observed by adding K+ to the external solution, thus indicating that the transient pump current was activated by the residual intracellular Na+ ions. The pump current was suppressed by ouabain in a concentration-dependent manner, and the ouabain-sensitive inhibition curve was fitted by two components. The IC50 values of high- and low-sensitive pump currents for ouabain were 20 nM and 10.4 microM, respectively, indicating the existence of at least two isoforms of the pump in the horizontal cells.
A family of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor proteins mediates diverse pre- and postsynaptic functions in the hippocampus. However the roles of individual receptors are not understood. The present study identified the pre- and postsynaptic muscarinic acetylcholine receptors at the perforant pathway synapses in rat brain using a combination of lesioning, immunocytochemistry and electron microscopic techniques. Entorhinal cortex lesions resulted in lamina-specific reductions of m2, m3, and m4 immunoreactivity in parallel with the degeneration of the medial and lateral perforant pathway terminals in the middle and outer thirds of the molecular layer, respectively. In contrast, granule cell lesions selectively reduced m1 and m3 receptors consistent with degeneration of postsynaptic dendrites. Direct visualization of m1-m4 by electron microscopic immunocytochemistry confirmed their differential pre- and postsynaptic localizations. Together, these findings provide strong evidence for both redundancy and spatial selectivity of presynaptic (m2, m3 and m4) and postsynaptic (m1 and m3) muscarinic acetylcholine receptors at the perforant pathway synapse.
Whole-cell patch recordings were made from immature (six- to 12-day-old) rat rostral ventrolateral medulla neurons in brainstem slices. GABA or the specific GABA(B) receptor agonist (-)baclofen (10-50 microM) by superfusion or by pressure ejection induced an outward current or a hyperpolarization, which persisted in a tetrodotoxin (0.3 microM)-containing Krebs' solution in nearly every cell tested. The GABA(B) receptor antagonists 2-hydroxy saclofen (50-200 microM) and CGP 35348 (50-200 microM) dose-dependently suppressed baclofen-currents. Baclofen-currents were suppressed by barium (1 mM) but not by tetraethylammonium (20 mM), low Ca2+ (0.24 mM) solution or in a solution containing the Ca2+ chelator BAPTA-AM (10 microM). The outward current had an estimated reversal potential of -98, -77 and -52 mV in 3.1, 7 and 15 mM [K+]o. Pre-incubation of slices with pertussis toxin (500 microg/ml for 5-7 h) or intracellular dialysis with GDP-beta-S (500 microM) markedly reduced baclofen-currents. Baclofen in low concentrations (1-3 microM) that caused slight or no change of holding currents and of inward or outward currents induced by exogenously applied glutamate or glycine/GABA, decreased excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic currents by an average of 86.5 +/- 4.3% and 78.4 +/- 2.7%. The GABA(B) antagonist CGP 35348 (100 microM) increased the excitatory postsynaptic currents by an average of 64%, without causing a significant change in holding currents in 10/18 cells tested. Our results indicate the presence of post- and presynaptic GABA(B) receptors in the rostral ventrolateral medulla neurons. Activation of postsynaptic GABA(B) receptors induces an outward K+ current which is barium-sensitive, Ca2+-independent and may be coupled to a pertussis-sensitive G-protein. Activation of presynaptic GABA(B) receptors attenuates excitatory or inhibitory synaptic transmission. More importantly, the observation that CGP 35348 enhanced excitatory synaptic currents implies a removal of tonic activation of presynaptic GABA(B) receptors by endogenously released GABA (disinhibition), supporting the hypothesis that these receptors may have a physiological role in regulating the input and output ratio in a subset of rostral ventrolateral medulla neurons in vivo.
The mechanisms of retrograde neurodegeneration following axotomy and target deprivation in the adult central nervous system remain poorly understood. We used a unilateral occipital cortex ablation model in adult rats to test the hypothesis that retrograde neurodegeneration in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus resembles apoptosis. Using the retrograde tracer Fluorogold, combined with nuclear dyes or the terminal transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick end labeling method for detecting nuclear DNA fragmentation, apoptotic geniculocortical projection neurons were identified at approximately. six to seven days postlesion. Degeneration of dorsal lateral geniculate neurons was characterized by aberrant accumulation of perikaryal non-phosphorylated neurofilaments and, ultrastructurally, by early vacuolation and subsequent swelling of dendrites. Ultrastructural alterations in the perikaryon of dying dorsal lateral geniculate neurons included the classic chromatolytic response, with redistribution of the rough endoplasmic reticulum and dispersion of free ribosomes followed by fragmentation of the rough endoplasmic reticulum, as well as dilatation and vesiculation of the Golgi, and accumulation of intact mitochondria. Subcellular alterations evolved into classic apoptotic changes, including progressive cytoplasmic and nuclear condensation with chromatin compaction into uniformly large round clumps, while the morphological integrity of mitochondria was preserved until late in the progression of neuronal death. Cytoplasmic and then nuclear fragments budded into the surrounding neuropil and were engulfed by oligodendrocytes. We conclude that the retrograde neurodegeneration of geniculocortical neurons in adult brain results in neuronal death which has a phenotype that closely resembles apoptosis. The morphological changes that occur during this process progress from chromatolysis through consecutive stages associated with apoptosis.
Vasoactive intestinal peptide plays an important role in the trans-synaptic activation of tyrosine hydroxylase in sympathoadrenal tissues in response to physiological stress. Since tyrosine hydroxylase is thought to be subsaturated with its cofactor, tetrahydrobiopterin, we tested the hypothesis that up-regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase gene expression following vasoactive intestinal peptide treatment is accompanied by a concomitant elevation of intracellular tetrahydrobiopterin biosynthesis. We also investigated the second messenger systems involved in vasoactive intestinal peptide's effects on tetrahydrobiopterin metabolism. Our results demonstrate that treatment of PC12 cells for 24 h with vasoactive intestinal peptide induced intracellular tetrahydrobiopterin levels 3.5-fold. This increase was due to increased expression of the gene encoding GTP cyclohydrolase, the initial and rate-limiting enzyme in tetrahydrobiopterin biosynthesis, which was blocked by the transcriptional inhibitor, actinomycin D. Activation of tyrosine hydroxylase and GTP cyclohydrolase by vasoactive intestinal peptide was mediated by cyclic-AMP. Furthermore, stimulation of cyclic-AMP-mediated responses or protein kinase C activity induced the maximal in vitro activities of both tyrosine hydroxylase and GTP cyclohydrolase; the responses were additive when both treatments were combined. Induction of sphingolipid metabolism had no effect on the activation of tyrosine hydroxylase, while it induced GTP cyclohydrolase in a protein kinase C-independent manner. Our results support the hypothesis that intracellular tetrahydrobiopterin levels are tightly linked to tyrosine hydroxylation and that tetrahydrobiopterin bioavailability modulates catecholamine synthesis.
The neuropeptide Y Y2 receptor is one of six receptor subtypes mediating the multiform physiological actions of neuropeptide Y. The Y2 receptor has been demonstrated to be the most predominant receptor subtype in the human brain and appears to be involved in many neuropeptide Y actions, such as the regulation of locomotor activity, cardiovascular functions, memory processing, circadian rhythms and release of other neurotransmitters. We have recently demonstrated the widespread and abundant distribution of neuropeptide Y Y1 receptor messenger RNA in the human cerebral cortex (different laminar patterns within distinct cortical regions), hippocampal dentate gyrus and striatum. To assess a possible differential distribution of Y1 and Y2 receptor messenger RNAs, the regional expression of neuropeptide Y Y2 messenger RNA-containing cells in the human brain was analysed, in particular within the cerebral cortex and striatum. In situ hybridization experiments revealed the localization of the Y2 messenger RNA signal throughout all cortical regions, with the highest intensity per cell apparent in lamina IV, with the exception of the striate cortex, which showed an intense labelling primarily in layer VI. The striatum expressed low to undetectable levels of the Y2 receptor messenger RNA. The dentate gyrus and the CA2 region presented the highest hybridization signals, while a very weak Y2 messenger RNA expression was found in the CA1 region and subiculum. Positive Y2 messenger RNA hybridization signals were also detected in the lateral geniculate nucleus, amygdala, substantia nigra, hypothalamus, cerebellum and choroid plexus. These results demonstrate the widespread distribution of neuropeptide Y Y2 receptor messenger RNA in the human brain, with a pattern of expression distinct from the Y1 subtype, suggesting that these two receptor subtypes may mediate different neuropeptide Y functions in the human brain, mainly through actions on different neuronal systems.
Sudden infant death syndrome is the primary cause of mortality in children aged one to six months in industrialized countries. Although the etiology of this syndrome is still unknown, subtle abnormalities in the neuronal circuitry involved in the control of respiratory activity are suspected. Since stereotaxic administration of somatostatin in the brainstem of rat and cat produces fatal apnea, we have compared the densities of somatostatin binding sites in the respiratory centers of 11 cases of sudden infant death syndrome and six control infants without neuronal disease. The density of binding sites was measured in 17 structures of the pons and medulla oblongata by means of quantitative in vitro autoradiography using iodinated [Tyr0,D-Trp8]somatostatin-14 as a radioligand. The density of somatostatin binding sites was significantly higher in the medial and lateral parabrachial nuclei in the sudden infant death syndrome group than in the control group. In six other nuclei, the median of the receptor density was higher in the sudden infant death syndrome group than the maximum values measured in the control group. The presence of high concentrations of somatostatin binding sites in several respiratory nuclei of the brainstem in approximately half of the sudden infant death syndrome victims suggests that the decrease in receptor density that normally occurs during ontogeny was delayed in these infants. In particular, the high level of somatostatin binding sites in the medial and lateral parabrachial nuclei of sudden infant death syndrome suggests that the delayed maturation of these receptors may be associated with a deficit of the hyperventilatory response to hypoxia.
Motor effects of bilateral lesions of the globus pallidus induced by quinolinic acid (30 and 60 nmol in 0.5 microl) were investigated in rats. Globus pallidus lesions with 60 nmol quinolinic acid produced a significant reduction of spontaneous motor activity measured by a reduced locomotor activity in an open field and by a reduced sniffing activity in an experimental chamber. In addition, D-amphetamine (1 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced hyperlocomotion and D-amphetamine (3 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced stereotyped sniffing were significantly reduced in animals with quinolinic acid lesions (60 nmol). Globus pallidus lesions with 60 nmol quinolinic acid potently reversed catalepsy induced by systemic administration of the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH23390 (0.75 and 1 mg/kg, i.p.) or the dopamine D2 receptor antagonist raclopride (1.25 and 5 mg/kg, i.p.), while lesions with 30 nmol quinolinic acid exerted anti-cataleptic effects which were only partly significant. In line with current models of basal ganglia functions, these findings indicate that inactivation of the globus pallidus reduced spontaneous motor activity and motor hyperactivity after dopamine receptor stimulation. However, the present data also demonstrate that inactivation of the globus pallidus reversed motor hypoactivity induced by a blockade of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors. Therefore, a more complex functional model of the globus pallidus is required to account for the opposite effects on motor behaviour observed after lesions of this basal ganglia nucleus.
Dopamine D1A receptor-deficient mice were assessed in a wide variety of tasks chosen to reflect the diverse roles of this receptor subtype in behavioural regulation. The protocol included examination of exploration and locomotor activity in an open field, a test of sensorimotor orienting, both place and cue learning in the Morris water maze, and assessment of simple associative learning in an olfactory discrimination task. Homozygous mice showed broad-based impairments that were characterized by deficiencies in initiating movement and/or reactivity to external stimuli. Data obtained from flash evoked potentials indicated that these deficits did not reflect gross visual impairments. The partial reduction in D1A receptors in the heterozygous mice did not affect performance in most tasks, although circumscribed deficits in some tasks were observed (e.g., failure to develop a reliable spatial bias in the water maze). These findings extend previous behavioural studies of null mutant mice lacking D1A receptors and provide additional support for the idea that the D1A receptor participates in a wide variety of behavioural functions. The selective impairments of heterozygous mice in a spatial learning task suggest that the hippocampal/cortical dopaminergic system may be uniquely vulnerable to the partial loss of the D1A receptor.
The spatial and temporal properties of single neurons were investigated in area 19 of the cat. We evaluated the matching of binocular receptive field properties with regard to the respective strength of the ipsilateral and contralateral inputs. Results indicate that most cells in area 19 are well tuned to spatial and temporal frequencies and exhibit relatively low contrast threshold (mean=6.8%) when assessed using optimal parameters and tested through the dominant eye. Spatial resolution (mean=0.75 c/degree), optimal spatial frequencies (mean=0.16 c/degree) were relatively low and spatial bandwidths (mean=2.1 octaves) were broader as compared to those of cells in area 17 but comparable to those of cells in other extrastriate areas. On the other hand temporal resolution (mean=10.7 Hz), optimal temporal frequency (mean=4.5 Hz) and temporal bandwidths (mean=2.9 octaves) were higher and broader than in primary visual cortex. A significant relationship exists between most of the cell's properties assessed through either eye. For some parameters, such as spatial and temporal resolution, ocular dominance was shown to be significantly related to the extent of matching between the two eyes. For these parameters, binocular cells that exhibited a balanced ocular dominance were generally well matched with regard to the receptive field properties of each eye whereas the largest mismatches were found in cells that were more strongly dominated by one eye. These results suggest that visual input contributes to the activation of cells in area 19 in a redundant manner, possibly attesting to the multiplicity of parallel pathways to this area in the cat.
Mossy fibre sprouting and re-organization in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus is a characteristic of many models of temporal lobe epilepsy including that induced by perforant-path stimulation. However, neuroplastic changes on the dendrites of granule cells have been less-well studied. Basal dendrites are a transient morphological feature of rodent granule cells during development. The goal of the present study was to examine whether granule cell basal dendrites are generated in rats with epilepsy induced by perforant-path stimulation. Adult Wistar rats were stimulated for 24 h at 2 Hz and with intermittent (1/min) trains (10 s duration) of single stimuli at 20 Hz (20 V, 0.1 ms) delivered 1/min via an electrode placed in the angular bundle. The brains of these experimental rats and age- and litter-matched control animals were processed for the rapid Golgi method. All rats with perforant-path stimulation displayed basal dendrites on many Golgi-impregnated granule cells. These basal dendrites mainly originated from their somata at the hilar side and then extended into the hilus. Quantitative analysis of more than 800 granule cells in the experimental and matched control brains showed that 6-15% (mean=8.7%) of the impregnated granule cells have spiny basal dendrites on the stimulated side, as well as the contralateral side (mean=3.1%, range=2.9-3.9%) of experimental rats, whereas no basal dendrites were observed in the dentate gyrus from control animals. The formation of basal dendrites appears to be an adaptive morphological change for granule cells in addition to the previously described mossy fibre sprouting, as well as dendritic and somatic spine formation observed in the dentate gyrus of animal and human epileptic brains. The presence of these dendrites in the subgranular region of the hilus suggests that they may be postsynaptic targets of the mossy fibre collaterals.
Cellular excitability of CA1 neurons from a kindled focus in the rat hippocampus is persistently increased. The changes in the underlying voltage-dependent sodium current were characterized under whole-cell voltage-clamp conditions. We compared sodium currents in acutely isolated CA1 neurons from kindled rats with those in matched controls, one day and five weeks after cessation of kindling stimulations. The sodium current in CA1 neurons was tetrodotoxin sensitive and inactivated completely with two time-constants. In 97 cells from control rats, the current evoked at -20 mV consisted of a fast-inactivating component of 3.8 +/- 0.2 nA which decayed with a time-constant of 1.0 +/- 0.1 ms, and a slow-inactivating component of 1.2 +/- 0.1 nA with a time-constant of 3.6 +/- 0.1 ms. The potential of half-maximal inactivation was -72.2 +/- 1.0 mV for the fast-inactivating component and -63.2 +/- 1.0 mV for the slow-inactivating component. The time-constant of recovery at -80 mV was 14.1 +/- 0.4 ms for the fast-inactivating component and 9.3 +/- 0.4 ms for the slow-inactivating component. One day after kindling, the voltage dependence of inactivation of the slow-inactivating and the fast-inactivating component was shifted in the depolarizing direction (3.2 +/- 1.3 and 3.0 +/- 1.3 mV, respectively). The voltage dependence of recovery from inactivation was shifted in the same direction. Five weeks after kindling, the shift in voltage dependence of inactivation was (3.3 +/- 1.2 and 2.9 +/- 1.2 mV, respectively) and was accompanied by a 20% increase in sodium current amplitude. The voltage-dependent activation was not different after kindling. The changes in sodium current inactivation will increase the number of channels available for activation and may enhance the maximum firing rate. This implies that the changes in sodium current inactivation will contribute to the enhanced excitability of pyramidal neurons observed after kindling.
Transcription factors are nuclear proteins with an ability to recognize particular nucleotide sequences on double stranded genomic DNAs and thereby modulate the activity of RNA polymerase II which is responsible for the formation of messenger RNAs in cell nuclei. Gel retardation electrophoresis revealed that transient forebrain ischemia for 5 min led to drastic potentiation of binding of a radiolabelled double-stranded oligonucleotide probe for the transcription factor activator protein-1, in the thalamus as well as the CA1 and CA3 subfields and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus of the gerbils previously given ischemia for 2 min two days before, which is known to induce tolerance to subsequent severe ischemia in the CA1 subfield. By contrast, ischemia for 5 min resulted in prolonged potentiation of activator protein-1 binding in the vulnerable CA1 subfield of the gerbils with prior ischemia for 5 min 14 days before, which is shown to induce delayed death of the pyramidal neurons exclusively in this subfield. Similar prolongation was seen with activator protein-1 binding in the vulnerable thalamus but not in the resistant CA3 subfield and dentate gyrus of the gerbils with such repeated ischemia for 5 min. Limited proteolysis by Staphylococcus aureus V8 protease as well as supershift assays using antibodies against c-Fos and c-Jun proteins demonstrated the possible difference in constructive partner proteins of activator protein-1 among nuclear extracts of the CA1 subfield obtained from gerbils with single, tolerated and repeated ischemia. These results suggest that de novo protein synthesis may underlie molecular mechanisms associated with acquisition of the ischemic tolerance through modulation at the level of gene transcription by activator protein-1 composed of different constructive partner proteins in the CA1 subfield. Possible participation of glial cells in the modulation is also suggested in particular situations.
Disturbances in neuronal communication induced by rapid temperature changes are a risk in the context of accidental hypothermia and would be fatal for hibernators during arousal from hibernation. Therefore, we investigated the effects of rapid temperature changes on synaptically induced CA1 population spikes in hippocampal slices from golden hamsters (hibernators) and rats (non-hibernators). Temperature was changed ramp-like by 0.3 degrees C/min, which corresponds to the rise of body temperature in golden hamsters during arousal from hibernation. During cooling from 35 to 10-15 degrees C, the population spike amplitude increased, reached maximal values at 25-30 degrees C and 20-25 degrees C in hamster and rat slices, respectively, and then decreased with further cooling. During rewarming, hamster slices displayed the same temperature dependence as during cooling. In contrast, in rat slices dynamic effects of the temperature change occurred. These were most obvious in a strong depression of the spike amplitude during rewarming as compared to cooling. Above 26-29 degrees C, the depression was superimposed by an excitatory effect. The depression was largely attenuated by theophylline (100-200 microM) and thus seems to be based on an increase of the concentration of endogenous adenosine, which in turn may result from an imbalance in energy metabolism during warming. The lack of warming-related depression in hamster slices can be explained by a lower sensitivity for adenosine as compared to rat slices. In addition, a better resistance of metabolic balance against rapid temperature changes may prevent large elevations of endogenous adenosine in the hamster hippocampus. For hibernators, the avoidance of temperature change-induced disturbances of neuronal communication may be a prerequisite for safe arousal from hibernation.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy is frequently associated with a non-progressive cognitive deficit attributed to the absence of 427,000 mol. wt brain dystrophin, or to altered expression of other C-terminal products of this protein, Dp71 and/or Dp140. To further explore the role of these membrane cytoskeleton-associated proteins in brain function, we studied spatial learning and ex vivo synaptic plasticity in the mdx mouse, which lacks 427,000 mol. wt dystrophin, and in the mdx3cv mutant, which shows a dramatically reduced expression of all the dystrophin gene products known so far. We show that reference and working memories are largely unimpaired in the two mutant mice performing a spatial discrimination task in a radial maze. However, mdx3cv mice showed enhanced emotional reactivity and developed different strategies in learning the task, as compared to control mice. We also showed that both mutants display apparently normal levels of long-term potentiation and paired-pulse facilitation in the CA1 field of the hippocampus. On the other hand, an increased post-tetanic potentiation was shown by mdx, but not mdx3cv mice, which might be linked to calcium-regulatory defects. Otherwise, immunoblot analyses suggested an increased expression of a 400,000 mol. wt protein in brain extracts from both mdx and mdx3cv mice, but not in those from control mice. This protein might correspond to the dystrophin-homologue utrophin. The present results suggest that altered expression of dystrophin or C-terminal dystrophin proteins in brain did not markedly affect hippocampus-dependent spatial learning and CA1 hippocampal long-term potentiation in mdx and mdx3cv mice. The role of these membrane cytoskeleton-associated proteins in normal brain function and pathology remains to be elucidated. Furthermore, the possibility that redundant mechanisms could partially compensate for dystrophins' deficiency in the mdx and mdx3cv models should be further considered.
A polyclonal antibody, raised against the squid (Loligo pealei) syntaxin I, inhibited Ca2+-dependent interaction of syntaxin with synaptotagmin C2A domain in vitro. Presynaptic injection of the anti-Loligo syntaxin IgG into the squid giant synapse blocked synaptic transmission without affecting the presynaptic action potential or the voltage-gated calcium current responsible for transmitter release. Repetitive presynaptic stimulation produced a gradual decrease in the amplitude of the postsynaptic potential as the synaptic block progressed, indicating that the antibody interferes with vesicular fusion. Confocal microscopy of the fluorescein-labelled anti-Loligo syntaxin IgG showed binding at the synaptic active zone, while ultrastructurally, an increase in synaptic vesicular numbers in synapses blocked when this antibody was observed. These results implicate syntaxin in the vesicular fusion step of transmitter release in concert with synaptotagmin.
The cholinergic agonist carbachol (1.1 mM) and the adenosinergic agonist cyclohexyladenosine (0.1 mM) were microinjected (60 nl) into the region of the caudal, oral pontine reticular formation of the rat. Local intracerebral infusion of each receptor agonist resulted in significant, long-lasting (at least 8 h) elevations in rapid eye movement sleep without reduction in latency to onset. The effects of carbachol were reduced by the muscarinic receptor antagonist atropine, while those of cyclohexyladenosine were reduced by the adenosinergic receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyltheophylline. Atropine failed to antagonize the long-term induction of rapid eye movement sleep following cyclohexyladenosine, but did appear to suppress increases in the first 2 h. Similarity of effects on sleep parameters and the lack of additivity when injected consecutively are consistent with these agonist ligands targeting the same cellular mechanisms through their respective receptors. These findings suggest that transitory increases in the pons of either acetylcholine or adenosine may underlie long-lasting elevations in the amount of rapid eye movement sleep. Adenosine may play a role in the increased rapid eye movement sleep following prolonged wakefulness, as well as following conditions of stress and learning.
Invertebrate microvillar photoreceptors utilize the phosphoinositide cascade to transduce light stimuli and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate is thought to be one of the messengers that triggers the electrical response by mobilizing intracellular stored calcium. To further characterize the role of the phosphoinositide signaling pathway in invertebrate phototransduction, we have examined the distribution of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors in Limulus lateral eye and ventral nerve photoreceptors using an immunohistochemical approach combined with confocal microphotolysis of caged inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate. We have localized the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor using an antibody raised against a highly conserved region of the N-terminal of the protein. In lateral eye photoreceptors, the antibody intensely stains cytoplasm directly beneath the photoreceptive microvilli, containing subrhabdomeral cisternae of endoplasmic reticulum. In ventral nerve photoreceptors, the distribution of immunostaining was more homogeneous than within the lateral eye photoreceptors. Simultaneous confocal microphotolysis of caged inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and Ca2+ measurements using the fluorescent indicator Calcium Green 5N were performed to estimate inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate-induced Ca2+ release in functionally distinct areas of the ventral nerve photoreceptors. This is the first direct demonstration of the localization of putative inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor in invertebrate visual cells. The inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor appears to be localized predominantly to endoplasmic reticulum and taken in conjunction with earlier physiological data from other workers, our result supports a central role for the phosphoinositide pathway in visual transduction in Limulus photoreceptors.
Inhibition of nucleus accumbens neurons is hypothesized to be a mechanism that contributes to the reinforcing (addictive) effects of cocaine and other drugs. To test this hypothesis, the activity of single nucleus accumbens neurons of rats was recorded extracellularly during cocaine self-administration sessions. Fifty-eight percent of neurons were tonically inhibited during cocaine self-administration relative to predrug baseline; thirty-one percent were tonically excited. A majority of both excited and inhibited neurons showed phasic increases in firing time-locked to self-infusion. The high percentage of tonically inhibited neurons is in line with the strong inhibitory effects of cocaine and amphetamine observed in previous anesthetized and slice recording studies; however, the prevalence of inhibition, relative to excitation, was less than might have been expected on the basis of the earlier recording studies. The present results support the hypothesis that accumbal (tonic) inhibition contributes to drug taking. However, they also suggest that changes in firing that are distinct from the tonic inhibition may additionally contribute to accumbal mediation of drug taking and drug addiction. The uniform observation of predominant inhibition among the various electrophysiology studies is consistent with the heuristic value of anesthetized and slice recording methods in identifying potential neurophysiological correlates of drug taking; however, the existence of firing patterns (e.g., phasic increases) uniquely associated with self-administration behavior (and thus absent in anesthetized and slice studies), as well as the unique presence of the primary behavior of interest in studies such as the present one, underscores the importance of conducting electrophysiological investigations of drug taking and drug addiction in the self-administering animal in parallel with anesthetized and slice studies whenever possible.
A divergent mediolateral projection to the cerebellar nuclei of the C2 and the D2 olivocorticonuclear cerebellar pathways was found after segregate injections of a tracer (either WGA-HRP or FR or BDA) in the rostral (D2 area) or caudal side (C2 area) of the rat paraflocculus. The C2 olivary area of the cerebellar cortex sends most of its nuclear projection to the nucleus interpositus posterior (classically perceived as the nuclear target of the C2 olivocorticocerebellar pathway) and a smaller contingent of fibres to the parvocellular region of the nucleus lateralis (classically perceived as the nuclear target of the D2 olivocorticocerebellar pathway). The D2 olivary area of the cerebellar cortex sends most of its nuclear projection to the parvocellular region of the nucleus lateralis (classically perceived as the nuclear target of the D2 olivocorticocerebellar pathway) and a smaller contingent of fibres to the magnocellular region of the nucleus lateralis (classically perceived as the nuclear target of the D1 olivocorticocerebellar pathway). The lateral interaction of the D2 and the C2 olivocerebellar pathways could represent the anatomical substrate for the functional integration of different olivocerebellar compartments.
Gangliosides are assumed to play a crucial role in processes of cellular recognition and interaction important for neural development. They are designated as cytochemical markers of neuronal maturation, as striking changes in the ganglioside pattern parallel the nervous system development. Of particular interest to us are numerous studies that reported during migration of postmitotic neurons and axon formation in developing avian and mammalian brains a transient accumulation of highly sialylated c-pathway gangliosides. However, it has thus far been thought that c-pathway gangliosides do not appear in the human cerebrum; their absence could be somehow interpreted in the light of an evolutionary trend in the pattern of brain gangliosides: by increasing the phylogenetic scale this pattern changes by an accretion of less sialylated gangliosides and switches from c- via b- to a-series, respectively. The present study presents both biochemical and immunocytochemical evidence for the existence of c-pathway gangliosides in the human cerebrum during prenatal life, and their localization in discrete neuronal populations and growing axonal pathways.
The present investigation was undertaken to study the effect of proglumide, a cholecystokinin (CCK) receptor antagonist, on iminodipropionitrile (IDPN)-induced excitation, chorea, and circling (ECC) syndrome in rats. The animals were exposed to IDPN in the dose of 100 mg/kg/day IP for 9 days. Proglumide (PG) was administered IP daily 1 h before IDPN in the doses of 250, 500, and 750 mg/kg body weight in three different groups of rats. The animals were observed daily for neurobehavioral abnormalities including dyskinetic head movements, circling, tail hanging, air righting reflex, locomotor activity, and contact inhibition of the righting reflex. After behavioral studies, blood and brain samples were collected for the analysis of malondialdehyde (MDA), conjugated dienes, vitamin E, and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px). The temporal bones were also collected for inner ear histopathology. Our results showed that proglumide significantly and dose-dependently exacerbated the incidence and the severity of IDPN-induced ECC syndrome during the treatment period as well as up to 3 weeks of postdosing. Administration of IDPN produced a significant increase in MDA and conjugated dienes and a decrease in vitamin E and GSH-Px, suggesting the role of oxygen-derived free radicals (ODFR) in IDPN-induced neurotoxicity. Concomitant treatment with proglumide potentiated IDPN-induced oxidative stress. The histopathology of the inner ear showed significantly high degeneration of sensory hair cells in the crista ampullaris of the rats treated with IDPN plus proglumide compared to IDPN-alone-treated animals. Further studies are warranted to determine the role of CCK in nitrile toxicity and drug-induced dyskinesia.
Responding to concerns for weight loss and nutritional status of its patients, a Transitional Care Unit (TCU) began an intensive Medication Pass Supplement Program. It involves nurses administering a dietitian-reviewed and approved nutritional supplement for specified residents with every medication pass. As a result, 94% of discharged patients lost less than 5% of their admission weight.
The central nervous system of all vertebrate embryos is derived from a series of conspicuous segments, called neuromeres, that are particularly visible in the midbrain and hindbrain areas, giving rise to the brain stem sensory and motor nuclei. This article focuses on a series of eight embryonic rhombomeric segments whose progeny can be identified in adults by the locations of iteratively homologous reticulospinal neurons and cranial motor nuclei IV through XII. Evidence shows that these rhombomeric units represent domains of gene expression, lineage restriction, and accordingly, individual vestibular neuronal phenotypes with unique oculomotor and spinal projections. Preliminary electrophysiologic and behavioral correlates of a few vestibulo-oculomotor subgroups are used as examples to illustrate the hypothesis that homologous vestibular phenotypes likely exist in all taxa because the genetic prepattern is already well established in primitive vertebrates. Finally, the segmented hindbrain arrangement responsible for the longitudinally arranged column of vestibular subnuclei is placed in perspective with genetic and molecular approaches that will eventually permit a causal reconstruction of the signaling mechanisms responsible for the development of unique vestibular subgroups.
Structure-function studies at the systems level are an effective method for understanding the relationship of the central nervous system to behavior. Motor learning or adaptation of the vestibulo-ocular reflex is a clear example wherein this approach has been productive. During a vestibulo-ocular reflex the brain converts a head velocity signal, transduced through the vestibular semicircular canals, into an eye movement command delivered to the extraocular muscles. If the viewed target remains on the fovea of the retina, the reflex is compensatory, and its gain, eye velocity/head velocity, is one. When the image of the viewed object slips across the retina, visual acuity decreases, and the gain of the reflex, which is no longer one, is plastically adapted or adjusted until retinal stability is restored. The anatomic substrate for this plasticity thus involves brain structures in which visual-vestibular interaction can potentially occur, as well as vestibular and visual sensory and oculomotor motor structures. Further, it has been known for many years that removal of the flocculus of the cerebellum permanently precludes further vestibulo-ocular reflex adaptation, demonstrating the involvement of the cerebellum in this behavior. Maekawa and Simpson (J Neurophysiol 1973;36: 649-66) discovered that one visual input to the flocculus involved the accessory optic system and the inferior olive. Ensuing work has demonstrated that the visual signals used to adapt the vestibulo-ocular reflex are transmitted by this accessory optic system to the flocculus and subsequently to brain stem structures involved in vestibulo-ocular reflex plasticity. Presently the inclusive list of anatomic sites involved in vestibulo-ocular reflex circuitry and its adaptive plasticity is small. Our laboratory continues to believe that this behavior should be caused by interactions within this small class of neurons. By studying each class of identified neuron and its interactions with others within the list, we hope to ultimately understand the mechanisms used by the brain in the expression of this behavior.
The evolutionary and developmental changes in the eye muscle innervation, the inner ear, and the vestibulo-ocular reflex are examined. Three eye muscle patterns, based on the innervation by distinct ocular motoneurons populations, can be identified: a lamprey, an elasmobranch, and a bony fish/tetrapod pattern. Four distinct patterns of variation in the vestibular system are described: a hagfish pattern, a lamprey pattern, an elasmobranch pattern, and a bony fish/tetrapod pattern. Developmental data suggest an influence of the hindbrain on ear pattern formation, thus potentially allowing a concomitant change of eye muscle innervation and ear variation. The connections between the ear and the vestibular nuclei and between the vestibular nuclei and ocular motoneurons are reviewed, and the role of neurotrophins for pattern specification is discussed. Three patterns are recognized in central projections: a hagfish pattern, a lamprey pattern, and a pattern for jawed vertebrates. Second-order connections show both similarities and differences between distantly related species such as lampreys and mammals. For example, elasmobranchs lack an internuclear system, which is at best poorly developed in lampreys. It is suggested that the vestibulo-ocular system shows only a limited degree of variation because of the pronounced functional constraints imposed on it.
Nociceptive C fiber input to SI in the halothane-nitrous oxide anesthetized rat was assessed by recording cortical field potentials evoked by noxious thermal cutaneous stimulation with CO2-laser pulses. Morphine topically applied onto the lumbar spinal cord produced a dose-dependent inhibition of nociceptive C fiber input from the hind paw to the contralateral SI. The inhibitory effect of morphine was reversed by naloxone. Potentials evoked by CO2-laser stimulation of the forepaw were unaffected by morphine applied on the lumbar cord, indicating that the effect of morphine was exerted at the segmental level. It is concluded that input from nociceptive C fibers to SI is relayed in the spinal cord and can be inhibited by spinal opioid receptor activation. The present method offers an interesting model of ascending nociceptive transmission to the cerebral cortex.
Dexamethasone and progesterone have been found to accelerate the time of initiation and enhance the rate of myelin synthesis in Schwann cell/neuronal cocultures. The expression of mRNA for cytochrome P450scc (converts cholesterol to pregnenolone), 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (converts pregnenolone to progesterone), and the progesterone receptor were detected and markedly induced during peak myelin formation in the cocultures. The mRNA for the glucocorticoid receptor was detected, but was found to be constituitively expressed. In addition, the specific activity of 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase was measured and found to increase by 10-fold. The mRNA for cytochrome P450scc and 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase also were found to be induced during the differentiation of O-2A precursor cells to oligodendrocytes. Fibroblast growth factor and platelet-derived growth factor were found to have proliferative effects on Schwann cells, but they had no effect on the initiation or the rate of myelin formation. These results demonstrate that myelin-forming cells have inducible enzymes responsible for steroid biosynthesis and suggest a critical role for endogenous steroid hormones in signaling the initiation and enhancing the rate of myelin formation.
Catecholamines, thought to derive from the extrinsic innervation of the ovary, participate in the regulation of ovarian development and mature gonadal function. Recently, intraovarian neurons containing tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine biosynthesis, were described in the ovary of nonhuman primates. We now show that the primate ovary expresses both the genes encoding TH and dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH), the key enzymes in norepinephrine (NE) biosynthesis. Ovarian neurons were identified as a site of TH and DBH gene expression, and surprisingly, oocytes were identified as an exclusive site of DBH synthesis. Oocytes contain neither TH mRNA nor protein, indicating that they are unable to synthesize dopamine (DA). They did, however, express a DA transporter gene identical to that found in human brain. The physiological relevance of this transporter system and DBH in oocytes was indicated by the ability of isolated oocytes to metabolize exogenous DA into NE. Isolated follicles containing oocytes-but not those from which the oocytes had been removed-responded to DA with an elevation in cAMP levels; this elevation was prevented by propranolol, a beta-adrenoreceptor antagonist. The results suggest that oocytes and somatic cells are linked by a neuroendocrine loop consisting of NE synthesized in oocytes from actively transported DA and cAMP produced by somatic follicular cells in response to NE-induced beta-adrenoreceptor activation.
We have studied the in vivo signaling mechanisms involved in nociceptin/orphanin FQ (Noci)-induced pain responses by using a flexor-reflex paradigm. Noci was 10,000 times more potent than substance P (SP) in eliciting flexor responses after intraplantar injection into the hind limb of mice, but the action of Noci seems to be mediated by SP. Mice pretreated with an NK1 tachykinin receptor antagonist or capsaicin, or mice with a targeted disruption of the tachykinin 1 gene no longer respond to Noci. The action of Noci appears to be mediated by the Noci receptor, a pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein-coupled receptor that stimulates inositol trisphosphate receptor and Ca2+ influx. These findings suggest that Noci indirectly stimulates nerve endings of nociceptive primary afferent neurons through a local SP release.
This meta-analysis used 9 literature search strategies to examine 137 distinct personality constructs as correlates of subjective well-being (SWB). Personality was found to be equally predictive of life satisfaction, happiness, and positive affect, but significantly less predictive of negative affect. The traits most closely associated with SWB were repressive-defensiveness, trust, emotional stability, locus of control-chance, desire for control, hardiness, positive affectivity, private collective self-esteem, and tension. When personality traits were grouped according to the Big Five factors, Neuroticism was the strongest predictor of life satisfaction, happiness, and negative affect. Positive affect was predicted equally well by Extraversion and Agreeableness. The relative importance of personality for predicting SWB, how personality might influence SWB, and limitations of the present review are discussed.

Four experiments examined the effect of naloxone pretreatment on the expression and extinction of ethanol-induced conditioned place preference (experiments 1, 2, 4) or conditioned place aversion (experiments 1, 3). DBA/2 J mice received four pairings of a distinctive tactile (floor) stimulus (CS) with injection of ethanol (2 g/kg) given either immediately before or after 5-min exposure to the CS. A different stimulus was paired with injection of saline. Pre-CS injection of ethanol produced conditioned place preference, whereas post-CS injection of ethanol produced conditioned place aversion. Both behaviors extinguished partially during repeated choice testing after vehicle injection. Naloxone (10 mg/kg) had little effect on the initial expression of conditioned place preference, but facilitated its extinction. Moreover, repeated naloxone testing resulted in the expression of a weak conditioned place aversion to the CS that initially elicited a place preference. In contrast, naloxone (1.5 or 10 mg/kg) enhanced expression of conditioned place aversion, thereby increasing its resistance to extinction. A control experiment (experiment 4) indicated that repeated testing with a different aversive drug, lithium chloride, did not affect rate of extinction or produce an aversion to the CS previously paired with ethanol. These findings do not support the suggestion that naloxone facilitates the general processes that underlie extinction of associative learning. Also, these data are not readily explained by the conditioning of place aversion at the time of testing. Rather, naloxone's effects appear to reflect a selective influence on maintenance of ethanol's conditioned rewarding effect, an effect that may be mediated by release of endogenous opioids. Overall, these findings encourage further consideration of the use of opiate antagonists in the treatment of alcoholism.
Acute alcohol intoxication disrupts memory acquisition in humans and laboratory animals. This review summarizes recent behavioral and immediate early gene expression studies addressing the mechanisms of this phenomenon. Most behavioral investigations agree that the amnestic effect of alcohol is due to its preferential detrimental effect on hippocampus-dependent than on hippocampus-independent forms of learning. However, some hippocampal lesion studies contradict these results. Learning in behavioral paradigms is accompanied by induction of c-fos and other immediate early genes in many brain regions of the animal. In contrast, studies on alcohol-mediated changes in expression of this gene confirm selective hippocampal suppression of basal and experience-induced expression of c-fos after acute and repeated administration of alcohol. This hippocampal suppression is in marked contrast with alcohol-mediated induction of c-fos expression in other brain areas. However, the selective suppression of hippocampal gene expression and memory by alcohol is most likely mediated by a number of interacting neurotransmitter systems. Thus, effects of lower doses of alcohol (0.5 g/kg or lower in rats) seem to be preferentially mediated through GABAergic systems. At intermediate doses (0.75-2 g/kg), several other neurotransmitter systems are affected besides GABA. Higher doses lead to none-specific effects, probably involving even more neurotransmitter systems. Elucidation of these neurotransmitter systems will be highly important for developing rational approaches for correction of alcohol-related cognitive disorders.
Two reports in the last issue of this journal attempted to replicate aspects of our previous studies on anterior electroencephalogram (EEG) asymmetry, affective style, and depression. In this commentary, an overview is provided of our model of anterior asymmetries, affective style, and psychopathology. Emphasis is placed on conceptualizing the prefrontal and anterior temporal activation patterns within a circuit that includes cortical and subcortical structures. The causal status of individual differences in asymmetric activation in the production of affective style and psychopathology is considered. Major emphasis is placed on EEG methods, particularly the need for multiple assessments to obtain estimates of asymmetric activation that better reflect an individual's true score. Issues specific to each of the two articles are also considered. Each of the articles has more consistency with our previously published data than the authors themselves suggest. Recommendations are made for future research to resolve some of the outstanding issues.
The reported prevalence of depression concomitant with Parkinson's disease varies greatly in the literature, which may partly be explained by symptom overlap. To determine the impact of symptom overlap on the prevalence, the authors tested 100 Parkinson's disease patients for major depression (DSM-III-R) with both a standard, inclusive method and a diagnostic-etiologic, exclusive method. The authors found that the prevalence detected with the inclusive method (23%) decreased when the exclusive method was used (13%), which was mainly caused by lower scores on the item &quot;loss of interest.&quot; The study's findings give empirical support for the relevance of the new category in DSM-IV &quot;mood disorder due to a general medical condition.&quot;
There is widespread interest in the claim that new breakthroughs in neuroscience have radical implications for early child care policy. Yet despite parents', educators', and policy makers' enthusiasm, there are good reasons to be skeptical. The neuroscience cited in the policy arguments is not new, depending primarily on three well-established neurobiological findings: rapid postnatal synapse formation, critical periods in development, and the effects of enriched rearing on brain connectivity in rats. Furthermore, this neuroscience is often oversimplified and misinterpreted. While child care advocates are enthusiastic about potential applications of brain science, for the most part neuroscientists are more cautious and skeptical. After reviewing the evidence and the arguments, the author suggests that in the interest of good science and sound policy, more of us might adopt a skeptical stance.
Lipocalins are low molecular weight soluble proteins, a sub-class of this family are the odorant binding proteins (OBPs) which are postulated as having an important role in the perireceptor events of olfactory transduction, though their specific physiological function has yet to be defined. From the nasal mucus of normal subjects we recently isolated a 19kDa protein, the amino-acid sequence of which, limited to the first 20 residues, is identical to that of tear lipocalin. In this study we performed an immuno-histochemical investigation on the nasal localisation of this protein, using tissue specimens taken from the inferior (27 samples), middle (7 samples) and superior turbinates (6 samples) in 27 patients undergoing septoplastic surgery. The protein was detected in the sub-epithelial tubulo-acinar glands of the nasal mucosa, particularly in the mucoserous glands, in 74% of the specimens taken from the inferior turbinate, in 71.4% of those from the middle turbinate and in 66.6% of the samples of superior turbinate tissue. The homogeneous distribution of this protein in the nasal mucus could imply that it functions as a general protection agent rather than as an odour carrier or transducer.
This paper discusses the following routine examinations and new neurophysiological examinations that will likely be adopted in future. 1) EEG: a) The source derivation method and intracranial EEG recording method are useful for the detection of the exact focus in epileptic seizure. b) Polysomnography is applied to sleep disorders (ex. apnea syndrome). c) EEG topograph mapping and brain electric source analysis (BESA) are not only applied to neurological disorders, but also used for the detection of electrical equivalent dipole source localization. 2) Evoked potential (EP): ABR, SSEP and P-VEP by routine techniques are useful for the diagnosis of brain tumors and demyelinating diseases. Recently, event-related potential (ERP) has attracted attention in examining human recognition. 3) EMG and evoked EMG: a) MUP analysis with the template-matching method and single fiber EMG are topics of electromyography. b) M wave of evoked EMG has been used for the measurement of maximum nerve conduction velocity. Furthermore, the collision technique and microneurography can be applied to many kinds of nerves with different conduction velocities. c) The technique of magnetically stimulating the motor cortex was applied for the measurement of central motor conduction time (CMCT). 4) In the near future, neurophysiological examinations will include an EEG automatic diagnostic support system, neurophysiological network system, paperless digital EEG machine and non-invasive functional mapping with multichannel near infrared spectroscopic topography et al.
We examined 22 biopsied muscles from adult patients who had the histopathological characteristics of nemaline myopathy. In the first group, 13 patients had muscle weakness and/or skeletal abnormalities, such as high-arched palate, pes cavus and scoliosis which are often accompanied with the congenital nemaline myopathy. Their appropriate diagnosis had never been made until muscle biopsy was done, because of benign clinical course. In the second group, the symptoms of nine patients became manifest in adulthood and failed to show typical skeletal abnormalities. However, six muscle biopsies showed the histopathologic characteristics of congenital nemaline myopathy; abnormal fiber type distribution including type 1 fiber predominancy, type 1 fiber atrophy and type 2B fiber deficiency. Three patients remained in good health until adulthood when they developed muscle weakness with pathologic findings of nemaline myopathy. Accordingly, nemaline myopathy in adulthood can be categorized into three forms; the first two forms have clinical and pathologic evidence of the congenital benign form, whereas the symptoms are too mild to be noticed. The third form is not a hereditary disorder which may result from autoimmune pathophysiology.

Timing cues present in the acoustic waveform of speech provide critical information for the recognition and segmentation of the ongoing speech signal. Research has demonstrated that deficient temporal perception rates, that have been shown to specifically disrupt acoustic processing of speech, are related to specific language-based learning impairments (LLI). Temporal processing deficits correlate highly with the phonological discrimination and processing deficits of these children. Electrophysiological single cell mapping studies of sensory cortex in brains of primates have shown that neural circuitry can be remapped after specific, temporally cohesive training regimens, demonstrating the dynamic plasticity of the brain. Recently, we combined these two lines of research in a series of studies that addressed whether the temporal processing deficits seen in LLIs can be significantly modified through adaptive training aimed at reducing temporal integration thresholds. Simultaneously, we developed a computer algorithm that expanded and enhanced the brief, rapidly changing acoustic segments within ongoing speech and used this to provide intensive speech and language training exercises to these children. Results to date from two independent laboratory experiments, as well as a large national clinical efficacy trial, demonstrate that dramatic improvements in temporal integration thresholds, together with speech and language comprehension abilities of LLI children, results from training with these new computer-based training procedures.
Amnesia refers to a disorder of memory, and classical amnesia with continuous problems in acquiring new information is the most studied type of amnesia. The integration into a memory systems model of clinical studies of classical amnesia, cognitive theory, and studies with neuroimaging methods is one of the prime success stories in modern cognitive neuroscience. The clinical spectrum of amnesia encompasses a wide range of disorders ranging from specific encoding deficits for language or visuospatial information to psychogenic amnesia with confusion and loss of memory for personal identity. Two cases are reviewed, one with selective verbal amnesia and the other with focal retrograde amnesia, presenting some puzzles and challenges to current modular thinking about memory that may lead to theoretical advances. An interactive model emphasizing the communication between brain codes and regions in memory may have promise.
The main purpose of our study was to compare systematically EMG levels in sub-maximal training exercises for the trunk and hip flexor muscles with those voluntarily attainable in corresponding situations. Six healthy subjects performed three types of standardized training exercises, whose static positions, movement velocity and range of motion were reproduced during maximal voluntary isokinetic strength tests. EMG was recorded with wire electrodes from the iliacus muscle and with surface electrodes from the rectus femoris, sartorius, rectus abdominis, obliquus externus and internus muscles. The relative EMG values demonstrated a task dependency which could differ between individual muscles. The maximal voluntary activation levels were relatively constant across conditions. Exceptions were present, particularly for the rectus femoris and iliacus muscles. These findings highlight the consequences of using different methods of normalizing EMG. The relative EMG values presented may serve as guidelines when selecting training exercises for specific trunk and hip flexor muscles in sports and rehabilitation.





An unbiased place-preference conditioning procedure was used to characterize the conditioned reinforcing effects of phentermine (PHEN), fenfluramine (FEN), and their combination (PHEN/FEN) in previously drug-naive rats. Animals exhibited marked preferences for an environment previously associated with the administration of phentermine. The minimum dose producing a significant effect was 3.0 mg/kg. In contrast, FEN produced dose-related place aversions. In animals which received a subthreshold dose of FEN in combination with a dose of PHEN that produced a conditioned place preference, no preference or aversion for the drug-paired place was seen. Similarly, no significant conditioning in response to administration of PHEN (3.0 mg/kg) and FEN (3.0 mg/kg) was seen. The failure of PHEN/FEN to produce conditioned reinforcing effects is in line with recent clinical studies, and suggests that PHEN/FEN and drug combinations sharing the same neurochemical mechanisms of action will have low potential for abuse.
Dopamine (DA) has been shown to be required for the induction of striatal gene expression by psychostimulants. However, direct DA agonists or selective inhibitors of DA reuptake are relatively weak inducers of striatal gene expression compared with cocaine or amphetamine. So although necessary, DA alone is not sufficient to mediate the full gene induction response to psychostimulants. In addition to its actions on the DA transporter, amphetamine also enhances serotonin (5-HT) release in the striatum. In this study, we investigated the mechanism by which 5-HT contributes to the regulation of striatal gene expression by amphetamine. We found that selective lesions of serotonergic terminals in the rat forebrain using 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine prevented the full induction of striatal c-Fos by 4 mg/kg amphetamine. Furthermore, amphetamine-induced striatal c-Fos was completely inhibited by administration of the 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, MDL-72222, but not by the 5-HT2A/2C receptor antagonist, ritanserin. Consistent with this finding, the induction of c-Fos by 5-HT in primary cultures of E18 striatal neurons devoid of DA input was blocked by the 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, MDL-72222 and ICS 205-930, but not by 5-HT2A/2C antagonism. Additionally, blockade of 5-HT3 receptors by MDL-72222 inhibited the phosphorylation of activating transcription factor-1 (ATF-1) at Ser63 by amphetamine, but not the phosphorylation of cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) at Ser133. These results suggest that 5-HT3 receptor activation may be required for amphetamine-induced expression of ATF-1-regulated target genes in the striatum, which may include c-Fos.
Cocaine and amphetamine regulated transcript (CART) encodes a novel brain-enriched protein whose features are reminiscent of a neurotransmitter propeptide. We have now localized CART peptide(s) in the gastrointestinal tract by immunohistochemical methods. Polyclonal antisera raised to CART peptide 106-129 stained neuronal cell bodies and fibers in rat ileum myenteric plexus-longitudinal muscle tissue preparations. Electron microscopic analysis of thin sections showed immunopositive axon terminals in close apposition to CART-labelled and unlabelled neuronal cell bodies as well as to the longitudinal muscle. CART peptide-immunoreactive terminals contained numerous ovoid electron-lucent vesicles and a few dark-stained dense-core vesicles. Light microscopic double labelling studies revealed CART peptide immunoreactivity in a subpopulation of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-immunoreactive neurons. This combined light microscopic and ultrastructural examination of CART peptides in the gastrointestinal tract suggests a role of CART peptides as transmitters or neuromodulators in the peripheral nervous system.
Cognitive and emotional changes might be prominent or even principal manifestations of cerebellar lesions. This realization supports evidence suggesting that the cerebellum is an important part of a set of distributed neural circuits that subserve higher-order processing. Early anecdotal clinical accounts described aberrant mental or intellectual functions in the setting of cerebellar atrophy. Later systematic analyses showed that the cerebellum is able to influence autonomic, vasomotor, and emotional behaviors, and further studies revealed neuropsychological deficits in patients with degenerative diseases. Current descriptions of behavioral changes in adults and children with acquired cerebellar lesions bring the debate about the cerebellar role in neural function within the realm of clinically relevant cognitive neuroscience. The activation of focal cerebellar regions by cognitive tasks on functional neuroimaging studies, and morphologic abnormalities of cerebellum in psychiatric diseases such as autism and schizophrenia further support this view. Anatomical substrates have been elucidated that could support a cerebellar role in cognition and emotion. Our concept of `dysmetria of thought' draws an analogy with the motor system to describe and explain the impairments of higher-order behavior that result when the distributed neural circuits subserving cognitive operations are deprived of cerebellar modulation.
Laboratory Animal Endocrinology. Hormonal Action, Control Mechanisms and Interactions with Drugs By David D. Woodman. Chichester, UK, Wiley, 1997, $189.95 (vii+567 pages), ISBN 0-471-97262-2.
The adult olivocerebellar axons and their terminal arbours, the climbing fibres, are capable of remarkable structural plasticity, regulated through their interaction with Purkinje cells. When these cells are deleted,terminal climbing fibre branches retract. In contrast,there is a vigorous outgrowth of entire terminal arbours when extra postsynaptic neurones are available. The new connections lead to a functional, highly specific pattern of innervation at the single Purkinje cell level and are topographically organized according to the principles of the original projection map.A reversible climbing fibre retraction occurs following depression of electrical activity of the cerebellar cortex. These remarkable plastic properties, together with the fact that these neurones express several growth-associated genes constitutively, suggest that the climbing fibre synapses might be adjusted dynamically to participate in physiological plasticity.
In the past decade there have been advances in understanding the cellular mechanisms of the long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic transmission at parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapses in the cerebellum. This review first summarizes current views on mechanisms involved in LTD induction, from activation of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels, of ionotropic (AMPA) and metabotropic (mGluRI) glutamate receptors, to stimulation of protein kinase C and nitric oxide formation. Second, we will focus on recent findings that point towards the involvement of Ca2+ release from internal stores in LTD induction, localize the sources and targets of nitric oxide and indicate a postsynaptic site for LTD expression. Finally, a role for LTD in motor learning is now well supported by recent experiments on transgenic mice.
The analysis of patterned gene expression has been an important tool for dissecting the molecular and developmental bases of functional compartmentalization in the mammalian cerebellum. In particular, sagittally-oriented cellular aggregates arranged along the mediolateral axis are the patterning element most commonly invoked to illustrate cerebellar compartmentalization, and these are revealed both by patterns of afferent projection and by a number of classical biochemical markers that are distributed in a pattern of'zebra stripes'. Compartmentation along both the mediolateral and rostrocaudal axes might be linked mechanistically to segmentation in the fruit fly, since early cerebellar development is especially dependent upon the expression of mammalian homologs of Drosophila segmentation genes. In addition, as has been demonstrated in the retinotectal system, some of these genes are likely to control positional information required for the sagittal organization of cerebellar afferent projections. However, in contrast to these global or macro zones, the cerebellum is also compartmentalized at the subcellular or micro level. This can be visualized by differential patterns of mRNA distribution within the sole cerebellar efferent system, the Purkinje cell, defining within such cells a number of distinct subcellular domains or 'postal zones'. The global versus subcellular levels of cerebellar compartmentalization are related since they both appear to be linked to patterns of afferent innervation.A major goal of cerebellar research will be to unravel the true nature of such a relationship, and its relevance to function and behavior.
Studies of direct excitatory effects elicited by opioid agonists on various types of neurone have been confirmed and expanded in numerous laboratories following the initial findings reviewed previously by Stanley Crain and Ke-Fei Shen. However, the critical role of the endogenous glycolipid GM1 ganglioside in regulating Gs-coupled, excitatory opioid receptor functions has not been addressed in any of the recent reviews of opioid stimulatory mechanisms. This article by Stanley Crain and Ke-Fei Shen focuses on crucial evidence that the concentration of GM1 in neurones might, indeed, play a significant role in the modulation of opioid receptor-mediated analgesia, tolerance and dependence.
The article deals with some data revealing the scientific heredity of one of the pioneers, prominent patriarch of the world neurochemistry, academician O.V. Palladin as well as his scientific school on the functional neurochemistry. There have been displayed the most essential achievements of Palladin's school in two basic trends: 1) Estimation of the nerve tissue chemical topography--determination of the chemical components localization and content in morphologically and functionally different branches and microstructural formations of the central and peripheral nerve systems; 2) Initiating and inventing in the field of the functional neurochemistry--identification of the links between the content and intensity of the biochemical transformations of the intracellular chemical components and functional activity of the nerve tissue various structures, as well as these structures physiological functions molecular mechanisms. There are some data about O.V. Palladins's and his disciples participation in the work of the international and european neurochemical societies as well as in some international neurochemical journals, congresses and so on.
Mammalian rods respond to single photons with a hyperpolarization of about 1 mV which is accompanied by continuous noise. Since the mammalian rod bipolar cell collects signals from 20-100 rods, the noise from the converging rods would overwhelm the single-photon signal from one rod at scotopic intensities (starlight) if the bipolar cell summed signals linearly (Baylor et al., 1984). However, it is known that at scotopic intensities the retina preserves single-photon responses (Barlow et al., 1971; Mastronarde, 1983). To explore noise summation in the rod bipolar pathway, we simulated an array of rods synaptically connected to a rod bipolar cell using a compartmental model. The performance of the circuit was evaluated with a discriminator measuring errors in photon detection as false positives and false negatives, which were compared to physiologically and psychophysically measured error rates. When only one rod was connected to the rod bipolar, a Poisson rate of 80 vesicles/s was necessary for reliable transmission of the single-photon signal. When 25 rods converged through a linear synapse the noise caused an unacceptably high false positive rate, even when either dark continuous noise or synaptic noise where completely removed. We propose that a threshold nonlinearity is provided by the mGluR6 receptor in the rod bipolar dendrite (Shiells &amp; Falk, 1994) to yield a synapse with a noise removing mechanism. With the threshold nonlinearity the synapse removed most of the noise. These results suggest that a threshold provided by the mGluR6 receptor in the rod bipolar cell is necessary for proper functioning of the retina at scotopic intensities and that the metabotropic domains in the rod bipolar are distinct. Such a nonlinear threshold could also reduce synaptic noise for cortical circuits in which sparse signals converge.
The spectral sensitivity of cones in isolated goldfish retina was determined with whole-cell recording techniques. Three spectral classes of cones were found with maximal sensitivities around 620 nm, 540 nm, and 460 nm. UV-cones were not found because our stimulator did not allow effective stimulation in the UV range. The spectral sensitivity of the cones closely matched the cone photopigment absorption spectra at the long wavelength side of the spectrum, but deviated significantly at shorter wavelengths. Surround stimulation induced an inward current in cones due to feedback from horizontal cells. The spectral sensitivity of this feedback signal was determined in all three cone classes and found to be broader than the spectral sensitivity of the cones recorded from, and to be spectrally nonopponent. These data are consistent with a connectivity scheme between cones and horizontal cells in which the three horizontal cell systems feed back to all cone systems and in which all horizontal cell systems receive input from more than one cone system.
Color vision is spectrally opponent, suggesting that spectrally opponent neurons, such as the horizontal cells in fish and turtle retinae, play a prominent role in color discrimination. In the accompanying paper (Kraaij et al., 1998), it was shown that the output signal of the horizontal cell system to the cones is not at all spectrally opponent. Therefore, a role for the spectrally opponent horizontal cells in color discrimination seems unlikely. In this paper, we propose that the horizontal cells play a prominent role in color constancy and simultaneous color contrast instead of in color discrimination. We have formulated a model of the cone/horizontal cell network based on measurements of the action spectra of the cones and of the feedback signal of the horizontal cell system to the various cone types. The key feature of the model is (1) that feedback is spectrally and spatially very broad and (2) that the gain of the cone synapse strongly depends on the feedback strength. This makes the synaptic gain of the cones strongly dependent on the spectral composition of the surround. Our model, which incorporates many physiological details of the outer retina, displays a behavior that can be interpreted as color constancy and simultaneous color contrast. We propose that the horizontal cell network modulates the cone synaptic gains such that the ratios of the cone outputs become almost invariant with the spectral composition of the global illumination. Therefore, color constancy appears to be coded in the retina.
Teeters and Arbib (Bio Cybernet 1991;64:197-207) presented a model of the anuran retina which qualitatively accounts for some of the characteristic response properties used to distinguish ganglion cell type in anurans. Teeters et al. (Vis Res 1993;33:2361-2379) tested the model's ability to reproduce data of Ewert and Hock (Exp Brain Res 1972;16:41-59) relating toad R2, R3 and R4 ganglion cell responses to moving worm, antiworm and square-shaped stimuli of various edge lengths for stimulus shape and size dependency. In this paper we provide an exhaustive analysis of the performance of the modeled R3 cells with respect to most of the known qualitative and quantitative physiological properties of natural R3 ganglion cells. We also introduce several relevant predictions of the model relating different responses of R3 cells under the effect of changes in different model components. In some cases the predictions have been tested in neurophysiological experiments.
The cone axon is nearly four times thicker than the rod axon (1.6 vs 0.45 microns diameter). To assess how signal transfer and integration at the terminal depend on cable dimensions, a transducer (cone = ohmic conductance, rod = current source) coupled via passive cable to a sphere with a chloride conductance (representing GABAA receptor) was modelled. For a small signal in peripheral cone with a short axon, steady photosignal transfers independently of axon diameter despite a significant chloride conductance at the cone terminal. Temporally varying photosignal also transfers independently of axon diameter up to 20 Hz and is attenuated only 20% at 50 Hz. Thus, to accomplish the basic electrical functions of a peripheral cone, a thin axon would suffice. For a foveal cone with a long axon steady photosignal transfers independently of axon diameter, but temporally varying photosignal is attenuated 5-fold at 50 Hz for a thick axon and 10-fold for a thin axon. This might contribute to the lower sensitivity of central retina to high temporal frequencies. The cone axon contains 14-fold more microtubules than the rod axon, and its terminal contains at least 20-fold more ribbon synapses than the rod's. Since ribbon synapses sustain high rates of exocytosis, the additional microtubules (which require a thicker axon) may be needed to support a greater flux of synaptic vesicle components.

The effect of 7-nitroindazole (7-NI), a selective neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) inhibitor, on contextual fear conditioning in rats was examined. Systemic administration of 7-NI did not affect the acquisition of contextual fear (measured as freezing), but it did reduce locomotor activity and cause a corresponding increase in the expression of contextual freezing. It is concluded that nNOS activity is not required for either the acquisition or expression of contextual fear conditioning.
Transient focal ischemia of brief duration (15-30 min) gives rise to brain damage. In normoglycemic animals this damage usually consists of selective neuronal necrosis (SNN), and is largely confined to the lateral caudoputamen. In hyperglycemic subjects damage occurs more rapidly, involves also neocortical areas, and is often of the pan-necrotic type ('infarction'). Since experiments on forebrain ischemia of 30 min duration suggest that microcirculatory compromise develops during recirculation, we studied whether focal ischemia of the same duration, followed by reperfusion for 1, 2 or 4 h, leads to microcirculatory dysfunction. To test this possibility, we fixed the tissue by perfusion and counted the number of formed elements (leukocytes, macrophages and erythrocytes) in capillaries and postcapillary venules. Furthermore, capillary patency was evaluated following in vivo injection of Evan's blue. Histopathological examination of tissue fixed by perfusion after 1, 2 and 4 h of recirculation showed an increasing density of SNN in the caudoputamen of normoglycemic animals. Hyperglycemic, but not normoglycemic, animals showed pan-necrotic lesions ('infarction') after 4 h of recirculation. As a result, the total volume of tissue damage (SNN plus infarction) was larger in hyper- than in normoglycemic animals at 2 and 4 h of recirculation. In addition, hyperglycemic animals showed involvement of neocortex which increased with the time of reperfusion. In the ischemic hemisphere, between 5 and 10% of counted capillaries contained formed elements. However, since hyperglycemic animals contained an equal (or smaller) amount of cells the results did not suggest that capillary 'plugging' could explain the aggravated damage. Moreover, both normo- and hyperglycemic animals showed close to 100% capillary patency. The results thus fail to support the notion that the aggravation of focal ischemic damage by hyperglycemia is due to obstruction of microvessel by swelling or leukocyte adherence.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors (NRs) play critical roles in diverse synaptic processes in the brain. However, subcellular distribution, spatiotemporal expression and regulation of NR subunits in brain synapses are unknown. We report that NR1 and NR2A-2C subunits are all enriched in the postsynaptic density (PSD), which plays critical roles in trophin-mediated synaptic plasticity. Significant expression of NRs was observed the first two weeks after birth, during synaptogenesis, and in adulthood. Functional diversity of NRs, resulting from heterogeneous composition, was supported by the finding that different NR2 subunits were associated in a region-specific manner with NR1. Phosphorylation of NR1, a key subunit of the NMDA receptor-channel complex, was significantly enhanced by activators of calmodulin (CaM) kinases (CKs) or protein kinase C (PKC), but not by those of PKA. Co-immunoprecipitation studies revealed that NR1 was physically associated with functionally active PKCgamma and the major PSD protein (mPSDp) through noncovalent interactions. Our results suggest that NMDA receptors play roles in postsynaptic mechanisms in a subunit-, composition-, brain region- and developmental-specific manner. Our findings also indicate that the PSD is a coherent functional unit containing protein kinases that potentially regulate NMDA receptor function via phosphorylation.
Nurr1 is an immediate early gene encoding a member of the steroid-thyroid hormone receptor family. In PC12 cells, Nurr1 is readily induced by membrane depolarization, but not by growth factors. Nurr1 is predominantly expressed in the brain, and is essential to the differentiation of midbrain dopaminergic neurons. However, Nurr1 is also expressed in brain regions unrelated to dopaminergic neurons, e.g., hippocampus and cerebral cortex, and its immediate induction following seizure activity suggests a potential involvement of this transcription factor in modulating gene expression in the nervous system. To investigate the response of Nurr1 to neuronal activation, we analyzed Nurr1 mRNA expression in neonatal and adult rat brain following kainic acid (KA)-induced seizure. In P7 animals, systemic injection of KA increased Nurr1 mRNA levels in a few hilar cells of the dentate gyrus and some pyramidal cells of the CA3 region of the hippocampus. In older animals, Nurr1 induction progressively expanded to all hippocampal regions (P14, P21) and eventually to cortical regions (adult). The increase was rapid and transient in the dentate gyrus, a structure resistant to the neurotoxic effect of KA, and was more prolonged in other regions more susceptible to KA toxicity. Induction of Nurr1 at early postnatal stages and rapid increase in the dentate gyrus following KA-induced seizure, suggest that Nurr1 expression is modulated by neuronal activity. On the other hand, prolonged Nurr1 induction in regions sensitive to KA toxicity indicates a possible involvement of Nurr1 in selective neuronal vulnerability.
The cross-correlation histogram has provided the primary tool for inferring the structure of common inputs to pairs of neurones. While this technique has produced useful results it not clear how it may be extended to complex networks. In this report we introduce a linear model for point process systems. The finite Fourier transform of this model leads to a regression type analysis of the relations between spike trains. An advantage of this approach is that the full range of techniques for multivariate regression analyses becomes available for spike train analysis. The two main parameters used for the identification of neural networks are the coherence and partial coherences. The coherence defines a bounded measure of association between two spike trains and plays the role of a squared correlation coefficient defined at each frequency lambda. The partial coherences, analogous to the partial correlations of multiple regression analysis, allow an assessment of how any number of putative input processes may influence the relation between any two output processes. In many cases analytic solutions may be found for coherences and partial coherences for simple neural networks, and in combination with simulations may be used to test hypotheses concerning proposed networks inferred from spike train analyses.

Experiments using behavioural, lesion, functional imaging and single neuron methods are considered in the context of a neuropsychological model of visual attention. According to this model, inputs compete for representation in multiple visually responsive brain systems, sensory and motor, cortical and subcortical. Competition is biased by advance priming of neurons responsive to current behavioural targets. Across systems competition is integrated such that the same, selected object tends to become dominant throughout. The behavioural studies reviewed concern divided attention within and between modalities. They implicate within-modality competition as one main restriction on concurrent stimulus identification. In contrast to the conventional association of lateral attentional focus with parietal lobe function, the lesion studies show attentional bias to be a widespread consequence of unilateral cortical damage. Although the clinical syndrome of unilateral neglect may indeed be associated with parietal lesions, this probably reflects an assortment of further deficits accompanying a simple attentional imbalance. The functional imaging studies show joint involvement of lateral prefrontal and occipital cortex in lateral attentional focus and competition. The single unit studies suggest how competition in several regions of extrastriate cortex is biased by advance priming of neurons responsive to current behavioural targets. Together, the concepts of competition, priming and integration allow a unified theoretical approach to findings from behavioural to single neuron levels.
Both physiological and behavioral studies have suggested that stimulus-driven neural activity in the sensory pathways can be modulated in amplitude during selective attention. Recordings of event-related brain potentials indicate that such sensory gain control or amplification processes play an important role in visual-spatial attention. Combined event-related brain potential and neuroimaging experiments provide strong evidence that attentional gain control operates at an early stage of visual processing in extrastriate cortical areas. These data support early selection theories of attention and provide a basis for distinguishing between separate mechanisms of attentional suppression (of unattended inputs) and attentional facilitation (of attended inputs).
Pregnant rats were exposed continuously for 3 days before to 3 days after birth to 0.5 rotating magnetic fields (RMF) whose intensities ranged between 1.5 and 3.0 mT or between 50 and 300 microT or to sham field conditions. When the male and female rats exposed to these perinatal conditions were about 100 days old, the numbers of neuronal soma and the numbers of nuclei for the three major types of glial cells were counted within the medial preoptic nucleus (MPO), suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and ventromedial nucleus (VMH) of the hypothalamus. The male rats but not the female rats that had been exposed to either intensity of the RMF showed a significant reduction (similar to normal females) in the numbers of neurons within the MPO; the differences accommodated one-third of the variance and were not reduced significantly when the cell densities of the VMH or SCN were covaried before the analyses. The results suggest that some sexually dimorphic structures may be permanently and differentially affected when exposed perinatally to relatively weak extremely low frequency magnetic fields.
Non-linear quantifiers of brain electrical dynamics (entropy maps computed from the degradation of temporal forecasting of EEG signals) were studied in relation to drug treatment of Alzheimer's disease. A placebo condition was compared to three drug doses (50, 100 and 200 mg). A significant general effect of the drug was found when compared to placebo and specific contrasts between placebo and each of the three drug doses only reveal a significant entropy increase for the highest dose. These effects were localized bilaterally in fronto-temporal areas and support changes in the dynamics of the cerebral structures involved in memory processes.
In simultaneous bilateral nerve recordings, patients with Sympathetically Maintained Pain (SMP) affecting one limb show similar sympathetic traffic in nerves supplying the affected and unaffected limb, also when the painful limb shows a marked regional autonomic (vasomotor) dysfunction. These findings argue against the notion that SMP must be mediated by a reflex change in the pattern of sympathetic discharge. In general, they underline the fact that autonomic effector disturbances may give little information about underlying nerve traffic.

Studies using transgenic mice that overexpress ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), direct injection of CNTF into brain parenchyma, and ectopic expression of CNTF by an adenoviral vector have demonstrated that CNTF activates astrocytes. Paradoxically, studies to date have failed to show an effect of CNTF on the expression of GFAP by cultured astrocytes. Therefore, the goal of this study was to use nuclear hypertrophy and GFAP expression as indices of glial activation to compare the responsiveness of forebrain type 1 and type 2 astrocytes to CNTF. As reported by others, CNTF did not increase GFAP in type 1 astrocytes; however, it rapidly increased their nuclear size by 20%. Nuclear hypertrophy was apparent within 4 h after CNTF exposure and persisted for at least 48 h. In contrast, type 2 astrocyte GFAP increased 2-fold over the course of 48 h of CNTF treatment. During this same treatment period type 2 astroglial nuclei enlarged by 25%. We conclude that CNTF stimulates both type 1 and type 2 astrocytes directly. Together with our in vivo studies (Levison et al., 1996: Exp. Neurol. 141: 256), these data support the concept that CNTF is responsible for many of the progressive astroglial changes that appear after CNS injury and disease.
Previous investigations have shown that interleukin-6 (IL-6), unlike other cytokines, is produced in larger amounts in the brain of the febrile animal regardless of the route, peripheral vs. central, of pyrogen administration. In addition, depending on the experimental condition IL-6 production may or may not require the prior induction of interleukin-1 (IL-1). The present study was carried out in the conscious cat to assess the importance of brain-derived IL-6 in the pathogenesis of fever and the interaction at that site between this cytokine and IL-1. IL-6 was detected in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) collected at rest and its levels increased during the fever to intravenous (i.v.) endotoxin. The IL-6 elevation, but not the fever, was reversed by pretreatment with intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) IL-1 receptor antagonist (hIL-1ra). Conversely, when pyrogens (endotoxin, IL-1) were given i.c.v., i.c.v. hIL-1ra reduced the fever without altering significantly the associated rise in CSF IL-6. We conclude that IL-6 is formed in brain in response to both i.v. and i.c.v. pyrogens; however, its formation, whether requiring the prior induction of IL-1 or not, does not appear to be critical for the development of the fever. Blood-borne IL-6, unlike brain-derived IL-6, may still play a role in fever as a trigger of signal-transducing mechanisms operating across the blood-brain barrier.
Brain ascorbate levels in young adult female rat are lower than those in males. Loss of ascorbate during ischemia is also less in females, suggesting lower oxidative stress. After ovariectomy, however, ischemia-induced loss equals that in males. In the present study, we determined ascorbate levels in maturing male and female rat brain to establish when the gender difference in content arises. We further investigated whether 17beta-estradiol and/or progesterone treatment modulate levels and ischemia-induced loss in ovariectomized females and compared these data with those from normal females in proestrus and estrus. Gender differences in brain ascorbate content were absent before puberty and persisted only in cortex in aging rats. Chronic estradiol treatment, whether alone or in combination with progesterone, prevented an ovariectomy-induced ascorbate increase in hippocampus and caused levels in cortex and cerebellum to fall below those of randomly sampled normal females. These same low levels were found during proestrus and estrus. Estradiol replacement after ovariectomy prevented enhanced ischemia-induced ascorbate loss in hippocampus, but not in cortex or cerebellum. Ischemia-induced losses in proestrus and estrus were similar to those in normal controls. Progesterone had little effect in any region. These data indicate that ascorbate content and redox balance in female brain are influenced postpubertally by estrogens in a region-selective manner.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is the most potent known survival factor for substantia nigra neurons, which degenerate in Parkinson's disease, for spinal motoneurons, which die in Lou Gehrig's disease (ALS), and for Purkinje neurons, the critical outflow cells of the cerebellum. Moreover, targeted deletion of the GDNF gene results in renal dysgenesis and abnormal development of the enteric nervous system. GDNF mRNA is expressed in a complex temporospatial pattern in the central nervous system and the periphery, consistent with these observations. To begin elucidating mechanisms regulating the pattern of expression of GDNF, we have cloned the human gene, and characterized the promoter. The promoter is highly GC rich, and lacks canonical CCAT-box and TATA-box motifs. It contains more than 12 binding sites for known transcription factors. These cis-elements have the potential to interact with factors regulating constitutive expression (Sp1) and developmental expression (bHLH). Moreover, the promoter contains sites for binding transcription factors which respond to environmental signals, including CREB, AP2, Zif/268, NFkB, and MRE-BP. Combinatorial actions of these transcription factors may account for the extraordinarily complex expression patterns of the GDNF gene. Importantly, we demonstrate that the hGDNF gene utilizes a promoter distinct from that identified in the rodent GDNF gene, a finding with ramifications for Parkinson's disease and ALS research.
An endogenous opioid peptide, [Met5]-enkephalin, termed opioid growth factor (OGF) is a tonically active, autocrine-produced inhibitory molecule related to developing, neoplastic, renewing and healing tissues. The present investigation was designed to examine the role of OGF on corneal epithelial wound closure in the rabbit under in vitro and in vivo conditions. A 10-mm diameter epithelial defect was made in the center of the rabbit cornea, and the size of the defect, number of specimens with complete re-epithelialization, and rate of wound closure were evaluated using topical fluorescein and morphometric analysis. In organ culture, the influence of a complete opioid receptor blockade by naltrexone (NTX) showed an acceleration in re-epithelialization compared to controls. The action of excessive agonist (OGF) application revealed that exposure of wounded epithelium to OGF delayed wound closure under in vitro conditions, and did so in a receptor-mediated fashion. The modulatory capability of opioids on wound healing in vivo was explored by examining the effects of opioid peptide-receptor disruption using topical application of NTX, and enhanced healing of the abraded rabbit cornea was noted. The presence and location of OGF and the zeta (zeta) receptor in the normal and injured rabbit corneal epithelium were ascertained by immunocytochemistry, and both OGF and the zeta receptor were detected in basal and suprabasal epithelial cells. These results show that an opioid peptide, OGF, plays a direct role in the repair of injury to the corneal epithelium in the rabbit and acts as a receptor-mediated and constitutively expressed inhibitory molecule.
alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptors are critically involved in several forms of synaptic plasticity proposed to be neural substrates for learning and memory, e.g., long-term potentiation and long-term depression (LTD). The present study was designed to determine changes in cerebellar AMPA receptors following classical conditioning of the eyeblink-nictitating membrane response (NMR) in the rabbit. Quantitative autoradiography was used to assess changes in ligand binding properties of cerebellar AMPA receptors following NMR conditioning elicited by pairing electrical stimulation of the pontine nuclei with an airpuff to the eye. [3H]AMPA and [3H]-6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dion (CNQX) binding were determined following preincubation of frozen-thawed brain tissue sections at 0 or 35 degreesC. With 0 degreesC preincubation, no significant differences in [3H]AMPA binding to cerebellar AMPA receptors were seen between any of the experimental groups tested. In contrast, preincubation at 35 degreesC revealed significant decreases in [3H]AMPA binding to the trained side of the cerebellar cortex resulting from paired presentations of the conditioned and the unconditioned stimuli, while unpaired presentations of the stimuli resulted in no significant effect. With 35 degreesC preincubation, there were no significant differences in [3H]CNQX binding between any of the experimental groups and no significant differences in [3H]AMPA binding in the untrained side of the cerebellum. These results indicate that NMR conditioning is associated with a selective modification of AMPA-receptor properties in brain structures involved in the storage of the associative memory. Furthermore, they support the hypothesis that cerebellar LTD, resulting from decreased synaptic efficacy at parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapses mediated by a change in AMPA-receptor properties, is a form of synaptic plasticity that supports this type of learning.
The Schwann cell myelin sheath is a multilamellar structure with distinct structural domains in which different proteins are localized. Intracellular dye injection and video microscopy were used to show that functional gap junctions are present within the myelin sheath that allow small molecules to diffuse between the adaxonal and perinuclear Schwann cell cytoplasm. Gap junctions are localized to periodic interruptions in the compact myelin called Schmidt-Lanterman incisures and to paranodes; these regions contain at least one gap junction protein, connexin32 (Cx32). The radial diffusion of low molecular weight dyes across the myelin sheath was not interrupted in myelinating Schwann cells from cx32-null mice, indicating that other connexins participate in forming gap junctions in these cells. Owing to the unique geometry of myelinating Schwann cells, a gap junction-mediated radial pathway may be essential for rapid diffusion between the adaxonal and perinuclear cytoplasm, since this radial pathway is approximately one million times faster than the circumferential pathway.
Previously we reported that annexin VI is required for the budding of clathrin-coated pits from human fibroblast plasma membranes in vitro. Here we show that annexin VI bound to the NH2-terminal 28-kD portion of membrane spectrin is as effective as cytosolic annexin VI in supporting coated pit budding. Annexin VI-dependent budding is accompanied by the loss of approximately 50% of the spectrin from the membrane and is blocked by the cysteine protease inhibitor N-acetyl-leucyl-leucyl-norleucinal (ALLN). Incubation of fibroblasts in the presence of ALLN initially blocks the uptake of low density lipoprotein (LDL), but the cells recover after 1 h and internalize LDL with normal kinetics. The LDL internalized under these conditions, however, fails to migrate to the center of the cell and is not degraded. ALLN-treated cells have twice as many coated pits and twofold more membrane clathrin, suggesting that new coated pits have assembled. Annexin VI is not required for the budding of these new coated pits and ALLN does not inhibit. Finally, microinjection of a truncated annexin VI that inhibits budding in vitro has the same effect on LDL internalization as ALLN. These findings suggest that fibroblasts are able to make at least two types of coated pits, one of which requires the annexin VI-dependent activation of a cysteine protease to disconnect the clathrin lattice from the spectrin membrane cytoskeleton during the final stages of budding.
Several studies propose that long-term enhancement of synaptic transmission between neurons results from the enlargement, perforation, and splitting of synapses and dendritic spines. Unbiased analyses through serial electron microscopy were used to assess the morphological basis for synapse spilitting in hippocampal area CA1. Few perforated synapses and almost no split (i.e., branched) spines occurred at postnatal day 15, an age of high synaptogenesis; thus, synapse splitting is unlikely to be important during development. The synapse splitting hypothesis predicts an intermediate stage of branched spines with both heads sharing the same presynaptic bouton. Ninety-one branched dendritic spines were traced through serial sections, and the different branches never synapsed with the same presynaptic bouton. Projections from spines, called &quot;spinules,&quot; have been thought to extend from perforations in the postsynaptic density (PSD), thereby dividing the presynaptic bouton. Forty-six spinules were traced, and only 13% emerged from perforations in the PSD. Most spinules emerged from the edges of nonperforated PSDs, or from spine necks, where they extended into boutons that were not presynaptic to the spine. In summary, these morphological characteristics are inconsistent with synapse and spine splitting. An alternative is discussed whereby perforated synapses and spinules are transient components of synaptic activation, and branched spines appear from synapses forming in close proximity to one another.
The neuropeptide pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP) is expressed in sensory neurons. Expression of several neuropeptides is up-regulated in sensory neurons following inflammation. To examine whether also PACAP expression is regulated by inflammation, PACAP expression in L5 dorsal root ganglion (DRG) was determined, using in situ hybridization, after unilateral adjuvant-induced inflammation in the rat paw. At 12 h and day 3, but not day 21, the percentage of neurons expressing PACAP mRNA was greater in the innervating L5 DRG. Similarly, PACAP mRNA expression in individual neurons was higher in the innervating L5 DRG at 12 h and day 3, but not day 21. Up-regulated PACAP expression following adjuvant injection suggests a role for PACAP in inflammation.
The neuropathological and immunocytochemical changes in the sheep forebrain following 7 days of microdialysis, using a catheter approved for human use, are described. There was no behavioural dysfunction and light microscopy revealed mild astrogliosis and patchy macrophage infiltration immediately adjacent to the catheter track. The surrounding neuropil was normal. There was one small subcortical haemorrhage (10 x 1.5 mm). These findings are similar to those following microdialysis in rodents and suggest that the risk of significant damage to the human brain is low, that neuropathological changes in the brain around the catheter should not interfere with local brain metabolism, and that the catheter should be affixed in such a way as to minimize movement-induced damage to the brain.
The lazaroid U-74006F enhances survival of grafted ventral mesencephalic neurons. In this study the intraocular grafting model was used and survival and outgrowth from fetal ventral mesencephalic grafts treated with U-74006F was evaluated in nigrostriatal co-grafts. Fetal lateral ganglionic eminence was implanted into the anterior eye chamber and left to mature. Fetal ventral mesencephalon was then implanted and the eyes were treated with U-74006F. The lazaroid treatment enhanced survival of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons, but did not enhance TH-positive nerve fiber growth into the striatal portions of the co-grafts. However, a marked increase in nerve fiber formation was found within the ventral mesencephalic grafts. In conclusion, increased cell survival enhanced nerve fiber formation within the ventral mesencephalic portion of the co-graft and not, as expected, in the striatal part.
Male rats were injected with 6-hydroxydopamine in the lateral hypothalamus and tested for ingestive behavior starting on the day after the injection. The rats did not eat food pellets but readily ingested an intraorally infused nutritive solution. If given three daily intraoral infusions, 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats defended their body weight and were as sensitive to the inhibitory effect of cholecystokinin octapeptide on intake as controls. Dopamine was reduced by 94% in the dorsal striatum five days after the 6-hydroxydopamine injection. Noradrenaline and serotonin were less markedly affected. Thus, while appetitive ingestive behavior is disrupted, consummatory ingestive behavior and body weight regulatory competence are only marginally affected by massive damage to forebrain dopamine neural networks.
The ciliary ganglion of the chicken contains only two types of neurons. Using monoclonal antibodies against the alpha and the beta subunits of Ca2+/calmodulin-stimulated protein kinase II (CaMPK-II) we found that the alpha-subunit was localized to the choroid neurons while beta subunit was associated with the ciliary neurons. As both neurons receive their inputs from the oculomotor nerve, while their postganglionic axons leave via different nerves, the ciliary ganglion of the chicken is a neuronal system in which the functional differences between alpha and beta CaMPK-II homopolymers in the regulation of synaptic transmission can be investigated.
Recent evidence suggests that G-protein-coupled receptors can behave as multiple subunit receptors, and can be split into parts, maintaining their binding ability. Transfection of a truncated muscarinic m2 receptor (containing transmembrane domains I-V, named m2-trunc) with a gene fragment coding for the carboxyl-terminal receptor portion of the muscarinic m3 receptor (containing transmembrane domains VI and VII, named m3-tail) results in the formation of a binding site with a high affinity for the muscarinic ligand N-[3H]methylscopolamine. In this paper we analyse the antagonist binding profile of this chimeric m2-trunc/m3-tail receptor in comparison with the wild-type muscarinic m2 and m3 receptors. While many of the substances tested had an intermediate affinity for the chimeric m2-trunc/m3-tail receptor compared with m2 and m3, some compounds were able to distinguish between the chimeric m2-trunc/m3-tail receptor on the one hand and the m2 or the m3 receptor on the other. Among them, tripitramine (a high-affinity M2 receptor antagonist) bound to the m2-trunc/m3-tail receptor with the same affinity as m2, but it bound to the m3 receptor with a 103-fold lower affinity; pirenzepine (a selective muscarinic M1 receptor antagonist) bound to the chimeric receptor with an affinity that was 12- and 3-fold higher than that of m2 and m3, respectively. The results of this study demonstrate that the chimeric m2-trunc/m3-tail receptor has a pharmacological profile distinct from that of the originating muscarinic m2 and m3 receptors.
The effect of delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol, the psychoactive principle of marijuana, and [R-(+)-(2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-[[4-morpholinylmethyl]pyrol[1,2,3-d e-]-1,4-benzoxazin-6y)(1-naphthalenyl)methanone monomethanesulfonate] (WIN 55,212-2), a synthetic cannabinoid receptor agonist, on the acetylcholine output in the medial-prefrontal cortex and hippocampus was studied by microdialysis in freely moving rats. The administration of delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (1 and 5 mg/kg i.p.) and WIN 55,212-2 (5 and 10 mg/kg i.p.) produced a long lasting inhibition of acetylcholine release in both areas. The inhibitory effect of delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol and WIN 55,212-2 was suppressed in both areas by the specific cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist, [N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-me thyl-1H-pyrazole-3carboxamide]HCl (SR 141716A), at the dose of 0.1 mg/kg i.p., per se ineffective to modify basal acetylcholine release. Most interestingly, SR 141716A alone at higher doses increased acetylcholine release both in the medial-prefrontal cortex (3 mg/kg i.p.) and hippocampus (1 and 3 mg/kg i.p.), suggesting that acetylcholine output is tonically inhibited by endogenous cannabinoids. Since the inhibitory effect of delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol is produced by doses within those relevant to human use of marijuana, our results suggest that the negative effects of the latter on cognitive processes may be explained by its ability to reduce acetylcholine release in the medial-prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. Conversely, cannabinoid receptor antagonists may offer potential treatments for cognitive deficits.
Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase I (CaMKI) is maintained in an autoinhibited state by the interaction of a COOH-terminal helix-loop-helix (Ile286-Met316) regulatory domain with the catalytic core. Activation of the enzyme by calmodulin (CaM) also allows CaMKI to be phosphorylated and activated by a second enzyme, CaMK kinase (CaMKK). To more thoroughly characterize the regulation of CaMKI by CaM and its interrelationship with phosphorylation by CaMKK, we have carried out a detailed structure-function analysis using recombinant wild-type (WT) and mutant forms of CaMKI and CaMKK. CaMKI-WT, in the absence of CaM, or CaMKI-299 and CaMKI-298 were autoinhibited and could not be phosphorylated by CaMKK-433 (a truncated constitutively active form of CaMKK). Removal of Phe298 (CaMK-297) generated a constitutively active form of CaMKI that was also phosphorylated by CaMKK-433. CaMKI-WT was essentially inactive in the absence of CaM (K0.5 for activation by CaM approximately 30 nM). Mutation of Ile294 and Phe298 to alanine (CaMKI-2A) resulted in measurable basal enzyme activity. Additional mutation of Ile286 and Val290 to alanine (CaMKI-4A) increased this basal activity. Mutation of Trp303 (CaMKI-W303S) resulted in a large increase in the K0.5 for CaM ( approximately 100 microM), supporting a role for this residue as an initial target for CaM. Mutation of Phe307 (CaMKI-F307A) resulted in increased basal enzyme activity, supporting a role for this residue in autoinhibition of CaMKI. Together these studies demonstrate the critical role of specific amino acids in the autoinhibition of CaMKI and also in its activation by CaM and phosphorylation by CaMKK.
Newly synthesized phosphatidylinositol phosphates have been implicated in many membrane-trafficking reactions. They are essential for exocytosis of norepinephrine in PC12 cells and chromaffin cells, suggesting a function in membrane fusion. We have now studied the role of phosphatidylinositol phosphates in synaptic vesicle exocytosis using synaptosomes. Under conditions where phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositols is blocked, norepinephrine secretion was nearly abolished whereas glutamate and GABA release was still elicited. Thus phosphatidylinositides are essential only for some membrane fusion reactions, and exocytotic release mechanisms differ between neurotransmitters.
Ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) is a hereditary disorder, exhibiting progressive cerebellar ataxia. We investigated the expression of the ATM protein in the human CNS. By western blotting, the ATM protein was detected in the cerebellar cortex, but not in the cerebral cortex, at the late gestational stage. Immunohistochemistry revealed that cerebellar neurons, particularly Purkinje cells, were markedly immunoreactive during late prenatal and early postnatal periods, followed by persistent and moderate reactivity in Purkinje cells. The ATM protein was distributed within the cytoplasm of Purkinje cells, but not within the nuclei. The ATM protein seems to play a role as a cytoplasmic protein in neurons of the cerebellar cortex.
The present study examined the postural effects of the local application of glutamatergic antagonists unilaterally into the subthalamic nucleus (STN), on haloperidol-induced akinesia in rats. After intracerebral injections of MK-801, a selective antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) disodium, a selective alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) receptor antagonist, or vehicle, unilaterally into the STN, haloperidol was administered systemically and the elicited behaviors were assessed quantitatively. In rats which received injections of MK-801 or CNQX, but not vehicle, unilaterally into the STN, the administration of haloperidol induced contraversive dystonic posturing. The severity of the deviated posturing was dose-dependent. The present findings revealed that the overactivity of the STN under conditions of dopamine blockade is suppressed by interruptions of glutamatergic inputs, mediated via both NMDA or AMPA receptors, to the STN. Therefore, the present study may provide functional evidence in support of a recently proposed hypothesis, that not only disinhibition from the inhibitory globus pallidus efferents but also excitatory glutamatergic inputs to the STN actually contribute to the overactivity of the STN under dopamine-depleted conditions.
The necessity for phospholipase C (PLC), the enzyme which produces the second messenger molecules inositol trisphosphate (IP3) and diacylglycerol, for the induction of long-term depression (LTD) was tested at Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses in hippocampal slices in vitro. We report here that bath application of a selective cell-permeant PLC inhibitor, U-73122 (10 microM), does block the induction of LTD. In contrast, neither the inactive analog U-73343 (10 microM), nor application of U-73122 during the maintenance phase of LTD, impaired expression of LTD. Furthermore, postsynaptic infusion of U-73122 (100 microM) into single CA1 pyramidal neurons also prevented the induction of LTD. Since mGluR5 is the only metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype coupled to inositide turnover in field CA1, we conclude that the postsynaptic calcium store necessary for the induction of homosynaptic LTD is gated by IP3, through activation of mGluR5 coupled to phospholipase C.
Experiences are remembered or forgotten, but the neural determinants for the mnemonic fate of experience are unknown. Event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to identify specific brain activations that differentiated between visual experiences that were later remembered well, remembered less well, or forgotten. During scanning of medial temporal lobe and frontal lobe regions, subjects viewed complex, color photographs. Subjects later received a test of memory for the photographs. The magnitudes of focal activations in right prefrontal cortex and in bilateral parahippocampal cortex predicted which photographs were later remembered well, remembered less well, or forgotten.
A series of conformationally restricted analogues of nicotine has been synthesized and evaluated as agonists of neuronal acetylcholine receptors. Compound 2 (SIB-1663), which selectively activated human recombinant alpha 2 beta 4 and alpha 4 beta 4 nAChRs, was shown to be active in animal models of Parkinson's disease and pain.
Magnetic source imaging was used to determine whether tonotopy in auditory cortex of individuals with tinnitus diverges from normative functional organization. Ten tinnitus subjects and 15 healthy controls were exposed to four sets of tones while magnetoencephalographic recordings were obtained from the two cortical hemispheres in sequence. A marked shift of the cortical representation of the tinnitus frequency into an area adjacent to the expected tonotopic location was observed. The Euclidean distance of the tinnitus frequency from the trajectory of the tonotopic map was 5.3 mm (SD = 3.1) compared with a distance of 2.5 mm (SD = 1.3) of a corresponding frequency in the healthy controls (t = 3.13, P &lt; 0.01). In addition, a strong positive correlation was found between the subjective strength of the tinnitus and the amount of cortical reorganization (r = 0.82, P &lt; 0.01). These results demonstrate that tinnitus is related to plastic alterations in auditory cortex. Similarities between these data and the previous demonstrations that phantom limb pain is highly correlated with cortical reorganization suggest that tinnitus may be an auditory phantom phenomenon.
Neurotrophins (NTs) have recently been found to regulate synaptic transmission in the hippocampus. Whole-cell and single-channel recordings from cultured hippocampal neurons revealed a mechanism responsible for enhanced synaptic strength. Specifically, brain-derived neurotrophic factor augmented glutamate-evoked, but not acetylcholine-evoked, currents 3-fold and increased N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor open probability. Activation of trkB NT receptors was critical, as glutamate currents were not affected by nerve growth factor or NT-3, and increased open probability was prevented by the tyrosine kinase inhibitor K-252a. In addition, the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 blocked brain-derived neurotrophic factor enhancement of synaptic transmission, further suggesting that NTs modulate synaptic efficacy via changes in NMDA receptor function.
Two sets of experiments were carried out to examine the organization of associational connections within the rat entorhinal cortex. First, a comprehensive analysis of the areal and laminar distribution of intrinsic projections was performed by using the anterograde tracers Phaseolus vulgaris-leuocoagglutinin (PHA-L) and biotinylated dextran amine (BDA). Second, retrograde tracers were injected into the dentate gyrus and PHA-L and BDA were injected into the entorhinal cortex to determine the extent to which entorhinal neurons that project to different septotemporal levels of the dentate gyrus are linked by intrinsic connections. The regional distribution of intrinsic projections within the entorhinal cortex was related to the location of the cells of origin along the mediolateral axis of the entorhinal cortex. Cells located in the lateral regions of the entorhinal cortex gave rise to intrinsic connections that largely remained within the lateral reaches of the entorhinal cortex, i.e., within the rostrocaudally situated entorhinal band of cells that projected to septal levels of the dentate gyrus. Cells located in the medial regions of the entorhinal cortex gave rise to intrinsic projections confined to the medial portion of the entorhinal cortex. Injections made into mid-mediolateral regions of the entorhinal cortex mainly gave rise to projections to mid-mediolateral levels, although some fibers did enter either lateral or medial portions of the entorhinal cortex. These patterns were the same regardless of whether the projections originated from the superficial (II-III) or deep (V-VI) layers of the entorhinal cortex. This organizational scheme indicates, and our combined retrograde/anterograde labeling studies confirmed, that laterally situated entorhinal neurons that project to septal levels of the dentate gyrus are not in direct communication with neurons projecting to the temporal portions of the dentate gyrus. These results suggest that entorhinal intrinsic connections allow for both integration (within a band) and segregation (across bands) of entorhinal cortical information processing.
By using three-dimensional computer reconstruction techniques and the production of two-dimensional unfolded maps, we analyzed the topographic organization of projections from the entorhinal cortex of the rat to the dentate gyrus. The retrograde tracers, Fast blue and Diamidino yellow, were injected at all septotemporal levels of the dentate gyrus, and the distribution of retrogradely labeled layer II cells in the entorhinal cortex was plotted by using computer-aided microscopy systems. Discrete injections of fluorescent dyes into the dentate gyrus labeled bands of layer II neurons in the entorhinal cortex that covered approximately 45% of its surface area. Injections confined to the septal half of the dentate gyrus resulted in a band that occupied the most lateral and caudomedial portions of the entorhinal cortex. Although there were subtle changes in the density of labeled cells in this region, essentially the same region of cells was labeled after any injection into the septal half of the dentate gyrus. Injections into mid-septotemporal levels of the dentate gyrus (50-75% of the distance from the septal pole) led to a distinctly different pattern of retrograde labeling. A more medial portion of the lateral entorhinal cortex and a more rostral portion of the medial entorhinal area were labeled in these cases. Another change in entorhinal labeling occurred when the injection involved the most temporal quarter of the dentate gyrus. Injections into this area led to a constrained region of entorhinal labeling that included the most medial portion of the lateral entorhinal area and the most rostral portion of the medial entorhinal area. Although the domains of cells projecting to septal, mid-septotemporal, and temporal levels of the dentate gyrus were not entirely segregated, there was relatively little overlap of the three populations of neurons. These data raise the possibility that different portions of the entorhinal-hippocampal circuit are capable of semiautonomous information processing, at least at the stage of input to the dentate gyrus.
Disturbances of the dopaminergic and serotoninergic neurotransmitter systems have been implicated in the pathogenesis of depressive symptoms. Associations have been reported between markers of the two neurotransmitter systems and the presence of illness or severity of depressive episodes, but no attention has been focused on the periods of remission. The present report focuses on a possible association of self-esteem in remitted mood disorder patients with the functional polymorphism located in the upstream regulatory region of the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTTLPR) and the dopamine receptor D4 (DRD4). Inpatients (N=162) affected by bipolar (n=103) and unipolar (n=59) disorder (DSM III-R) were assessed by the Self-Esteem Scale (SES, Rosenberg, 1965) and were typed for DRD4 and 5-HTTLPR (n=58 subjects) variants at the third exon using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) techniques. Neither DRD4 nor 5-HTTLPR variants were associated with SES scores, and consideration of possible stratification effects such as sex and psychiatric diagnosis did not reveal any association either. The serotonin transporter and dopamine receptor D4 genes do not, therefore, influence self-esteem in remitted mood disorder subjects.
Disturbances of the dopaminergic neurotransmitter system have been implicated in the pathogenesis of depressive symptoms. Many studies have, however, failed to detect any association between genetic markers for the dopamine system and mood disorders. A possible reason for this may lie in the definition of phenotype, which is traditionally based on psychiatric diagnosis. In this study, we investigated the possibility that functional variants of the dopamine D4 receptor (DRD4) gene might be associated with depressive symptomatology in a sample of mood disorder subjects. Seventy-nine inpatients affected by bipolar (n=37) and major depressive (n=42) disorder (DSM-IV) were assessed at admission by the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale and were typed for DRD4 variants at the third exon using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) techniques. DRD4 was associated with delusional symptoms (F=5.56; d.f.=2,145; P=0.005), with DRD4*7 exhibiting higher scores when compared to DRD4*4 (P=0.006) variants. Polarity of mood disorder did not influence results significantly. The findings are in accordance with our previous report of an association of the DRD4 gene with delusional symptomatology of major psychoses. DRD4*7 should, therefore, be considered a liability factor for delusional symptoms in mood disorders.
Two cysteine protease families (caspase and calpain) participate in apoptosis. Here we report that the endogenous calpain inhibitor calpastatin is fragmented by caspase(s) to various extents during early apoptosis in two cell types. In anti-fas or staurosporine-treated Jurkat T-cells, the high-molecular-weight form (HMW) of calpastatin (apparent Mr 110 K) was extensively degraded to immunoreactive fragments of Mr 75 K and 30 K In apoptotic SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells, HMW calpastatin was degraded to a major immunoreactive fragment of 75 K. In both cell types, fragmentation of HMW calpastatin was blocked by a caspase-specific inhibitor carbobenzoxy-Asp-CH2OC(O)-2,6-dichlorobenzene. In vitro translated HMW calpastatin was sensitive to proteolysis by recombinant caspase-1, -3, and -7. By contrast, in vitro translated LMW calpastatin (which lacks domains L and I) was cleaved into multiple fragments only by caspase-1 and was relatively resistant to caspase-3, -7, and other caspases tested. Consistently with that, purified erythroid LMW calpastatin was also highly susceptible to caspase-1 digestion. Recombinant human calpastatin spanning domain I through III (CAST(DI-III)) was found cleaved by caspase-1 at at least three sites, located in either the A or the C helix of domains I and III (ALDD137*L, LSSD203*F and ALAD404*S), while only a single site (ALDD137*L) was cleaved by caspase-3. These findings suggest that both HMW and LMW calpastatins are more vulnerable to caspase-1 than to caspase-3. Surprisingly, both erythroid LMW calpastatin and recombinant CAST(DI-III) fragmented by caspase-1 suffered only a less than twofold reduction of inhibitory activity toward calpain. We propose that the proteolysis of calpastatin in early apoptosis might have yet unidentified effects on the cross-talk between the two protease systems.
To investigate the possible link between neuropeptide Y (NPY) and depression, we analyzed NPY and its receptors in different limbic-related regions in the Flinder sensitive line (FSL), a genetic animal model of depression. In situ hybridization histochemistry was used to measure mRNA expression levels of NPY and NPY receptors, Y1 and Y2, in the FSL as compared to the control Flinder resistant Line rats (FRL). In the FSL rats, NPY mRNA expression levels were significantly decreased in the nucleus accumbens and CA regions, but increased in the arcuate nucleus and anterior cingulate cortex. Y1 receptor mRNA expression was decreased in different cortical regions (retrosplenial, anterior cingulate, and occipital) and in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. Y2 mRNA expression levels did not differ between FSL and FRL animals. The effect of the antidepressant drug fluoxetine (a serotonin reuptake inhibitor) in the two rat strains was also studied. There was an increase of the NPY mRNA hybridization signal in the arcuate nucleus of both strains following the antidepressant treatment (10 micromol/kg; daily for 14 days). However, in other brain regions, fluoxetine administration caused a differential effect on the induction of NPY-related genes in the two rat strains: in the CA region and dentate gyrus NPY mRNA expression was increased in the FSL, but decreased in the FRL. In contrast, Y1 mRNA levels tended to be decreased by fluoxetine in the nucleus accumbens of the FSL rats, but increased in the FRL. These findings suggest an involvement of the Y1, but not the Y2, receptor subtype in depressive disorder. Overall, the results appear to sustain the importance of the FSL rats as an animal model of depression in view of the impairment of NPY genes and the ability of fluoxetine treatment to normalize NPY-related gene expression selectively in this strain.
It has been proposed that neuritic plaques or toxic substances diffusing from them contribute to neurodegeneration in Alzheimer disease. We examined this hypothesis by looking for evidence of decreased neuronal energy metabolism in the proximity of neuritic plaques. Levels of mitochondrial DNA-encoded mRNA for subunit III of cytochrome oxidase, a marker of neuronal energy metabolism, were determined in post mortem brain samples. Consistent with earlier results, overall cytochrome oxidase subunit III mRNA levels were decreased in Alzheimer midtemporal cortex compared with controls. However, this reduction did not correlate with plaque density. In Alzheimer brains, cytochrome oxidase subunit III mRNA levels in neurons bearing neurofibrillary tangles were lower than in tangle-free neurons. However, neuronal cell bodies in close proximity of neuritic plaques showed no decrease in cytochrome oxidase subunit III mRNA or total polyadenylated mRNA compared with more distant neurons. Cytochrome oxidase enzyme activity in neuronal processes also showed no local reduction around neuritic plaques. These results suggest that neuritic plaques do not contribute to reduced neuronal energy metabolism in Alzheimer disease.
The prolactin receptor (PRL-R) has recently been identified in various hypothalamic nuclei of female rats. In this study, expression of both the short- and long-forms of PRL-R mRNA was investigated in 11 microdissected hypothalamic nuclei of ovariectomized, estrogen-treated rats. Specific nuclei were micropunched from 300-micrometer thick frozen coronal sections with autoclaved stainless steel needles of 300 or 500 micrometer diameter. Total RNA was extracted from the punched tissue, and the two forms of PRL-R mRNA were detected by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using specific primers. The RT-PCR product was verified by Southern hybridization with a digoxigenin-labelled oligonucleotide probe common to both forms. The results showed that both forms of PRL-R mRNA were expressed to varying degrees in the choroid plexus, cerebral cortex and various hypothalamic nuclei, including: ventromedial preoptic nucleus, ventrolateral preoptic nucleus, medial preoptic nucleus, suprachiasmatic nucleus, supraoptic nucleus, paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, periventricular hypothalamic nucleus, arcuate nucleus, ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus, and median eminence. Of these brain regions, the choroid plexus expressed the highest level while the suprachiasmatic nucleus contained the lowest level of mRNA. There was no expression detected in the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus. The choroid plexus, supraoptic nucleus and paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus had higher levels of the short-form of the PRL-R mRNA than the long-form, whilst other hypothalamic nuclei preferentially expressed the long-form of the PRL-R mRNA. The differential expression of PRL-R gene suggests that the two forms may be differentially regulated in specific brain regions and may mediate different functions of PRL.
We show that spike timing adds to the information content of spike trains for transiently presented stimuli but not for comparable steady-state stimuli, even if the latter elicit transient responses. Contrast responses of 22 single neurons in macaque V1 to periodic presentation of steady-state stimuli (drifting sinusoidal gratings) and transient stimuli (drifting edges) of optimal spatiotemporal parameters were recorded extracellularly. The responses were analyzed for contrast-dependent clustering in spaces determined by metrics sensitive to the temporal structure of spike trains. Two types of metrics, cost-based spike time metrics and metrics based on Fourier harmonics of the response, were used. With both families of metrics, temporal coding of contrast is lacking in responses to drifting sinusoidal gratings of most (simple and complex) V1 neurons. However, two-thirds of all neurons, mostly complex cells, displayed significant temporal coding of contrast for edge stimuli. The Fourier metrics indicated that different response harmonics are partially independent, and their combined use increases information about transient stimuli. Our results demonstrate the importance of stimulus transience for temporal coding. This finding is significant for natural vision because moving edges, which are present in moving object boundaries, and saccades induce transients. We think that an abrupt change in the adapted state of the local visual circuitry triggers the temporal structuring of spike trains in V1 neurons.
Neuropathic pain accompanies peripheral nerve injury after a wide variety of insults including metabolic disorders, traumatic nerve injury, and neurotoxic drugs. Chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain, caused by drugs such as vincristine and taxol, occurs in cancer patients who receive these drugs as antineoplastic agents. Although a variety of remediations have been attempted, the absence of knowledge concerning mechanisms of chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain has hindered the development of treatment strategies. Vincristine, a widely used chemotherapeutic agent, produces painful peripheral neuropathy in humans and mechanical hyperalgesia in rats. To test the hypothesis that alterations in C-fiber nociceptor function occur during vincristine-induced painful peripheral neuropathy, we performed in vivo extracellular recordings of single neurons from the saphenous nerve of vincristine-treated rats. Forty-one percent of C-fiber nociceptors were significantly hyper-responsive to suprathreshold mechanical stimulation. As a population, these mechanically hyper-responsive nociceptors also had significantly greater responses to suprathreshold heat stimulation; however, heat hyper-responsiveness was found only in a subset of these nociceptors and was never detected in the absence of mechanical hyper-responsiveness. In addition, mean conduction velocities of A-fibers and C-fibers in vincristine-treated rats were significantly slowed. Mean heat and mechanical activation thresholds of C-fiber nociceptors, their distribution among subclasses, and the percentage of spontaneously active neurons in vincristine-treated rats were not statistically different from controls. Vincristine does not, therefore, cause generalized impairment of C-fiber nociceptor function but rather specifically interferes with mechanisms underlying responsiveness to suprathreshold stimuli. Furthermore, vincristine-induced nociceptor hyper-responsiveness may involve alterations specifically in mechanotransduction in some nociceptors and alterations in general cellular adaptation mechanisms in others.
Amblyopia is a developmental disorder of pattern vision. After surgical creation of esotropic strabismus in the first weeks of life or after wearing -10 diopter contact lenses in one eye to simulate anisometropia during the first months of life, macaques often develop amblyopia. We studied the response properties of visual cortex neurons in six amblyopic macaques; three monkeys were anisometropic, and three were strabismic. In all monkeys, cortical binocularity was reduced. In anisometropes, the amblyopic eye influenced a relatively small proportion of cortical neurons; in strabismics, the influence of the two eyes was more nearly equal. The severity of amblyopia was related to the relative strength of the input of the amblyopic eye to the cortex only for the more seriously affected amblyopes. Measurements of the spatial frequency tuning and contrast sensitivity of cortical neurons showed few differences between the eyes for the three less severe amblyopes (two strabismic and one anisometropic). In the three more severely affected animals (one strabismic and two anisometropic), the optimal spatial frequency and spatial resolution of cortical neurons driven by the amblyopic eye were substantially and significantly lower than for neurons driven by the nonamblyopic eye. There were no reliable differences in neuronal contrast sensitivity between the eyes. A sample of neurons recorded from cortex representing the peripheral visual field showed no interocular differences, suggesting that the effects of amblyopia were more pronounced in portions of the cortex subserving foveal vision. Qualitatively, abnormalities in both the eye dominance and spatial properties of visual cortex neurons were related on a case-by-case basis to the depth of amblyopia. Quantitative analysis suggests, however, that these abnormalities alone do not explain the full range of visual deficits in amblyopia. Studies of extrastriate cortical areas may uncover further abnormalities that explain these deficits.
The cerebral cortex of mice with a targeted disruption in the gene for cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5) is abnormal in its structure. Bromodeoxyuridine labeling reveals that the normal inside-out neurogenic gradient is inverted in the mutants; earlier born neurons are most often found superficial to those born later. Despite this, the early preplate layer separates correctly and neurons with a normal, pyramidal morphology can be found between true marginal zone and subplate. Consistent with their identity as layer VI corticothalamic neurons, they can be labeled by DiI injections into thalamus. The DiI injections also reveal that the trajectories of the cdk5(-/-) thalamocortical axons are oblique and cut across the entire cortical plate, instead of being oriented tangentially in the subcortical white matter. We propose a model in which the cdk5(-/-) defect blocks cortical development at a heretofore undescribed intermediate stage, after the splitting of the preplate, but before the migration of the full complement of cortical neurons.
alpha-dystroglycan (alpha-DG) is an agrin-binding protein that has been implicated in acetylcholine receptor (AChR) clustering, but it is unclear whether it acts as a coreceptor involved in initial agrin signaling or as a component involved in later events. To investigate its role, we have generated antisense derivatives of the C2 mouse muscle cell line, which have reduced alpha-DG expression. When compared with wild-type cells, the alpha-DG-deficient myotubes have a dramatic reduction in the number of spontaneous and agrin-induced AChR clusters. Several findings suggest that this decrease in AChR clustering is likely not because of a defect in agrin signaling through the MuSK receptor tyrosine kinase. Compared with wild-type cells, the alpha-DG-deficient cell lines showed only a transient reduction in the level of agrin-induced MuSK tyrosine phosphorylation and no reduction in AChR beta-subunit tyrosine phosphorylation. Additionally, agrin-induced phosphorylation of MuSK in wild-type myotubes was not decreased using agrin fragments that lack the domain primarily responsible for binding to alpha-DG. Finally, neural agrin-induced phosphorylation of MuSK was unaffected by treatments such as excess muscle agrin or anti-alpha-DG antibodies, both of which block agrin-alpha-DG binding. Together, these results suggest that alpha-DG is not required for agrin-MuSK signaling but rather that it may play a role elsewhere in the clustering pathway, such as in the downstream consolidation or maintenance of AChR clusters.
By affecting the activity of the adaptation motor, Ca2+ entering a hair bundle through mechanoelectrical transduction channels regulates the sensitivity of the bundle to stimulation. For adaptation to set the position of mechanosensitivity of the bundle accurately, the free Ca2+ concentration in stereocilia must be tightly controlled. To define the roles of Ca2+-regulatory mechanisms and thus the factors influencing adaptation motor activity, we used confocal microscopy to detect Ca2+ entry into and clearance from individual stereocilia of hair cells dialyzed with the Ca2+ indicator fluo-3. We also developed a model of stereociliary Ca2+ homeostasis that incorporates four regulatory mechanisms: Ca2+ clearance from the bundle by free diffusion in one dimension, Ca2+ extrusion by pumps, Ca2+ binding to fixed stereociliary buffers, and Ca2+ binding to mobile buffers. To test the success of the model, we compared the predicted profiles of fluo-3 fluorescence during the response to mechanical stimulation with the fluorescence patterns measured in individual stereocilia. The results indicate that all four of the Ca2+ regulatory mechanisms must be included in the model to account for the observed rate of clearance of the ion from the hair bundle. The best fit of the model suggests that a free Ca2+ concentration of a few micromolar is attained near the adaptation motor after transduction-channel opening. The free Ca2+ concentration substantially rises only in the upper portion of the stereocilium and quickly falls toward the resting level as adaptation proceeds.
Hippocampal pyramidal neurons express three major voltage-dependent potassium currents, IA, ID, and IK. During hippocampal development, IA, the rapidly activating and inactivating transient potassium current, is detected soon after pyramidal neurons can be morphologically identified. Appearance of IA in developing pyramidal neurons is dependent on contact with cocultured astroglial cells; cultured pyramidal neurons not in contact with astroglial cells have reduced membrane area and IA (Wu and Barish, 1994). We have examined intracellular signaling pathways that could contribute to the regulation of IA development by probing developing pyramidal neurons with kinase inhibitors. We observed that exposure to LY294002 or wortmannin, inhibitors of phosphatidylinositol (PI) 3-kinase, reduced somatic cross-sectional area, neurite outgrowth, whole-cell capacitance, IA amplitude and density (amplitude normalized to membrane area), and immunoreactivity for Kv4.2 and/or Kv4.3 (potassium channel subunits likely to be present in the channels carrying IA). In contrast, exposure to ML-9 or KN-62, inhibitors of myosin light chain kinase or Ca2+-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), reduced membrane area and IA amplitude but did not affect IA density or Kv4. 2/3 immunoreactivity to the same extent as inhibitors of PI 3-kinase. Unexpectedly, exposure to bisindolymaleimide I or calphostin C, inhibitors of protein kinase C (PKC), did not affect membrane area or potassium current development. Our data suggest that PI 3-kinases regulate both A-type potassium channel synthesis and plasmalemmal insertion of vesicles bearing these potassium channels. CaMKII appears to regulate fusion of channel-bearing vesicles with the plasmalemma and myosin light chain kinase to regulate centripetal transport of channel-bearing vesicles from the Golgi. We further suggest that astroglial cells exert their influence on pyramidal neuron development through activation of PI 3-kinases.
alpha-Latrotoxin (alpha-LT) potently enhances both &quot;spontaneous&quot; and &quot;depolarization-evoked&quot; quantal secretion from neurons. Here we have used the patch-clamped rat adrenal chromaffin cell to examine simultaneously the effects of alpha-LT on membrane current or voltage, cytosolic Ca, and membrane capacitance, the latter used as an assay for exocytosis. In chromaffin cells exposed to toxin concentrations of &gt;100 pM, the development of large conductance, Ca-permeable ion channels, accompanied by a rise in cytosolic Ca to levels near 1 microM, precedes the initiation of spontaneous exocytosis. These channels appear to be induced de novo, because they occur concurrently with massive reduction or pharmacological block of voltage-dependent Na and Ca currents. However, enhancement of depolarization-evoked release, seen in many cells at &lt;50 pM toxin, often occurs in the absence of a rise in background cytosolic Ca or de novo channel activity. These results favor Ca entry through toxin-induced channels underlying initiation of spontaneous release and direct modulation of the secretory machinery by the toxin-bound receptor contributing to enhancement of depolarization-evoked secretion as well as spontaneous release.
Tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) is expressed by hypothalamic and peripheral sympathetic neurons. The sympathetic axons that permeate artery walls have not been investigated as possible sources of intramural t-PA. The plasmin produced by such a system would locally activate both fibrinolysis and matrix metalloproteinases that regulate arterial collagen turnover. To assess this neural t-PA production, we investigated the capacity of rat cervical sympathetic ganglion neurons to synthesize and release t-PA, and the expression of the enzyme in carotid artery and the iris-choroid microvascular tissues that receive the ganglion axon distribution. Functional studies confirmed that (i) the ganglion neuron cell bodies synthesize t-PA mRNA, (ii) cultured ganglion carotid artery and iris-choroid microvascular explants predominantly release t-PA rather than urokinase, (iii) microvascular tissues release approximately 20 times more t-PA per milligram than carotid explants (which accords with the higher innervation density of small vessels), and (iv) removal of the endothelium did not cause major reductions in the t-PA release from carotid and microvascular explants. Immunolocalization studies then confirmed a strong expression of the enzyme within the ganglion axons, the carotid adventitia that receives these axons, and the predominantly sympathetic axon terminals in the iris-choroid microvasculature. These data indicate the existence of a previously undescribed system for the delivery of neural t-PA to vessel walls. The intramural production of plasmin induced by this system represents a novel principle for the regulation of arterial matrix flexibility, especially in the media of densely innervated small arteries and resistance arterioles involved in the pathogenesis of stroke, hypertension, and vascular aging. Thus, the data suggest an important new interface between neuroscience and vascular biology that merits further exploration.
Steady-state analysis of nucleotide-binding sites on rat liver plasma membranes was carried out using 3H-labelled ATP as radioligand under complete inhibition of ecto-ATPase activity by excess EDTA. Binding of [3H]ATP to the membranes is saturable, reversible and apparently involves one population of specific binding sites with Kd of about 90 nM and binding capacity (Bmax) of 15 pmol/mg protein. A broad spectrum of purinergic agonists and antagonists was examined as potential inhibitors of the measured binding. The displacement studies showed the following rank order of inhibitory potency for [3H]ATP-binding sites (pIC50 values in parentheses): ATPgammaS (7.49)&gt;2-MeSATP (7.18)&gt;ATP (6.91)&gt;ADPbetaS (6.64)&gt;/=ADP (6.56)&gt;RB2 (6.14)&gt;suramin (5.40)&gt;Ap4A (4. 57)&gt;alpha,beta-MeATP (4.19)&gt;/=beta,gamma-MeATP (3.97). AMP, adenosine, Ap5A, PPADS, beta-glycerophosphate as well as non-adenine nucleoside triphosphates GTP, UTP and CTP did not exert any effect on the measured binding at concentration ranges of 10-6-10-4 M. In order to ascertain whether ATP and its analogues are capable of interacting with the same binding domain, 2-MeSATP and ADP were treated as alternative ligands that could compete with unlabelled ATP for its binding sites. A 2-fold increase of Kd value for ATP-receptor interaction was observed in the presence of 2-MeSATP (60 nM) or ADP (250 nM) without any modulation of Bmax value, confirming that inhibitory effects of these compounds are competitive in nature. These studies demonstrate that ATP and its analogues are able to interact with a single binding domain on liver plasma membranes, which may be identified as ligand-binding component of P2 purinoceptors of the P2Y1 subtype.
Anandamide (arachidonylethanolamide), 5,8,11,14-eicosatetraenamide, (N-2-hydroxyethyl), was tested for bronchodilator and anti-inflammatory activities. Conscious guinea pigs were given cumulative i.v. doses of anandamide (1.0, 3.0, and 10.0 mg/kg) to assess its effect on dynamic compliance (Cdyn), total pulmonary resistance (RL), tidal volume (VT) and breathing frequency (f). Other guinea pigs were exposed to an aerosol of A23187 (6S-[6alpha(2S*,3S*),8beta(R*),9beta,11alpha]-5- (methylamino)-2-[[3,9,11-trimethyl-8-[1-methyl-2-oxo-2-(1H-pyrrol-2-yl)e thyl]-1,7-dioxaspiro[5.5]undec-2-yl]methyl]-4-benzoxazole carboxylic acid) until Cdyn decreased by 50% (approximately 5 min) and at 20 min, cumulative i.v. doses of anandamide (1.0, 3.0, and 10.0 mg/kg) were administered and reversal of Cdyn examined. After the final dose of anandamide, the animals were killed and excised lung gas volumes (ELGV), i.e., pulmonary gas trapping, measured. Other animals were treated i.v. with anandamide (10.0 mg/kg), exposed to an aerosol of A23187 until labored breathing began, and then killed 1 h later. Anandamide did not significantly affect Cdyn, RL, VT and f. ELGV values of anandamide-treated guinea pigs were not different from those of vehicle-treated animals. Anandamide failed to reverse A23187-induced decreases in Cdyn and to reduce A23187-associated ELGV increases. Also, it did not prevent the prolonged airway obstruction caused by A23187. Histological evaluation revealed that anandamide significantly reduced A23187-related airway epithelial injury and pulmonary leukocytosis. However, it did not prevent A23187-induced peribronchiolar granulocytic accumulation. Our results suggest that in vivo anandamide has minimal direct airway smooth muscle-related actions, however it may possess modest anti-inflammatory properties.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD), a chronic cerebral inflammatory state is thought to lead to neuronal injury. Microglia, intrinsic cerebral immune effector cells, are likely to be key in the pathophysiology of this inflammatory state. We showed that macrophage colony-stimulating factor, a microglial activator found at increased levels in the central nervous system in AD, dramatically augments beta-amyloid peptide (betaAP)-induced microglial production of interleukin-1, interleukin-6, and nitric oxide. In contrast, granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor, another hematopoietic cytokine found in the AD brain, did not augment betaAP-induced microglial secretory activity. These results indicate that increased macrophage colony-stimulating factor levels in AD could magnify betaAP-induced microglial inflammatory cytokine and nitric oxide production, which in turn could intensify the cerebral inflammatory state by activating astrocytes and additional microglia, as well as directly injuring neurons.
Mutations in presenilin (PS) 1 or PS2 genes account for the majority of early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease, and these mutations have been shown to increase production of species of amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) ending at residue 42, i.e. the most amyloidogenic form of Abeta. To gain insight into the molecular mechanisms whereby mutant PS induces overproduction of Abeta42, we constructed cDNAs encoding mutant and/or truncated forms of PS2 and examined the secretion of Abeta42 from COS or neuro2a cells transfected with these genes. Cells expressing full-length PS2 harboring both N141I and M239V mutations in the same polypeptide induced overproduction of Abeta42, although the levels of Abeta42 were comparable with those in cells engineered to express PS2 with one or the other of these PS2 mutations. In contrast, cells engineered to express partially truncated PS2 (eliminating the COOH-terminal third of PS2 while retaining the endoproteolytic NH2-terminal fragment) and harboring a N141I mutation, as well as cells expressing COOH-terminal fragments of PS2, did not overproduce Abeta42, and the levels of Abeta42 were comparable with those in cells that expressed full-length, wild-type PS2 or fragments thereof. These data indicate that: (i) the Abeta42-promoting effects of mutant PS2 proteins reach the maximum level with a given single amino acid substitution (i.e. N141I or M239V); and (ii) the expression of full-length mutant PS2 is required for the overproduction of Abeta42. Hence, cooperative interactions of NH2- and COOH-terminal fragments generated from full-length mutant PS2 may be important for the overproduction of Abeta42 that may underlie familial Alzheimer's disease.
Previously we showed that activation of Erk in quiescent cells occurs in the caveolae fraction isolated from fibroblasts. Since the structure and function of caveolae is sensitive to the amount of cholesterol in the membrane, it might be that a direct link exists between the concentration of membrane cholesterol and mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase activation. We acutely lowered the cholesterol level of the caveolae fraction by incubating Rat-1 cells in the presence of either cyclodextrin or progesterone. Cholesterol-depleted caveolae had a reduced amount of several key protein components of the MAP kinase complex, including Ras, Grb2, Erk2, and Src. Incubation of these cells in the presence of epidermal growth factor (EGF) caused a rapid loss of EGF receptor from the caveolae fraction, but the usual recruitment of c-Raf was markedly inhibited. Despite the reduced amount of c-Raf and Erk2 in the cholesterol-depleted caveolae fraction, EGF caused a hyperactivation of the remaining caveolae Erk isoenzymes. This was followed by an increase in the amount of active Erk in the cytoplasm. The increased amount of activated Erk produced under these conditions was linked to a 2-fold higher level of EGF-stimulated DNA synthesis. Even cholesterol depletion by itself stimulated Erk activation and DNA synthesis. These results suggest that the MAP kinase pathway can connect the cholesterol level of caveolae membrane to the control of cell division.
Activation and Thr286 autophosphorylation of calcium/calmodulindependent kinase II (CaMKII) following Ca2+ influx via N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptors is essential for hippocampal long term potentiation (LTP), a widely investigated cellular model of learning and memory. Here, we show that NR2B, but not NR2A or NR1, subunits of NMDA receptors are responsible for autophosphorylation-dependent targeting of CaMKII. CaMKII and NMDA receptors colocalize in neuronal dendritic spines, and a CaMKII.NMDA receptor complex can be isolated from brain extracts. Autophosphorylation induces direct high-affinity binding of CaMKII to a 50 amino acid domain in the NR2B cytoplasmic tail; little or no binding is observed to NR2A and NR1 cytoplasmic tails. Specific colocalization of CaMKII with NR2B-containing NMDA receptors in transfected cells depends on receptor activation, Ca2+ influx, and Thr286 autophosphorylation. Translocation of CaMKII because of interaction with the NMDA receptor Ca2+ channel may potentiate kinase activity and provide exquisite spatial and temporal control of postsynaptic substrate phosphorylation.
The Lyme disease agent Borrelia garinii has been suggested to be neurotrop, preferentially affecting the nervous system. We compared the secretion of interferon-gamma in response to outer surface proteins from Borrelia garinii and Borrelia afzelii in 10 patients with neuroborreliosis. In cerebrospinal fluid, stimulation with Borrelia garinii revealed higher numbers of interferon-gamma-secreting cells in all patients, whereas in blood, only five displayed higher numbers. This further strengthens the hypothesis of Borrelia garinii being associated with the development of neuroborreliosis.
In the present study, we examined the therapeutic effects of T-614 (3-formylamino-7-methylsulfonylaminoxy-4H-1-benzopyran-4-one), a new anti-rheumatic drug, on a T cell-mediated autoimmune disease, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). T-614 dose-dependently suppressed the development of active EAE induced in Lewis rats by immunization with myelin basic protein (MBP) when administered for 2 weeks starting on the day of immunization (day 0 to 14). Amelioration of clinical signs was also obtained by the treatment at the effector phase (day 7 to 14) of the disease. Furthermore, T-614 treatment of recipient rats that had received MBP-sensitized lymphoid cells resulted in suppression of the clinical severity of EAE. Immunohistological examination revealed that the number of TCR alpha beta-expressing T cells and the extent of MHC class II expression in the spinal cord of rats treated with T-614 was markedly reduced. In vitro study using MBP-specific T cells showed that the addition of T-614 inhibited the proliferative responses of T cells and the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IFN-gamma, IL-6 and TNF produced by T and accessory cells. Taken together, these findings imply that T-614 suppresses the development of EAE by inhibiting the proliferation of autoreactive T cells and pro-inflammatory cytokine production not only by T cells but also by macrophages/microglia. This may be attributable to the result that T-614 is more effective at the effector phase rather than the induction phase. Thus, this drug has a potential value for the treatment of various T cell-mediated autoimmune diseases including multiple sclerosis (MS) as well as rheumatoid arthritis.
An A-to-G point mutation at nucleotide pair (np) 3243 (3243 mutation) in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is a well-known pathogenic mutation, which has been found in approximately 80% of patients with mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes (MELAS). It has been reported that the 3243 mutation also occurs in individuals with non-MELAS phenotypes. The reasons for the phenotypic heterogeneity of the 3243 mutation have not been clarified, although it may be closely related with mtDNA heteroplasmy and their differing proportions in different tissues. We examined the proportion of mutant DNA in muscle specimens at the cellular level using single fiber analysis in five patients with the 3243 mutation: three were diagnosed clinically as having MELAS and two had mitochondrial diabetes mellitus (MDM). In both phenotypes, ragged-red fibers (RRF) contained a higher percentage of mutant DNA (average 89.8%) than non-RRF (average 42.4%). On the other hand, the proportion of mutant DNA in non-RRF revealed a wider range than in RRF and the average was higher in MELAS patients (58.5+/-27.3%) than that in MDM patients (26.3+/-27.9%), which correlated with biochemical and morphological mitochondrial abnormalities in muscle. These findings may reflect the underlying mechanisms of tissue specificity in each phenotype.
Synthesis and structure-activity relationships (SAR) are described for a series of N,N'-diarylguanidines related to N-acenaphth-5-yl-N'-(4-methoxynaphth-1-yl)guanidine (3) as anticonvulsants through blockade of sodium channels. SAR studies on compound 3 led to several simpler diphenylguanidines with improved in vitro and in vivo activity. Compounds were screened for blockade of sodium channels in a veratridine-induced [14C]guanidinium influx assay (type IIA sodium channels) and for anticonvulsant activity in the audiogenic DBA/2 mouse model. Results indicated that N, N'-diphenylguanidines substituted with flexible and moderate size lipophilic groups were preferred over aryl and/or hydrophilic groups for biological activity. Among the compounds studied, n-butyl- and/or n-butoxy-containing guanidines showed superior biological activity. A possible relationship between in vitro and in vivo activity of this compound series and their measured/calculated lipophilicities was investigated. Compounds of this series showed only weak NMDA ion channel-blocking activity indicating that the anticonvulsant activity of these compounds is unlikely to be mediated by NMDA ion channels but, more likely, by acting at voltage-gated sodium channels.
Ion channels allow ions to pass through cell membranes by forming aqueous permeation pathways (pores). In contrast to most known ion channels, which have single pores, a chloride channel belonging to the CIC family (Torpedo CIC-0) has functional features that suggest that it has a unique 'double-barrelled' architecture in which each of two subunits forms an independent pore. This model is based on single-channel recordings of CIC-0 that has two equally spaced and independently gated conductance states. Other CIC isoforms do not behave in this way, raising doubts about the applicability of the model to all CIC channels. Here we determine the pore stoichiometry of another CIC isoform, human CIC-1, by chemically modifying cysteines that have been substituted for other amino acids located within the CIC ion-selectivity filter. The CIC-1 channel can be rendered completely susceptible to block by methanethiosulphonate reagents when only one of the two subunits contains substituted cysteines. Thiol side chains placed at corresponding positions in both subunits can form intersubunit disulphide bridges and coordinate Cd2+, indicating that the pore-forming regions from each subunit line the same conduction pathway. We conclude that human CIC-1 has a single functional pore.
Fear conditioning is a paradigm that has been used as a model for emotional learning in animals. The cellular correlate of fear conditioning is thought to be associative N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent synaptic plasticity within the amygdala. Here we show that glutamatergic synaptic transmission to inhibitory interneurons in the basolateral amygdala is mediated solely by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors. In contrast to AMPA receptors at inputs to pyramidal neurons, these receptors have an inwardly rectifying current-voltage relationship, indicative of a high permeability to calcium. Tetanic stimulation of inputs to interneurons caused an immediate and sustained increase in the efficacy of these synapses. This potentiation required a rise in postsynaptic calcium, but was independent of NMDA receptor activation. The potentiation of excitatory inputs to interneurons was reflected as an increase in the amplitude of the GABA(A)-mediated inhibitory synaptic current in pyramidal neurons. These results demonstrate that excitatory synapses onto interneurons within a fear conditioning circuit show NMDA-receptor independent long-term potentiation. This plasticity might underlie the increased synchronization of activity between neurons in the basolateral amygdala after fear conditioning.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) is a form of synaptic plasticity that has been extensively studied as a putative mechanism underlying learning and memory. A late phase of LTP occurring 3-5 hours after stimulation and depending on transcription, protein synthesis and cyclic-AMP-dependent protein kinase (protein kinase A, or PKA) has been described, but it is not known whether transcription of presynaptic and/or postsynaptic genes is required to support late-phase LTP. Here we show that late-phase LTP can be obtained in rat hippocampal CA1 mini-slices in which the cell bodies of presynaptic Schaffer collateral/commissural fibres are removed. Thus, transcription of presynaptic genes is not necessary to support maintenance of late-phase LTP. The AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate) receptor is the predominant mediator of the ionotropic response to synaptically released glutamate in the hippocampus and it has been implicated in LTP maintenance. We find that synthesis of AMPA receptor subunits is increased three hours after LTP induction: this effect on the synthesis of the AMPA receptor is blocked by inhibitors of PKA and of transcription. Our results support the idea of a postsynaptic mechanism maintaining late-phase LTP, in which AMPA receptor synthesis is increased as a result of PKA-dependent gene transcription.

Li-Fraumeni Syndrome (LFS) is characterized by heterozygous germline mutations in the p53 gene. Accompanied by genomic instability and loss or mutation of the remaining wild type p53 allele, a low frequency of spontaneous immortalization in LFS fibroblasts occurs. It is believed that the loss of p53 wild type function contributes to immortalization of these LFS fibroblasts, but it is not clear if this is sufficient. Because stabilization of telomere length is also thought to be a necessary step in immortalization, telomerase activity, expression of the telomerase RNA component (hTR) and telomere length were anlaysed at various passages during the spontaneous immortalization of LFS skin fibroblasts. One LFS strain which immortalized, MDAH087 (087), had no detectable telomerase activity whereas another LFS strain which immortalized, MDAH041 (041), had detectable telomerase activity. In preimmortal cells from both strains, hTR was not detected by in situ hybridization. Immortal 087 cells remained negative for hTR, while immortal 041 cells demonstrated strong hTR in situ hybridization signals. 087 cells had long and heterogenous telomeres whereas telomeres of 041 cells had short, stable telomere lengths. Tumorigenicity studies in nude mice with ras-transformed 087 and 041 cells resulted in both cell lines giving rise to tumors and retaining telomerase status. Overall these results suggest that strain specificity may be important in telomerase re-activation and that both abrogation of p53 function and a mechanism to maintain telomeres are necessary for immortalization.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) invades the central nervous system (CNS) early in the infectious course. The predominant, productively infected cell type within the CNS is the microglial cell. We have analyzed the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of the ganglioside GD3, a microglia/macrophage and astrocyte marker, in 22 HIV-1-infected individuals at different stages of the disease, and in 44 age-matched HIV-negative, healthy controls. To distinguish between microglial/macrophage and astroglial involvement, the GD3 levels were compared with CSF levels of the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAp), which is expressed exclusively in astrocytes. A significantly higher mean CSF concentration of GD3 was found in HIV-1-infected patients compared to controls (56.7 and 40.1 nmol/L, respectively, p &lt; 0.001). Seven of 22 HIV-1-infected patients had increased CSF levels of GD3 (above mean + 2 SD in controls), all but one of these had normal levels of GFAp, indicating a microglial activation or proliferation as the major source of the increased GD3 levels.
Mutations of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) are associated with a wide spectrum of disorders encompassing the myopathies, encephalopathies and cardiomyopathies, in addition to organ specific presentations such as diabetes mellitus and deafness. The pathogenesis of mtDNA mutations is not fully understood although it is assumed that their final common pathway involves impaired oxidative phosphorylation. The identification of a specific respiratory chain defect (complex I deficiency) in Parkinson's disease (PD) 10 years ago focused attention on the aetiological and pathogenetic roles that mitochondria may play in neurodegenerative diseases. There is evidence now emerging that mtDNA abnormalities may determine the complex I defect in a proportion of PD patients and it may prove possible to use biochemical analysis of platelet and cybrid complex I function to identify those that lie within this group. Respiratory chain defects of a different pattern have been identified in Huntington's disease (HD) (complex II/III deficiency) and Friedreich's ataxia (FA) complex I-III deficiency). In both these disorders, the mitochondrial abnormality is secondary to the primary nuclear mutation:CAG repeat in the huntingtin gene in HD, and GAA repeat in the frataxin gene in FA. Nevertheless, it appears that the mitochondrion may be the target of the biochemical defects that are the consequence of these mutations. There is a close and reciprocal relationship between respiratory chain dysfunction and free radical generation, and there is evidence for oxidative stress and damage in PD, HD and FA, which together with the mitochondrial defect may result in cell damage. Impaired oxidative phosphorylation and free radical generation may independently adversely affect the maintenance of mitochondrial transmembrane potential (Deltapsim). A fall in Deltapsim is an early event (preceding nuclear fragmentation) in the apoptotic pathway. It is possible therefore that mitochondrial dysfunction in the neurodegenerative disorders may result in a fall in the apoptotic threshold of neurones which, in some, may be sufficient to induce cell death whilst, in others, additional factors may be required. In any event, mitochondria present an important target for future strategies for 'neuroprotection' to prevent or retard neurodegeneration.
The role of mitochondria in the control of glutamate excitotoxicity is investigated. The response of cultured cerebellar granule cells to continuous glutamate exposure is characterised by a transient elevation in cytoplasmic free calcium concentration followed by decay to a plateau as NMDA receptors partially inactivate. After a variable latent period, a secondary, irreversible increase in calcium occurs (delayed calcium deregulation, DCD) which precedes and predicts subsequent cell death. DCD is not controlled by mitochondrial ATP synthesis since it is unchanged in the presence of the ATP synthase inhibitor oligomycin in cells with active glycolysis. However, mitochondrial depolarisation (and hence inhibition of mitochondrial calcium accumulation) without parallel ATP depletion (oligomycin plus either rotenone or antimycin A) strongly protects the cells against DCD. Glutamate exposure is associated with an increase in the generation of superoxide anion by the cells, but superoxide generation in the absence of mitochondrial calcium accumulation is not neurotoxic. While it is concluded that mitochondrial calcium accumulation plays a critical role in the induction of DCD we can find no evidence for the involvement of the mitochondrial permeability transition.
The present study investigated the effects of the putative atypical antipsychotic drug (APD), risperidone, on striatal monoamine and pallidal gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) function using dual probe in vivo microdialysis. Risperidone (0.03, 0.3, 3 mg/kg) or vehicle was injected (s.c.) into female, Sprague-Dawley rats fitted with dual microdialysis probes in the striatum and the globus pallidus (GP). In the striatum, risperidone increased extracellular levels of dopamine (DA) and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) at all doses and the serotonin (5-HT) metabolite, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), at the highest dose. The increase in striatal DA was most pronounced at the lowest dose of risperidone; however, DOPAC showed a dose dependent increase. Risperidone at the medium and high doses significantly reduced extracellular GABA levels in the GP. Simultaneous measurement of limb rigidity during microdialysis showed that risperidone dose-dependently produced significant increases in horizontal bar test catalepsy and fore- and hindlimb paw retraction latencies. The current results suggest novel effects of risperidone on striatal DA release, while the pallidal GABA changes are similar to previous results obtained with the atypical antipsychotic drug, clozapine. Additionally, the behavioral results predict the clinical expression of extrapyramidal motor side effects at high doses. Overall, these results support an atypical profile of risperidone when compared with typical APDs, yet one with unique neurochemical and behavioral properties.
Epibatidine, a potent nicotinic agonist, was used to study the regional distribution of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor binding sites in the human brain. Saturation studies performed in the human temporal cortex with (+/-)-[3H]epibatidine revealed binding to two binding sites with Kd and Bmax values of 0.018 and 4.2 nM, 12.7 and 15.4 fmol/mg protein, respectively. Competition studies with (+/-)-[3H]epibatidine/unlabelled nicotine or [3H]nicotine/unlabelled (+/-)-epibatidine showed binding to two binding sites in the human temporal cortex (Ki=0.16 and 12.6 nM; 0.007 and 0.3 nM, respectively). Similarly, when unlabelled nicotine was used to displace (+/-)-[3H]epibatidine, two binding sites were also revealed in the thalamus and the cerebellum of human brain (Ki=0.065 and 7.7 nM; 0.07 and 12.5 nM, respectively). The regional binding of (+/-)-[3H]epibatidine binding in human brain was somewhat different from that of [3H]nicotine. A proportionally higher binding was observed for (+/-)-[3H]epibatidine in the cerebellum and the thalamus compared to [3H]nicotine, probably reflecting different selectivity to nicotinic receptor subtypes. A marked significant age-related decrease in (+/-)-[3H]epibatidine binding was observed in the frontal and the temporal cortices (-79%, -84%, respectively) of human subjects between 56-85 years of age, which was similar to that of [3H]nicotine (-82%, -79%, respectively). The (+/-)-[3H]epibatidine binding in the cerebellum decreased significantly with age (-77%), while [3H]nicotine binding showed no significant age-related changes in this brain region. The findings indicate that a specifically modulate regional nicotinic receptors in human brain.
The present study was aimed at identifying spinal neurons ascending to the brainstem outside the dorsal columns in the lamprey. Two retrograde tracers (cobalt-lysine and horseradish peroxidase [HRP]) were injected in the brainstem or rostral spinal cord in vivo or in vitro. Labeled cells were distributed bilaterally with a contralateral dominance, along the whole rostrocaudal extent of the spinal cord. The density of cells markedly decreased rostrocaudally. Several classes of brainstem-projecting neurons were identified. Most cells with a short axon were small and formed columns, in the dorsolateral and ventrolateral gray matter, at the transition between the rhombencephalon and the spinal cord. Dorsal elongated cells were spindle shaped, located medially, in the first two spinal segments. Lateral elongated cells were medium to large size neurons, located in the intermediate and lateral gray matter, mainly contralateral to the injection site. Their axon emerging from the lateral part of the soma crossed the midline, ventral to the central canal. These cells were present throughout the rostral spinal cord. Cells were also labeled in the lateral white matter. Some of them had the typical dendritic arborizations of edge cells (intraspinal stretch receptor neurons) and were located in the most rostral segments, bilaterally. Other medium to large size neurons were identified dorsal and medial to most of the edge cells. We suggest that at least the group of lateral elongated cells exhibits rhythmic membrane potential oscillations during fictive locomotion. These cells may, together with the rostral edge cells, be responsible for the locomotor-related modulation of activity in reticulospinal and vestibulospinal neurons.
Although NMDA receptor antagonists are neuroprotective when delivered in conjunction with NMDA, supersensitivity to NMDA-mediated injury follows dizocilpine (MK-801) administration in neonatal rats. An increase in NMDA-sensitive [3H]-glutamate binding accompanies the increase in vulnerability to excitotoxic injury. The present study tests the hypothesis that MK-801 may alter gene expression for the NMDA receptor subunits. Quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry was used to evaluate the expression of NMDA receptor subunits NR1 and NR2A-D in neonatal rats, 2 to 4 h after treatment with MK-801. Increased mRNA for multiple NMDA receptor subunits was observed in cerebral cortex, striatum and hippocampus. The percent increase in NR2A mRNA was larger than the percent change in NR1, NR2B or NR2D. A small increase in mRNA for the metabotropic glutamate receptor mGluR5 was also observed after MK-801 treatment. These results indicate that gene expression for NMDA receptor subunits in the developing brain is rapidly altered after antagonist exposure. Increased expression of excitatory amino acid receptor subunit mRNA may contribute to the enhanced vulnerability to excitotoxic injury that has been observed after MK-801 treatment.
Partial denervation of the neonatal rat extensor digitorum longus muscles by removing the L4 spinal nerve and thus 80% of its innervation [A.L. Connold, T.J. Fisher, S. Maudarbocus, G. Vrbov, Response of developing fast muscles to partial denervation, Neuroscience 46 (1992) 981-988; F. Tyc, G. Vrbov, The effect of partial denervation of developing rat fast muscles on their motor unit properties, J. Physiol. 482 (1995) 651-660] results in its permanent weakness. The possibility that the weakness that follows partial denervation is due to the effects of reducing activity of the muscle during a critical stage of development was studied here. Partial denervation was carried out in 3-day-old pups by removing the L4 spinal nerve. To enhance motor activity two days later some animals had injections of l-Dopa twice a day for 8 days. This treatment induced locomotor activity for at least 2 h/day. The muscles from treated and untreated animals were examined 2 months later. There was a significantly smaller reduction of weight and force production in the muscles from l-Dopa treated animals. Both twitch and tetanic force developed by the EDL muscle from the treated group was twice that of the control untreated group. This effect was due mainly to the larger size of the motor units (MUs) in the l-Dopa treated muscles compared to the controls. The mean motor unit force in the untreated group was 69% of that in the control muscle, whereas this value was 127% in the l-Dopa treated animals. Thus it appears that the activity induced by treatment with l-Dopa could to some extent prevent the loss of weight and force output seen after partial denervation of young fast muscles.
Intracellular and extracellular recordings were used to assess the cholinergic function in hippocampal slices from juvenile rats chronically deprived of NGF. NGF was neutralised by implanting into the lateral ventricle of postnatal (P) day 2 rats, alphaD11 hybridoma cells (secreting monoclonal antibodies specific for NGF). Parental myeloma cells (P3U) were used as controls. At P15-P18, slow cholinergic EPSPs could be elicited in cells from both alphaD11- and P3U-treated rats. However, slices from alphaD11-implanted rats exhibited a 50% reduction in acetylcholine release following stimulation of cholinergic fibres. This effect was associated to a significant increase in the sensitivity of pyramidal cells to carbachol, as suggested by the shift to the left of the dose/response curve. This may reflect a compensatory mechanism for the reduced efficacy of cholinergic innervation in NGF-deprived rats. In both alphaD11- and P3U-treated rats, carbachol was able to induce a similar concentration-dependent depression of the field EPSPs, evoked by Schaffer collateral stimulation, suggesting that presynaptic muscarinic receptors were not altered. In rats implanted with alphaD11 cells at P15 and sacrificed at P21-P24, no changes in the sensitivity to carbachol were found. At this developmental stage, no differences in acetylcholine release were observed between P3U- and alphaD11-treated animals. These results provide physiological evidence for a regulatory role of NGF in the cholinergic function of the hippocampus during postnatal development.
Dystrobrevin, a member of the dystrophin family of proteins, was initially identified as a major tyrosine phosphorylated synaptic protein in the electric organ of Torpedo californica. In this paper, we show that the major sites of tyrosine phosphorylation of Torpedo dystrobrevin are within its C-terminus, on Tyr-693 and Tyr-710. Cloning of the mammalian homologue of dystrobrevin has recently shown that this phosphotyrosine containing tail, or PYCT, is subject to alternative splicing. To compare the expression and distribution of PYCT- and PYCT+ splice variants, we generated antibodies against different regions of dystrobrevin. Here we show that the PYCT- isoform of 62 kDa is expressed at high levels in all tissues examined. In contrast, PYCT+ isoforms are expressed primarily in brain and muscle, where they are concentrated at synapses. Moreover, PYCT+ isoforms associate more tightly with the membrane and with syntrophin, another synaptically enriched protein. These results suggest that PYCT+ isoforms of dystrobrevin are specialized components of the dystroglycan complex which render the complex sensitive to regulation by tyrosine kinases.
Extracellular purine nucleotides elicit a diverse range of biological responses through binding to specific cell surface receptors. The ionotrophic P2X subclass of purinoreceptors respond to ATP by stimulation of calcium ion permeability; however, it is unknown how P2X purinoreceptor activation is linked to intracellular signaling pathways. We report that stimulation of PC12 cells with ATP results in the activation of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases ERK1 and ERK2 and was wholly dependent upon extracellular calcium ions. Treatment of the cells with adenosine, AMP, ADP, UTP, or alpha,beta-methylene ATP was without effect; however, MAP kinase activation was abolished by pretreatment with suramin and reactive blue 2. The calcium-activated tyrosine kinase, Pyk2, acts as an upstream regulator of the MAP kinases and became tyrosine phosphorylated following treatment of the cells with ATP. We have ruled out the involvement of depolarization-mediated calcium influx because specific blockers of voltage-gated calcium channels did not affect MAP kinase activation. These data provide direct evidence that calcium influx through P2X2 receptors results in the activation of the MAP kinase cascade. Finally, we demonstrate that a different line of PC12 cells respond to ATP through P2Y2 purinoreceptors, providing an explanation for the conflicting findings of purine nucleotide responsiveness in PC12 cells.
Glutamate treatment of PC12 cells has been shown to result in the accumulation of intracellular inositol phosphates suggesting the presence of glutamate metabotropic receptors (mGluRs) positively coupled to phospholipase C. The present study examined the expression of group I mGluRs (mGluR1 and mGluR5) in PC12 cells. Undifferentiated PC12 cells were found to express both mGluR5 mRNA and receptor protein by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and western blot techniques. However, mGluR1 mRNA was not detected in these cells and western blot analysis showed only faint mGluR1alpha immunoreactivity suggesting a very low level of mGluR1 expression. Nerve growth factor-induced differentiation of PC12 cells resulted in the induction of mGluR1alpha and mGluR1beta mRNA and mGluR1alpha protein. PC12 cells overexpressing dominant negative ras revealed that NGF-induced mGluR1 induction, but not mGluR5 expression, is dependent on ras pathway activation in these cells. These results suggest PC12 cells may be a useful model for investigating the regulation and expression of group I mGluR isoforms and their role in neuronal processes in vitro.
Dopaminergic neurons exert a major modulatory effect on the forebrain. Dopamine and adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate-regulated phosphoprotein (32 kilodaltons) (DARPP-32), which is enriched in all neurons that receive a dopaminergic input, is converted in response to dopamine into a potent protein phosphatase inhibitor. Mice generated to contain a targeted disruption of the DARPP-32 gene showed profound deficits in their molecular, electrophysiological, and behavioral responses to dopamine, drugs of abuse, and antipsychotic medication. The results show that DARPP-32 plays a central role in regulating the efficacy of dopaminergic neurotransmission.
To investigate the role of neurofilaments in motor neuron disease caused by superoxide dismutase (SOD1) mutations, transgenic mice expressing a amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-linked SOD1 mutant (SOD1(G37R)) were mated with transgenic mice expressing human neurofilament heavy (NF-H) subunits. Unexpectedly, expression of human NF-H transgenes increased by up to 65%, the mean lifespan of SOD1(G37R) mice. Microscopic examination corroborated the protective effect of NF-H protein against SOD1 toxicity. Although massive neurodegeneration occurred in 1-yr-old mice expressing SOD1(G37R) alone, spinal root axons and motor neurons were remarkably spared in doubly SOD1(G37R);NF-H-transgenic littermates.
The recently cloned human chemoattractant receptor-like (CMKRL)1, which is expressed in vivo in CD4-positive immune cells, has structural homology with the two chemokine receptors C-C chemokine receptor (CCR)5 and C-X-C chemokine receptor (CXCR)4, which serve as the major coreceptors necessary for fusion of the HIV-1 envelope with target cells. In view of the structural similarity, CMKRL1 was tested for its possible function as another HIV-1 coreceptor after stable expression in murine fibroblasts bearing the human CD4 receptor. The cells were infected with 10 primary clinical isolates of HIV-1, and entry was monitored by semiquantitative PCR of viral DNA. The efficiency of the entry was compared with the entry taking place in CD4-positive cells expressing either CCR5 or CXCR4. Seven of the isolates used CMKRL1 for viral entry; they were mainly of the syncytium-inducing phenotype and also used CXCR4. Entry efficiency was higher with CMKRL1 than with CXCR4 for more than half of these isolates. Three of the ten isolates did not use CMKRL1; instead, entry was mediated by both CCR5 and CXCR4. The experiments thus indicate that CMKRL1 functions as a coreceptor for the entry of HIV-1 into CD4-positive cells. In the course of this study, leukotriene B4 was shown to be the natural ligand for this receptor (now designated BLTR), which therefore represents a novel type of HIV-1 coreceptor along with the previously identified chemokine receptors. BLTR belongs to the same general chemoattractant receptor family as the chemokine receptors but is structurally more distant from them than are any of the previously described HIV-1 coreceptors.

Recent research has shown that bursts of approximately 20 Hz fast waves are elicited in rhinencephalic cortex in rats by the odors of a number of different organic solvents and of components of the secretions of predators such as the weasel and the fox. We now show that a number of phytochemicals (benzyl alcohol, carvacrol, eucalyptol, and salicylaldehyde) will elicit fast wave bursts of about 20 Hz in the rat pyriform cortex. Additional organic solvents (carbon tetrachloride, chloroform, diethyl ether, 1, 2-dimethoxyethane, n-heptane, mesitylene, methylcyclohexane, and commercial gasoline and kerosene, but not N,N-dimethylformamide or dimethyl sulfoxide) and another component of fox secretions (isopentenylmethyl sulfide) were also effective. Many of these compounds will also elicit fast wave bursts of about 20 Hz in the dentate gyrus. The effectiveness of benzyl alcohol, camphor, carvacrol, eucalyptol, isopentenylmethyl sulfide, 2-propylthietane, salicylaldehyde, toluene, and trimethylthiazoline (all of which elicit rhinencephalic fast waves in rats) in suppressing feeding in various small herbivores suggests that the recording of odor-induced rhinencephalic fast waves may provide an easy means of identifying new antifeedants. We found no evidence that the bursts of 20-Hz activity seen in the rat rhinencephalon were kindling-induced seizure-like reactions of the olfactory brain to the vapors of toxic chemicals.
Local application of GABA to rat cerebral cortical neurons in brain slices elicited biphasic responses mediated via GABAA receptors. The fast component of the response, which was most apparent with somatic application of GABA, was hyperpolarizing at the normal resting membrane potential (GABAh response). The slower component could be elicited by GABA application to nearly all regions of the cell, and was depolarizing at the resting membrane potential (GABAd response). The reversal potential of evoked IPSCs recorded with whole-cell patch electrodes (-68 mV) was comparable to the reversal potential of the GABAh response (-69 mV), and was significantly different from the reversal potential of the GABAd response (-56 mV). The GABAd response was more sensitive to enhancement by pentobarbital and more readily antagonized by both bicuculline and picrotoxin than the GABAh response. Recording in bicarbonate-free buffer changed the reversal potential of the GABAd response significantly, but had no effect on the GABAh response. In contrast, superfusion with ethanol significantly enhanced the GABAh response, while having no effect on the GABAd component. Although a localized collapse of the Cl- gradient, which has been proposed to underlie the GABAd response, could explain the greater sensitivity of the GABAd response to pentobarbital and the GABAA antagonists, this could not account for the greater sensitivity of the GABAh response to ethanol. Differences in GABAA receptor subunit composition may result in the expression of dendritic and somatic GABAA receptors that have different kinetics, reversal potentials, and sensitivity to pharmacological agents, including ethanol.
Animal experimental studies have shown that the retinohypothalamic tract (RHT) is an anatomical and functionally distinct retinofugal pathway mediating photic entrainment of circadian rhythms. In the present study, RHT projections were studied in the human brain by our recently developed postmortem tracing technique with neurobiotin as a tracer. Similar patterns of labeling were observed in brains of one control subject without neurological or mental disorders and five patients with Alzheimer's disease. The topography of RHT projections has several characteristics. (1) RHT fibers leave the optic chiasm and enter the hypothalamus medially and laterally at the anterior level of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). (2) The medial fibers enter the ventral part of the SCN and innervate the ventral SCN over its entire length, but the density decreases gradually from anterior to posterior. Labeled RHT fibers in the SCN make contact mainly with immunocytochemically positive neurotensin or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide neurons and only occasionally with vasopressin-positive neurons located in the ventral part of the SCN. (3) Only few projections to the dorsal part of the SCN and the anteroventral part of the hypothalamus were found. (4) Lateral projections reach the ventral part of the ventromedial SON and the area lateral to the SCN. No projections were observed to other hypothalamic areas. The presence of an RHT in humans suggests that the RHT may serve a function in humans similar to that demonstrated in animals.
We examined membrane-bound protein kinase C (PKC) in the cerebellum of rabbits given paired presentations of a tone conditioned stimulus (CS) that co-terminated with a periocular electrical stimulation unconditioned stimulus (US) or unpaired presentations of the CS and US or restraint in the experimental context. PKC activation was measured by quantitative film autoradiography of [3H]phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate ([3H]PBt2) binding in the molecular and granule cells layers of lobule HVI, anterior vermis and Crus I, and in the dentate/interpositus nuclei. There was a statistically significant increase in [3H]PBt2 binding within the molecular layer of lobule HVI in rabbits given paired training relative to controls. The results indicate PKC activation in lobule HVI may be important in acquisition of conditioned eyeblink responses.
C6 glioma strongly express nitric oxide synthase. Rats bearing C6 tumours were pre-treated with i.v. Ng-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1) or saline before local cerebral blood flow (LCBF) or tumour capillary permeability (TCP) was measured by the [14C]iodoantipyrine autoradiographic or [14C]alpha-amino-isobutyric acid techniques. L-NAME and SIN-1 caused significant TBF alterations (-44% and +136%, respectively) with less marked (-15% and +33%) alterations in normal brain. Calculated cerebrovascular resistance changes within tumour were indeed selective. Baseline TCP was increased compared with normal brain (20-fold). L-NAME and SIN-1 administration did not alter TCP. These effects have significant implications for human malignant glioma management. Selective i.v. manipulation of LCBF, without significant changes in TCP, could increase the efficacy of chemotherapy, radiotherapy or provide better peritumoural oedema control.
We used isolated IgG antibodies selective for P2X3 receptors to study the ultrastructural distribution of these receptors in rat sensory neurons. In trigeminal ganglia, P2X3 receptor immunoreactivity occurred in small and large nerve cell bodies and their processes. Endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus were heavily stained; cytoplasmic matrix was faintly to moderately stained. In synaptic glomeruli in lamina II of cervical dorsal horn, P2X3 receptor-immunoreactive core terminals were postsynaptic to unlabelled vesicle-containing dendrites and axons. In the nucleus of the solitary tract, receptor-positive boutons synapsed on dendrites and cell bodies and had complex synaptic relationships with other axon terminals and vesiculated dendrites. These observations identify sites from which ATP could be released to influence sensory signalling within the central nervous system.
The distribution of 5-HT2A receptor immunoreactivity in the brain stem was studied by means of a commercial 5-HT2A mouse monoclonal antibody against the N-terminal portion of the receptor (amino acids 1-72). The 5-HT2A immunoreactivity demonstrated in the nerve terminal or dendritic-like structures of regions of the nucleus raphe pallidus, nucleus interfascicularis, motor nucleus of the trigeminal nerve, the ventral and dorsal tegmental nuclei and the median eminence by means of double immunofluorescence procedures were shown to be associated with 5-HT immunoreactive cell body-dendritic and/or nerve terminal structures. Besides synaptic transmission the relationships are compatible with the existence of short distance volume transmission (in the microm range) in 5-HT2A mediated 5-HT communication through terminal (5-HT)-terminal (5-HT2A) or soma/dendro (5-HT)-terminal (5-HT2A) and terminal (5-HT)-dendritic (5-HT2A) interactions in discrete brain stem nuclei.
The goal of the Kinelite Project is to develop a space qualified motion analysis system to be used in space by the scientific community, mainly to support neuroscience protocols. The measurement principle of the Kinelite is to determine, by triangulation mean, the 3D position of small, lightweight, reflective markers positioned at the different points of interest. The scene is illuminated by Infra Red flashes and the reflected light is acquired by up to 8 precalibrated and synchronized CCD cameras. The main characteristics of the system are: Camera field of view: 45 degrees; Number of cameras: 2 to 8; Acquisition frequency: 25, 50, 100, or 200 Hz; CCD format: 256 x 256; Number of markers: up to 64; 3D accuracy: 2mm; Main dimensions: 45 cm x 45 cm x 30 cm; Mass: 23 kg; Power consumption: less than 200 W. The Kinelite will first fly aboard the NASA Spacelab; it will be used, during the NEUROLAB mission (4/98), to support the &quot;Frames of References and Internal Models&quot; (Principal Investigator: Pr. A. Berthoz, Co Investigators: J. McIntyre, F. Lacquaniti).
The precise neuromuscular control needed for optimal locomotion, particularly around heel strike and toe off, is known to he compromised after short duration (8- to 15-day) space flight. We hypothesized here that longer exposure to weightlessness would result in maladaptive neuromuscular activation during postflight treadmill walking. We also hypothesized that space flight would affect the ability of the sensory-motor control system to generate adaptive neuromuscular activation patterns in response to changes in visual target distance during postflight treadmill walking. Seven crewmembers, who completed 3- to 6-month missions, walked on a motorized treadmill while visually fixating on a target placed 30 cm (NEAR) or 2 m (FAR) from the subject's eyes. Electronic foot switch data and surface electromyography were collected from selected muscles of the right lower limb. Results indicate that the phasic features of neuromuscular activation were moderately affected and the relative amplitude of activity in the tibialis anterior and rectus femoris around toe off changed after space flight. Changes also were evident after space flight in how these muscles adapted to the shift in visual target distance.

This study was designed to elucidate psychiatric admission rates for native Swedes and foreign-born individuals during the period 1991-1994, when Sweden had a great influx of refugees. During the same period, and even earlier, psychiatric in-patient care had been reduced. Tests of differences between Swedes and foreign-born individuals in first psychiatric admission rates were performed using Poisson regressions, and the risk of a readmission was assessed using a proportional hazard model. Foreign-born individuals and native Swedes, both males and females, showed a similar admission pattern with regard to the number of admissions. Foreign-born males under 55 years of age and foreign-born females under 35 years of age had significantly higher admission rates than native Swedes. In total, native Swedes, both males and females, were hospitalized for a significantly longer period than the foreign-born subjects. About 43% of the patients were readmitted. The risk of a readmission was significantly increased among those with a high rate of internal migration. The high admission rates for young foreign-born individuals might be explained by a high incidence of mental illness owing to the trauma of being violently forced to migrate, acculturation difficulties, or unsatisfactory social circumstances such as high unemployment. The shorter hospitalization time could be due to undertreatment or less serious mental illness.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the spontaneous activity of mature rat cerebellar neurons that had been exposed to ethanol (EtOH) during postnatal days 4 to 10, which corresponds to the third trimester in humans. Newborn Sprague-Dawley rats were implanted with gastric feeding tubes and were artificially reared from postnatal days 4 to 10 with two different diets. The experimental group received 4.5 g/kg/day of EtOH delivered in a milk solution. Controls received similar feeding with an isocaloric supplement replacing the EtOH. Electrophysiological evaluations were performed after an EtOH-free rearing period. Although lobules IX and X of the cerebellar vermis appeared morphologically smaller in the animals neonatally exposed to EtOH, compared with controls, extracellular recordings from both Purkinje cells and Golgi interneurons in adult rats showed no differences in spontaneous activity or firing pattern between the control and EtOH-exposed animals. Similarly, excitations and inhibitions of Purkinje neuron activity evoked by parallel pathway stimulation appeared unaffected by the developmental EtOH exposure. However, we did observe a significant decrease in the proportion of Purkinje neurons generating complex spike bursts in the group exposed to EtOH neonatally. These data suggest that, although fewer Purkinje neurons may survive the brain growth spurt if exposed to EtOH during this critical period of development, those that do survive appear to function normally. The observed abnormality in complex spike production may result from EtOH effects on developing neurons in the inferior olive that give rise to the climbing fibers that cause this bursting pattern in Purkinje neurons.
Extensive research on both human alcoholics and in animal models of alcoholism has implicated the release of endogenous opioids in the consumption of ethanol. Various experiments using opioid antagonists have indicated that these drugs cause both humans and animals to decrease their consumption of ethanol. However, it remains unclear exactly which of the endogenous opioids mediates the rewarding effects of ethanol. The present experiment used intravenous self-administration of ethanol to determine whether beta-endorphin (BE)-deficient mice differed from wild-type (WT) mice in ethanol self-administration. The BE-deficient mice completely lack BE, but are otherwise similar to the WT mice. By using intravenous self-administration, we were able to rule out any ability of BE to mediate differences in ethanol consumption via palatability factors alone. Both types of mice were 7 generations backcrossed onto a C57BL/6J inbred strain background. During nine daily, 2-hr free-operant sessions, 14 BE-deficient and 17 WT mice could nosepoke for 75 mg/kg ethanol infusions delivered intravenously on an fixed-ratio 3 schedule with a 2-sec time-out after each reinforcer delivery. Reinforcer delivery occurred following nosepokes in only one of two holes. Contrary to what was expected, BE-deficient mice acquired selective operant responding for ethanol, whereas WT mice did not. Although the two genotypes did not differ in either operant or locomotor behavior during the first session, by the end of the nine sessions, BE deficient mice were reliably nosepoking for ethanol, whereas WT mice were not. These findings may indicate that BE is not essential for the postingestive reinforcing effects of ethanol in these animals.
To examine ANG II receptors in rat median preoptic (MnPO) neurons, we used patch-clamp whole cell recordings in a parasagittal brain slice preparation. Lucifer yellow-filled neurons displayed a simple morphology with two to three aspiny dendrites. Bath-applied ANG II (1-2,000 nM for 30 s) induced a response in 37 of 70 cells. In current-clamp recordings, cells displayed a prolonged (10- to 30-min) depolarizing plateau with action potential discharges and an associated reduction in postburst afterhyperpolarization and spike frequency adaptation. In voltage-clamp recordings (holding potential -65 mV), cells displayed tetrodotoxin-resistant inward currents of 7. 6 +/- 1.9 (n = 5), 9.9 +/- 1.9 (n = 9), and 9.2 +/- 2.2 pA (n = 6) at 10, 200, and 2,000 nM, respectively. Responses were blockable by pretreatment with losartan (2 microM; n = 6) but not by PD-123177 (20 microM; n = 3). Net ANG II-induced current revealed a 7.8 +/- 0. 9% reduction in membrane conductance, decreasing but not reversing at hyperpolarized levels. Neurons expressing a strong hyperpolarization-activated, time-independent inward rectification were more likely to respond to ANG II. There was no correlation between the response of a neuron to ANG II and its response to norepinephrine.
An increased activity of the sympathetic nervous system is an important factor in the genesis of ventricular arrhythmias. Changes in average R-R interval, R-R interval variability (indirect measure of sympathovagal balance), occurrence of arrhythmias, and plasma norepinephrine concentrations were measured during a social stress episode (defeat) in two strains of rats, Wistar and wild type, which were supposed to differ in their autonomic stress responsiveness. Electrocardiograms were telemetrically recorded, and blood samples were withdrawn through jugular vein catheters from healthy, freely moving animals. R-R interval variability was estimated by the following time-domain parameters: the standard deviation of the mean R-R interval, the coefficient of variance, and the root mean square of successive differences in R-R interval. Average R-R interval and R-R interval variability measures, as well as plasma norepinephrine concentrations, indicated a higher sympathetic tone, a larger sympathetic responsiveness, and a lower parasympathetic antagonism after sympathetic activation in wild-type animals, which also showed a much higher incidence of arrhythmias (ventricular premature beats), compared with Wistar rats. These two strains might represent a valuable experimental model for studying the mechanisms (cellular/electrophysiological) responsible for the susceptibility to arrhythmias in healthy individuals exposed to stressful situations.



Darwin's theory of evolution raised the question of how the human brain differs from that of other animals and how it is the same. Early students of brain evolution had constructed rather grand but speculative theories which stated that brains evolved in a linear manner, from fish to man and from simple to complex. These speculations were soundly refuted, however, as contemporary comparative neurobiologists used powerful new techniques and methodologies to discover that complex brains have evolved several times independently among vertebrates (e.g., within teleost fishes and birds) and that brain complexity has actually decreased in the lineages leading to modern salamanders and lungfishes. Moreover, the old idea that brains evolved by the sequential addition of new components has now been replaced by the working hypothesis that brains generally evolve by the divergent modification of preexisting parts. Speculative theories have thus been replaced by testable hypotheses, and current efforts in the field are aimed at making phylogenetic hypotheses even more testable. Particularly promising new directions for comparative neurobiology include (1) the integration of comparative neuroanatomy with comparative embryology and developmental genetics in order to test phylogenetic hypotheses at a mechanistic level, (2) research into how evolutionary changes in the structure of neural circuits are related to evolutionary changes in circuit function and animal behavior, and (3) the analysis of independently evolved similarities to discover general rules about how brains may or may not change during the course of evolution.



The molecular mechanisms that control prostate development have been intensely studied in recent years due to the emergence of prostatic cancer as a major health concern. Several recent studies have led to the identification of numerous genes that are required for prostate organogenesis, many of which also contribute to prostate carcinogenesis. These genes fall into several categories, including proto-oncogenes, transcription factors, homeobox genes, growth factors and cell adhesion molecules. This review focuses on those genes which have been implicated in prostate growth and development, and which exhibit deregulated expression in prostate cancer.
The cause and pathophysiology of dystonia remain unknown. The recent identification of mitochondrial complex I deficiency in platelets from patients with sporadic focal dystonia suggests that a defect of energy metabolism may be relevant in a proportion of patients. We have addressed the possible contribution of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) to the complex I deficiency in dystonia by the use of genome transfer technology. Platelets from patients deficient for complex I were fused with A549 p0 (mtDNA-less) cells to form cybrids comprising the A549 nucleus and dystonia mtDNA. Mixed cybrid cell lines were analyzed for 9 controls and 9 dystonia patients, and clonal cybrid lines were generated for 2 control and 2 dystonia patients. Subsequent biochemical analysis showed that the dystonia complex I defect was complemented in both the mixed and the clonal cybrid lines. These results contrast with similar studies in mitochondrial myopathy and Parkinson's disease patients, in which the mitochondrial defect was maintained in at least a proportion of A549 cybrids, and suggest that the complex I defect in dystonia is not caused by an mtDNA mutation.
The role of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations in the pathogenesis of Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) has yet to be characterized. Several clinical features of the disease imply that nuclear genes might also be involved in its expression. We have confirmed the presence of a severe NADH:coenzyme Q1 reductase (complex I) defect in association with the A3460G mtDNA LHON mutation in cultured fibroblasts compared with age-matched controls. This defect was not seen in clonal fibroblasts with 0% mutant mtDNA developed from a heteroplasmic A3460G LHON subject, confirming the association between the A3460G mutation and the complex I defect. Cybrids prepared from the fusion of enucleated fibroblasts homoplasmic for the A3460G mutation with 206 (osteosarcoma) cells lacking mtDNA (p0) also had a severe deficiency of complex I activity. However, in A3460G LHON fusion cybrids containing a different nuclear background, A549 p0 (lung derived), this biochemical defect was not apparent in all the clones studied. These results suggest that the nuclear environment can influence the expression of the biochemical defect in LHON patients with the A3460G mutation.
Several groups have identified mitochondrial complex I deficiency in Parkinson's disease (PD) substantia nigra and in platelets. A search for any mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutation underlying this defect has not yet produced any consistent result. We have made use of a mtDNA-less (p0) cell line to determine if the complex I deficiency follows the genomic transplantation of platelet mtDNA. From a preselected group of PD patients with low platelet complex I activity, 7 patients were used for detailed study. All 7 patients were used for mixed cybrid analysis and demonstrated a selective 25% deficiency of complex I activity. Individual clonal analysis of A549 p0/PD platelet fusion cybrids from 1 of the patients expressed combined complex I and IV deficiencies with 25% and 20% decreased activities in the PD clones, respectively. Histocytochemical, immunocytochemical, and cellular functional imaging studies of these clones showed the cells within the clones were heterogeneous with respect to cytochrome c oxidase (COX) function, COX I content, and mitochondrial respiratory chain activity. These results are in agreement with a previous study and support the proposition that an mtDNA abnormality may underlie the mitochondrial defect in at least a proportion of PD patients. This p0 technology may serve as a means to identify the subgroup of PD patients in whom an mtDNA defect may contribute to development of the disease.


The objective of this study was to assess the relation of motor cortical neural activity in the rat to self-paced reach-to-grasp movements. Overall, around 40% of excitatory and 60% of inhibitory modulations in neuronal activity began prior to reach onset. These data are consistent with a role for rat motor cortex in the initiation and control of the reaching movement. In addition, although the reach only lasted a short time, 30% of excitations and inhibitions began while it was in progress. The existence of such modulations occurring during the reach is consistent with previous data showing activity of cortical neurons late in the reach, and suggests a heavy involvement of cortical neurons in controlling the recently described, complex movements associated with grasping that are seen in the rat. These features were broadly similar in neurones from both the caudal and rostral subdivisions of rat motor cortex.
The hypothesis of a role for hippocampal somatostatin (SS-14) in learning and memory processes was further examined by means of 2 selective learning tasks that were previously shown to be either impaired (spatial discrimination task) or facilitated (barpressing task) by hippocampal lesions. Results showed that subcutaneous injections of cysteamine (160 mg/kg) (a) impaired acquisition of the spatial task while producing an opposite (i.e., facilitative) effect on acquisition of the barpressing task and (b) produced an up regulation of hippocampal adenylyl cyclase (AC) activity, which was antagonized by spatial discrimination training but enhanced by training in the barpressing task. Moreover, opposite task-dependent training-induced changes in hippocampal AC activity was observed in saline-treated mice. These results suggest that bidirectional regulatory mechanisms of hippocampal function involving both SS-14 and ACs may occur as a function of the type of learning.
The effect of fimbrial high-frequency stimulation (HFS)-induced long-term potentiation (LTP) in the lateral septum (LS) on contextual fear conditioning was studied in mice. Mice were conditioned for fear toward a novel context through the use of footshocks. The 1st experiment showed that pretraining HFS reduced significantly conditional freezing to contextual stimuli. The 2nd experiment was designed to determine whether the reduction of freezing produced by fimbrial HFS resulted from LTP in the LS rather than from LTP in other brain structures. Accordingly, mice with lesions of the LS were used and submitted to the same protocol as in the 1st experiment. Results showed that LS lesions completely abolished the impairing effect of fimbrial HFS and, as a whole, potentiated the freezing response. These data suggest that contextual fear conditioning is strongly modulated by the level of hippocampal-LS synaptic neurotransmission.
The authors describe how (a) the timing of hippocampal lesions and (b) the behavioral-representational demands of the task affect the requirement for the hippocampus in contextual fear conditioning. Post- but not pretraining lesions of the hippocampus greatly reduced contextual fear conditioning. In contrast, pretraining lesions of the hippocampus abolished context discrimination, a procedure in which mice are trained to discriminate between 2 similar chambers (shock context vs. no-shock context). Whereas either contextual- or cue-based strategies can be used to recognize an aversive context, discrimination between similar contexts is optimally acquired by contextual (hippocampal)-based strategies. In keeping with the lesion results, Nf1(+/-)/Nmdar1(+/-) mutant mice, which have spatial learning deficits, are impaired in context discrimination but not in contextual conditioning. Together, these data dissociate hippocampal and nonhippocampal contributions to contextual conditioning, and they provide direct evidence that the hippocampus plays an essential role in the processing of contextual stimuli.
Previous research conducted in monkeys and rats has established that the perirhinal cortex is critically involved in object- or stimulus-recognition memory, whereas other research suggests this region may contribute to memory for object discriminations. These findings do not rule out the possibility that the perirhinal cortex plays a more general role in memory. The present experiment addressed whether selective lesions of the perirhinal cortex would result in a delay-dependent deficit on a test of memory that did not involve stimulus recognition or object memory. Rats with bilateral perirhinal lesions were tested on a delayed non-matching-to-position task. Lesions of the perirhinal cortex did not interfere with acquisition or performance at short (0-4 s)-delay intervals, but lesions did impair performance at longer delays. It is suggested that the perirhinal cortex is involved in maintaining representations of trial-specific information over time.




The discovery of the PS proteins, the complexities of their biochemistry and their potential involvement in signalling pathways and in apoptosis have galvanized research into AD. To date, the aspect of the functionality of the PSs most relevant to the pathology of AD is the effect of PS FAD mutants to increase the proportion of A beta 42 produced from cells. This, coupled to the observation that gamma-secretase cleavage is considerably reduced in neurons derived from PS-1 knockout mice, argues strongly that PS plays a very direct role in the proteolytic processing of APP.

Presynaptic serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) transporters (SERTs) mediate antidepressant-sensitive clearance of 5-HT following release. Although we have been aware for decades that SERT-mediated 5-HT clearance can be modulated by exogenous agents including serotonin-selective reuptake inhibitors, amphetamines, and cocaine, we have had little reason to speculate that SERT activity was actively controlled through endogenous pathways. Recent studies indicate that SERTs are likely to be trafficked to specific plasma membrane subdomains to achieve localized clearance of 5-HT, and that the number of SERTs resident in the plasma membrane is controlled through kinase- and phosphatase-linked pathways. In particular, roles for protein kinase C and phosphatase 2A become apparent through studies with enzyme activators and inhibitors in SERT-transfected cells, where SERT proteins are rapidly phosphorylated in parallel with transporter redistribution and loss of functional uptake capacity. Based on our findings, and the studies of others in native tissues and transfected cells, we propose a model whereby SERTs are organized in a macromolecular complex in the plasma membrane that may serve to locate reuptake activity near release sites. Although many elements of this model remain hypothetical, our findings suggest a much more dynamic picture of transporter-mediated 5-HT reuptake than typically described and suggest opportunities both for the development of new SERT regulatory agents and for the identification of regulatory pathways that may be compromised in mental illness.
N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptors are known to play a key role in the induction phase of long-term potentiation (LTP) at certain hippocampal synapses and to represent some component of spatial learning in animals. The ability of NMDA receptor antagonists (or gene knockout) to impair LTP has led to the suggestion that the therapeutic use of such antagonists may impair cognitive function in humans. The present study compares the effects on LTP of NMDA receptor ion channel block by MK-801 and glycine-site antagonism by 3R(+)cis-4-methyl-pyrrollid-2-one (L-687,414). In vitro experiments using rat cortical slices revealed L-687,414 to be approximately 3.6 fold more potent than its parent analogue, R(+)HA-966 at antagonizing NMDA-evoked population depolarizations (apparent Kbs: 15 microM and 55 microM, respectively). Whole-cell voltage-clamp experiments using rat cultured cortical neurones revealed L-687,414 to shift to the right the concentration-response relationship for NMDA-evoked inward current responses (pKb=6.2+/-0.12). L-687,414 affinity for the glycine site on the NMDA receptor complex was also determined from concentration-inhibition curves, pKi=6.1+/-0.09. In the latter experiments, L-687,414 and R(+)HA-966 were unable to completely abolish inward current responses suggesting each compound to be a low efficacy partial agonist (estimated intrinsic activity = approximately 10 and 20% of glycine, respectively). L-687,414 and MK-801 were compared for their effects on NMDA receptor-dependent LTP in the dentate gyrus of anaethestized rats following high frequency stimulation of the medial perforant path (mPP) afferents. Control rats, administered saline (0.4 ml kg(-1) followed by 0.0298 ml min(-1)), showed a robust augmentation of the population e.p.s.p. risetime (LTP) recorded in the dentate hilus following tetanic stimulation of the mPP. LTP was effectively abolished in a separate group of rats treated with an MK-801 dosing regimen (0.12 mg kg(-1) i.v. followed by 1.8 microg kg(-1) h(-1)) known to produce maximal neuroprotection in a rat stroke model but, by contrast, remained largely intact in a third group of animals given a similarly neuroprotective L-687,414 treatment (28 mg kg(-1) i.v. followed by 28 mg kg(-1) h(-1)). These experiments suggest that a low level of intrinsic activity at the glycine site may be sufficient to support NMDA receptor-dependent LTP but in circumstances where there is likely to be an excessive NMDA receptor activation the agonism associated with a low efficacy partial agonist, such as L-687,414, is dominated by the antagonist properties. Thus, an NMDA receptor partial agonist profile may offer a therapeutic advantage over neutral antagonists by permitting an acceptable level of 'normal' synaptic transmission whilst curtailing excessive receptor activation.
The present study has utilized the two electrode voltage-clamp technique to examine the pharmacological profile of a splice variant of the rat orthologue of the 5-hydroxytryptamine type 3A subunit (5-HT3A(b)) heterologously expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. At negative holding potentials, bath applied 5-HT (300 nM - 10 microM) evoked a transient, concentration-dependent (EC50 = 1.1+/-0.1 microM), inward current. The response reversed in sign at a holding potential of -2.1+/-1.6 mV. The response to 5-HT was mimicked by the 5-HT3 receptor selective agonists 2-methyl-5-HT (EC50= 4.1+/-0.2 microM), 1-phenylbiguanide (EC50=3.0+/-0.1 microM), 3-chlorophenylbiguanide (EC50 = 140+/-10 nM), 3,5-dichlorophenylbiguanide (EC50 = 14.5+/-0.4 nM) and 2,5-dichlorophenylbiguanide (EC50 = 10.2+/-0.6 nM). With the exception of 2-methyl-5-HT, all of the agonists tested elicited maximal current responses comparable to those produced by a saturating concentration (10 microM) of 5-HT. Responses evoked by 5-HT at EC50 were blocked by the 5-HT3 receptor selective antagonist ondansetron (IC50=231+/-22 pM) and by the less selective agents (+)-tubocurarine (IC50=31.9+/-0.01 nM) and cocaine (IC50 = 2.1+/-0.2 microM). The data are discussed in the context of results previously obtained with the human and mouse orthologues of the 5-HT3A subunit. Overall, the study reinforces the conclusion that species differences detected for native 5-HT3 receptors extend to, and appear largely explained by, differences in the properties of homo-oligomeric receptors formed from 5-HT3A subunit orthologues.
1. We have investigated the neurotransmitters and receptor subtypes involved in nerve-mediated vasoconstriction in small arteries of the rat hepatic mesentery. 2. A dense sympathetic innervation was demonstrated using catecholamine histochemistry and antibodies against the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin. 3. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) demonstrated very strong expression of the alpha1A-adrenergic, neuropeptide Y (NPY) Y1, P2X1- and P2X4-purinergic receptors, moderate expression of the alpha2B-adrenergic receptor and the purinergic P2X5- and P2X7-receptors and weak expression of the alpha1B-, alpha1D-, alpha2A- and alpha2C-adrenergic receptors and the P2X2- and P2X3-purinergic receptors. NPY2 and P2X6 receptor expression was absent. 4. Electrical field stimulation (10 Hz, 10 s) produced contractions which were abolished by tetrodotoxin (10(-6) M) and/or guanethidine (GE, 5 x 10(-6) M) and a combination of benextramine (10(-5) M) and alpha,beta-methylene ATP, (alpha,beta-mATP, 3 x 10(-6) M) or PPADS (10(-5) M). Selective alpah1-adrenergic receptor antagonists showed the potency order of prazosin &gt; WB-4101 &gt; 5-methyl-urapidil &gt; BMY 7378. Yohimbine (10(-8) M, 10(-7) M), alpha,beta-mATP (3 x 10(-6) M) and PPADS (10(-5) M) each enhanced the response to nerve stimulation. 5. Some experiments demonstrated a slow neurogenic contraction which was abolished by GE or the selective NPY1 receptor antagonist 1229U91 (6 x 10(-7) M). 6. We conclude that nerve-mediated vasoconstriction results from the activation of postsynaptic alpha,beta-adrenergic and P2X-purinergic receptors and under some conditions, NPY1 receptors. Neurotransmitter release is modulated by presynaptic alpha2-adrenergic receptors and possibly also P2X-purinoceptors. The major postsynaptic subtypes involved were well predicted by mRNA expression as measured by RT-PCR, suggesting that this technique may be a useful adjunct to studies aimed at identifying functional receptor subtypes.
Acute flunitrazepam (1 microM) exposure for 1 h reduced GABA(A) receptor alpha1 (22+/-4%, mean+/-s.e.mean) and beta2/3 (21+/-4%) subunit protein levels in cultured rat cerebellar granule cells. This rapid decrease in subunit proteins was completely prevented by bisindolymaleimide 1 (1 microM), an inhibitor of protein kinase C, but not by N-[2-((p-bromocinnamyl)amino)ethyl]-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide (H-89, 4.8 microM), an inhibitor of protein kinases A and G. These results suggest the existence of a benzodiazepine-induced mechanism to rapidly alter GABA(A) receptor protein expression, that appears to be dependent on protein kinase C activity.
The aetiology and treatment of Parkinsonism is currently conceptualised within a dopamine (DA) deficiency-repletion framework. Loss of striatal DA is thought to cause motor impairment of which tremor, bradykinaesia and rigidity are prominent features. Repletion of deficient DA should at least minimise parkinsonian signs and symptoms. In Section 2, based on extensive pre-clinical and clinical findings, the instability of this approach to Parkinsonism is scrutinised as the existing negative findings challenging the DA deficiency hypothesis are reviewed and reinterpreted. In Section 3 it is suggested that Parkinsonism is due to a DA excess far from the striatum in the area of the posterior lateral hypothalamus (PLH) and the substantia nigra (SN). This unique area, around the diencephalon/mesencephalon border (DCMCB), is packed with many ascending and descending fibres which undergo functional transformation during degeneration, collectively labelled 'orphan neurones'. These malformed cells remain functional resulting in pathological release of transmitter and perpetual neurotoxicity. Orphan neurone formation is commonly observed in the PLH of animals and in man exhibiting Parkinsonism. The mechanism by which orphan neurones impair motor function is analogous to that seen in the diseased human heart. From this perspective, to conceptualise orphan neurones at the DCMCB as 'Time bombs in the brain' is neither fanciful nor unrealistic [E.M. Stricker, M.J. Zigmond, Comments on effects of nigro-striatal dopamine lesions, Appetite 5 (1984) 266-267] as the DA excess phenomenon demands a different therapeutic approach for the management of Parkinsonism. In Section 4 the focus is on this novel concept of treatment strategies by concentrating on non-invasive, pharmacological and surgical modification of functional orphan neurones as they affect adjacent systems. The Orphan neurone/DA excess hypothesis permits a more comprehensive and defendable interpretation of the interrelationship between Parkinsonism and schizophrenia and other related disorders.
The intracellular expression of antibodies in mammalian cells is a strategy to inhibit in vivo the function of selected molecules. One limitation of this technology is represented by the unpredictable behaviour of antibodies, under conditions of intracellular expression. Recent advances in the field of antibody expression in E. coli show that the introduction of mutations inspired by sequence comparisons or by educated guesses can improve the properties of some antibody domains, but the general applicability of this approach to intracellular antibodies remains to be proven. As a complement to rational approaches, selection schemes whereby antibodies are selected on the basis of their performance in vivo as intracellular antibodies can be exploited. (Fig. 3, Ref. 44.)


Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by the premature death of motor neurons. In approximately 10% of the cases the disease is inherited as autosomal dominant trait (FALS). It has been found that mutations in the Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase gene (SOD1) are responsible for approximately 15% of FALS kindreds. We screened affected individuals from 70 unrelated FALS kindreds and identified 10 mutations, 6 of which are novel. Surprisingly, we have found a mutation in exon 3, which includes most of the active site loop and Zn2+ binding sites, a region where no previous SOD1 mutations have been found. Our data increase the number of different SOD1 mutations causing FALS to 55, a significant fraction of the 154 amino acids of this relatively small protein.
Loss of heterozygosity (LOH) analysis has repeatedly implicated the 10q24-26 region as the site of tumor suppressor genes involved in the development of malignant human gliomas. However, deletions of this kind are generally too big to pinpoint the critical genes involved. On the other hand, chromosome translocations frequently interrupt genes important in the development of the phenotype. We have screened a series of cell lines and cultures from primary human brain tumors for translocations involving chromosomes 10 and 19 by using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and chromosome-specific paints. The T98G cell line carries an apparently reciprocal t(10;19)(q24;q13) translocation, the breakpoints on chromosomes 10 and 19 occurring in a region frequently showing LOH in gliomas as well as oligodendrogliomas and astrocytomas. One glioblastoma tumor, CCF 4, also showed a subtle translocation of chromosome 10 material into the long arm of chromosome 11. FISH analysis of these rearrangements showed that the chromosome 10-specific yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) 912C7 spans the translocation breakpoint in T98G cells and is also present in the material translocated from chromosome 10 in tumor CCF 4. The translocation breakpoint in 19q13 in T98G occurs within a 500-kb region of YAC 751E12. These translocation breakpoints are within the regions showing frequent LOH in brain tumors and provide a more refined tool for the identification of genes in this region involved in tumorigenesis.
1. The amnesia induced by various stress stimuli through hypoxia and cerebral ischemia was evaluated by the shortening of the response latency in a step-through task in mice. 2. The hypoxia-induced amnesia was reduced by cromakalim, a K+ channel opener (KCO), given 10 min before or immediately after the hypoxic treatment. 3. Similarly, the ischemia-induced amnesia was also reduced by cromakalim given 30 min before the occlusion. 4. In ischemic-induced amnesic mice, pyknotic cells, indicating the condensation of chromatin, were observed histochemically at the dentate gyrus granule cells in hippocampal regions 96 hr after ischemic treatment. In addition, cromakalim inhibited the induction of pyknotic cells. 5. These results suggest that KCOs might produce prophylactically neuroprotective effects against hypoxia- and cerebral ischemia-induced amnesia.
Ependymoma is a rare tumor entity. It affects children and adults and has four preferential locations: supra- and infra-tentorial, spinal, and conus-cauda-filum. For statistical reasons, therefore, it is difficult to identify prognostic factors in series from single institutions because of the limited number of cases. The problem is complicated by the existence of some variants and by the difficulty in recognizing the anaplastic variant, because the common criteria used for recognizing malignancy in gliomas are not completely reliable in ependymomas. Apart from age and location, many parameters have been considered for prognostic purposes, including extension of surgical removal and radiotherapy. Among histological factors, the number of mitoses, labelling indices of proliferation markers, and cell density turned out to be good parameters for prognostic purposes. An overview is given of the contributions in the literature, including our own, on this problem.

The gut epithelial lining is normally an effective barrier to entry of luminal bacteria and macromolecules into the body and dietary polyamines may influence its function. Therefore, the effects of spermine on regional intestinal permeability to different-sized marker molecules in rats were investigated in Ussing diffusion chambers. Mucosal exposure to 1 mM spermine reduced the permeation of the marker Na-fluorescein in jejunum, expressed as the apparent permeability coefficient (Papp). In contrast, Papp for Na-fluorescein was increased by 10 mM spermine in ileum and by 50 mM spermine in both jejunum and ileum. No effects were observed on [51Cr]-EDTA permeability in any of the intestinal regions. For the larger marker molecules, bovine serum albumin (BSA) and FITC-dextran 71200 (FITC-D), mucosal exposure to 0.5 mM spermine reduced Papp in colon. Spermine (10 mM), increased Papp for FITC-D in all regions and for BSA only in ileum, while Papp for BSA was increased by 50 mM spermine in both jejunum and ileum. The effects of spermine on the intestinal permeability to different-sized molecules generally seemed to depend on the intestinal region and on the polyamine concentration; higher spermine concentrations (10-50 mM) enhanced, while lower (0.5-1 mM) decreased the permeability. These findings may be important when trying to modulate epithelial barrier functions, especially during barrier dysfunction.
Treatment of alcohol and drug addictions, which has been neglected medically for a long time, is currently sparked with optimism. Craving for alcohol can be treated with two newly registered drugs: naltrexone and acamprosate. New approaches to symptom relief during detoxification or during maintenance therapies are rationally based on experimental and clinical work. It is now clear that addictive drugs are surrogates of natural substances involved in the 'reward system'.
The cortical visual system consists of many richly interconnected areas. Each area is characterized by more or less specific receptive field tuning properties. However, these tuning properties reflect only a subset of the interactions that occur within and between areas. Neuronal responses may be modulated by perceptual context or attention. These modulations reflect lateral interactions within areas and feedback from higher to lower areas. Recent work is beginning to unravel how horizontal and feedback connections each contribute to modulatory effects and what the role of these modulations is in vision. Whereas receptive field tuning properties reflect feedforward processing, modulations evoked by horizontal and feedback connections may reflect the integration of information that underlies perception.
Work on the functional organization of auditory cortex in nonhuman primates has recently gained increasing attention. Neurophysiological studies using complex stimuli, combined with anatomical tract tracing, reveal a hierarchy of cortical processing comparable to other sensory systems. On the basis of these findings from animal studies, together with the advent of modern neuroimaging methods used in human cortex, the field of auditory neuroscience could soon arrive at a detailed understanding of the cortical representation of complex sounds, including speech.
This study examined the cognitive manifestations of frontal-lobe infarction in a population of children with sickle cell disease (SCD). Forty-one patients with SCD underwent MRI. Five patients with stroke symptoms had large infarcts encroaching on the tissue of the frontal lobes. Four patients without symptoms had smaller frontal-lobe infarcts. The patients with stroke were significantly impaired on measures of intelligence, memory, and frontal-lobe function (Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, WCST) compared with both the patients with normal MRI scans (N=30) and a group of sibling controls (N=15), who did not differ from each other. Patients with covert infarction obtained scores on the intelligence tests and the WCST that fell in between those of the stroke patients and the other two groups. This trend toward impairment suggests that patients with covert infarction are at similar risk for cognitive deficits to those with stroke.
Using long-term, time-lapse video-microscopy, we investigated how single progenitor cells isolated from the early embryonic cerebral cortex produce neurons and glia over time. Clones of 10 cells or less were produced by short symmetric or asymmetric division patterns, commonly terminating in a 'pair progenitor' for two morphologically identical neurons. Larger trees were composites of these short sub-lineages: more prolific neuroblasts underwent repeated asymmetric divisions, each producing a minor neuroblast that typically made (3/4)10 progeny, and a sister cell capable of generating more progeny. Particular division patterns were seen repeatedly. In contrast, glioblasts underwent a prolonged series of symmetric divisions. These patterned lineage trees were generated from isolated cells growing on plastic, suggesting they are largely intrinsically programmed. Our data demonstrate for the first time that CNS progenitor cells have stereotyped division patterns, and suggest that as in invertebrates, these may play a role in neural development.
Induction of the floor plate at the ventral midline of the neural tube is one of the earliest events in the establishment of dorsoventral (d/v) polarity in the vertebrate central nervous system (CNS). The secreted molecule, Sonic hedgehog, has been shown to be both necessary and sufficient for this induction. In vertebrates, several downstream components of this signalling pathway have been identified, including members of the Gli transcription factor family. In this study, we have examined d/v patterning of the CNS in Gli2 mouse mutants. We have found that the floor plate throughout the midbrain, hindbrain and spinal cord does not form in Gli2 homozygotes. Despite this, motoneurons and ventral interneurons form in their normal d/v positions at 9.5 to 12.5 days postcoitum (dpc). However, cells that are generated in the region flanking the floor plate, including dopaminergic and serotonergic neurons, were greatly reduced in number or absent in Gli2 homozygous embryos. These results suggest that early signals derived from the notochord can be sufficient for establishing the basic d/v domains of cell differentiation in the ventral spinal cord and hindbrain. Interestingly, the notochord in Gli2 mutants does not regress ventrally after 10.5 dpc, as in normal embryos. Finally, the spinal cord of Gli1/Gli2 zinc-finger-deletion double homozygous mutants appeared similar to Gli2 homozygotes, indicating that neither gene is required downstream of Shh for the early development of ventral cell fates outside the ventral midline.
Gastroparesis is a common debilitating complication in many diabetic patients. While several drugs are available for gastroparesis, many patients are not adequately treated. Many patients do not respond to available drugs or appear to develop tachyphylaxis after an initial response. New agents are needed. Erythromycin is a macrolide antibiotic that accelerates gastric emptying through interaction with motilin receptors. Many antibiotics, like erythromycin itself, have significant gastrointestinal side effects. We investigated the ability of cephalosporin antibiotics to alter gastric emptying in mice by employing phenol red spectrophotometry to monitor gastric emptying. Our results indicate that several cephalosporin antibiotics, particularly cefazolin, accelerate gastric emptying. In some cases these drugs appear more efficacious than either erythromycin or metoclopramide. At very high doses, many drugs, including erythromycin, appear to delay gastric emptying. We hypothesize that the gastrointestinal side effects of nausea and vomiting may result from delayed gastric emptying occurring at high doses while lower doses are prokinetic in the stomach.


Although cAMP has long been regarded as the primary intracellular messenger for ACTH-stimulated cortisol secretion, a requirement for Ca2+ is well established. However, a specific mechanism which couples ACTH receptor activation to increased intracellular calcium concentration in the adrenal cortical cell has not been elucidated. Here, we present evidence for a specific model in which ACTH at picomolar concentrations induces cAMP which acts through kinase-dependent and independent pathways to stimulate cortisol secretion. Along one of these pathways, cAMP acts directly to depolarize cells by inhibition of a specific non-inactivating K+ channel (I(AC)). This model provides a specific mechanism whereby cAMP-mediated inhibition of I(AC) is tightly coupled to depolarization-dependent Ca2+ entry and cortisol secretion. Ca2+ and cAMP are dual second messengers in the ACTH signalling pathway that are linked through I(AC) K+ channels.
In the present work we investigated the mechanisms controlling the release of acetylcholine (ACh) and of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) from cultures of amacrine-like neurons, containing a subpopulation of cells which are simultaneously GABAergic and cholinergic. We found that 81.2 +/- 2.8% of the cells present in the culture were stained immunocytochemically with an antibody against choline acetyltransferase, and 38.5 +/- 4.8% of the cells were stained with an antibody against GABA. Most of the cells containing GABA (87.0 +/- 2.9%) were cholinergic. The release of acetylcholine and GABA was mostly Ca2+-dependent, although a significant release of [3H]GABA occurred by reversal of its transporter. Potassium evoked the Ca2+-dependent release of [3H]GABA and [3H]acetylcholine, with EC50 of 31.0 +/- 1.0 mm and 21.6 +/- 1.1 mm, respectively. The Ca2+-dependent release of [3H]acetylcholine was significantly inhibited by 1 micrometer tetrodotoxin and by low (30 nm) omega-conotoxin GVIA (omega-CgTx GVIA) concentrations, or by high (300 nm) nitrendipine (Nit) concentrations. On the contrary, the release of [14C]GABA was reduced by 30 nm nitrendipine, or by 500 nm omega-CgTx GVIA, but not by this toxin at 30 nm. The release of either transmitters was unaffected by 200 nm omega-Agatoxin IVA (omega-Aga IVA), a toxin that blocks P/Q-type voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels (VSCC). The results show that Ca2+-influx through omega-CgTx GVIA-sensitive N-type VSCC and through Nit-sensitive L-type VSCC induce the release of ACh and GABA. However, the significant differences observed regarding the Ca2+ channels involved in the release of each neurotransmitter suggest that in amacrine-like neurons containing simultaneously GABA and acetylcholine the two neurotransmitters may be released in distinct regions of the cells, endowed with different populations of VSCC.
Rats sustaining unilateral near-complete 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the mesostriatal dopamine pathway received daily injections of 3, 4 dihydroxyphenyl-l-alanine (L-DOPA, 8 mg/kg plus 15 mg/kg benserazide) for 3 weeks. During this period, about 50% of the rats gradually developed abnormal involuntary movements, lasting for 2-3 h following each L-DOPA dose. Rats were killed 3 days after the last L-DOPA injection, and sections through the striatum were processed for in situ hybridization histochemistry. Within the L-DOPA-treated group, levels of preproenkephalin (PPE) mRNA, glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD67) mRNA, and prodynorphin (PDyn) mRNA in the dopamine-denervated caudate-putamen, as well as GAD67 mRNA expression in the globus pallidus ipsilateral to the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion, were higher in dyskinetic than non-dyskinetic animals, and positively correlated with the rats' dyskinesia scores. By contrast, striatal preprotachykinin mRNA expression and D2 receptor-radioligand binding were not significantly associated with dyskinesia. Among all these markers, PDyn mRNA levels showed the most pronounced treatment-dependence (three times higher in the L-DOPA-treated group than in saline-injected lesion-only controls), and the strongest correlation with the rats' dyskinesia scores (r2 = 0.82). However, a multiple regression equation including the three factors, GAD67 mRNA levels in the GP, GAD67 mRNA in the lateral CPu, and striatal PDyn mRNA, gave a better fit for dyskinesia scores than PDyn mRNA alone (r2 = 0.92). The results show that L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia is associated with overexpression of PDyn and GAD67 mRNA in the striatal projection neurons, and GAD67 mRNA levels in the globus pallidus. Due to its treatment-dependent expression, and strong correlation with the associated dyskinetic symptoms, striatal PDyn mRNA, in particular, may play a role in the mechanisms of behavioural sensitization brought about by the drug.
It has been suggested that inflammation related to intracerebral transplantation surgery can affect the survival of intrastriatal neural allografts. To test this hypothesis, we transplanted dissociated embryonic mesencephalic tissue from one of two rat strains, Lewis (allogeneic grafts) or Sprague-Dawley (syngeneic grafts), to the striatum of Sprague-Dawley rats. The target striatum was either intact or had received a local injection of quinolinic acid 9 days earlier, in order to induce a marked inflammation. At 6 or 12 weeks after transplantation, there was no significant difference between the different groups regarding the number of surviving grafted tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive neurons. However, the graft volume of both the syngeneic and allogeneic implants was significantly larger in the quinolinate-lesioned than in the intact striatum. There were dramatically increased levels of expression of major histocompatibility complex class I and II antigens, marked infiltrates of macrophages, activated microglia and astrocytes, and accumulation of large numbers of CD4 and CD8 positive T-lymphocytes in the quinolinate-lesioned striatum. In contrast, these immunological markers were much less abundant around both syngeneic and allogeneic grafts placed in intact striatum. We conclude that severe inflammation caused by quinolinic acid does not lead to rejection of intrastriatal neural allografts.
We assessed the neuroprotective capabilities of S12024 (R,S 1-methyl 8-(2-morpholinylmethoxy)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoleine methane sulphonate) in a model of neuronal degeneration in the dentate gyrus of the rat hippocampus. Specific degeneration of a large part of neurons in the lateral blade of the gyrus dentatus occurred after small intrahippocampal injections of water with or without amyloid-beta 1-28 fragment. S12024 reduced the number of animals with neuronal loss in the hippocampus, diminished the extent of the lesion, and reversed deficits of passive avoidance learning acquisition in animals with deposits of amyloid-beta 1-28. These results suggest that S12024 has neuroprotective effects on hippocampal cells and that the neurodegeneration by fluid injection combined with deposit of amyloid-beta 1-28 may be used to assay the neuroprotective activity of pharmacological compounds.
We investigated the ability of a novel direct current (DC) polarization technique to block selectively the conduction in peripheral myelinated nerve fibers and allowing propagation in only unmyelinated fibers. In anesthetized adult rats, distal branches of the sciatic nerve (caudal cutaneous sural and tibial nerves) were exposed for electrical stimulation of A- and C-fibers. Two specially fabricated trough electrodes of different size and surface area were placed onto the sciatic nerve. Through these proximal electrodes a controlled ramped DC was timed to coincide with the arrival of A- and C-fiber action potentials, evoked electrically at the distal nerves or naturally from the foot or ankle, with the intent of blocking propagation in A-fibers while allowing C-fiber throughput. Neuronal recordings were made both peripherally (proximal sciatic nerve fascicles or L5 dorsal roots) and centrally (single cells in the nucleus gracilis or nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis). The DC polarization was shown to block conduction in myelinated A-fibers effectively, while allowing conduction in the unmyelinated C-fibers, without activation of fibers via the DC polarization itself. This was dependent upon the following factors: electrode polarity, onset rate of polarization, peak amplitude of polarization, distance between polarizing electrodes, size difference between polarizing electrodes, and gross nerve size. These experiments demonstrate that anodally focused DC polarization, applied utilizing two trough electrodes of different sizes, is capable of effectively, reversibly, and reproducibly blocking conduction in myelinated A-fibers evoked either electrically or naturally, while still allowing conduction to occur in the unmyelinated C-fiber population. In the context of experimental usage, we have demonstrated blocking of low-threshold A-fiber, but not C-fiber, mediated inputs to the caudal brainstem. This technique should find wide application in studies involving the processing of information conveyed centrally by the unmyelinated C-fiber afferent population, including discriminating afferent responses to peripheral stimuli, the role of C-fiber input in reflex activity, and the plasticity following injury or other manipulations.
Visual-movement sensitivity of neurons in the turtle's accessory optic system was investigated. Neuronal responses to stimulus direction and speed were analyzed to determine whether they reflect processing by a one-dimensional encoder of visual motion or whether they indicate directional integration of presynaptic direction-sensitive responses whose maximal-response directions are distributed. Both of these mechanisms make predictions about the functional relationship between stimulus direction and response. The responses of single units in the basal optic nucleus to visual stimulation in different directions were described by both cosine and wrapped normal fitting functions. The wrapped normal function (a Gaussian curve mapped onto a circle) performed at least as well as the cosine function and described directional tuning curves of varying widths. Unlike cosines, the addition of two wrapped normals could describe multi-lobed directional data. Next, it was demonstrated that these neurons did not encode visual motion projected onto a single, spatial axis. Responses to the projected speed along the maximal-response direction were systematically lower than responses to the actual speed along that direction. Thus, for speeds above 1 degrees/s, neuronal response varies with respect to direction but not speed. Summation of presynaptic direction-sensitive responses with distributed maximal-response directions (referred to as directional integration) is discussed as a means of accounting for these results.
In pentobarbitone-anaesthetised spinal cats, a comparison was made of the effects of intravenous bicuculline hydrochloride, a GABA(A)-receptor antagonist, and several (-)-baclofen (GABA(B)-receptor) antagonists (CGP 35348, 4638 , 56999A) on the prolonged inhibition of extensor-muscle monosynaptic reflexes, recorded from lumbar ventral roots, by brief or continuous tetanic stimulation of low-threshold afferent fibres of hindlimb flexor muscles. Two components of brief tetanus inhibition were detected. Whilst possibly of similar central latency, the inhibition associated with GABA(B) receptors had a longer time course than that reduced by bicuculline. Furthermore, whereas bicuculline reduced primary afferent depolarization, generated by the inhibitory volleys, and detected as dorsal-root potentials, such potentials were generally enhanced by intravenous baclofen antagonists. The inhibition of reflexes during and after continuous (333 Hz) tetanic flexor-nerve stimulation appeared to be predominantly associated with the activation of GABA(B) receptors. In the period following continuous tetanic flexor-nerve stimulation, during which monosynaptic extensor reflexes were reduced in amplitude, the action potentials of the intraspinal terminations of extensor-muscle group-Ia afferent fibres were reduced in duration, as detected by the time course of the recovery of the threshold to extracellular microstimulation following the arrival of an orthodromic impulse. A reduction in termination action-potential duration also accompanied the reduction by microelectrophoretic (-)-baclofen of the release of excitatory transmitter from group-Ia terminations, both presynaptic effects being blocked by microelectrophoretic baclofen antagonists. However, the reduction of the duration of the action potential of individual group-Ia terminations, which followed continuous flexor-nerve stimulation, was not sensitive to the baclofen antagonist CGP 55845A, but was diminished by bicuculline methochloride. Intravenously administered bicuculline hydrochloride, however, had little or no effect on the inhibition of reflexes following continuous flexor-nerve stimulation. These observations are discussed in the context of possible intraspinal pathways and pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms for GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibition of the monosynaptic excitation of spinal motoneurones and of the functional significance of central GABA(B) receptor-associated inhibitory processes, given the relatively minimal effects on motor activity and behaviour produced by baclofen antagonists that penetrate the mammalian blood-brain barrier.
We examined neuronal activity in three motor cortical areas while a rhesus monkey adapted to novel visuomotor transforms. The monkey moved a joystick that controlled a cursor on a video screen. Each trial began with the joystick centered. Next, the cursor appeared in one of eight positions, arranged in a circle around a target stimulus at the center of the screen. To receive reinforcement, the monkey moved the joystick so that the cursor contacted the target continuously for Is. The video monitor provided continuous visual feedback of both cursor and target position. With those elements of the task constant, we modified the transform between joystick movement and that of the cursor at the beginning of a block of trials. Neuronal activity was studied as the monkey adapted to these novel joystick-cursor transforms. Some novel tasks included spatial transforms such as single-axis inversions, asymmetric double-axis inversions and angular deviations (also known as rotations). Other tasks involved changes in the spatiotemporal pattern and magnitude of joystick movement. As the monkey adapted to various visuomotor tasks, 209 task-related neurons (selected for stable background activity) showed significant changes in their task-related activity: 88 neurons in the primary motor cortex (M1), 32 in the supplementary motor cortex (M2), and 89 in the caudal part of the dorsal premotor cortex (PMdc). Slightly more than half of the sample in each area showed significant changes in the magnitude of activity modulation during adaptation, with the number of increases approximately equaling the number of decreases. These data support the prediction that changes in task-related neuronal activity can be observed in M1 during motor adaptation, but fail to support the hypothesis that M1 and PMdc differ in this regard. When viewed in population averages, motor cortex continued to change its activity for at least dozens of trials after performance reached a plateau. This slow, apparently continuing change in the pattern and magnitude of task-related activity may reflect the initial phases of consolidating the motor memory for preparing and executing visuomotor skills.
Hypothermia (33 degrees C) dramatically diminishes ischemic but not hypoglycemic brain damage. The beneficial effects of hypothermia in ischemia have been partly attributed to a reduction in the ischemia-induced increase in synaptic levels of glutamate or aspartate. With the microdialysis technique, we studied the effects of hypothermia (33 degrees C) on the brain extracellular levels of glutamate and aspartate during hypoglycemia, ischemia, and their combination. In isoelectric hypoglycemia, striatal levels of glutamate and aspartate frequently show large transients of transmitter release occurring during both normothermia and hypothermia, whereas in the cortex levels of glutamate and aspartate are slightly lower during hypothermia compared with normothermia. In both regions studied, complete ischemia induced by i.v. KCl results in a progressive increase in glutamate and aspartate levels over time. In normoglycemic animals, hypothermia markedly attenuates the increase in glutamate and aspartate levels in the striatum but not in the cortex. Also in hypoglycemic animals, complete ischemia causes a progressive increase in the glutamate and aspartate levels. However, hypothermia affects only striatal glutamate levels. Since hypothermia protects both cortex and striatum against ischemic brain injury and not against hypoglycemic injury, presumably the protective effect of hypothermia is due to factors other than prevention of glutamate or aspartate overflow.
With ageing, accumulation of modified proteins occur in the lens, forming light scattering aggregates. The multicatalytic proteinase complex, or proteasome, is known to be the major system for removal of damaged proteins in many tissues. In this study we attempted to compare levels of proteasome activity in human lens epithelium from clear vs. cataractous lenses. Normal lenses were obtained from eye donors in a cornea bank and samples from cataractous lenses were obtained from an eye clinic during cataract surgery. Proteolytic activity was quantified using the synthetic peptide substrate N-Succ-Leu-Leu-Val-Tyr-AMC, a substrate often used to measure the chymotrypsin-like activity of the proteasome. Addition of 100 micron lactacystin, a proteasome specific inhibitor, totally inhibited proteolysis, certifying the specificity of the assay. Hydrolysis was detected over time as the appearance of the flourogenic cleavage product and correlated to the area of the epithelium-capsule specimens. Proteolytic cleavage of N-Succ-Leu-Leu-Val-Tyr-AMC by the proteasome was higher in lens epithelium from clear donor lenses as compared to samples from cataractous lenses. Median activity in the latter was only 19% of that in the former, a highly significant difference. There was no difference in activity of the proteasome when looking at cortical vs. non-cortical cataract, nor was there any difference between genders. Regression analysis did not reveal any age-dependent relationship, either in the clear group or in the cataractous group. This work is the first to show differences in proteasome activity between clear and cataractous lenses.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the inhibitory activity of the heparan sulfate suleparoide on vascular cell growth in vitro and angiogenesis in vivo. Human HUV-EC-C endothelial cell proliferation and microvessel sprouting from cultured rat aortic rings were assayed by the bioreduction of 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide. The inhibition of the neoforming capillary network in the chorioallantoic membrane of chick embryo (CAM) was evaluated by agarose disks containing suleparoide and applied on the CAM surface. AgNO3/KNO3 injury was used to induce corneal neovascularization and to evaluate the therapeutic effect of topical suleparoide, while the involvement of bFGF in angiogenesis was evidenced by immunohistochemistry of corneal tissue. Quantitation of angiogenesis in the CAM and the cornea was accomplished by image analysis. Suleparoide dose-dependently inhibited HUV-EC-C cell proliferation (50% inhibitory concentration [IC50], 197.5+/-15.2 microg ml-1) and reduced microvessel sprouting in vitro (IC50, 351+/-22 microg ml-1). Likewise, suleparoide 150 microg in agarose disks produced an avascular area of 19.7+/-2.7% of the total area of the CAM (P&lt;0.05 as compared to controls). bFGF levels were significantly enhanced in the cornea after AgNO3/KNO3 injury, and the increase appeared to be time-dependent (25.6+/-1.8 and 43.2+/-7.4%, vs. uninjured controls after 24 hr and 48 hr, respectively, P&lt;0.05). Suleparoide 4.8 mg eye-1 day-1 for six days reduced the length of blood vessels and the area of the cornea infiltrated by them (59.6+/-7.4% decrease vs. controls, P&lt;0.05). These results demonstrate that suleparoide is an active agent against angiogenesis and suggest that the therapeutic effect of the drug could be of value to treat corneal neovascularization.
Partial lesions of the nigrostriatal dopamine system have been investigated with respect to their ability to induce consistent long-lasting deficits in movement initiation and skilled forelimb use. In eight different lesion groups 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) was injected at one, two, three, or four sites into the lateral sector of the right striatum, in a total dose of 20-30 microgram. Impairments in movement initiation in a forelimb stepping test, and in skilled paw use in a paw-reaching test, was seen only in animals where the severity of the lesion exceeded a critical threshold, which was different for the different tests used: single (1 x 20 microgram) or two-site (2 x 10 microgram) injections into the striatum had only small affects on forelimb stepping, no effect on skilled paw use. More pronounced deficits were obtained in animals where the same total dose of 6-OHDA was distributed over three or four sites along the rostro-caudal extent of the lateral striatum or where the injections were made close to the junction of the globus pallidus. The results show that a 60-70% reduction in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive fiber density in the lateral striatum, accompanied by a 50-60% reduction in TH-positive cells in substantia nigra (SN), is sufficient for the induction of significant impairment in initiation of stepping. Impaired skilled paw-use, on the other hand, was obtained only with a four-site (4 x 7 microgram) lesion, which induced 80-95% reduction in TH fiber density throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the lateral striatum and a 75% loss of TH-positive neurons in SN. Drug-induced rotation, by contrast, was observed also in animals with more restricted presymptomatic lesions. The results indicate that the four-site intrastriatal 6-OHDA lesion may be a relevant model of the neuropathology seen in parkinsonian patients in a manifest symptomatic stage of the disease and may be particularly useful experimentally since it leaves a significant portion of the nigrostriatal projection intact which can serve as a substrate for regeneration and functional recovery in response to growth promoting and neuroprotective agents.
We investigated changes in AMPA receptor properties in rat hippocampus 5 h after systemic kainate administration. Quantitative [3H]AMPA autoradiography and Western blot analysis of receptor subunits GluR1-3 in different subcellular fractions were used to evaluate possible alterations in binding characteristics and immunological properties of the receptors in synaptic and nonsynaptic fractions. Both ligand-binding and Western blots revealed significant changes in binding and immunological properties of nonsynaptic receptors but relatively smaller changes in synaptic receptors 5 h after kainate administration. GluR2/3 showed a greater relative change in the synaptic receptor population compared to GluR1, suggesting either a shift in subunit composition of AMPA receptors or the formation of a synaptic subpopulation of AMPA receptors with truncated C-terminal domain of GluR1 subunits. The effects of kainic acid were blocked by cycloheximide treatment indicating that the changes were due at least in part to increased synthesis of AMPA receptor subunits. The results indicate that excessive synaptic activity produces rapid changes in both synaptic and nonsynaptic AMPA receptor properties.
1. The glutamate analogue kainic acid produces neuronal damage in the central nervous system. We have reported that analogues of adenosine, such as R-N6-phenylisopropyladenosine (R-PIA) can, at doses as low as 10 microg/kg IP, prevent the hippocampal damage that follows the systemic administration of kainate. The present work was designed to examine purine protection against kainate in extrahippocampal regions by using histological methods. 2. The results show that R-PIA, at a dose of 25 microg/kg IP in rats, can protect against the neuronal damage caused by kainate in the basolateral amygdaloid nuclei, the pyriform cortex and around the rhinal fissure. This protection could be prevented by the simultaneous administration of the A1 adenosine receptor antagonist 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine, confirming that the protection involved adenosine A1 receptors. No protection was observed in the posterior amygdaloid nuclei or the entorhinal cortex, suggesting the absence of relevant adenosine receptors or a different mechanism of excitotoxicity.
Assembly of extracellular collagen fibrils and Schwann cell basal lamina has previously been identified as a prerequisite for compact myelin formation in the peripheral nervous system. Synthesis of this extracellular matrix (ECM) in vitro required the presence of serum and ascorbic acid. Using rat embryonic dorsal root ganglion neurons and Schwann cells, we have developed a fully defined medium in which myelination occurs. In the absence of ascorbic acid, normal myelin was formed without ECM assembly. This demonstrates that although myelination and ECM assembly are usually closely linked, ECM formation is not a prerequisite for myelination in vitro.
Auditory neurons tuned to the direction and rate of frequency modulations (FM) might underlie the encoding of frequency sweeps in animal vocalizations and formant transitions in human speech. We examined the relationship between FM direction and rate selectivity and the precise temporal interactions of excitatory and inhibitory sideband inputs. Extracellular single-unit recordings were made in the auditory midbrains of eight mustached bats. Up- and down-sweeping linear FM stimuli were presented at different modulation rates in order to determine FM selectivity. Brief tone pairs with varying interstimulus delays were presented in a forward masking paradigm to examine the relative timing of excitatory and inhibitory inputs. In the 33 units for which tone pair data were collected, a correspondence existed between FM rate selectivity and the time delays between paired tones. Moreover, FM directional selectivity was strongly linked to rate selectivity, because directional preferences were expressed only at certain rates and not others. We discuss how abnormalities in the relative timing of inputs could alter or abolish the selectivity of such neurons, and how such a mechanism could account for the perceptual deficits for formant transitions seen in certain children with phonological deficits.
Glutamate receptors underlying synaptic excitation in the rat's lateral superior olive were studied by whole-cell patch clamp recordings in a brain slice preparation. Recordings from two morphological types of cells, bipolar and multipolar, identified by intracellular labeling with biocytin, showed that there were no obvious differences in responses mediated or modulated by ionotropic and metabotropic receptors between these two types of neurons. The excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) elicited by ipsilateral stimulation of the trapezoid body consisted of two components. An earlier component, which had faster rise time constant and decay time constant, was mediated by non-NMDA receptors. A later component, which had slower rise time and decay time constants, was mediated by NMDA receptors. Suprathreshold responses (action potentials), which arose from the early component, were always abolished by the non-NMDA antagonist, CNQX, but not by the NMDA antagonist, APV. These results suggest that both non-NMDA and NMDA receptors are present in LSO neurons, and that fast excitatory transmission in LSO is primarily mediated by non-NMDA receptors. The metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists, t-ACPD and L-AP4, reduced the size of EPSPs evoked by stimulation of the ipsilateral trapezoid body in LSO neurons; the reductive action of t-ACPD was reversed by the antagonist, MCPG, indicating that metabotropic glutamate receptors, probably group II and III subtypes, can modulate excitatory synaptic transmission in LSO.
Extracellular recordings were made with microelectrodes from single neurons in the rat's dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (DNLL) and response characteristics were determined for monaural and binaural acoustic stimulation. The vast majority of DNLL neurons were narrowly tuned to sound frequency and their temporal responses to contralateral tone pulses fell into one of three broad categories: onset (57%), sustained (21%) or onset-pause-sustained (22%). Most DNLL neurons fired multiple action potentials to a single click delivered to the contralateral ear. The majority (77%) of DNLL neurons showed a monotonic increase in the number of spikes elicited by contralateral tone pulses of increasing sound pressure level; the remaining cells were weakly non-monotonic. No obvious tonotopic pattern was found in the distribution of characteristic frequency of neurons in DNLL. Most DNLL neurons exhibited either excitatory/inhibitory (74%) or excitatory/excitatory (9%) binaural response patterns. The remaining cells (17%) were monaural and driven exclusively by stimulation of the contralateral ear. The binaural neurons in DNLL were sensitive to both interaural intensity and interaural time differences as determined by presentation of dichotic tone bursts and clicks respectively. The responses of DNLL neurons could be distinguished on the basis of monaural and binaural response characteristics from those in surrounding areas including the sagulum, paralemniscal zone and the intermediate nucleus of the lateral lemniscus.
We hypothesized that c-fos expression in the medial amygdala (Me), the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), and the medial preoptic area (MPOA) of the male Syrian hamster brain correlated with sexual satiety. To address this hypothesis, males were mated for 4 consecutive days. Experiment 1 determined whether the number of Fos-immunoreactive (Fos-ir) nuclei was equivalent in two groups of males mated to sexual satiety, one group of rested males (9.67 +/- 0.80 ejaculations) and a second group mated for 4 consecutive days (3.50 +/- 0.56 ejaculations). Fos-ir was increased within the caudal posterodorsal Me (cMePD), the anterodorsal and posteroventral subdivisions of the posteromedial BNST [BNSTpm(ad) and BNSTpm(pv)], the dorsolateral MPOA, and the medial preoptic nucleus of all males mated to sexual satiety compared to nonmated controls. In addition, Fos-ir &quot;clusters&quot; within the cMePD and BNSTpm(ad) were present in males mated to satiety regardless of the number of ejaculations. However, all males achieved multiple ejaculations. Therefore, Experiment 2 examined whether two groups of males stopped at one ejaculation exhibit different patterns of Fos-ir depending on proximity to sexual satiety. Brains of consecutively mated males, closer to satiety than rested males, showed greater BNSTpm(pv) Fos-ir and 5/6 males, but no rested male, exhibited cMePD Fos-ir clusters. These results support the hypothesis that cMePD and BNSTpm(pv) neuronal activation is associated with satiety and may constitute a discrete circuit to terminate mating.


We have previously shown that chromaffin cells, the neuron-like cells of the adrenal medulla, release proteins, which promote in vitro survival of a large number of peripheral and central nervous system neurons (cf. Lachmund, A., Gehrke, D., Krieglstein, K. and Unsicker, K, Trophic factors from chromaffin granules promote survival of peripheral and central nervous system neurons. Neuroscience, 1994, 62, 361-370). In a search for the active molecules we are testing compounds that are known to be synthesized and released by chromaffin cells. Amyloid precursor protein (beta APP) is one of these factors (Bieger, S., Klafki, H.-W. and Unsicker, K., Synthesis and release of the beta-amyloid precursor protein by bovine chromaffin cells. Neurosci. Lett., 1993, 162, 173-175). In the present study we have investigated the possibility that amyloid beta peptide (A beta P) generated from beta APP may have survival supporting effects for neurons from embryonic chick ciliary (CG) and dorsal root ganglia (DRG). Embryonic rat hippocampal neurons, for which promotion of short-term survival by A beta P has been reported (Whitson, J. S., Selkoe, D. J. and Cotman, C. W., Amyloid beta protein enhances the survival of hippocampal neurons in vitro. Science, 1989, 243, 1488-1490), were employed as a reference. A beta P fragment 1-40, administered over a wide range of concentrations (1.5-100 micrograms/ml) did not promote the survival of CG and DRG neurons isolated from embryonic day (E) 8 chick embryos. The peptide also failed to toxically suppress survival of these neuron populations in the presence of survival promoting factors. In confirmation of previous reports, the 1-40 peptide, in comparison to the reverse 40-1 peptide, significantly enhanced survival of hippocampal neurons. These results suggest that A beta P is not a trophic factor for the peripheral neuron populations tested and most likely, not a neurotrophic component among the neurotrophic factors released by chromaffin cells.
Epilepsy is the most important neurological problem in developing countries, with a total of 50 million people worldwide having the condition. 33 million of these cases are children in developing countries, of whom 90% are untreated. To determine the number of children with active epilepsy in a given developing country community, previous studies have either ascertained information directly from key informants in the community or through more broad-based two-stage surveys. Findings are reported from a study conducted in 46 villages of district 24 Parganas South, a rural district south of Calcutta, comparing the two approaches' sensitivity, efficacy, and costs. Village leaders, health workers, and students were interviewed as key informants, while house-to-house surveys were conducted in 15,000 households. The survey was 4 times as sensitive as the key informant approach, although the approaches had similar positive predictive values. The survey had an absolute sensitivity of 59%. Case identification by key informants strongly predicted successful treatment outcomes. The cost of finding 1 case was US$11 and US$14, and of finding one successful treatment outcome US$35 and US$67 for informants and survey, respectively. The use of key informants was essential to attaining longer-term program objectives.
The purpose of this article is to report on a patient with right frontal damage who exhibited a strong left &gt; right asymmetry of skin conductance levels (SCLs). Comparison with a control group indicates that this asymmetry resulted only from a higher SCL on the left hand. Such a result suggests that the frontal lesion has induced a contralateral disinhibition and is consistent with the idea of a contralateral inhibitory control of tonic electrodermal activity in the case of a healthy hemisphere. Peripheral factors, such as sweating or temperature seem unrelated to the SCL asymmetry and a possible influence of motor weakness is also rejected following comparison with a second patient who presented the same motor disorder without atypical SCL asymmetry. In contrast to SCLs, no asymmetry in skin conductance response amplitudes was observed in the former patient. This discrepancy is in line with previous observations showing that tonic and phasic EDA could depend on different neurophysiological controls.

Perineuronal nets are reticular structures enwrapping cell bodies and the largest dendrites of several neuronal populations. Discovered by Camillo Golgi, who described them in detail in 1898, they were intensely studied by the most famous contemporary neurohistologists for about twenty years. The opinion of Ramon y Cajal that perineuronal nets were a fixation artifact ended the first period of studies. Only a few researchers, among whom the Italian neurologists Besta and Belloni, went on with their studies up to the 1930s documenting the morphology of perineuronal nets of different mammals and of man both in normal and in pathological conditions. Only after about fifty years, the advances in the field of cytochemistry allowed the elucidation of not only the actual existence of perineuronal nets, but also their chemical nature, showing conclusively that they are complex organisations of extracellular matrix molecules, namely glycoproteins and proteoglycans. The research on perineuronal nets today involves several groups engaged to elucidate their biological properties and functional role.
In April 1898 at the Medico-Surgical Society of Pavia, Camillo Golgi communicated his finding of a novel intracellular structure, which he had detected in nerve cells by means of a variant of the &quot;black reaction&quot; he had developed earlier for the staining of the nervous tissue. On the basis of the &quot;netlike&quot; appearance and intracellular location of this structure, Golgi defined it as &quot;internal reticular apparatus&quot;. The reality of the organelle was debated for fifty years, since some investigators believed that the structure, which was soon designated as Golgi apparatus, represented an artifact of metallic impregnation. The controversy was finally solved in the mid-1950s by studies based on electron microscopy. Linked to the cell organelle he had discovered, Golgi's contributions to cytology had a great impact on biomedical sciences of the twentieth century.

Morbidity and mortality in puerperal cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) can be reduced by arresting the progression of thrombosis using heparin. However, conventional dose of heparin requires monitoring of coagulation parameters and carries a risk of haemorrhage. The present study involved 56 patients of puerperal CVT with CT evidence of haemorrhagic infarction. Twenty nine of these patients received low dose heparin till 30th post-partum day or symptomatic relief. Their clinical features and severity were similar to 27 patients who did not receive heparin. The mortality and morbidity at discharge was significantly less (P &lt; 0.001) in heparin treated group. There were no haemorrhagic complications. Low dose heparin is safe and effective in cerebral venous thrombosis, even with haemorrhagic infarction.
Interactions between cultured nerve cells and surfaces are of importance for the implantation of biocompatible electrode materials such as glassy carbon (GC). Since implants serve as recording sensors in prosthetic neuroscience, we investigated whether coating electrodes with certain laminin derivatives containing the peptide sequences SIKVAV, CDPGYIGSR, PDSGR, YFQRYLI, and RNIAEIIKDA influences neuronal adhesion and neurite outgrowth in vitro. The coating of GC was performed by electrochemical polymerization and, for comparison, by adsorption or covalent coupling. Electrochemical polymerization is suitable for the coupling of peptides to GC, as shown by amino acid analysis and sequencing. Embryonic chicken retinal ganglion cells and brain cells (days E7 or E17) were used for both attachment and growth studies. Surfaces made by electrochemical polymerization of peptides were more efficient than those made by adsorption or covalent coupling of peptides. Synthetic cyclic peptide derivatives of CDPGYIGSR and 18-mer SIKVAV were found to be more efficient than the linear peptides. Competitive effects that resulted in a decreased cell attachment could be found upon application of soluble peptides. Nevertheless, irrespective of the method of coating, peptides were less efficient compared with the whole laminin molecule, as expected from its multiple adhesion sites. When small GC pins were implanted into the brain of E17 chicken after coating with the 18-mer SIKVAV peptide, nerve cell attachment was observed in vivo. The results suggest that chronically implantable materials may exert a higher neurocompatibility when coated with synthetic peptides.
The contractile actions of the novel high-affinity 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT(1B/1D)) ligand, frovatriptan (formerly VML 251/SB-209509) were investigated in human isolated basilar and coronary arteries in which the endothelium had been removed. Basilar arteries were obtained post mortem, and coronary arteries were obtained from patients undergoing heart transplant (recipient) or from donor hearts that were not suitable for transplant. Frovatriptan was a potent contractile agent in isolated basilar artery with a -log mean effective concentration (EC50) value of 7.86 +/- 0.07 and intrinsic activity of 1.25 +/- 0.10 relative to 5-HT (n = 4). Frovatriptan was 8.5-fold more potent than sumatriptan, which produced a -log EC50 value of 6.93 +/- 0.09 and intrinsic activity 11.1 +/- 0.08 relative to 5-HT (n = 4). In coronary arteries, frovatriptan produced contraction with -log EC50 values of 7.38 +/- 0.12 and 7.81 +/- 0.2 in recipient (n = 7) and donor (n = 3) arteries, respectively. The relative degree of contraction of frovatriptan was lower than that of 5-HT, with relative intrinsic activities of 0.42 +/- 0.06 and 0.40 +/- 0.09, respectively. Sumatriptan produced contraction of human recipient and donor arteries with -log EC50 values (intrinsic activity) of 6.57 +/- 0.13 (0.79 +/- 0.27; n = 6) and 7.35 (1.41; n = 2), respectively. Furthermore, marked bell-shaped responses were apparent for frovatriptan in coronary arteries, with relaxation occurring at concentrations &gt;6 microM in some tissues. In contrast, no bell-shaped concentration-response curves were apparent for sumatriptan or 5-HT. Threshold concentrations for frovatriptan-induced contractions were also different between basilar (&gt;2 nM) and coronary arteries (&gt;20 nM). No separation of threshold activity was observed with sumatriptan or 5-HT. These data show that frovatriptan produces constriction of human isolated basilar and coronary arteries. However, frovatriptan produces a complex pharmacologic response in the coronary artery, with threshold contractile activity requiring approximately 10-fold greater concentrations of agonist than in the basilar artery. Frovatriptan also shows a differential pharmacologic profile compared with sumatriptan in coronary arteries, with reversal of tone predominating at high concentration.

Selective 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A (5-HT2A) antagonism has been proposed as a mechanism of atypical antipsychotic drug action. MDL 100,907, a new selective 5-HT2A receptor antagonist, has high affinity in vitro for 5-HT2A receptors and is being developed as a potential antipsychotic drug. In this study, neocortical 5-HT2A receptor occupancy was measured in six healthy male volunteers after placebo and escalating single doses (1-72 mg) of MDL 100,907 using positron emission tomography and the nonspecific radioligand [11C]N-methylspiperone ([11C]NMSP). Receptor occupancy was calculated using a ratio-equilibrium analysis, assuming that maximal radioligand binding inhibition represents 100% 5-HT2A receptor occupancy. Plasma concentrations of MDL 100,907 were measured with high-pressure liquid chromatography. The pharmacokinetic parameters area under the curve and peak plasma concentration increased linearly with dose, with rapid absorption and a 6- to 9-hour elimination half-life. The neocortical binding of [11C]NMSP was inhibited dose-dependently. After administration of 6 mg of MDL 100,907 the inhibition was 70%, corresponding to a 5-HT2A receptor occupancy of 90%. The calculated maximal inhibition was 77%. These observations indicate that MDL 100,907 passes the blood-brain barrier and binds to 5-HT2A receptors in a saturable manner in the living human brain. Repeated doses of MDL 100,907, 10 mg/day or more, should induce a sustained 5-HT2A receptor occupancy in most patients. Thus, MDL 100,907 provides a suitable tool to evaluate the potential of selective 5-HT2A receptor antagonism in the treatment of schizophrenia.
Previous studies of the relationship between plasma prolactin and clinical effects in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs have yielded inconsistent results. A possible explanation may be that most studies have not included subtherapeutic or low doses of antipsychotics. In this exploratory, double-blind study, the relationship between plasma prolactin concentration and central D2 receptor occupancy was examined in 13 schizophrenic patients treated with the experimental antipsychotic drug raclopride (2, 6, or 12 mg daily). D2 receptor occupancy was determined by positron emission tomography and was related to antipsychotic effect as measured by the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale. Plasma prolactin concentration was increased in eight of nine patients with a D2 receptor occupancy greater than 50%, whereas it was normal among patients with a D2 receptor occupancy less than 50% (p &lt; 0.01). Plasma prolactin concentration measured 4 hours after the morning dose of raclopride correlated significantly with plasma raclopride concentration (r = 0.92, p &lt; 0.01), the degree of D2 receptor occupancy (r = 0.81,p &lt; 0.01), and the antipsychotic effect (r = 0.79, p &lt; 0.01). Further controlled studies that include low doses of antipsychotic drugs may warrant a reconciliation of plasma prolactin as a useful tool in clinical monitoring of antipsychotic drug treatment.
Voltage-gated calcium channels are composed of a main pore-forming alpha1 moiety, and one or more auxiliary subunits (beta, alpha2 delta) that modulate channel properties. Because modulatory properties may vary greatly with different channels, expression systems, and protocols, it is advantageous to study subunit regulation with a uniform experimental strategy. Here, in HEK 293 cells, we examine the expression and activation gating of alpha1E calcium channels in combination with a beta (beta1-beta4) and/or the alpha2 delta subunit, exploiting both ionic- and gating-current measurements. Furthermore, to explore whether more than one auxiliary subunit can concomitantly specify gating properties, we investigate the effects of cotransfecting alpha2delta with beta subunits, of transfecting two different beta subunits simultaneously, and of COOH-terminal truncation of alpha1E to remove a second beta binding site. The main results are as follows. (a) The alpha2delta and beta subunits modulate alpha1E in fundamentally different ways. The sole effect of alpha2 delta is to increase current density by elevating channel density. By contrast, though beta subunits also increase functional channel number, they also enhance maximum open probability (Gmax/Qmax) and hyperpolarize the voltage dependence of ionic-current activation and gating-charge movement, all without discernible effect on activation kinetics. Different beta isoforms produce nearly indistinguishable effects on activation. However, beta subunits produced clear, isoform-specific effects on inactivation properties. (b) All the beta subunit effects can be explained by a gating model in which subunits act only on weakly voltage-dependent steps near the open state. (c) We find no clear evidence for simultaneous modulation by two different beta subunits. (d) The modulatory features found here for alpha1E do not generalize uniformly to other alpha1 channel types, as alpha1C activation gating shows marked beta isoform dependence that is absent for alpha1E. Together, these results help to establish a more comprehensive picture of auxiliary-subunit regulation of alpha1E calcium channels.
Rene Descartes was early accused of taking his central philosophical proposition from St Augustine. Did he also take his central neurophysiological concept from the same source? This is the question which this paper sets out to answer. It is concluded that the foundational neurophysiology propounded in L'Homme does indeed show strong and interesting resemblences to Augustine's largely Erasistratean version. Descartes, however, working within the new paradigm of seventeenth-century physical science, introduced a new principle: whereas Augustine's neurophysiology is pervaded throughout by a vital factor, the pneuma, Descartes' theory involved only inanimate material forces. It is concluded, further, that in spite of the interesting similarities between Augustinian and Cartesian neurophysiology there is no evidence for any direct plagiarism. It seems more likely that Augustine's influence was filtered through the Galenical physiologists of Descartes' own time and of the preceding century.
Illustrations, previous to the 19th century, provide evidence that brain dissections were executed on an isolated head, contrary to Rembrandt's anatomy lesson of Dr. Deyman. This paradox seems to be explained by clever biased composition.
C-fos is an early expression oncogene that can be stimulated by a variety of regulators. It is expressed by subsets of all pituitary cells, with increased expression seen in proestrous rats. However, in freshly dispersed pituitary cells studied during different stages of the cycle, there is limited expression of fos by luteinizing hormone (LH) cells and little basal expression by cells with follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) antigens. Proestrus is a time during which pituitary gonadotropes express peak levels of receptors for gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) and epidermal growth factor (EGF). We hypothesized that if GnRH or EGF stimulated fos activity in gonadotropes they would be most effective during the peak expression of their receptors. Anterior pituitaries were removed, cut into small pieces, and stimulated for 30 min. Total RNA was then collected and analyzed by Northern analysis. Both EGF and GnRH caused an increase in c-fos mRNA levels in the anterior pituitary gland compared with unstimulated pituitary glands assayed immediately after removal from the pituitary. However, the stimulatory effects were no greater than those seen with medium alone. This suggested that fos expression could be stimulated by local factors either in the pituitary or the medium itself. The second phase of the study focused on pituitary cells plated for 1 hr and then stimulated with EGF and GnRH for 15 min. Dual immunocytochemistry was done to learn which cell types expressed the fos proteins. After 15 min, EGF and GnRH both increased the percentages of fos-bearing cells above levels seen in medium alone. EGF stimulated fos proteins in subsets of FSH, adrenocorticotropin (ACTH), and growth hormone (GH) cells. GnRH increased fos proteins in subsets of ACTH and GH cells. These results suggest that EGF and GnRH may regulate fos expression, but not necessarily in gonadotropes. They also highlight the need for carefully timed experiments because endogenous factors in the pituitary itself may stimulate immediate early gene expression. (J Histochem Cytochem 46:935-943, 1998)
We used patch-clamp recording techniques to investigate the contribution of GABA to baseline membrane properties in cultured embryonic rat hippocampal neurons. Almost all of the neurons recorded with Cl--filled pipettes and clamped at negative potentials exhibited baselines that were noticeably noisy, with microscopic fluctuations superimposed on the macroscopic holding current. A gentle steam of saline applied to the neuronal surface rapidly and reversibly reduced the baseline current and fluctuations, both of which were completely eliminated by bicuculline. Fluctuation analysis showed that the variance in the baseline current signal was exponentially distributed with estimated kinetics comparable to those activated by submicromolar concentrations of exogenous GABA. The kinetics of Cl- channels activated by endogenous GABA displayed a potential sensitivity comparable to those activated by exogenous GABA. Non-neuronal cells stably transfected with alpha1 and gamma2 GABAA receptor subunits exhibited little baseline current variance when recorded with Cl--filled pipettes. Addition of micromolar GABA to the extracellular saline or to the pipette solution induced a saline- and bicuculline-sensitive baseline current signal comparable to that recorded in hippocampal neurons. Thus, both intra- and extracellular sources of GABA could contribute to the baseline properties recorded in these cultured neurons.
The incorporation of [alpha-32P]-uridine triphosphate into DNA transcription products was examined in short post-mortem interval (PMI) human brain neocortical nuclei (n, 22; PMI, 0.5-24 h) using run-on-gene transcription. Reverse Northern dot-blot hybridization of newly synthesized RNA against either total cDNA or Alu repetitive DNA indicated that human brain neocortical nuclei of up to 4-h PMI were efficient in incorporating radiolabel into new transcription products, after which there was a graded decline in de novo RNA biosynthetic capacity. To test the effects of 0-3000 nM concentrations of ambient aluminum on RNA polymerase I (RNAP I) and RNA polymerase II (RNAP II) transcription, dot blots containing 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, and 5.0 micrograms of DNA for (1) the human-specific Alu repetitive element (2) the neurofilament light (NFL) chain, and (3) glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) were Northern hybridized against newly synthesized radiolabeled total RNA. These DNAs represent heterogeneous nuclear RNA (hnRNA), neuronal-, and glial-specific markers, respectively. We report here a dose-dependent repression in the biosynthetic capabilities of brain RNAP II in the range of 50-100 nM aluminum, deficits similar to those previously described using a rabbit neocortical nuclei transcription system and at concentrations that have been reported in Alzheimer's disease (AD) euchromatin. Transcription from RNAP II and the neuron-specific NFL gene in the presence of aluminum was found to be particularly affected. These findings support the hypothesis that brain gene transcription in the presence of trace amounts of ambient aluminum impairs mammalian brain DNA to adequately read out genetic information.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide-27 (PACAP-27) caused a dose-dependent increase in met-enkephalin secretion and increased production of met-enkephalin peptide and proenkephalin A (PEnk) mRNA in bovine chromaffin cells, at concentrations as low as 300 pM. PACAP-38 was less potent than PACAP-27, but had similar effects. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) (1-100 nM) was without appreciable effect on either enkephalin secretion or biosynthesis, implicating PACAP type I receptors in PACAP-stimulated enkephalin secretion and synthesis. PACAP type I receptors can activate adenylate cyclase and stimulate phospholipase C through heterotrimeric G protein interactions, leading to increased intracellular cyclic AMP (cAMP), inositol triphosphate (IP3)-mediated calcium mobilization, and calcium- and diacylglycerol (DAG)-mediated protein kinase C (PKC) activation. Enkephalin secretion evoked by 10-100 nM PACAP-27 was not inhibited by 1 microM (-)-202-791, an L-type specific dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker, but was inhibited 65-80% by the arylalkylamine calcium channel blocker D600. Forty mM potassium-evoked secretion was inhibited &gt; 90% by both D600 and (-)-202-791, 25 microM forskolin-induced secretion was blocked &lt; 50% by D600 and was unaffected by (-)-202-791, and 100 nM phorbol myristate acetate (PMA)-induced secretion was unaffected by either D600 or (-)-202-791. Enkephalin biosynthesis was increased by 10 nM PACAP-27, as measured by increased met-enkephalin pentapeptide content and PEnk A mRNA levels. PACAP-, forskolin-, and PMA-stimulated enkephalin synthesis were not blocked by D600 or (-)-202-791. Elevated potassium-induced enkephalin biosynthesis upregulation was completely blocked by either D600 or (-)-202-791 at the same concentrations. PACAP acting through type I PACAP receptors couples calcium influx-dependent enkephalin secretion and calcium influx-independent enkephalin biosynthesis in chromaffin cells. Restriction of the effects of enhanced calcium influx to stimulation of secretion, but not of biosynthesis, is unique to PACAP. By contrast, potassium-induced enkephalin biosynthesis upregulation is completely calcium influx dependent, specifically via calcium influx through L-type calcium channels. We propose that subpopulations of voltage-dependent calcium channels are differentially linked to intracellular signal transduction pathways that control neuropeptide gene expression and secretion in chromaffin cells.
Neuronal precursor cells persist in the adult vertebrate forebrain, residing primarily in the ventricular/subventricular zone (SZ). In vivo, SZ precursors yield progeny which may die or give rise to glia. Yet they may also generate neurons, which are recruited to restricted regions such as the avian telencephalon and mammalian olfactory bulb. The survival of neurons arising from adult progenitors is dictated by both the availability of a permissive pathway for migration and the environment into which migration occurs. In the songbird higher vocal center (HVC), both humoral and contact-mediated signals modulate the migration and survival of new neurons, through an orchestrated set of hormonally regulated paracrine interactions. New neurons of the songbird brain depart the SZ to enter the brain parenchyma by migrating upon radial guide fibers, which emanate from cell bodies in the ventricular epithelium. The radial guide cells coderive with new neurons from a common progenitor, which is widespread throughout the songbird SZ. Neural precursors are also widely distributed in the adult mammalian SZ, although it is unclear whether avian and mammalian progenitor cells are homologous: Whereas neuronal recruitment persists throughout much of the songbird forebrain, in mammals it is limited to the olfactory bulb. In humans, the adult SZ appears to largely cease neurogenesis in vivo, although it, too, can produce neurons in vitro. In both rats and humans, the differentiation and survival of neurons arising from the postnatal SZ may be regulated by access to postmitotic trophic factors. Indeed, serial application of fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has allowed the generation and maintenance of neurons from the adult human SZ. This suggests the feasibility of inducing neurogenesis in the human brain, both in situ and through implanted progenitors. In this regard, using cell-specific neural promoters coupled to fluorescent reporters, defined progenitor phenotypes may now be isolated by fluorescence-activated cell sorting. Together, these findings give hope that structural brain repair through induced neurogenesis and neurogenic implants will soon be a clinical reality.
Reactive gliosis, which occurs in response to damage to the central nervous system, has been recognized for years but is not yet understood. We describe here a tissue culture model of reactive astrocytes used to characterize their properties. Cultures are prepared 1 week following 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion of rat substantia nigra and compared with astrocytes cultured from normal adult rats or rats injected with saline only. Astrocytes from the 6-OHDA-lesioned side contained elevated levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and GFAP mRNA and were intensely immunoreactive for GFAP, vimentin, and two epitopes that in vivo are found only on reactive astrocytes. The basal content of nerve growth factor (NGF) mRNA and NGF in astrocytes from 6-OHDA-lesioned rats was significantly higher relative to control astrocytes. Two inflammatory cytokines, interleukin-1beta and interferon-gamma, increased synthesis of NGF up to 20-fold in the reactive cells, whereas there was no response in the normal adult astrocytes. Astrocytes from postnatal day 2 rats shared many of the properties of the reactive adult astrocytes. These cultures offer the possibility to characterize the cellular and molecular properties of reactive astrocytes and to determine the factors responsible for activation of astrocytes.
We investigated the effect of chronically blocking NMDA receptor stimulation to examine changes in GABA(A) receptor expression and pharmacology in cerebellar granule cells at different stages of maturation. We have previously shown that NMDA-selective glutamate receptor stimulation alters GABA(A) receptor pharmacology in cerebellar granule neurons in vitro by altering the levels of selective subunits. When NMDA receptor stimulation is blocked with MK-801 during the first week in vitro, a decrease in the alpha1, gamma2S, and gamma2L receptor subunit mRNAs occurred. When present only during the second week, changes were limited to the alpha1 and gamma2L mRNAs. Finally, if MK-801 was present during the first week and removed during the second week, these changes reversed. Whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings showed that treatment with MK-801 during either the first or second week increased the EC50 of the receptors for GABA and attenuated the potentiation mediated by flunitrazepam. Last, these properties were reversed if MK-801 was removed after the first week in vitro. Our results suggest that MK-801 reversibly inhibits GABA(A) receptor maturation by modulating receptor subunit expression and that the altered pharmacological responses appear to be dominated by changes in the levels of allosteric modulation mediated by the gamma2 receptor subunit.
Hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor (HGF) was recently reported to function as a neurotrophic factor in the CNS. To investigate the intracellular signal pathways after activation of the HGF receptor c-Met in primary cultured rat neocortical cells, in vitro kinase assays were performed. HGF stimulation enhances the phosphorylation of endogenous 80- and 45-kDa substrates. Studies with protein kinase inhibitors and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate showed that protein kinase C (PKC) is activated intracellularly. The 80-kDa protein was identified to be the major PKC substrate MARCKS. Although four PKC subspecies, PKC alpha, PKC epsilon, PKC gamma, and PKC lambda, were expressed in the cells, only PKC alpha, PKC epsilon, and PKC gamma were selectively translocated in the plasma membrane after HGF stimulation. As expected from these three PKC subspecies, phosphorylation of phospholipase C gamma1 (PLC gamma1) but not phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase was enhanced, although the stimulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor induced phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase. In contrast to the neocortical cells, HGF did not enhance phosphorylation of PLC gamma1 in primary astrocytes. We also found that activated PKC(s) served as a major mitogen-activated protein kinase activator in this pathway. These findings suggest that HGF exerts neurotrophic effects through selective phosphorylation of PLC gamma1 and activation of distinct PKC subspecies in neocortical cells, most likely neurons.
This study shows that activation of M1 muscarinic receptors, when coexpressed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO)-K1 cells with neuronal nitric oxide (NO) synthase (nNOS), produces early and late phases of elevation of both intracellular Ca2+ concentration and nNOS activity. We examined the relationship between receptor-mediated increases in intracellular Ca2+ concentration and activation of nNOS over both short and long intervals using guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cGMP) formation as a measure of nNOS activity. The rapid phase of nNOS activation was dependent on release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores in both the CHO M1/nNOS transfected cells and in neuroblastoma (N1E-115) cells, in which muscarinic receptors and nNOS are endogenously expressed. Two single point mutations in the M1 muscarinic receptor that have previously been shown to uncouple differentially the receptor from phosphoinositide hydrolysis produced parallel attenuation of the rapid phase of nNOS activation. Characterization of the prolonged phase of nNOS activation was done using the conversion of L-[3H]arginine to L-[3H]citrulline as well as cGMP formation following stimulation of M1 muscarinic receptors for 60 min. Both responses were dependent on influx of extracellular Ca2+ and were accompanied by prolonged formation of NO at functionally effective levels as late as 60 min following receptor activation. Therefore, this study demonstrates for the first time the existence of two mechanistically distinct phases of nNOS activation that are dependent on different sources of Ca2+.
In previous gel-shift assays, we identified a protein complex, referred to as GS1, that binds in a sequence-specific manner to single-stranded DNA and is highly enriched in brain. As an initial step in clarifying the function of this complex, we have undertaken studies aimed at defining its protein components. In particular, we focused on identifying two protein bands that were covalently labeled when the GS1-DNA complex was subjected to UV irradiation to induce cross-linking between the radiolabeled probe and GS1 components. By following GS1 binding activity through a series of conventional chromatographic steps, as well as an affinity column based on the DNA oligonucleotide used for gel-shift assays, we were able to achieve approximately 500,000-fold enrichment of GS1 compared with that in crude cerebellar extracts used as starting material. This highly purified fraction contained both protein bands detected by UV cross-linking in crude extracts. Sequencing of peptides derived from these proteins led to their identification as Translin and Trax, interacting proteins identified in studies of DNA recombination in lymphocytes. A distinct line of research has provided evidence that a complex containing Translin can bind to specific mRNAs and block their translation. Whether one or both of these proposed functions of the Translin/Trax complex explains the high basal level of GS1 binding activity present in the brain remains to be determined.
The cellular infiltration found during CNS inflammation consists of monocytes and activated T cells, suggesting the presence of cell-specific chemotactic signals during inflammatory responses. Astrocyte chemokine expression might contribute to site-specific leukocyte infiltration within the CNS. To investigate the factors that regulate astrocyte chemokine expression, we examined the ability of human fetal astrocytes to induce beta-family chemokine mRNA. Astrocyte-derived monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), RANTES, macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha (MIP-1alpha), and MIP-1beta mRNA were easily induced by lipopolysaccharide and/or the proinflammatory cytokines (IFN-gamma and/or TNF-alpha), respectively. Addition of both IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha together did not lead to an additive effect but resulted in the inhibition of MCP-1 and MIP-1beta mRNA expression, indicating that interaction between chemokines and cytokines may play a key role in regulating the local immune response of resident and infiltrating cells at the site of lesion. Interestingly, ultraviolet light-inactivated measles virus, but not cytomegalovirus, strongly induced expression of MCP-1, RANTES, MIP-1alpha, and MIP-1beta mRNA in human embryonic astrocytes, especially MCP-1 and MIP-1beta. An association occurs between the beta-family chemokine expression in astrocytes and inflammatory factors/virus, suggesting a possible role for beta-family chemokines in the pathogenesis of CNS inflammatory disease.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the relationship between cyclic LH hypersecretion and nitric oxide (NO) release in the medial preoptic area (MPOA), the hypothalamic site implicated in induction of LH hypersecretion. The MPOA extracellular cyclic GMP (cGMP) efflux (an index of NO release), was monitored by microdialysis. Quite unexpectedly, we observed a daily afternoon rise in the MPOA cGMP efflux in cycling female rats on proestrus and diestrus II, in ovariectomized (ovx) rats and in ovx rats treated with ovarian steroids to induce the LH surge. The daily rise in cGMP efflux occurred earlier in diestrous and in estradiol benzoate (EB)-treated ovx rats than in ovx rats. Progesterone (P) injection to estrogen-primed ovx rats further advanced the onset of the rise close to the earliest time of rise as seen on proestrus. The afternoon increase in the cGMP efflux in proestrous rats was abolished by pentobarbital treatment that blocked the LH surge. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of 1 H-[1,2,4]oxadiazo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-one (ODQ), a selective inhibitor of soluble guanylyl cyclase, suppressed the P-induced LH surge in EB-primed ovx rats, but not basal LH secretion in unprimed ovx rats. Analysis of brain NOS (bNOS) levels in the POA by Western blotting showed that the morning bNOS levels were higher in the POA of EB-treated rats than in unprimed ovx rats. Further, with the exception of ovx rats treated with sequential EB and P treatment, the POA bNOS levels rose significantly in the afternoon in unprimed ovx and EB-treated ovx rats. Collectively, these findings reveal a diurnal rhythm in the MPOA cGMP/NO efflux that is ovarian steroid-independent. Ovarian steroids apparently shift the timing of the afternoon rise in cGMP/NO efflux to synchronize with the activation of steroid-dependent neuronal systems responsible for the LH surge.
It has been demonstrated that CNS levels of the cytokine IFN-gamma are elevated in association with a number of neuro-inflammatory diseases. In the present study, we have examined the effect of this cytokine on human brain derived cells. We show that prolonged treatment (22 h) of such cells with IFN-gamma inhibits the DNA binding activity of transcription factor AP-1. Furthermore, we show that this effect can be reversed by either N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA) or L-N5-(1-iminoethyl)ornithine (L-NIO), competitive inhibitors of nitric oxide synthase activity [Rees et al., 1990]. In addition, we show that treatment of brain-derived cells with the nitric oxide donor 3-morpholinosydnonimine, HCl (SIN-1), or [N-(b-D-glucopyranosyl)-N2-acetyl-S-nitroso-D,L-penicillaminamide] (glyco-SNAP-1), also inhibits the binding activity of AP-1. Together, these results suggest that IFN-gamma can inhibit AP-1 binding activity through a nitric oxide dependent mechanism.
This paper describes a 20 year old woman with a new combination of neurological impairments in which the motor phenomena were responsive to corticosteroid treatment. She had lifelong moderate learning impairment. A variable ataxia with cerebellar characteristics was present from early life, with early severe exacerbation when seizures were uncontrolled. Atypical absence and simple and complex partial seizures were present from the first year of life and EEG abnormalities were maximal in the right parietal region, concordant with a mild non-specific abnormality of the white matter in the region of the trigone. Episodes of alternating hemiplegia occurred from 11 years, unassociated with seizures. Exercise induced dystonia occurred from the age of 5. After 10-20 minutes walking, her right foot would turn in and the right leg would stiffen, followed by the left and by falling and inability to get up for several minutes. Prednisolone improved her ataxia and was associated with cessation of both seizures and exercise induced dystonia. This adds a new syndrome to the corticosteroid responsive motor disorders associated with epilepsy.
There is a need for valid objective tests of neurological improvement or deterioration to more accurately define response or progression in phase II studies of malignant glioma. The Edinburgh Functional Impairment Tests (EFIT) incorporate objective measures of upper and lower limb function, memory and a rating scale for dysphasia. We examined the intra-observer repeatability of the (EFIT) 24 hours apart in 55 patients with brain tumors and stable neurological disease and the inter-rater repeatability in 33 patients in the perioperative period (54 dual assessments). Intra-observer studies of the four subtests, failed to demonstrate any learning effect and showed close agreement. Inter-rater studies were affected by a treatment effect (steroids) and identified slight inter-rater bias for the ten meter walk. Altman-Bland plots showed that the level of agreement was less good in patients with more severe impairment. Correction for the severity of handicap was possible using a simple formulae: (timed tests: [rater 1 - rater 2]/[rater 1 + rater 2], Williams Delayed Recall Test [WDRT] (rater 1 - 2/81). Using this correction, all intra- and inter-rater variance of patients tested within 12 hours were &lt; 0.2. A change of &gt; or = 0.2 for the timed tests and WDRT, and a change in dysphasia score of &gt; or = 2, represent a significant change in impairment using the EFIT. The EFIT should be a useful addition in phase II studies where objectively recording response or time to progression is important.
We tested whether the primate hippocampus was functionally heterogenous along its anterior-posterior axis. Two monkeys were trained on both a spatial and nonspatial memory task and the incidence of spatial and nonspatial delay activity in the anterior, middle, and posterior hippocampus was noted. Spatial delay activity (activity in the delay period after the sample stimulus on the spatial memory task) was more common in the posterior than the anterior hippocampus, whereas nonspatial delay activity (activity in the delay period after the sample stimulus on the nonspatial memory task) was evenly distributed throughout the hippocampus. Furthermore, delay neurons in the anterior hippocampus exhibited scalloping delay activity, whereas those in the middle and posterior hippocampus did not. These findings suggest that the hippocampus is functionally heterogeneous and that the posterior regions may be more important for processing spatial information, whereas the anterior regions may be more important for directing or coding movements to points in space.
We investigated the topography of human cortical activation during an antisaccade task by focal transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). We used a figure-eight shaped coil, with the stimulus intensity set just above the threshold for activation of the hand motor areas but weak enough not to elicit blinks. TMS was delivered at various time intervals (80, 100, and 120 ms) after target presentation over various sites on the scalp while the subjects performed the antisaccade task. It was possible to elicit a mild but significant delay in saccade onset over 1) the frontal regions (a region 2-4 cm anterior and 2-4 cm lateral to hand motor area) and 2) posterior parietal regions (6-8 cm posterior and 0-4 cm lateral to hand motor area) regardless of which hemisphere was stimulated. The frontal regions were assumed to correspond to a cortical region including the frontal eye fields (FEFs), whereas the parietal regions were assumed to represent a wide region that includes the posterior parietal cortices (PPCs). The regions inducing the delay shifted from the posterior parietal regions at an earlier interval (80 ms) to the frontal regions at a later interval (100 ms), which suggested an information flow from posterior to anterior cortical regions during the presaccadic period. At 120 ms, the effect of TMS over the frontal regions still persisted but was greatly diminished. Erroneous prosaccades to the presented target were elicited over a wide cortical region including the frontal and posterior parietal regions, which again showed a forward shift with time. However, the distribution of effective regions exhibited a clear contralateral predominance in terms of saccade direction. Our technique provides a useful method not only for detecting the topography of cortical regions active during saccadic eye movement, but also for constructing a physiological map to visualize the temporal evolution of functional activities in the relevant cortical regions.
We have demonstrated that the spike patterns of auditory cortical neurons carry information about sound-source location in azimuth. The question arises as to whether those units integrate the multiple acoustical cues that signal the location of a sound source or whether they merely demonstrate sensitivity to a specific parameter that covaries with sound-source azimuth, such as interaural level difference. We addressed that issue by testing the sensitivity of cortical neurons to sound locations in the median vertical plane, where interaural difference cues are negligible. Auditory unit responses were recorded from 14 alpha-chloralose-anesthetized cats. We studied 113 units in the anterior ectosylvian auditory area and 82 units in auditory area A2. Broadband noise stimuli were presented in an anechoic room from 14 locations in the vertical midline in 20 degrees steps, from 60 degrees below the front horizon, up and over the head, to 20 degrees below the rear horizon, as well as from 18 locations in the horizontal plane. The spike counts of most units showed fairly broad elevation tuning. An artificial neural network was used to recognize spike patterns, which contain both the number and timing of spikes, and thereby estimate the locations of sound sources in elevation. For each unit, the median error of neural-network estimates was used as a measure of the network performance. For all 195 units, the average of the median errors was 46.4 +/- 9.1 degrees (mean +/- SD), compared with the expectation of 65 degrees based on chance performance. To address the question of whether sensitivity to sound pressure level (SPL) alone might account for the modest sensitivity to elevation of neurons, we measured SPLs from the cat's ear canal and compared the neural elevation sensitivity with the acoustical data. In many instances, the artificial neural network discriminated stimulus elevations even when the free-field sound produced identical SPLs in the ear canal. Conversely, two stimuli at the same elevation could produce the same network estimate of elevation, even when we varied sound-source SPL over a 20-dB range. There was a significant correlation between the accuracy of network performance in azimuth and in elevation. Most units that localized well in elevation also localized well in azimuth. Because the principal acoustic cues for localization in elevation differ from those for localization in azimuth, that positive correlation suggests that individual cortical neurons can integrate multiple cues for sound-source location.
We evaluated two hypothetical codes for sound-source location in the auditory cortex. The topographical code assumed that single neurons are selective for particular locations and that sound-source locations are coded by the cortical location of small populations of maximally activated neurons. The distributed code assumed that the responses of individual neurons can carry information about locations throughout 360 degrees of azimuth and that accurate sound localization derives from information that is distributed across large populations of such panoramic neurons. We recorded from single units in the anterior ectosylvian sulcus area (area AES) and in area A2 of alpha-chloralose-anesthetized cats. Results obtained in the two areas were essentially equivalent. Noise bursts were presented from loudspeakers spaced in 20 degrees intervals of azimuth throughout 360 degrees of the horizontal plane. Spike counts of the majority of units were modulated &gt;50% by changes in sound-source azimuth. Nevertheless, sound-source locations that produced greater than half-maximal spike counts often spanned &gt;180 degrees of azimuth. The spatial selectivity of units tended to broaden and, often, to shift in azimuth as sound pressure levels (SPLs) were increased to a moderate level. We sometimes saw systematic changes in spatial tuning along segments of electrode tracks as long as 1.5 mm but such progressions were not evident at higher sound levels. Moderate-level sounds presented anywhere in the contralateral hemifield produced greater than half-maximal activation of nearly all units. These results are not consistent with the hypothesis of a topographic code. We used an artificial-neural-network algorithm to recognize spike patterns and, thereby, infer the locations of sound sources. Network input consisted of spike density functions formed by averages of responses to eight stimulus repetitions. Information carried in the responses of single units permitted reasonable estimates of sound-source locations throughout 360 degrees of azimuth. The most accurate units exhibited median errors in localization of &lt;25 degrees, meaning that the network output fell within 25 degrees of the correct location on half of the trials. Spike patterns tended to vary with stimulus SPL, but level-invariant features of patterns permitted estimates of locations of sound sources that varied through 20-dB ranges. Sound localization based on spike patterns that preserved details of spike timing consistently was more accurate than localization based on spike counts alone. These results support the hypothesis that sound-source locations are represented by a distributed code and that individual neurons are, in effect, panoramic localizers.
It is not known whether psychophysical performance depends primarily on small numbers of neurons optimally tuned to specific visual stimuli, or on larger populations of neurons that vary widely in their properties. Tuning bandwidths of single cells can provide important insight into this issue, yet most bandwidth measurements have been made using suprathreshold visual stimuli, whereas psychophysical measurements are frequently obtained near threshold. We therefore examined the directional tuning of cells in the middle temporal area (MT, or V5) using perithreshold, stochastic motion stimuli that we have employed extensively in combined psychophysical and physiological studies. The strength of the motion signal (coherence) in these displays can be varied independently of its direction. For each MT neuron, we characterized the directional bandwidth by fitting Gaussian functions to directional tuning data obtained at each of several motion coherences. Directional bandwidth increased modestly as the coherence of the stimulus was reduced. We then assessed the ability of MT neurons to discriminate opposed directions of motion along six equally spaced axes of motion spanning 180 degrees. A signal detection analysis yielded neurometric functions for each axis of motion, from which neural thresholds could be extracted. Neural thresholds remained surprisingly low as the axis of motion diverged from the neuron's preferred-null axis, forming a plateau of high to medium sensitivity that extended approximately 45 degrees on either side of the preferred-null axis. We conclude that directional tuning remains broad in MT when motion signals are reduced to near-threshold values. Thus directional information is widely distributed in MT, even near the limits of psychophysical performance. These observations support models in which relatively large numbers of signals are pooled to inform psychophysical decisions.
The three-dimensional (3-D) properties of the translational vestibulo-ocular reflexes (translational VORs) during lateral and fore-aft oscillations in complete darkness were studied in rhesus monkeys at frequencies between 0.16 and 25 Hz. In addition, constant velocity off-vertical axis rotations extended the frequency range to 0.02 Hz. During lateral motion, horizontal responses were in phase with linear velocity in the frequency range of 2-10 Hz. At both lower and higher frequencies, phase lags were introduced. Torsional response phase changed more than 180 degrees in the tested frequency range such that torsional eye movements, which could be regarded as compensatory to &quot;an apparent roll tilt&quot; at the lowest frequencies, became anticompensatory at all frequencies above approximately 1 Hz. These results suggest two functionally different frequency bandwidths for the translational VORs. In the low-frequency spectrum (&lt;0.5 Hz), horizontal responses compensatory to translation are small and high-pass-filtered whereas torsional response sensitivity is relatively frequency independent. At higher frequencies however, both horizontal and torsional response sensitivity and phase exhibit a similar frequency dependence, suggesting a common role during head translation. During up-down motion, vertical responses were in phase with translational velocity at 3-5 Hz but phase leads progressively increased for lower frequencies (&gt;90 degrees at frequencies &lt;0.2 Hz). No consistent dependence on static head orientation was observed for the vertical response components during up-down motion and the horizontal and torsional response components during lateral translation. The frequency response characteristics of the translational VORs were fitted by &quot;periphery/brain stem&quot; functions that related the linear acceleration input, transduced by primary otolith afferents, to the velocity signals providing the input to the velocity-to-position neural integrator and the oculomotor plant. The lowest-order, best-fit periphery/brain stem model that approximated the frequency dependence of the data consisted of a second order transfer function with two alternating poles (at 0.4 and 7.2 Hz) and zeros (at 0.035 and 3.4 Hz). In addition to clearly differentiator dynamics at low frequencies (less than approximately 0.5 Hz), there was no frequency bandwidth where the periphery/brain stem function could be approximated by an integrator, as previously suggested. In this scheme, the oculomotor plant dynamics are assumed to perform the necessary high-frequency integration as required by the reflex. The detailed frequency dependence of the data could only be precisely described by higher order functions with nonminimum phase characteristics that preclude simple filtering of afferent inputs and might be suggestive of distributed spatiotemporal processing of otolith signals in the translational VORs.
We recorded single-unit activity of 25 units in the parafoveal representation of macaque V1 to transient appearance of sinusoidal gratings. Gratings were systematically varied in spatial phase and in one or two of the following: contrast, spatial frequency, and orientation. Individual responses were compared based on spike counts, and also according to metrics sensitive to spike timing. For each metric, the extent of stimulus-dependent clustering of individual responses was assessed via the transmitted information, H. In nearly all data sets, stimulus-dependent clustering was maximal for metrics sensitive to the temporal pattern of spikes, typically with a precision of 25-50 ms. To focus on the interaction of spatial phase with other stimulus attributes, each data set was analyzed in two ways. In the &quot;pooled phases&quot; approach, the phase of the stimulus was ignored in the assessment of clustering, to yield an index Hpooled. In the &quot;individual phases&quot; approach, clustering was calculated separately for each spatial phase and then averaged across spatial phases to yield an index Hindiv. Hpooled expresses the extent to which a spike train represents contrast, spatial frequency, or orientation in a manner which is not confounded by spatial phase (phase-independent representation), whereas Hindiv expresses the extent to which a spike train represents one of these attributes, provided spatial phase is fixed (phase-dependent representation). Here, representation means that a stimulus attribute has a reproducible and systematic influence on individual responses, not a neural mechanism for decoding this influence. During the initial 100 ms of the response, contrast was represented in a phase-dependent manner by simple cells but primarily in a phase-independent manner by complex cells. As the response evolved, simple cell responses acquired phase-independent contrast information, whereas complex cells acquired phase-dependent contrast information. Simple cells represented orientation and spatial frequency in a primarily phase-dependent manner, but also they contained some phase-independent information in their initial response segment. Complex cells showed primarily phase-independent representation of orientation but primarily phase-dependent representation of spatial frequency. Joint representation of two attributes (contrast and spatial frequency, contrast and orientation, spatial frequency and orientation) was primarily phase dependent for simple cells, and primarily phase independent for complex cells. In simple and complex cells, the variability in the number of spikes elicited on each response was substantially greater than the expectations of a Poisson process. Although some of this variation could be attributed to the dependence of the response on the spatial phase of the grating, variability was still markedly greater than Poisson when the contribution of spatial phase to response variance was removed.
We evaluated the combined effects on reaching movements of the transient, movement-dependent Coriolis forces and the static centrifugal forces generated in a rotating environment. Specifically, we assessed the effects of comparable Coriolis force perturbations in different static force backgrounds. Two groups of subjects made reaching movements toward a just-extinguished visual target before rotation began, during 10 rpm counterclockwise rotation, and after rotation ceased. One group was seated on the axis of rotation, the other 2.23 m away. The resultant of gravity and centrifugal force on the hand was 1.0 g for the on-center group during 10 rpm rotation, and 1.031 g for the off-center group because of the 0.25 g centrifugal force present. For both groups, rightward Coriolis forces, approximately 0.2 g peak, were generated during voluntary arm movements. The endpoints and paths of the initial per-rotation movements were deviated rightward for both groups by comparable amounts. Within 10 subsequent reaches, the on-center group regained baseline accuracy and straight-line paths; however, even after 40 movements the off-center group had not resumed baseline endpoint accuracy. Mirror-image aftereffects occurred when rotation stopped. These findings demonstrate that manual control is disrupted by transient Coriolis force perturbations and that adaptation can occur even in the absence of visual feedback. An increase, even a small one, in background force level above normal gravity does not affect the size of the reaching errors induced by Coriolis forces nor does it affect the rate of reacquiring straight reaching paths; however, it does hinder restoration of reaching accuracy.
In rat cerebellar slices, repetitive parallel fiber stimulation evokes an inward, postsynaptic current in Purkinje cells with a fast component mediated by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)/kainate receptors and a slower component mediated by metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR). The mGluR-mediated excitatory postsynaptic current (mGluR-EPSC) is evoked selectively by parallel fiber stimulation; climbing fiber stimulation is ineffective. The mGluR-EPSC is elicited most effectively with increasing frequencies of parallel fiber stimulation, from a threshold of 10 Hz to a maximum response at approximately 100 Hz. The amplitude of the mGluR-EPSC is a linear function of the number of stimulus pulses without any apparent saturation, even with &gt;10 pulses. Thus mGluRs at the parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapse can function as linear detectors of the number of spikes in a burst of activity in parallel fibers. The mGluR-EPSC is present from postnatal day 15 and persists into adulthood. It is inhibited by the generic mGluR antagonist (RS)-a-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine and by the group I mGluR antagonist (RS)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid at a concentration selective for mGluR1. Although the intracellular transduction pathway involves a G protein, the putative mediators of mGluR1 (phospholipase C and protein kinase C) are not directly involved, indicating that the mGluR-EPSC studied here is mediated by a different and still unidentified second-messenger pathway. Heparin, a nonselective antagonist of inositol-trisphosphate (IP3) receptors, has no significant effect on the mGluR-EPSC, suggesting that also IP3 might be not required for the response. Buffering intracellular Ca2+ with a high concentration of bis-(o-aminophenoxy)-N,N,N', N'-tetraacetic acid partially inhibits the mGluR-EPSC, indicating that Ca2+ is not directly responsible for the response but that resting Ca2+ levels exert a tonic potentiating effect on the mGluR-EPSC.
We have proposed previously a computational neural-network model by which the complex patterns of retinal image motion generated during locomotion (optic flow) can be processed by specialized detectors acting as templates for specific instances of self-motion. The detectors in this template model respond to global optic flow by sampling image motion over a large portion of the visual field through networks of local motion sensors with properties similar to those of neurons found in the middle temporal (MT) area of primate extrastriate visual cortex. These detectors, arranged within cortical-like maps, were designed to extract self-translation (heading) and self-rotation, as well as the scene layout (relative distances) ahead of a moving observer. We then postulated that heading from optic flow is directly encoded by individual neurons acting as heading detectors within the medial superior temporal (MST) area. Others have questioned whether individual MST neurons can perform this function because some of their receptive-field properties seem inconsistent with this role. To resolve this issue, we systematically compared MST responses with those of detectors from two different configurations of the model under matched stimulus conditions. We found that the characteristic physiological properties of MST neurons can be explained by the template model. We conclude that MST neurons are well suited to support self-motion estimation via a direct encoding of heading and that the template model provides an explicit set of testable hypotheses that can guide future exploration of MST and adjacent areas within the superior temporal sulcus.
alpha2-Adrenergic receptors (alpha2-ARs) mediate a number of physiological phenomena, including spinal analgesia. We have developed subtype-selective antisera against the C termini of the alpha2A-AR and alpha2C-AR to investigate the relative distribution and cellular source or sources of these receptor subtypes in the rat spinal cord. Immunoreactivity (IR) for both receptor subtypes was observed in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Our results suggest that the primary localization of the alpha2A-AR in the rat spinal cord is on the terminals of capsaicin-sensitive, substance P (SP)-containing primary afferent fibers. In contrast, the majority of alpha2C-AR-IR was not of primary afferent origin, not strongly colocalized with SP-IR, and not sensitive to neonatal capsaicin treatment. Spinal alpha2C-AR-IR does not appear to colocalize with the neurokinin-1 receptor, nor is it localized on astrocytes, as evidenced by a lack of costaining with the glial marker GFAP. However, some colocalization was observed between alpha2C-AR-IR and enkephalin-IR, suggesting that the alpha2C-AR may be expressed by a subset of spinal interneurons. Interestingly, neither subtype was detected on descending noradrenergic terminals. These results indicate that the alpha2-AR subtypes investigated are likely expressed by different subpopulations of neurons and may therefore subserve different physiological functions in the spinal cord, with the alpha2A-AR being more likely to play a role in the modulation of nociceptive information.
Biochemical and molecular mechanisms of neuronal cell death are currently an area of intense research. It is well documented that the lumbar spinal motoneurons of the chick embryo undergo a period of naturally occurring programmed cell death (PCD) requiring new gene expression and activation of caspases. To identify genes that exhibit changed expression levels in dying motoneurons, we used a PCR-based subtractive hybridization protocol to identify messages uniquely expressed in motoneurons deprived of trophic support as compared with their healthy counterparts. We report that one upregulated message in developing motoneurons undergoing cell death is the mRNA for amyloid precursor protein (APP). Increased levels of APP and beta-amyloid protein are also detected within dying motoneurons. The predicted peptide sequence of APP indicates two potential cleavage sites for caspase-3 (CPP-32), a caspase activated in dying motoneurons. When peptide inhibitors of caspase-3 are administered to motoneurons destined to undergo PCD, decreased levels of APP protein and greatly reduced beta-amyloid production are observed. Furthermore, we show that APP is cleaved by caspase-3. Our results suggest that differential gene expression results in increased levels of APP, providing a potential substrate for one of the cell death-activated caspases that may ultimately cause the demise of the cell. These results, combined with information on the toxic role of APP and its proteolytic by-product beta-amyloid, in the neurodegenerative disease Alzheimer's, suggest that events of developmental PCD may be reactivated in early stages of pathological neurodegeneration.
We explored the relationship between neurite outgrowth and the onset of synaptic activity in the central neuropil of the leech embryo in vivo. To follow changes in early morphology and the onset of synaptic activity in the same identified neuron, we obtained whole-cell patch-clamp recordings and fluorescent dye fills from dorsal pressure-sensitive (P) cells, the first neurons that could be reliably identified in the early embryo. We followed the development of the P cell from the first extension of neurites to the elaboration of an adult-like arbor. After the growth of primary neurites, we observed a profuse outgrowth of transient neurites within the neuropil. Retraction of the transient neurites left the primary branches studded with spurs. After a dormant period, stable secondary branches grew apparently from the spurs and became tipped with terminals. At this time, neurites of the Retzius (R) cell, a known presynaptic partner in the adult, were observed to apparently contact the terminals. Although voltage-dependent currents were seen in the P cell at the earliest stage, spontaneous synaptic activity was only observed when terminals had formed. Spontaneous release was observed before evoked release could be detected from the R cell. Our results suggest that transient neurites are formed during an exploratory phase of development, whereas the more precisely timed outgrowth of stable neurites from the spurs signals functional differentiation during synaptogenesis. Because spurs have also been observed in neurons of the mammalian brain, they may constitute a primordial synaptic organizer.
This report describes the use of multimedia technology for simultaneous recording of single unit responses in cerebral cortex, and imaging of hand kinematics as monkeys grasp and manipulate objects. These imaging methods allow direct correlation of full-frame, full-field video images with the actual spike trains recorded with microelectrodes. Our implementation of digital video provides high-resolution snapshots of the hand motor behavior every 33.3 ms, and a precise calibration and display of the synchronously recorded electrophysiological activity digitized at rates up to 44.5 kHz on the same platform. These imaging methods permit non-invasive, non-traumatic monitoring of both trained and spontaneous activity in experimental animals, while providing synchronized digitized records of neuronal spike trains. We also describe software instruments that quantify and analyze the digitized spike trains. One instrument employs user-selectable objective criteria for distinguishing spikes from noise, separates individual action potential waveforms by their amplitude and duration, and compiles time stamps for each spike train. A second instrument constructs rasters and histograms of repeated behavioral trials using the timing of the corresponding video frame for alignment. These analyses reveal functional classes of cortical neurons signaling specific stages of prehension.
Neuroscientists are often interested in grouping variables to facilitate understanding of a particular phenomenon. Factor analysis is a powerful statistical technique that groups variables into conceptually meaningful clusters, but remains underutilized by neuroscience researchers presumably due to its complicated concepts and procedures. This paper illustrates an application of factor analysis to identify coordinated patterns of whole-body muscle activation during treadmill walking. Ten male subjects walked on a treadmill (6.4 km/h) for 20 s during which surface electromyographic (EMG) activity was obtained from the left side sternocleidomastoid, neck extensors, erector spinae, and right side biceps femoris, rectus femoris, tibialis anterior, and medial gastrocnemius. Factor analysis revealed 65% of the variance of seven muscles sampled aligned with two orthogonal factors, labeled 'transition control' and 'loading'. These two factors describe coordinated patterns of muscular activity across body segments that would not be evident by evaluating individual muscle patterns. The results show that factor analysis can be effectively used to explore relationships among muscle patterns across all body segments to increase understanding of the complex coordination necessary for smooth and efficient locomotion. We encourage neuroscientists to consider using factor analysis to identify coordinated patterns of neuromuscular activation that would be obscured using more traditional EMG analyses.
Some healthcare professionals continue to believe that patients experience minimal pain and discomfort after intracranial surgery. However, clinical experience indicates that many patients experience significant pain after craniotomy. Despite research which supports the use of morphine as a method of pain control after intracranial surgery, some healthcare professionals continue to administer only codeine, which may be ineffective. Inadequate pain control can be associated with a variety of negative physiological and psychological consequences. Neuroscience nurses are challenged to re-evaluate their current beliefs and practices related to pain and pain control after intracranial surgery.

Excitatory amino acids transduce physiological and pathological signals to neurons. Similarly, the neuroactive lipid platelet-activating factor (PAF) has been implicated in modulating long-term potentiation and neuronal survival. Excitatory amino acids and PAF have been shown to increase mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases in different cell types. Here, we have investigated the similarities and differences between PAF and kainate in activating MAP kinases in primary hippocampal neurons in vitro. Extracellular signal-regulated kinase, c-Jun N-terminal kinase, and p38 kinases were activated by kainate or PAF in hippocampal neurons. This activation was blocked by the receptor antagonists CNQX and BN 50730 for kainate and PAF, respectively. The PAF receptor antagonist BN 50730 also blocked kainate activation. CNQX had no effect on PAF activation of the kinases, indicating that PAF is downstream of kainate activation. Coapplication of submaximal concentrations of PAF and kainate resulted in a less than additive activation, suggesting similar routes of activation by the two agonists. Both CNQX and BN 50730 blocked kainate-induced neurotoxicity. These results indicate that PAF and kainate activate similar kinase pathways. Therefore, PAF acts downstream of the kainate subtype of glutamate receptors, and when excessive receptor activation takes place, this bioactive lipid may contribute to neuronal cell death.
The authors present a case of tremor isolated to the lower extremity that was treated with stereotactically guided thalamotomy in a patient with Parkinson's disease. The technology that makes this procedure effective for this particular manifestation of parkinsonism is discussed.

The effectiveness of nucleoside analogs in blocking viral multiplication was evaluated using an immortalized human neuroglial cell line capable of sustaining a persistent JCV infection, SVG-JC. Results from in situ DNA hybridization and hemagglutination assays performed on drug treated cultures were used as a measure of viral DNA replication and multiplication, respectively. Of the three drugs tested, Ara-C (cytosine arabinoside), AZT (3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine), and cidofovir (S)-1-[3-hydroxy-2-(phosphonylmethoxypropyl] cytosine), only Ara-C showed a significant effect in decreasing active JCV replication and multiplication. In vitro data, using different cell types and virus strains have shown that specific drugs can indeed modulate viral infection. However, such modulation has not previously been demonstrated in those cells of the CNS which are specifically targeted by JCV. The SVG-JC cells represent a unique system with which further studies can be conducted on the effects of drugs on brain derived cells that are susceptible to viral infection.
The neuroprotective effect of an alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptor antagonist YM90K [6-(1H-imidazol-1-yl)-7-nitro-2,3(1H,4H)-quinoxalinedione monohydrochloride] has been examined in a rat middle cerebral artery occlusion model. Intravenous infusion of YM90K (2.5-20mgkg(-l)h(-l) for 4h) starting immediately after occlusion of the middle cerebral artery significantly reduced the cortical infarct volume 24h after occlusion compared with the control group. The protection at the highest dose was 39% (P &lt; 0.05). Similar protective effects were observed when YM90K (20mgkg(-1)h(-1) for 4h) was delayed up to 2h after middle cerebral artery occlusion (45% reduction, P &lt; 0.05). CNS1102 [N-(1-naphthyl)-N'-(3-ethylphenyl)-N'-methylguanidine hydrochloride], a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, also reduced the cortical infarct volume when 1.13mgkg(-1) was administered by intravenous bolus injection immediately after middle cerebral artery occlusion, followed by intravenous infusion at 0.785mgkg(-l)h(-1) for 4h (35% reduction, P&lt;0.05). This neuroprotective effect was not observed when administration was delayed lh after middle cerebral artery occlusion. These results suggest that AMPA receptors might play a more important role than NMDA receptors in the late development of neuronal cell damage after focal cerebral ischaemia and that AMPA receptor blockade would be one beneficial strategy in treating acute stroke.
N-Acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase (NAALADase) is a neuropeptidase that may modulate glutamatergic neurotransmission. Independent of its characterization in the nervous system, one form of NAALADase was shown to be expressed at high levels in human prostatic adenocarcinomas, and it was designated the prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA). The NAALADase/PSMA gene is known to produce multiple mRNA splice forms, and based on previous immunohistochemical evidence, it had been assumed that the human brain and prostate expressed different isoforms of the enzyme. Because PSMA is being actively pursued as a target for autoimmune and cytotoxic targeting strategies to treat prostate cancer, the rigorous comparison of the two forms of the enzyme remained an important but untested question. To assess similarities and/or differences between human brain NAALADase and PSMA, we compared the two molecules using criteria of activity, immunoreactivity and sequences of the corresponding mRNAs. NAALADase from human cerebellar isolates displayed a kinetic profile and pharmacological sensitivities similar to PSMA. Also, Northern hybridization to PSMA cDNA detected indistinguishable sets of 2.8-, 4.0- and 6.0-kb RNA species in human brain and the LNCaP prostatic tumor cell line. In addition, the monoclonal antibody 7E11-C5 directed against the prostatic form of the enzyme immunoprecipitated 82% of human cerebellar NAALADase activity. Moreover, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction cloning of cerebellar cDNAs indicated that the human brain and prostate express a common mRNA splice form. Therefore, we conclude that the form of NAALADase also known as PSMA is expressed in brain and comprises a significant fraction of brain NAALADase activity.
A fluorescent quinazoline derivative was shown to retain high affinity for, and act as a competitive antagonist at, alpha-1 adrenoceptors. This allowed it to be used in live cells to localize receptors and to quantify receptor binding characteristics. The technique was demonstrated and validated on fibrobasts transfected with a recombinant alpha-1d adrenoceptor. Using confocal laser scanning microscopy and image analysis methods both diffuse and clustered binding sites were found: their binding characteristics were assessed and found comparable to radioligand binding on membrane preparations. This approach should have widespread applicability in nonradioactive assays determining the location, quantity and binding properties of receptors and other biological molecules on live tissue.
In membranes of the rat frontal cortex, acetylcholine (ACh) and other cholinergic agonists were found to potentiate the stimulation of adenylyl cyclase activity elicited by corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH). Oxotremorine-M, carbachol and methacholine were as effective as ACh, whereas oxotremorine and arecoline were much less effective. The facilitating effect of Ach was potently blocked by the M1 antagonists R-trihexyphenidyl, telenzepine and pirenzepine and by the M3 antagonists hexahydro-sila-difenidol and p-fluorohexahydro-sila-difenidol, whereas the M2 and M4 antagonists himbacine, methoctramine, AF-DX 116 and AQ-RA 741 were less potent. The mamba venom toxin MT-1, which binds with high affinity to M1 receptors, was also a potent blocker. The pharmacological profile of the muscarinic potentiation of CRH receptor activity was markedly different from that displayed by the muscarinic inhibition of forskolin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase, which could be detected in the same membrane preparations. Moreover, the intracerebral injection of pertussis toxin impaired the muscarinic inhibition of cyclic AMP formation and reduced the Ach stimulation of [35S]GTPgammaS binding to membrane G proteins but failed to affect the facilitating effect on CRH receptor activity. The latter response was also insensitive to the phospholipase C inhibitor U-73122, the protein kinase inhibitor staurosporine and to the inhibitors of arachidonic acid metabolism indomethacin and nordihydroguaiaretic acid. These data demonstrate that in the rat frontal cortex, muscarinic receptors of the M1 subtype potentiate CRH transmission by interacting with pertussis toxin-insensitive G proteins.
Previous studies have shown that cyclopentenone prostaglandins are endowed with antitumour activity in various murine and human tumour models. In the present investigation four human melanoma cell lines were treated with graded concentrations (4-16microg/ml) of prostaglandin A1 (PGA1) for 24 or 48 h in vitro. At the end of the treatment, cell proliferation (measured in terms of DNA synthesis) and telomerase activity were determined. The results showed that PGA1 induced concentration-dependent inhibition of DNA synthesis at 48 h but not at 24 h in SK-MEL-28 cells. In contrast, marked inhibition of telomerase activity was detected after only 24 h of PGA1 treatment. Moreover, after 48h of treatment with the agent, inhibition of telomerase was more pronounced than inhibition of cell proliferation. Additional studies performed with three freshly generated melanoma cell lines confirmed that PGA1 produced early inhibition of cell growth accompanied by marked impairment of telomerase activity. These results suggest that PGA1 could be of potential value as antitumour agent, on the basis of two distinct mechanisms: direct cytostatic/cytotoxic effects on melanoma cells, and inhibitory activity on a tumour-associated enzymatic function (i.e. telomerase) that is responsible for cancer cell immortality.
The Eph-related tyrosine kinase receptor, REK7/EphA5, mediates the effects of AL-1/Ephrin-A5 and related ligands and is involved in the guidance of retinal, cortical, and hippocampal axons during development. The continued expression of REK7/EphA5 in the adult brain, in particular in areas associated with a high degree of synaptic plasticity such as the hippocampus, raises the question of its function in the mature nervous system. In this report we examined the role of REK7/EphA5 in synaptic remodeling by asking if agents that either block or activate REK7/EphA5 affect synaptic strength in hippocampal slices from adult mouse brain. We show that a REK7/EphA5 antagonist, soluble REK7/EphA5-IgG, impairs the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) without affecting other synaptic parameters such as normal synaptic transmission or paired-pulse facilitation. In contrast, perfusion with AL-1/Ephrin-A5-IgG, an activator of REK7/EphA5, induces a sustained increase in normal synaptic transmission that partially mimics LTP. The sustained elevation of normal synaptic transmission could be attributable to a long-lasting binding of the AL-1/Ephrin-A5-IgG to the endogenous REK7/EphA5 receptor, as revealed by immunohistochemistry. Furthermore, maximal electrical induction of LTP occludes the potentiating effects of subsequent treatment with AL-1/Ephrin-A5-IgG. Taken together these results implicate REK7/EphA5 in the regulation of synaptic plasticity in the mature hippocampus and suggest that REK7/EphA5 activation is recruited in the LTP induced by tetanization.
Hypothermia diminishes the ischemia-induced protein kinase C (PKC) translocation and inhibition, and also reduces transmitter release during ischemia. To study the role of PKC in the mechanism of glutamate release during ischemia, we measured extracellular glutamate levels in the striatum with the microdialysis technique, in the presence and absence in the dialysate of the PKC activator 4 beta-phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu) and the protein kinase inhibitor staurosporine. We confirm that hypothermia attenuates the elevation of extracellular levels of glutamate in the striatum during ischemia. In the presence of PDBu, the glutamate levels in the dialysate increased from 0.3 mumol/L to an end ischemic level of 4.8 mumol/L during hypothermic ischemia (33 degrees C). These levels were significantly higher than in hypothermic ischemia (33 degrees C) without added PDBu. Staurosporine significantly mitigated the glutamate levels during normothermic ischemia. Our data suggest that PKC is involved in the temperature-dependent elevations of extracellular glutamate levels in the striatum during ischemia, and we propose that compounds preventing PKC activation may mimic the hypothermic protective action against ischemic brain damage.

Vasculitis involving peripheral nerves usually presents as an acute asymmetrical axonal neuropathy. We report a 67-year-old man with a symmetrical subacute neuropathy in which nerve conduction studies showed prominent conduction block, a finding indicative of demyelination. Sural nerve biopsy showed a vasculitic neuropathy with invasion of blood vessel walls by inflammatory cells and a mixture of nerve fiber loss and demyelination. The demyelination in this case was presumably a consequence of subinfarctive nerve ischemia.
The size of compound motor evoked potentials (cMEPs) to transcranial magnetic stimulation of the motor cortex was measured in the relaxed first dorsal interosseous muscle of the nondominant hand (ndFDI) during different levels of voluntary contraction in the homonymous muscle of the dominant hand (dFDI). cMEP responses in the ndFDI became larger when the dFDI was contracted to forces ranging 10-70% of maximum voluntary contraction. Variability in the amplitude of the cMEP responses in ndFDI decreased when dFDI was contracted. Comparison with cMEPs to spinal cord stimulation suggested a large component of the facilitation was occurring at a cortical level. The amplitude of cMEP responses in ndFDI also increased when the tibialis anterior muscle of the leg on the contralateral side was contracted. The observed facilitation of motoneurons during contraction of contralateral muscles might involve a transcallosal pathway modulating the excitability of one cortex when the other is activated.
In conscious rats, gamma2-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (gamma2-MSH) dose-dependently increases blood pressure and heart rate, whereas adrenocorticotropin-(1-24) [ACTH-(1-24)] dose-dependently decreases blood pressure, an effect which was accompanied by a reflectory tachycardia. As the exact mechanism involved in these cardiovascular effects of the two melanocortins is as yet not known, we undertook a series of experiments to investigate the possibility that these peptides have modulating or direct effect on the cardiovascular system of the rat. In pithed rats gamma2-MSH, administered intravenously (i.v.) in doses of 5-200 nmol/kg, had no significant effect on systolic and diastolic blood pressure and on heart rate, whereas ACTH-(1-24), 5-500 nmol/kg, i.v., dose-dependently decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate. Infusion of gamma2-MSH, 10(-8) M, or ACTH-(1-24), 10(-6) M, in the isolated perfused rat heart did not significantly affect left ventricular pressure or coronary flow. Pretreatment with either gamma2-MSH or ACTH-(1-24) did not modify the responsiveness of the myocardium and coronary vasculature to salbutamol and phenylephrine. Neither gamma2-MSH nor ACTH-(1-24) did affect the vascular contractile machinery of skinned vascular smooth muscles of the rabbit with respect to Ca2+ handling in the cell, as measured by its sensitivity to exogenously applied Ca2+. Gamma2-MSH had no effect on blood pressure and heart rate in pithed rats in which postganglionic sympathetic outflow was stimulated by 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium (DMPP), nor in pithed rats in which preganglionic sympathetic outflow was stimulated electrically. A dose of 15 nmol/kg ACTH-(1-24) had no significant influence on preganglionic outflow to the cardiac and vascular structures in pithed rats. These data show that gamma2-MSH does not exert its cardiovascular effects via a peripheral site of action at the level of the vascular system and the heart, nor directly on pre- or postganglionic sympathetic outflow. These results are in support for the notion that the peptide acts via a brain region localised outside the blood-brain barrier. The acute depressor effect of ACTH-(1-24), however, seems to be due to a direct effect on the vasculature in the periphery.
If neuronal models are successful, they will account for specifically human complex behaviours. Most of these behaviours can be described as governed by rules. In recent years, much effort has been spent to elucidate the neuronal basis of rules, and many researchers have focussed on modelling rules and regularities underlying language, particularly those relevant for past-tense formation. After introducing problems posed by past-tense formation, important aspects of recent controversies between connectionists and linguists concerning the nature of rules will be reviewed and analysed on the basis of elementary simulations. It is argued that modular networks with varying connection probabilities between their layers would be ideal for modelling learning and processing of past-tense formation. The motivation for postulating such networks comes from neurobiological models of language and from neuroanatomical data about cortico-cortical connectivity. Furthermore, such modular networks may explain double dissociations of regular and irregular past-tense formation in neurological patients, as reported in recent neuropsychological publications. It is concluded that past-tense formation does not pose problems to pattern associators, given that some structure is built into the network which approximates wirings in the human cortex.
Hyperglycemia is known to aggravate ischemic brain damage. The present experiments were undertaken to explore whether hyperglycemia caused by streptozotocin-induced diabetes exacerbates brain damage following transient brain ischemia as it does in animals acutely infused with glucose. Experimental diabetes was induced by injection of streptozotocin in rats which were subjected to 10 min of forebrain ischemia either 1 week (1-wk) or 4 weeks (4-wk) after the induction of diabetes. Normoglycemic rats exposed to the same duration of ischemia and sham-operated diabetic rats served as controls. The animals underwent evaluation of clinical outcome and histopathological analysis of brain damage. Postischemic seizures developed in 35.3 and 42.1% of 1-wk and 4-wk diabetic hyperglycemic animals, respectively. The incidence of seizure was not different between the two groups. None of the diabetic animals with plasma glucose concentrations below 12 mM exhibited seizure activity. The extent and distribution of brain damage were similar between 1-and 4-wk diabetic animals. In the CA1 and in the subicular regions of hippocampus, both diabetic hyperglycemic and normoglycemic animals showed 70-80% cell death. Diabetic hyperglycemic animals had more severe neuronal necrosis in the parietal cortex than normoglycemic animals. In diabetic hyperglycemic animals, neuronal damage involved additional brain structures, e.g., cingulate cortex, thalamus nuclei, substantia nigra, pars reticulata, and the hippocampal CA3 sector, i.e., structures in which neurons were not affected in normoglycemic ischemic subjects at this duration of ischemia. These findings demonstrate that diabetic hyperglycemic animals frequently develop postischemic seizures and that streptozotocin-induced hyperglycemia results exacerbated postischemic brain damage of the same density and distribution as in acutely glucose-infused animals.
Increased amounts of ganglioside GD3 [II3 (NeuAc)2-LacCer], associated with reactive gliosis, have been documented in a variety of neurodegenerative disorders. GD3 expression has also been reported in microglial cells, not only during development but also in reactive states, where the glial activation is considered to be part of the repair process. It is important to find markers in cerebrospinal fluid that will enable us to identify damage and register changes in pathological processes within the brain. A sensitive and practically applicable method for determination of GD3 ganglioside in cerebrospinal fluid has been developed. The procedure, which includes extraction, purification on silica gel and thin-layer enzyme-linked immunostaining, also allows determination of sulphatide, a marker of demyelinating processes, in the same portion of CSF. The method has been applied to CSF samples from 101 normal individuals aged 2-83 years. The GD3 concentration was found to be significantly correlated to age and reflecting the concentrations within the brain. GD3 ganglioside analysis by means of this method might be useful for studying glial changes during brain maturation as well as in brain disorders.
The role of monoamine oxidase (MAO) type A and B on the metabolism of dopamine (DA) in discrete regions of the monkey brain was studied. Monkeys were administered (-)-deprenyl (0.25 mg/kg) or clorgyline (1.0 mg/kg) or deprenyl and clorgyline together by intramuscular injections for 8 days. Levels of DA and its metabolites, dihydroxy phenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA) were estimated in frontal cortex (FC), motor cortex (MC), occipital cortex (OC), entorhinal cortex (EC), hippocampus (HI), hypothalamus (HY), caudate nucleus (CN), globus pallidus (GP) and substantia nigra (SN). (-)-Deprenyl administration significantly increased DA levels in FC, HY, CN, GP and SN (39-87%). This was accompanied by a reduction in the levels of DOPAC (37-66%) and HVA (27-79%). Clorgyline administration resulted in MAO-A inhibition by more than 87% but failed to increase DA levels in any of the brain regions studied. Combined treatment of (-)-deprenyl and clorgyline inhibited both types of MAO by more than 90% and DA levels were increased (57-245%) in all brain regions studied with a corresponding decrease in the DOPAC (49-83%) and HVA (54-88%) levels. Our results suggest that DA is metabolized preferentially, if not exclusively by MAO-B in some regions of the monkey brain.
SB-207266 is a new 5-HT4 receptor antagonist which in a pilot study reduced the symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome. To help validate this and further studies, we examined the ability of SB-207266 to antagonize at the human 5-HT4 receptor (human isolated intestine) and to affect the mechanisms of peristalsis (guinea-pig isolated ileum) and defaecation (conscious, fed mice). In the human intestine, the potency of 5-HT4 receptor antagonism (pKB 9.98) was similar to that previously demonstrated using a guinea-pig model of the receptor, validating the use of SB-207266 in clinical trials. In each of the animal models, SB-207266 did not affect normal patterns of intestinal motility measured in the absence of exogenous 5-HT. However, SB-207266 10-1000 pM concentration-dependently antagonized the ability of 5-HT (0.1 microM) to sensitize the peristaltic reflex and lower the distension threshold at which peristalsis was evoked. In mice, oral or subcutaneous (s.c.) doses of SB-207266 dose-dependently prevented the ability of the 5-HT precursor, 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP, 10 mg kg-1 s.c.) to increase both the rate of defaecation of formed faecal pellets and their fluid content. SB-207266 was maximally active at 10 micrograms kg-1 s.c. and 1000 micrograms kg-1 p.o. SB-207266 may therefore represent a new class of therapeutic agent, capable of preventing the actions of an important sensitizer of gut function.
Mutations in the presenilin-2 (PS-2) gene are less frequent than mutations in the PS-1 gene. All mutations described in the PS-1 gene were found in early-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. At present, there are two missense mutations described for the PS-2 gene in some AD pedigrees. We have therefore analyzed transmembrane 2 (TM2) and TM5 domains of the PS-2 gene in AD patients and in a group of age-matched healthy controls. In a patient who was clinically diagnosed as having late-onset AD, we found a novel missense mutation consisting of a G-&gt;A substitution on exon 5 of the PS-2 gene, which results in a Val to Ile substitution at codon 148 within the predicted TM2 domain of the PS-2 protein. This is the third mutation described in the PS-2 gene and the first presenilin mutation detected in a Spanish AD patient. Both, the N141I mutation and the V148I mutation described here are located within the predicted TM2 domain and both were found in late-onset AD kindreds, whereas the mutation within the predicted TM5 domain was found in an early-onset AD pedigree. Carriers of mutations within TM2 of PS-1 have a mean age at onset of 40 years, while the other mutations in PS-1 occur in families with a mean age at onset of 47 years. In summary, we report here the first mutation in a presenilin gene in a Spanish AD case, which is the third mutation detected for the PS-2 gene.
The interpretation of functional brain images is often hampered by the presence of noise. This problem is most commonly solved by using a statistical method and only considering signals that are unlikely to occur by chance. The method used should be specific and sensitive, specific because only true signals are of interest and sensitive because this will enable more information to be extracted from each experiment. Here we present a modification of the cluster analysis proposed by Roland et al. (Human Brain Mapping 1: 3-19, 1993). A covariance model is used to test hypotheses for each voxel. The generated statistical images are searched for the largest clusters. From the same data set noise images are generated. For each of these noise images the autocorrelation function is estimated. These estimates are subsequently used to generate simulated noise images, from which a distribution of cluster sizes is derived. The derived distribution is used to estimate probabilities for the clusters detected in the statistical images generated by testing the hypothesis. This presented method is shown to be specific and is further compared with SPM96 and the nonparametric method of Holmes et al. (J. Cereb. Blood Flow Metab. 16: 7-22, 1996).

This review describes age-related changes that occur in neuronal function and cites evidence to show that these alterations may be the result of increased sensitivity to oxidative stress (OS). Evidence is presented to show that the abilities to mitigate the OS effects and to repair the damage from OS show decline as a function of age. Results from age- and OS-sensitive tests are given; these results indicate that one of the major sites of action of OS is the membranes, especially if compromised by high amounts of sphingomyelin, and one of the major effects of OS is to further alter the calcium disregulation in aging. It is suggested that attempts to increase antioxidant protection through diets comprised of fruits and vegetables identified as being high in total antioxidant activity might prevent or reverse the deleterious OS effects on neuronal aging.
Recent efforts in treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) have focused on the development of agents or strategies that suppress or delay disease progression and levodopa-induced adverse reactions. In the past decade, many reports have demonstrated advantages of the early introduction of a dopamine (DA) agonist or early combination therapy with a DA agonist and levodopa. In the search for available clinical information, most long-term studies of early treatment with a DA agonist have used bromocriptine. Although DA agonist monotherapy is effective for a majority of patients for a year or less, only a small proportion of patients (approximately 10%) obtain benefits for as long as 4-5 years. Those patients on long-term monotherapy with a DA agonist exhibited a few or no adverse reactions, such as the wearing-off phenomenon or dyskinesia. DA agonist monotherapy may avoid unnecessary levodopa administration to the special subpopulation of PD patients who have very slowly progressing disease and who can be maintained for the long-term on DA agonist monotherapy. In contrast to the high incidence of adverse reactions in patients receiving high-dose levodopa monotherapy, many trials have demonstrated that early combination therapy for PD using partial substitution of levodopa by bromocriptine can inhibit the development of motor fluctuations and/or dyskinesia. In these trials, good symptomatic effects with few adverse reactions were achieved by &gt;25% substitution of levodopa by bromocriptine. In addition, in patients receiving bromocriptine plus levodopa therapy, disease progression appeared to be slowed for a few years. Although the mechanism by which the action of DA agonists combined with levodopa remains to be clarified, the lower incidence of levodopa-related adverse reactions in patients receiving early combination therapy suggests that continued use of a DA agonist is beneficial for patients with PD. In summary, because levodopa-induced adverse reactions can be reduced by combined use of a DA agonist with low-dose levodopa, introduction of a DA agonist at an early stage of PD, or with restricted use of additional levodopa, may be useful for long-term treatment of PD.



Ca2+ influx through N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors activates signal transduction pathways critical for many forms of synaptic plasticity in the brain. NMDA receptor-mediated Ca2+ influx also downregulates the gating of NMDA channels through a process called Ca2+-dependent inactivation (CDI). Recent studies have demonstrated that the calcium binding protein calmodulin directly interacts with NMDA receptors, suggesting that calmodulin may play a role in CDI. We report here that the mutation of a specific calmodulin binding site in the CO region of the NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor blocks CDI. Moreover, intracellular infusion of a calmodulin inhibitory peptide markedly reduces CDI of both recombinant and neuronal NMDA receptors. Furthermore, this inactivating effect of calmodulin can be prevented by coexpressing a region of the cytoskeletal protein alpha-actinin2 known to interact with the CO region of NR1. Taken together, these results demonstrate that the binding of Ca2+/calmodulin to NR1 mediates CDI of the NMDA receptor and suggest that inactivation occurs via Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent release of the receptor complex from the neuronal cytoskeleton.
Glutamate receptors mediate the majority of rapid excitatory synaptic transmission in the central nervous system (CNS) and play important roles in synaptic plasticity and neuronal development. Recently, protein-protein interactions with the C-terminal domain of glutamate receptor subunits have been shown to be involved in the modulation of receptor function and clustering at excitatory synapses. In this paper, we have found that the N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor (NSF), a protein involved in membrane fusion events, specifically interacts with the C terminus of the GluR2 and GluR4c subunits of AMPA receptors in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, intracellular perfusion of neurons with a synthetic peptide that competes with the interaction of NSF and AMPA receptor subunits rapidly decreases the amplitude of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs), suggesting that NSF regulates AMPA receptor function.
Cajal-Retzius (CR) cells of the cerebral cortex express receptors for the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and downregulate expression of the extracellular matrix protein Reelin during early postnatal development, coincident with the onset of cortical BDNF expression. During this period, mice lacking BDNF have elevated levels of Reelin in CR cells. Acute BDNF stimulation of cortical neuron cultures and overexpression of BDNF in the developing brain of transgenic mice prior to the onset of endogenous production causes a profound, dose-dependent reduction of Reelin expression in CR cells. In addition, overexpression of BDNF produces gaps and heterotopias in the marginal zone and disorganization and aggregation of cortical CR cells and induces several other malformations, including aberrant cortical lamination, similar to the phenotype of reeler mutant mice, which lack Reelin. These results demonstrate a role for BDNF on cortical CR cells and identify Reelin as a direct effector of this neurotrophin during brain development.

Dorothy Russell (1985-1983), one of the leading figures in the brief history of British neuropathology, is remembered by the Society in a biennial Memorial Lecture. So rapid is progress in the Neurosciences and so short our memories, that for a younger generation of neuropathologists she is probably no more than a name associated with a large recently revised textbook on brain tumours. However, together with Godwin Greenfield, Dorothy Russell had a profound and lasting influence on the development and practice of Neuropathology throughout the world.
To examine the effects of a novel selective D4 receptor ligand, L-745,870 (3-[4-(4-chlorophenyl)piperazin-1-yl]methyl-1H-pyrrolo[2,3-b]pyrid ine), on human dopamine receptor function, the ability of this ligand to antagonise G-protein gated inwardly rectifying K+ (GIRK/Kir3) currents activated by cloned human D2 and D4 receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes was examined using voltage-clamp recording. Its effects were also contrasted with that of a selective D2 receptor antagonist L-741,626. L-745,870 had no detectable agonist activity on human D4 receptors and selectively blocked currents activated by D4 but not D2 receptors. The role of G-protein subunits in dopamine receptor modulation of GIRK currents was also examined by co-expression of beta1 and/or gamma2 subunits on spontaneously active and receptor-activated currents. Currents activated by both D2 and D4 receptors were occluded by direct activation of GIRK currents following co-transfection with the cDNA encoding G-protein betagamma subunits. These data demonstrate that L-745,870 and L-741,626 act as antagonists on human D4 and D2 receptors respectively, and that activation of GIRK channels by these dopamine receptors can be disrupted by direct stimulation of K+ currents by G-protein betagamma subunits.
In a tachistoscopic visual search task, the effects of ipsi- and contralateral distractors on target search were investigated in two complete commissurotomy patients. Pop-out distractors slowed the search for contralateral targets in both patients, i.e. search was not independent in both hemifields. In normals, we previously observed an extinction-like asymmetry in that distractors in the right visual hemifield interfered with target search in the left visual hemifield, but not vice versa. This pattern was also found in one of our patients, N.G., whereas the other, L.B., showed a reversed laterality effect. While N.G. is able to transfer visual shape information between hemispheres, L.B. is not. The data suggest that the reversal of the contralateral distractor asymmetry in L.B. is due to the disruption of ipsilateral visual input to the right hemisphere.
This study investigates whether spoken sentence comprehension deficits in Broca's aphasics results from their inability to access the subordinate meaning of ambiguous words (e.g. bank), or alternatively, from a delay in their selection of the contextually appropriate meaning. Twelve Broca's aphasics and twelve elderly controls were presented with lexical ambiguities in three context conditions, each followed by the same target words. In the concordant condition, the sentence context biased the meaning of the sentence-final ambiguous word that was related to the target. In the discordant condition, the sentence context biased the meaning of the sentence-final ambiguous word that was incompatible with the target. In the unrelated condition, the sentence-final word was unambiguous and unrelated to the target. The task of the subjects was to listen attentively to the stimuli. The activational status of the ambiguous sentence-final words was inferred from the amplitude of the N400 to the targets at two inter-stimulus intervals (ISIs) (100 ms and 1250 ms). At the short ISI, the Broca's aphasics showed clear evidence of activation of the subordinate meaning. In contrast to elderly controls, however, the Broca's aphasics were not successful at selecting the appropriate meaning of the ambiguity in the short ISI version of the experiment. But at the long ISI, in accordance with the performance of the elderly controls, the patients were able to successfully complete the contextual selection process. These results indicate that Broca's aphasics are delayed in the process of contextual selection. It is argued that this finding of delayed selection is compatible with the idea that comprehension deficits in Broca's aphasia result from a delay in the process of integrating lexical information.
Previous observations in intact rats have indicated that axons from the ventrolateral thalamic nucleus (VL) establish direct axo-somatic or axo-dendritic contacts onto frontal cortical neurons projecting to the striatum. The embryonic frontal cortex was grafted into the damaged frontal cortex of newborn rats to study the capacity of homotopic transplants to restore the thalamo-fronto-striate pathway. Several months later, grafted neurons projecting to the striatum were identified by injecting a retrograde neurotracer (subunit b of the cholera toxin) into the ipsilateral caudate putamen. In the same animal, axons and terminations from the VL were labeled within the transplant with an anterograde neurotracer (Phaseolus vulgaris leuco-agglutinin) injected into the ipsilateral VL. The findings show that VL axons establish direct synaptic contacts onto grafted neurons projecting to the striatum. Although the synaptic contacts were scarce in the transplants, their organization was similar to that observed in intact rats. The contacts were axo-somatic or axo-dendritic. Our observations for the first time indicate that synaptic contacts are formed in cortical grafts and that fetal frontal cortex is susceptible to develop appropriate synaptic integration within the host thalamo-fronto-striate system.



Sensory neurons isolated from dorsal root ganglia of postnatal mice were analysed for cell surface p75, using fluorescent antibody staining with flow cytometry. They were found to follow a single bell-shaped distribution of p75 level, with no discrete group of p75-negative neurons. Sensory neurons were then separated by fluorescence-activated cell sorting into high- and low-p75 populations, consisting of cells within the highest and lowest 15th percentiles, respectively, of p75 expression levels. The sorted neurons were tested for trkA staining. All high-p75 neurons were positive for trkA, while many low-p75 cells were negative for trkA. The sorted neurons were placed in culture, and their survival in the absence and presence of various neurotrophins was measured. Low-p75 cells were found to have enhanced survival in the absence of neurotrophins, while cells with high p75 levels had reduced survival, compared to the overall population. Almost all high-p75 neurons were rescued with nerve growth factor, whereas less than half of the low-p75 cells were rescued. The slope of the dose response to nerve growth factor did not differ markedly between high- and low-p75 cells. High-p75, but not low-p75, neurons were responsive to neurotrophin-3. There was only a small response to either brain-derived neurotrophic factor or neurotrophin-4 in both high- and low-p75 neurons. All low-p75 neurons, and 68% of high-p75 neurons, survived in the presence of ciliary neurotrophic factor. These results, while consistent with our hypothesis that p75 may act as a death factor in postnatal sensory neurons, also imply a role for p75 in the modulation of trk responsiveness to neurotrophins. They also indicate overlapping neurotrophin responses in sensory neurons, especially in those with high p75 levels. A large proportion of low-p75 cells were not responsive to any of the nerve growth factor-related neurotrophins, suggesting an important role for cytokines such as ciliary neurotrophic factor and leukaemia inhibitor factor in the survival of sensory neurons.
Long-term amygdala kindling in rats results in large and reliable increases in emotional behaviour that model the interictal emotionality often observed in temporal lobe epileptics [Kalynchuk L. E. et al. (1997) Biol. Psychiat. 41, 438-451; Pinel J. P. J. et al. (1977) Science 197, 1088-1089]. These experiments investigated the persistence of these kindling-induced increases in emotional behaviour after the cessation of the kindling stimulations. In Experiment 1, rats received 99 amygdala or sham stimulations. Then, they were tested on three tests of emotionality (i.e. activity in an unfamiliar open field, resistance to capture from the open field, and activity in an elevated-plus maze) either one day, one week, or one month after the final stimulation. The rats tested one day after the last stimulation displayed substantial decreases in open-field activity, increases in resistance to capture and increases in open-arm activity on the elevated-plus maze; these effects decreased, but not to control levels, in the rats tested one month after the final stimulation. In Experiment 2, rats received 99 amygdala or sham stimulations, and their resistance to capture was assessed one day later. Then, after a 60-day stimulation-free period, the rats received another zero, one, 10, or 30 amygdala stimulations and their resistance to capture was reassessed one day later. The high levels of resistance to capture observed in the rats tested one day after the 99 stimulations declined significantly during the 60-day stimulation-free period, but it remained significantly above control levels. However, the administration of 30 additional stimulations reinstated asymptotic levels of resistance to capture. These results provide the first systematic evidence that kindling-induced increases in emotional behaviour persist at significant levels for at least two months following the termination of kindling stimulations. Thus, they suggest that the neural changes underlying the genesis of interictal emotionality may be closely related to those mediating epileptogenesis itself.
Single-unit recording combined with iontophoresis of dopamine, GABA, and glutamate was used in awake, unrestrained rats to characterize the electrophysiological and receptor properties of neurons in the ventral tegmental area under naturally occurring behavioural conditions. All isolated ventral tegmental area units (n=90) were analysed and compared with cells (n=58) recorded from dorsally adjacent areas of the pre-rubral area and red nucleus. Two distinct neuronal groups were identified in the ventral tegmental area: units with triphasic, long-duration spikes (78/90) and units with biphasic, short-duration spikes (12/90). Although all long-spike units discharged in an irregular, bursting pattern with varying degrees of within-burst decrements in spike amplitude, they could be further subdivided into at least three distinct subgroups. Type I long-spike units (36/78) discharged at a relatively slow and stable rate (mean: 6.03 imp/s; range: 0.42-15.78) with no evident fluctuations during movement. These cells were inhibited by dopamine and GABA and responded to glutamate with a low-magnitude excitation accompanied by a pronounced decrement in spike amplitude and a powerful rebound inhibition. Type II long-spike units (23/78) had relatively high and unstable discharge rates (mean: 22.82 imp/s; range: 4.42-59.67) and showed movement-related phasic activations frequently followed by partial or complete cessation of firing. Some Type II cells (4/9) were inhibited by dopamine, but all were excited by glutamate at very low currents (0-10 nA). With an increase in current, the glutamate-induced excitation often (18/22) progressed into a cessation of firing. All these cells were inhibited by GABA followed by a strong rebound excitation (8/9), which also frequently (6/8) resulted in cessation of firing. Type III long-spike units (19/78) had properties that differed from either Type I or Type II cells, including a lack of spontaneous firing (5/19). Short-spike ventral tegmental area units were either silent (4/12) and unresponsive to dopamine and GABA or spontaneously active (range: 0.89-34.13 imp/s) and inhibited by GABA and, in some cases (2/8). by dopamine; all were phasically activated during movement and glutamate iontophoresis. It appears that ventral tegmental area neurons, including those with long-duration spikes, do not comprise a uniform population in awake, unrestrained rats. Type I, long-spike units match the characteristics of histochemically-identified dopamine neurons, and they appear to express dopamine autoreceptors, which may explain the relatively slow, stable rate of activity and the limited responsiveness to excitatory inputs. Although the nature of the other long-spike units in our sample is unclear, they may include dopamine neurons without autoreceptors as well as non-dopamine cells. The heterogeneity of ventral tegmental area neurons is an important consideration for further attempts to assess the role of the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system in motivated behaviour.
The biological actions of somatostatin are mediated via a family of G protein-coupled receptors named sst1 to sst5. We used an affinity-purified polyclonal antibody AS-65, directed against a specific N-terminal peptide sequence of sst1 to determine the immunohistochemical distribution of N-terminal sst1 immunoreactivity in the rat brain. The specificity of the antibody was shown by western blotting experiments using an N-terminal sst1 fusion protein. Enzymatic deglycosylation experiments were combined with blotting experiments on a sst1-transfected cell line and rat brain membrane proteins and with immunocytochemistry on an sst1-transfected cell line. These studies showed that the antibody detected the deglycosylated sst1 receptor protein. Immunohistochemical staining showed that sst1 immunoreactivity (presumably the deglycosylated receptor) recognised by this N-terminal antiserum was widely distributed throughout the brain with cells and processes labelled in the cerebral cortex, regions of the limbic system (including the hippocampal formation and some basal ganglia nuclei), the epithalamus, the thalamus, different subthalamic structures (subthalamic nucleus, zona incerta), the colliculi, the hypothalamus, the reticular formation, the cerebellum and regions of the trigeminal nerve complex. The distribution of immunoreactivity was in good general agreement with that predicted from the localization of sst1 messenger RNA and radioligand binding studies. This study on the immunohistochemical distribution of the sst1 receptor in the brain will provide a better understanding of the central actions of somatostatin at its receptor types.
Acetylcholine neurotransmission is considered to play a critical role in processes underlying behavioural activity, arousal, attention, learning, and memory. These functional attributions have largely been based on pharmacological findings. or data from brain damaged animals, and humans with neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease. With the introduction of the in vivo microdialysis method it has recently become possible to monitor acetylcholine in the brain of the behaving animal, which allows to investigate its activity in specific behavioural tasks. With respect to learning and memory, one of the most elementary experimental paradigms is that of behavioural habituation, where the decrease of exploratory activity as a function of repeated exposure to the same environment is taken as an index of memory. We have used this paradigm to monitor hippocampal acetylcholine levels by means of in vivo microdialysis in rats, which were exposed to a novel open field and which were re-exposed to it on the following day (10 min each). The results show that exposure of rats to the novel environment led to increased extracellular levels of hippocampal acetylcholine which were positively correlated with exploratory behaviour. These cholinergic activations were larger than those of control animals which were handled like the experimental animals but which were not exposed to the open field. When re-exposing the experimental animals to the same environment, exploratory behaviour, but not cholinergic activation, was decreased. indicating habituation. In the subsequent 10 min, that is, when the animals where back in their home cages, cholinergic activity was still increased. The magnitude of increase was larger after re-exposure than after exposure to the novel open field. Finally, we differentiated the animals into &quot;superior&quot; vs &quot;inferior&quot; learners and found that the &quot;superior&quot; learners showed higher behavioural activation in the novel environment and stronger neurochemical responses, both. in the novel and familiar environment. Our data show that extracellular levels of hippocampal acetylcholine are not only elevated in relation to novelty and behavioural activation. but also during behavioural habituation. Furthermore, an inter-individual variability of cholinergic activation seems to exist which is related to individual differences in behavioural responsiveness to novelty. Such differences in cholinergic activity may be related to other known differences in hippocampal structure and function and may be important for previously reported inter-individual variabilities in sensation-seeking and related mnestic functions.
The genetically epilepsy-prone rat is an animal model of inherited generalised tonic-clonic epilepsy that shows abnormal susceptibility to audiogenic seizures and a lowered threshold to a variety of seizure-inducing stimuli. Recent studies suggest a crucial role for glutamate and GABA transporters in epileptogenesis and seizure propagation. The present study examines the levels of expression of the messenger RNAs encoding the glial and neuronal glutamate transporters, GLT-1 and EAAC-1, and the neuronal GABA transporter, GAT-1, in paired male genetically epileptic-prone rats and Sprague Dawley control rats using the technique of in situ hybridization. In a parallel study, semiquantitative immunoblotting was used to assess GLT-1 and EAAC-1 protein levels in similarly paired animals. Animals were assessed for susceptibility to audiogenic seizures on six occasions, and killed seven days following the last audiogenic stimulus exposure. Rat brains were processed for in situ hybridization with radioactive 35S-labelled oligonucleotide probes (EAAC-1 and GAT-1), 35S-labelled riboprobes (GLT-1), and Fluorescein-labelled riboprobes (GLT-1 and GAT-1) or processed for immunoblotting using subtype-specific antibodies for GLT-1 and EAAC-1. Semiquantitative analyses were carried out on X-ray film autoradiograms in several brain regions for both in situ hybridization and immunoblotting studies. Reductions in GAT-1 messenger RNA were found in genetically epileptic-prone rats in all brain regions examined (-8 to -24% compared to control). Similar reductions in GLT-1 messenger RNA expression levels were seen in cortex, striatum, and CA1 (-8 to -12%) of genetically epileptic-prone rats; the largest reduction observed was in the inferior colliculus (-20%). There was a tendency for a reduced expression of EAAC-1 messenger RNA in most regions of the genetically epileptic-prone rat brain although this reached statistical significance only in the striatum (-12%). In contrast, no significant differences in GLT-1 and EAAC-1 protein between genetically epileptic-prone rats and control animals were observed in any region examined, although there was a tendency to follow the changes seen with the corresponding messenger RNAs. These results show differences in the messenger RNA expression levels of three crucial amino acid transporters. For the two glutamate transporters, GLT-1 and EAAC-1, differences in messenger RNA levels are not reflected or are only partially reflected in the expression of the corresponding proteins.
Heme oxygenase, catalyses oxidation of the heme molecule in concert with NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase and then specifically cleaves heme into biliverdin, carbon monoxide, and iron. Biliverdin and its product, bilirubin, are known to be strong antioxidants. Kainic acid is a potent neurotoxin, and induces selective neuronal loss in the rat hippocampus. Kainic acid acts on the kainate receptors, and kainic acid neurotoxicity may be in part mediated by oxidative stress. In this study, we examined whether or not heme oxygenase was activated in kainic acid-induced neurotoxicity. After intracerebroventricular injection of kainic acid, the heme oxygenase-1 protein level was strongly enhanced, although the constitutive heme oxygenase (heme oxygenase-2) protein level was not changed. One day after treatment, the protein level of heme oxygenase-1 reached a maximum and then gradually decreased over a period of three to seven days. In the rat hippocampus, cells expressing heme oxygenase-1 in vivo were predominately microglia and only a few astrocytes. In addition, heme oxygenase-1 immunoreactivity was predominantly co-localized with major histocompatibility complex class II-, and partly co-localized with class I-immunoreactive microglia. In cultured glial cells in vitro, heme oxygenase- protein was expressed in the microglia even with the vehicle treatment, and was strongly induced in astrocytes by kainic acid treatment. These results suggest that ameboid microglia, which express both heme oxygenase-1 and major histocompatibility complex antigens, may play a key role in a delayed episode of kainic acid-induced microglial activation and neurodegeneration.
To investigate the effects of an ethologically-relevant stressor on central and peripheral release of arginine vasopressin and oxytocin, we forced adult male Wistar rats to swim for 10 min and simultaneously measured the release of the two peptides (i) within the hypothalamic supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei (by means of the microdialysis technique) and (ii) into the blood (by chronically-implanted jugular venous catheters). Forced swimming caused a significant rise in the release of arginine vasopressin and oxytocin within both the supraoptic nuclei (four-fold and three-fold, respectively) and the paraventricular nuclei (three-fold and four- to five-fold, respectively). Release patterns measured before, during and after repeated stress exposure on three consecutive days indicated that, at the level of the hypothalamus, the two neuropeptides are critically involved in the rats' stress response in a peptide-, locus- and stress-specific manner. Particularly, despite a general reduction of the recovery of the microdialysis probes over the time, the release of arginine vasopressin within the paraventricular nuclei and of oxytocin within the supraoptic nuclei tended to increase upon repeated stress exposure. Measurement of plasma peptide concentrations revealed that the central release of oxytocin was accompanied by a secretion of this peptide into the systemic circulation. In contrast, arginine vasopressin, assayed in the same plasma samples, failed to respond to the stressor. The latter finding is consistent with a dissociated release of the neuropeptide from different parts of a single neuron (soma/dendrites vs axon terminals). It provides evidence that under physiological conditions plasma hormone levels do not necessarily reflect the secretory activity of central components of the respective neuropeptidergic system.
Animal studies have shown that the sleep-related oscillations in the frequency range of spindles and slow-waves, and in the gamma band occur synchronously over large parts of the cerebral cortex. Coherence analysis was used to investigate these oscillations in the human sleep electroencephalogram. In all-night electroencephalogram recordings from eight young subjects power and coherence spectra within and between cerebral hemispheres were computed from bipolar derivations placed bilaterally along the antero-posterior axis. The 0.75-50 Hz range was examined with a resolution of 0.25 Hz. Distinct peaks in coherence were present in non-rapid eye movement sleep but not in rapid eye movement sleep. The most prominent and consistent peak was seen in the range of sleep spindles (13-14 Hz), and additional peaks were present in the alpha band (9-10 Hz) and low delta band (1-2 Hz). Whereas coherence in the spindle range was highest in stage 2, the alpha peak was most prominent in slow-wave sleep (stages 3 and 4). Interhemispheric coherence at 30 Hz was higher in rapid eye movement sleep than in non-rapid eye movement sleep. There were also marked sleep state-independent regional differences. Coherence between homologous interhemispheric derivations was high in the low frequency range and declined with increasing frequencies, whereas coherence of intrahemispheric and non-homologous interhemispheric derivations was at a low level throughout the spectra. It is concluded that coherence analysis may provide insights into large-scale functional connectivities of brain regions during sleep. The high coherence of sleep spindles is an indication for their widespread and quasi-synchronous occurrence throughout the cortex and may point to their specific role in the sleep process.
Glutamate transport is a primary mechanism for regulating extracellular levels of glutamate which can have either neurotrophic or neurotoxic effects in the developing brain, depending on its concentration. Using immunoblotting and immunocytochemistry, we tested the hypotheses that expression of neuronal and glial glutamate transporter proteins was regionally and temporally regulated in the developing ovine brain and that expression of the glial isoform early in development was not cell-type specific. Immunoblots for the neuronal glutamate transporter EAAC1 revealed a major band of immunoreactivity at 69,000 nmol. wt, whereas glial glutamate transporter-1 (GLT1) immunoreactivity was observed as 73,000 and 146,000 mol. wt proteins. EAAC1 and GLT1 are regulated differently during development, with EAAC1 immunoreactivity being most abundant at 60 and 71 days completed gestation (term=145 days) and dissipating thereafter, while GLT1 immunoreactivity was most abundant at 136 days gestation. By immunocytochemistry EAAC1 expression is neuronal throughout gestation with intense labelling of dendrites within the telencephalon evident at 60 days. Neuropil, neuronal cell bodies and processes are EAAC1-immunoreactive throughout gestation with no evidence of astrocytic or oligodendroglial immunoreactivity. In contrast, GLT1 is expressed by neuronal and non-neuronal cell types during midgestation with astrocyte selectivity developing by 136 days. During midgestation, GLT1 is transiently expressed in neurons of the subplate, cranial nerve nuclei, basal ganglia, and cerebellar cortex. The major finding of this study, that GLT1 is transiently expressed in various neuronal populations at midgestation demonstrates that the cell-type specificity of the GLT1 phenotype is developmentally regulated and depends on brain maturity.
The time-course of variations in extracellular dopamine concentration following local pressure ejection of 10(-7) to 10(-3) M neurotensin into the ventral tegmental area of the rat was determined in the minute range in the nucleus accumbens by means of differential normal pulse voltammetry associated with carbon fibre electrodes. The effects of neurotensin ejection into the ventral tegmental area were further investigated on the firing activity of the corresponding dopaminergic neurons. The lowest concentration of neurotensin (10(-7) M) enhanced the extracellular dopamine concentration throughout the nucleus accumbens and stimulated the discharge activity of ventral tegmental area dopaminergic neurons. The two highest concentrations of neurotensin (10(-5) M and 10(-3) M) evoked two patterns of responses on the extracellular dopamine concentration and on the discharge activity of dopaminergic neurons. The extracellular dopamine concentration was increased above basal levels in the caudal part of the nucleus accumbens. In the rostral part, the evoked changes exhibited a multiphasic time-course characterized by a decreasing phase below baseline. The firing rate of dopaminergic neurons was either increased or decreased, depending on the neuron being tested. In fact, neurotensin ejection was always followed by an exacerbation of bursting activity, the resulting effect on the mean firing rate being related to the duration of the interburst intervals. Indeed, short interburst intervals permitted an increase in mean firing rate whereas long interburst intervals, indicative of excessive depolarization, led to a decrease in mean firing rate. These results suggest that variations in extracellular dopamine concentration evoked by neurotensin administration into the ventral tegmental area are the result of neurotensin-evoked changes in dopaminergic activity. Moreover, the differential effects evoked by high concentrations of neurotensin could be attributable to two subpopulations of ventral tegmental area dopaminergic neurons which could project differentially to the caudal and the rostral parts of the nucleus accumbens.
The epsilon4 allele of apolipoprotein E is associated with increased risk for developing Alzheimer's disease. To further understand the anatomical distribution of apolipoprotein E and its native receptors in the brain, we studied their messenger RNA expression in the adult rat brain under normal conditions and in response to an excitotoxic lesion to the hippocampus. In situ hybridization using oligonucleotide probes for apolipoprotein E, apolipoprotein J, the low density lipoprotein receptor, very low density lipoprotein receptor, low density lipoprotein receptor related protein, 39,000 mol. wt receptor-associated protein and glycoprotein 330/Megalin messenger RNA were performed on adjacent sections throughout the rat forebrain. Apolipoprotein E messenger RNA was abundantly expressed in the rat brain in both white and gray matter localizing to astrocytes but not neurons. Low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein and receptor-associated protein messenger RNA had a similar regional distribution but low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein messenger RNA was expressed by both neurons and glia, while the expression of receptor-associated protein messenger RNA was more highly expressed in neurons. Apolipoprotein J messenger RNA was expressed by neurons, glia and choroid plexus. The low density lipoprotein receptor and very low density lipoprotein receptor messenger RNA were found in both neurons and glia. Glycoprotein 330/Megalin messenger RNA was not detectable in the adult rat brain. In response to hippocampal lesions, apolipoprotein E and apolipoprotein J messenger RNAs were significantly up-regulated seven and 11 days post-lesion but the expression of low density lipoprotein receptor, low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein, receptor-associated protein, glycoprotein 330/Megalin, and very low density lipoprotein receptor messenger RNAs were unchanged. The expression of apolipoprotein E messenger RNA increased gradually beginning at three days while the expression of apolipoprotein J messenger RNA began to increase at seven days post-lesion. These findings further implicate apolipoproteins in the response of the brain to injury in vivo and suggest that transcriptional up-regulation of the apolipoprotein receptors studied is not a prominent feature in the response.
Aggregated beta/A4-amyloid is known to increase intraneuronal calcium by various mechanisms and to lead eventually to the death of the cultured neuron. This study deals with the role of beta/A4-amyloid and several of its fragments in calcium homeostasis, glial fibrillary acid protein and S100beta staining, morphology and survival of cultured rat hippocampal astrocytes as determined by Fura imaging, indirect immunofluorescence and life/death assays. In contrast to cultured neurons, none of the 12 different beta/A4 fragments tested caused an increase in intra-astrocytic free calcium. However, among the compounds evaluated, the fragments 10-20mer, 25-35mer and the full-length peptides (1-40, 1-42 and 1-43mer), at 5 and 10 microM, decreased free intra-astrocytic calcium statistically significantly after the cells had been incubated for 48 and 72 h. This occurred both for astrocytes treated with vehicle alone or the reversed sequence of the 1-40mer, i.e. the 40-1mer. However, survival was not altered under the conditions examined, even when there was a change in free intracellular calcium. Concomitant with the decrease in intracellular free calcium, the shape of the astrocytes became more spider-like, normally an indication of activated astrocytes, and markedly more intense anti-S100beta and anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein staining was seen. The functional relevance of altered calcium homeostasis for apolipoprotein E secretion, potentially relevant for neuronal plasticity in general and in Alzheimer's disease, is discussed.
Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were used to characterize the membrane properties and ion channel complement of floor plate neuroepithelia in embryonic and neonatal rats. The average resting potential was close to -60 mV, the capacitance was approximately 7 pS and the membrane time constant averaged 31 ms, in both neonates and embryos. Two types of K+ current were identified (i) a slowly activating, slowly inactivating current that was present in all cells, and (ii) a rapidly inactivating current that was present in 39% of cells from neonates and 64% of cells from embryos. K+ currents were significantly larger in neonates than embryos. Na+ currents were absent from all neuroepithelial cells examined. In contrast, the majority of floor plate cells exhibited a significant Ca2+ current. Biophysically this current activated at potentials positive to 60 mV and exhibited fast, voltage-dependent, inactivation. The Ca2+ current was equipermeant to Ca2+ and Ba2+, sensitive to 40-120 microM Ni2+ and only slightly inhibited by 100 microM Cd2+. These and other observations indicated this current is mediated by low-voltage-activated (i.e. T-type) Ca2+ channels. The majority of floor plate cells tested also exhibited responses to the neurotransmitter GABA which produced robust inward currents at negative membrane potentials, in chloride-loaded cells. Both the pharmacology and voltage-dependence of the GABA-activated currents indicated they arose from activation of GABA(A) receptors.
The subregional localization of different nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subtypes in human cerebral cortex was estimated by quantitative in vitro autoradiography using the nicotinic ligands [3H](-)nicotine, [3H]cytisine and [3H]epibatidine in large whole human forebrain hemispheres. Saturation experiments in frontal cortex revealed for [3H](-)nicotine two binding sites with affinity constants (Kd) of 0.45 and 6.3 nM and binding site densities (Bmax) of 3.0 and 14.2 pmol/g, for [3H]cytisine one binding site with Kd of 0.19 nM and Bmax of 21.8 pmol/g, and for [3H]epibatidine one binding site with Kd of 0.011 nM and Bmax of 20.0 pmol/g. The laminar binding distributions of the three ligands were compared in different cortical areas by creating binding profiles perpendicular to the entire cortical depth. The regional autoradiographic binding patterns of the three ligands were essentially similar, with higher receptor binding in cortical layers I, III and V. In the primary sensory cortex and inferior frontal sulcus, marked binding of all ligands was observed in layer III. [3H]Cytisine showed the lowest difference between maximal and minimal binding within the gray tissue in all other areas. In the primary motor cortex, [3H]epibatidine and [3H](-)nicotine showed high binding in layers III and V. The [3H](-)nicotine binding was higher than that of the other ligands in layers I and VI of the primary motor cortex, the deeper layer V of the primary sensory cortex, layer III of the superior temporal sulcus and layer VI of the parietal cortex. A distinct band of binding of [3H](-)nicotine and [3H]epibatidine but not of [3H]cytisine was found in layer IIlb of the occipital cortex and layer V of the superior temporal sulcus. [3H]Epibatidine showed higher binding than the other ligands in all layers of the medial frontal, superior frontal and superior temporal sulcus. The findings with the three nicotinic ligands suggest three binding sites in the cortex with different laminar distributions. All three ligands bound to an identical receptor site, most likely the alpha4 nicotinic receptor subunit. The morphological distribution of [3H]epibatidine and [3H](-)nicotine binding indicate that they bind to an additional site, especially in the primary motor cortex, in layer IIIb of the occipital cortex and layer V of the superior temporal sulcus. High binding of [3H](-)nicotine in layers I and VI of the primary motor cortex, the deeper layer V of the primary sensory cortex, layer III of the superior temporal sulcus and layer VI of the parietal cortex may indicate a third binding site.
The role of the oxytocin-containing projections to the autonomic nuclei of the spinal cord for lower urinary tract function has not been clarified. The hypothesis was tested that oxytocin acts as a mediator of bladder contraction at the spinal cord level. In conscious female rats undergoing continuous cystometry, intrathecal oxytocin (30 ng approximately 30 pmoles) significantly increased micturition pressure (P&lt;0.001), and decreased bladder capacity (P&lt;0.01) and micturition volume (P&lt;0.01). Residual volume increased (P&lt;0.05), and so did the amplitude and frequency of non-voiding contractions (P&lt;0.01). Immediately after administration of oxytocin, the animals showed frequent stretching movements and yawning, and they licked their tails. The effects of oxytocin were dose-dependent; high concentrations (100 ng) were ineffective. Intra-arterial injection of oxytocin (30 ng) near the bladder had no effect. In isolated detrusor strips, oxytocin caused a concentration-dependent contraction; the concentration response curve was concentration-dependently shifted to the right by the oxytocin antagonist, 1-deamino, 2-D-Tyr(OEt), 4-Thr, 8-Orn-OT. Intrathecal injection of the antagonist (500 ng), had per se no effect on micturition. However, when the antagonist was given intrathecally 4-5 min prior to intrathecal oxytocin (30 ng), the effects of oxytocin were reduced or completely prevented. When given after intrathecal administration of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, intrathecal oxytocin (30 ng) abolished micturition within 5-7 min; all animals developed overflow incontinence, and paralysis of the hindlimbs. These results suggests that in the rat, oxytocin, released from descending pathways, may act as a modulator of the micturition reflex at the spinal level, and that it may interact with nitric oxide. The physiological implications of the findings remain to be established.
It has been suggested that transition metals such as iron and manganese produce oxidative injury to the dopaminergic nigrostriatal system. which may play a critical role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. Intranigral infusion of ferrous citrate (0 to 8.4 nmol, i.n.) acutely increased lipid peroxidation in the substantia nigra and dopamine turnover in the caudate nucleus. Subsequently, it caused a severe depletion of dopamine levels in the rat caudate nucleus. In contrast to iron's pro-oxidant effect, manganese (up to 30 nmol, i.n.) causes neither lipid peroxidation nor nigral injury/dopamine depletion. Manganese (1.05 to 4.2 nmol, i.n.) dose-dependently protected nigral neurons from iron-induced oxidative injury and dopamine depletion. Manganese also suppressed acute increase in dopamine turnover and contralateral turning behaviour induced by iron. In brain homogenates manganese (0 to 10 microM) concentration-dependently inhibited propagation of lipid peroxidation caused by iron (0 to 5 microM). Without the contribution of manganese-superoxide dismutase manganese was still effective in sodium azide and/or heat-pretreated brain homogenates. Surprisingly, iron but not manganese, catalysed the Fenton reaction or the conversion of hydrogen peroxide to hydroxyl radicals. The results indicate that iron and manganese are two transition metals mediating opposite effects in the nigrostriatal system, as pro-oxidant and antioxidant, respectively. In conclusion, intranigral infusion of iron, but not manganese, provides an animal model for studying the pathophysiological role of oxidant and oxidative stress in nigrostriatal degeneration and Parkinsonism. The present results further suggest that the atypical antioxidative properties of manganese may protect substantia nigra compacta neurons from iron-induced oxidative stress.
A subpopulation of inactive or &quot;silent&quot; dopaminergic neurons has been reported to exist in vivo in rat substantia nigra, comprising up to 50% of nigral dopaminergic neurons. The existence of this large proportion of silent neurons has been inferred from various experimental manipulations, but never demonstrated directly. In the present study, striatal or medial forebrain bundle stimulation was used to activate antidromically substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons in vivo. Antidromic spikes of dopaminergic neurons observed by extracellular single-unit recordings in the absence of spontaneous activity were employed as indicators of the presence of a silent cell. A total of 312 dopamine neurons were recorded, including 190 neurons that could be antidromically activated from the striatum and/or the medial forebrain bundle. All neurons exhibited spontaneous activity. The firing rates were unimodally distributed about the mean of 4 spikes/s, and very few cells were observed to fire at less than 0.5 spikes/s. The numbers of spontaneously active and antidromically activated dopaminergic neurons per track were recorded and compared with the number of antidromically responding silent dopaminergic neurons per track after systemic apomorphine administration. Under control conditions, 0.80 +/- 0.10 or 1.36 +/- 0.13 spontaneously active neurons per track could be antidromically activated at 1.0 mA by striatal or medial forebrain bundle stimulation, respectively. After apomorphine completely suppressed spontaneous activity, 0.69 +/- 0.08 and 1.39 +/- 0.14 antidromic neurons per track were detected by stimulating the striatum or medial forebrain bundle respectively at 1.0 mA, demonstrating that silent dopaminergic neurons can be reliably identified through antidromic activation. In sharp contrast to previous reports, these data suggest that silent neurons do not comprise a substantial proportion of the total number of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. Reverse chi2 analysis revealed that, if they exist at all, silent dopaminergic neurons make up less than 2% of the dopaminergic cells in the substantia nigra. These findings are related to current theories of the mechanisms of action of antipsychotic drugs and the maintenance of near-normal levels of dopamine in the striatum following large-scale loss of nigral dopaminergic neurons.
The number and distribution of Fos-like-immunoreactive neurons in different supraspinal brain areas induced by formalin injection into one hindpaw was estimated in rats with transected dorsal half of the spinal cord at the thoracic level in an attempt to avoid most of the descending modulatory actions. The results showed that: (i) after spinal lesion, the peripheral noxious inputs, going up mainly through the ventral spinal cord, elicited a more widespread and densely located Fos-like-immunoreactive neurons in subcortical areas, many of them showed no Fos expression when noxious stimulation was given in rats with intact spinal cord; (ii) at the same time, a small number of subcortical areas, such as the lateral ventroposterior thalamic nucleus and dorsal raphe nucleus, exhibited no significant increase of nociceptive Fos-like immunoreactive neurons after spinal lesion as compared to that with intact spinal cord; and (iii) there appeared a prominent expansion of cortical areas with densely located Fos-like-immunoreactive neurons in spinal-lesioned rats as compared with the limited labelled areas in the control group with intact spinal cord. These results indicate that: (i) in avoiding the spinally descending modulatory mechanisms, more widespread supraspinal and cortical neurons will be recruited and activated in response to the noxious stimulation; and (ii) the descending systems exert differential actions on the spinal targets which project nociceptive signals to different supraspinal regions. The implication of these facts is discussed.
Granule cells in the rat hippocampal dentate gyrus contain intracellular receptors for the adrenal hormone corticosterone. Activation of these receptors seems essential for granule cell viability, since removal of the adrenal gland (adrenalectomy) results within three days in apoptotic-like degeneration of granule cells. In the present study we used extracellular in vitro recording methods to study the synaptic transmission in the dentate gyrus of adrenalectomized animals, in sham-operated controls and adrenalectomized rats treated with a low dose of corticosterone. We found that particularly three days after adrenalectomy orthodromic field responses in the dentate gyrus were reduced in amplitude. Corticosterone-treated rats did not show this impairment of synaptic transmission. Antidromically-evoked field responses were also reduced after adrenalectomy, which indicates that postsynaptic cell properties rather than signal transduction in the synapses are under steroid control. Responses to paired pulse stimulation were only marginally affected, suggesting that interneuronal networks may be less affected by the hormones than the principal cells. These electrophysiological data indicate that adrenalectomy induced apoptotic-like degeneration in the hippocampal dentate gyrus is clearly associated with impaired processing of incoming information.
The prodynorphin system is implicated in the neurochemical mechanism of psychostimulants. To elucidate the activity of the endogenous prodynorphin system upon treatment with psychostimulants, we investigated the effect of single and repeated cocaine and amphetamine on the prodynorphin messenger RNA level, the prodynorphin-derived peptide alpha-neoendorphin tissue level, and its in vitro release in the nucleus accumbens and striatum of rats. The density of kappa opioid receptors in those brain regions was also assessed. Rats were injected with cocaine following a &quot;binge&quot; administration pattern, 20 mg/kg i.p. every hour for 3 h, one (single treatment) or five days (chronic treatment). Amphetamine, 2.5 mg/kg i.p. was administered once (single treatment) or twice a day for five days (chronic treatment). As shown by an in situ hybridization study, the prodynorphin messenger RNA levels in the nucleus accumbens and striatum were raised following single (at 3 h) and chronic (at 3 and 24 h) cocaine administration. The prodynorphin messenger RNA level in the nucleus accumbens was markedly elevated after single or repeated amphetamine administration. A similar tendency was observed in the striatum. Acute cocaine and amphetamine administration had no effect on the alpha-neoendorphin tissue level, whereas chronic administration of those drugs elevated the alpha-neoendorphin level in the nucleus accumbens and striatum at the late time-points studied. Acute and repeated cocaine administration had no effect on alpha-neoendorphin release in both the nucleus accumbens and striatum at 3 and 48 h after drug injection. In contrast, single and chronic (at 24 and 48 h) amphetamine administration profoundly elevated the release of alpha-neoendorphin in both these structures. Addition of cocaine or amphetamine to the incubation medium (10(-5)-10(-6) M) decreased the basal release of alpha-neoendorphin in the nucleus accumbens slices of naive rats, but it did not change the stimulated release (K+, 57 mM). On the other hand, in the striatum slices, addition of cocaine to the incubation medium depressed basal and stimulated release of the peptide; no significant changes were observed after addition of amphetamine. Cocaine and amphetamine evoked profound and long-term down-regulation of the kappa opioid receptors in both structures. The above data indicate that the amphetamine-induced changes were more abundant than those caused by cocaine; only treatment with amphetamine markedly enhanced the release of prodynorphin-derived peptide. Furthermore, the psychostimulant-induced enhancement of biosynthetic activity of prodynorphin neurons was correlated with a marked and persistent decrease in the kappa opioid receptor density at a late withdrawal time.
The electrophysiological and morphological features of neurons in the rat rostral claustrum were examined using intracellular recording and staining methods in vivo. A total of 31 neurons were analysed electrophysiologically, and 21 of these were stained well with intracellular biocytin injection. The following electrophysiological properties were analysed by intracellular current injection: firing properties, the shape of single action potentials and input resistance. The firing patterns of the claustral neurons seemed to be similar to those of regular spiking cells in the cerebral cortex. They had action potentials with a maximum rate of rise much higher than that of fall, and showed spike-frequency adaptation during long depolarizing pulses. The morphological analysis demonstrated that the claustral neurons were of various types: the somata were polygonal, triangular, ovoid, round, or fusiform, sometimes with a stout dendrite. Such a dendrite extended toward the superficial layers in the more rostral orbital cortex, and was revealed to be a distorted apical dendrite by a three-dimensional computer-aided system. The embryological origin of the claustrum has been a matter of controversy: two main hypotheses of cortical germinal origin and ganglionic eminence origin. Considering the firing patterns and morphological features, the present findings suggest that the neurons in the rostral claustrum share some physiological characteristics with cortical neurons in rats.
The effects of SR140333 and SR48968 (neurokinin1 and neurokinin2 tachykinin receptor antagonists, respectively) on the N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked release of [3H]acetylcholine (previously formed from [3H]choline) were investigated in striosome-enriched areas and in the matrix of the rat striatum using an in vitro microsuperfusion method. In both striatal compartments, SR140333 and SR48968 did not modify the 50 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked release of [3H]acetylcholine. However, in low concentrations, both SR140333 (0.1 microM to 1 pM) and SR48968 (0.1 microM to 0.1 nM) markedly enhanced the 1 mM N-methyl-D-aspartate (+10 microM D-serine)-evoked release of [3H]acetylcholine in striosome-enriched areas. These responses were dopamine-dependent since they were not observed any more following the local blockade of D2 receptors by sulpiride or of dopamine synthesis by alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine. A dopamine-dependent disinhibitory effect (of lower amplitude) on the 1 mM N-methyl-D-aspartate (+10 microM D-serine)-evoked release of [3H]acetylcholine was also induced by SR48968 (0.1 microM to 0.1 nM) (but not by SR140333) in the matrix. In addition, in the matrix, as shown only in the presence of alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine, both SR140333 and SR48968 reduced the 1 mM N-methyl-D-aspartate (+10 microM D-serine)-evoked response and these non-dopamine-mediated inhibitory effects only occurred at the highest tested concentration (0.1 microM) of the antagonists. Indicating the specificity of these responses, the effects of SR140333 were reproduced by RP67580, another neurokinin1 receptor antagonist and, as expected from previous binding studies, corresponding SR140333 and SR48968 enantiomers were without effect. These results suggest that under potent stimulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, endogenously released substance P and neurokinin A (or related tachykinins) regulate differently the N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked release of [3H]acetylcholine in striosomes and in the matrix. The inhibitory effects of these tachykinins on the evoked release of [3H]acetylcholine are mediated by dopamine. On the contrary, their facilitatory responses are only observed in the matrix under blockade of dopamine transmission.
To examine the role of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the synaptic input-induced increase in Ca2+ in layer II/III neurons of visual cortex, Ca2+ imaging with a relatively low-affinity indicator was carried out simultaneously with whole-cell recordings of synaptic activity in cortical slices of young rats. Electrical stimulation of layer IV elicited excitatory postsynaptic potentials that generated action potentials concomitantly with a marked rise of Ca2+ signal in apical dendrites of 24 pyramidal cell-like neurons. Dendritic regions about 50 microm from the soma (peak regions) consistently showed the strongest increase in signal. The application of an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, reduced the Ca2+ signal in peak regions but did not in other regions in nine of the 15 neurons tested. In all the dendritic regions in which Ca2+ signal was measured, the magnitude of the increase in signal was related linearly to the number of action potentials, suggesting that voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels activated by action potentials may also be involved in the increase. In 25 of 33 neurons which were voltage-clamped at 80 mV and perfused with the Mg2+-free solution, layer IV stimulation could induce a local rise in Ca2+ signal in apical dendrites. This rise was blocked by the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist almost completely. Such an antagonist-sensitive Ca2+ rise was still seen even when the membrane potential was held at +10 mV when voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels were expected not to be activated by excitatory synaptic inputs. These results suggest that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors are involved in the synaptic input-induced rise in Ca2+ at postsynaptic sites in apical dendrites of layer II/III neurons, and the increase may be boosted through voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels activated by action potentials.
We have recently shown that the stimulatory effect of nicotine on dopamine output in the nucleus accumbens is largely dependent upon an enhanced glutamate transmission via N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, possibly through stimulation of nicotinic receptors localized presynaptically on glutamatergic afferents in the ventral tegmental area. Given that nicotinic alpha7 receptors have been proposed to be involved in presynaptic regulation of glutamate release, we investigated whether alpha7 receptors underlie such a mechanism in the ventral tegmental area. For this purpose, by utilizing microdialysis we measured dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens in response to systemic nicotine, with, or without, concomitant infusion into the ventral tegmental area of the selective alpha7 receptor antagonist methyllycaconitine. To test also whether alpha7 nicotinic receptor antagonism within the ventral tegmental area affected a natural reward-mediated increase in dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens, we employed a model of schedule-induced feeding. Intrategmental administration of methyllycaconitine decreased both the nicotine-induced and the food-induced dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens. We suggest that alpha7 nicotinic receptors in the ventral tegmental area are involved in the acute effect of nicotine on dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens and conclude that the mechanism, by which nicotine stimulates the mesolimbic dopaminergic system, may be an essential constituent of the natural reward-related circuits in brain.
Neuronal oscillations are important for information processing. The entorhinal cortex is one of the structures which is involved in generation of theta rhythm. The major role of the entorhinal cortex is to feed diverse sources of information both to and from the hippocampus. Far from simply being a funnel for this information it becomes clear that the entorhinal cortex has its own active properties that contribute to signal processing. Interestingly, stellate cells in layer II of the entorhinal cortex can intrinsically generate subthreshold, Na+-dependent membrane potential oscillations. Here, using intracellular and patch-clamp recordings, we report a similar phenomenon from neurons of the deep layers of the entorhinal cortex. In our in vitro slice preparation about two-thirds of recorded neurons were able to generate voltage-sensitive subthreshold membrane potential oscillations. At a membrane potential of about 50 mV the mean frequency of the voltage-oscillations was 8.1 Hz, whereby at slightly more positive potentials (-44 mV) the frequency of the membrane potential oscillations was 20 Hz and the oscillations became interrupted by clusters of non-adapting trains of spikes. Pharmacological experiments revealed that the oscillations were not affected by Cs+, but could be blocked by the fast Na+-channel blocker tetrodotoxin. We therefore conclude that voltage- and Na+-dependent subthreshold membrane potential oscillations are not only present in stellate cells of entorhinal cortex-layer II, but are also typical for neurons of the deep layers of the entorhinal cortex.
Rat brain synaptosomes were isolated to study the effects of protein kinase inhibitors (sphingosine, 1-(5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine dihydrochloride, N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-naphtalenesulfonamide, staurosporine) on Ca2+-dependent and Ca2+-independent [14C]GABA release. The Ca2+-dependent [14C]GABA release was stimulated by depolarization with a K+-channel blocker, 4-aminopyridine, or high K+ concentration. It has been shown that 4-aminopyridine-evoked [14C]GABA release strongly depends on extracellular Ca2+ while K+-evoked [14C]GABA release only partly decreases in the absence of calcium. The substitution of sodium by choline in Ca2+-free medium completely abolished Ca2+-independent part of K+-evoked [14C]GABA release. So the main effect of 4-aminopyridine is the Ca2+-dependent one while high K+ is able to evoke [14C]GABA release in both a Ca2+-dependent and Na+-dependent manner. In experiments with protein kinase inhibitors, 4-aminopyridine and high K+ concentration were used to study the Ca2+-dependent and the Ca2+-independent [14C]GABA release, respectively. In addition, the Ca2+-independent [14C]GABA release was studied using alpha-latrotoxin as a tool. Pretreatment of synaptosomes with protein kinase inhibitors tested, except of 1-(5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine dihydrochloride, resulted in a marked inhibition of 4-aminopyridine-stimulated Ca2+-dependent [14C]GABA release. The inhibitory effects of N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-naphtalenesulfonamide and staurosporine on [14C]GABA release were not due to their effects on 4-aminopyridine-promoted 45Ca2+ influx into synaptosomes. Only sphingosine (100 microM) reduced the 45Ca2+ influx. All the inhibitors investigated were absolutely ineffective in blocking the Ca2+-independent [14C]GABA release stimulated by alpha-latrotoxin. Three of them, except for sphingosine, did not affect the Ca2+-independent [14C]GABA release stimulated by high potassium. The inhibitory effect of sphingosine was equal to 30%. Thus, if [14C]GABA release occurred in a Ca2+-independent manner irrespective of whether alpha-latrotoxin or high K+ stimulated this process, it was not inhibited by the drugs decreased the Ca2+-dependent [14C] GABA release. Given the above points it is therefore not unreasonable to assume that the absence of Ca2+ in the extracellular medium created the conditions in which the activation of neurotransmitter release was not accompanied by Ca2+-dependent dephosphorylation of neuronal phosphoproteins, and as a consequence the regulation of exocytotic process was modulated so that the inhibition of protein kinases did not disturb the exocytosis.
Gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors are present in membrane preparations from Hydra vulgaris, one of the most primitive organisms with a nervous system. These receptors are sensitive to muscimol and benzodiazepines and appear to be important in the regulation of the feeding response. The effects of neurosteroids, general anaesthetics, and GABA antagonists on GABA(A) receptors in membranes prepared from Hydra and on the feeding response have now been investigated. The neurosteroids tetrahydroprogesterone and tetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone increased [3H]GABA binding to hydra membranes with nanomolar potency (EC50, 141+/-11 and 623+/-36 nM, respectively) and high efficacy (maximal increase 79+/-6.5 and 62+/-4%, respectively), whereas the 3beta-hydroxy epimer of tetrahydroprogesterone was ineffective. The benzodiazepine receptor ligands diazepam (100 microM), clonazepam (100 microM) and abecarnil (30 microM) enhanced [3H]GABA binding to Hydra membranes by 22, 20 and 24%, respectively; effects abolished by the specific benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil (100 microM). On the contrary, the peripheral benzodiazepine receptor ligand 4'chlorodiazepam failed to affect [3H]GABA binding to Hydra membranes. The general anaesthetics propofol and alphaxalone similarly increased (+38% and +30% respectively) [3H]GABA binding. Moreover, [3H]GABA binding to Hydra membranes was completely inhibited by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist SR 95531, whereas bicuculline was without effect. The modulation of GABA(A) receptors in vitro by these various drugs correlated with their effects on the glutathione-induced feeding response in the living animals. Tetrahydroprogesterone and tetrahydrodeoxy-corticosterone (1 to 10 microM) prolonged, in a dose-dependent manner, the duration of mouth opening induced by 10 microM glutathione, with maximal effects of +33 and +29%, respectively, apparent at 10 microM neurosteroid. Alphaxalone (10 microM) similarly increased (+33%) the effect of glutathione. The effects of steroids on the feeding response were inhibited by SR 95531 in a dose-dependent manner; t-butylbyclophosphorothyonate (1 microM), a specific Cl- channel blocker, which per se, like picrotoxin but not bicuculline, shortened the duration of the response, also counteracted the steroids effects at 1 microM. These results suggest that the modulation of GABA(A) receptors by steroids is an ancient characteristic of the animal kingdom and that the pharmacological properties of these receptors have been highly conserved through evolution.
Several lines of evidence strongly suggest that reduced olfactory nerve activity results in decreased bulb dopamine content. In the present study, high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection was used to assess catecholamine levels in bulbs from postnatal day 60 rats that had undergone either unilateral naris cautery or a sham surgery on day 30. Thirty days of odor deprivation dramatically reduced dopamine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels in functionally-deprived bulbs (ipsilateral to occluded nares) as compared to contralateral controls, while norepinephrine and dihydroxyphenylglycol levels were unchanged. The loss of dopamine was more severe in medial as compared to lateral aspects of experimental bulbs, while the loss of dihydroxyphenylacetic acid was similar on the two sides. To test directly the hypothesis that afferent activity regulates dopamine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid content, 1 h of high frequency tetanic nerve stimulation was provided to the rostral-medial olfactory nerve layer in deprived olfactory bulbs, and catecholamine levels were assessed from 6 to 192 h later. Partial and temporary recovery of dopamine was observed in medial aspects of the bulb when rats were examined 96 h later, while consistent recovery of dihydroxyphenylacetic acid content was not apparent. These data corroborate evidence that olfactory nerve activity is a potent regulator of bulb dopamine and indicate that continued afferent input is necessary to maintain dopamine levels.
Electrochemical measurements of vesicular content released were compared with the morphometric measurements of vesicular size in bovine chromaffin cells. Cross-sectional vesicular diameters were determined from electron micrographs. Two methods were used to determine the frequency histograms of &quot;true&quot; vesicular diameters (i.e. diameters of the vesicles in the equatorial plane): (i) &quot;peeling off&quot; method [Coupland R. E. (1968), Nature 217, 384-388], and (ii) summation of individual probabilities of &quot;true&quot; vesicular diameters. Quantal size was estimated from the area under the spontaneous current spike detected electrochemically. The frequency histograms of &quot;true&quot; vesicular diameters are found to be skewed (thus not well described by a Gaussian function) irrespective of the method used to calculate them, as are the frequency histograms of the cube roots of the quantal sizes. Furthermore, we also find that the frequency histograms of electrochemical measurements (the cube roots of quantal sizes) have lower skews and coefficients of variation than those of morphometric measurements (&quot;true&quot; vesicular diameters), with discrepancy being especially pronounced for noradrenaline-secreting cells. Such a difference in both coefficients of variation and skews suggests that the intravesicular catecholamine concentration is not uniform, but that it is lower for vesicles of larger size. In conclusion a variety of factors--vesicular volume, vesicular surface area to volume ratio, binding capacity of chromogranin and/or ATP, likely determines the amount of catecholamine stored in the vesicle.
Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were obtained from nodose ganglion neurons acutely dissociated from 10-30-day-old rats to characterize the Ca2+ channel types that are modulated by GABA(B) and mu-opioid receptors. Five components of high-threshold current were distinguished on the basis of their sensitivity to blockade by omega-conotoxin GVIA, nifedipine, omega-agatoxin IVA and omega-conotoxin MVIIC. Administration of the mu-opioid agonist H-Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-Phe(N-Me)-Gly-ol (0.3-1 mM) or the GABA(B) agonist baclofen in saturating concentrations suppressed high-threshold Ca2+ currents by 49.9+/-2.4% (n=69) and 18.7+/-2.1% (n=35), respectively. The inhibition by H-Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-Phe(N-Me)-Gly-ol exceeded that by baclofen in virtually all neurons that responded to both agonists (67%), and occlusion experiments revealed that responses to mu-opioid and GABA(B) receptor activation were not linearly additive. In addition, administration of staurosporine, a non-selective inhibitor of protein kinase A and C, did not affect the inhibitory responses to either agonist or prevent the occlusion of baclofen-induced current inhibition by H-Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-Phe(N-Me)-Gly-ol. Blockade of N-type channels by omega-conotoxin GVIA eliminated current suppression by baclofen in all cells tested (n=11). Mu-opioid-induced inhibition in current was abolished by omega-conotoxin GVIA in 12 of 30 neurons tested, but was only partially reduced in the remaining 18 neurons. In the latter cells administration of omega-agatoxin IVA reduced, but did not eliminate the mu-opioid sensitive current component that persisted after blockade of N-type channels. This residual component of mu-opioid-sensitive current was blocked completely by omega-conotoxin MVIIC in nine neurons, whereas responses to H-Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-Phe(N-Me)-Gly-ol were still recorded in the remaining cells after administration of these Ca2+ channel toxins and nifedipine. Dihydropyridine-sensitive (L-type) current was not affected by activation of mu-opioid or GABA(B) receptors in any of the neurons. These data indicate that in nodose ganglion neurons mu-opioid receptors are negatively coupled to N-, P- and Q-type channels as well as to a fourth, unidentified toxin-resistant Ca2+ channel. In contrast, GABA(B) receptors are coupled only to N-type channels. Furthermore, the results do not support a role for either protein kinase C or A in the modulatory pathway(s) coupling mu-opioid and GABA(B) receptors to Ca2+ channels, but rather lend credence to the notion that the signalling mechanisms utilized by these two receptors might simply compete for inhibitory control of a common pool of N-type channels.
The actions of the neuroprotective and anticonvulsant agent riluzole on voltage-activated currents were studied in primary cultures of rat cortical neurons by using whole-cell patch-clamp recording techniques. Isolated Na+, Ca2+ and K+ currents were generated in these cells by depolarizing commands from a holding potential of - 80 mV. Riluzole (10-300 microM) reversibly reduced in a dose-dependent manner the inward Na+ currents with an IC50 of 51 microM in all the tested neurons (n=29). This drug also shifted the steady-state inactivation curve of the sodium current towards more negative values (about 20mV, n=15) while it did not change significantly the decay phase of the Na+ current. Furthermore, riluzole (100 and 300 microM; n=5 and n=3, respectively) did not modulate the inward Ca2+ currents evoked by depolarizing steps on cortical cells. An additional concentration-dependent effect of riluzole was observed on the outward potassium currents. In fact, while the amplitude of the peak of the outward current (IA) was not changed significantly, the amplitude of the late component of the outward K+ current (Iss) was markedly decreased during the perfusion of riluzole (IC50=88 microM; n=16). It is concluded that riluzole modulates the Na+- and the late K+-dependent currents in cortical neurons. Both phenomena may explain, at least in part, the anticonvulsant and neuroprotective properties of this compound.
We have previously reported the involvement of the striatum in acute ethanol-induced motor incoordination and the striatal adenosinergic modulation of ethanol-induced motor incoordination through A1 receptor-mediated mechanism(s). The present study, a continuation of our previous work, was carried out to investigate the possible functional correlation between striatal cyclic AMP and ethanol-induced motor incoordination, and its modulation by striatal adenosine in Sprague-Dawley rats. Forskolin (0.1, 0.5 and 1.0 pmol), a known activator of adenylate cyclase, significantly attenuated ethanol-induced motor incoordination in a dose-dependent manner following its direct intrastriatal microinfusion. Forskolin also antagonized the accentuating effect of intrastriatal N6-cyclohexyladenosine on ethanol-induced motor incoordination. These results suggested that ethanol-induced motor incoordination might be functionally correlated to a decrease in the striatal cyclic AMP levels and that the striatal adenosine A1 receptors might modulate ethanol-induced motor incoordination through cyclic AMP signaling mechanism(s). Further support to this hypothesis was obtained by the actual measurement of the striatal cyclic AMP levels in the same experimental conditions as in motor coordination studies using high-performance liquid chromatography with fluoroscence detection. Regardless of the method (focused microwave irradiation, cervical dislocation or decapitation into a dry ice-ethanol mixture) used to kill the animals, a significant decrease in the striatal cyclic AMP levels was observed due to ethanol. Intrastriatal adenosine A1-selective agonist, N6-cyclohexyladenosine (24 ng), caused a further significant decrease in the striatal cyclic AMP levels in the ethanol- but not in the vehicle-treated animals. The further enhancement in the ethanol-induced decrease in the striatal cyclic AMP levels by intrastriatal N6-cyclohexyladenosine, therefore, functionally correlated with the observed potentiating effect of intrastriatal N6-cyclohexyladenosine on ethanol-induced motor incoordination. The effects of intrastriatal N6-cyclohexyladenosine+ethanol and of ethanol alone on the striatal cyclic AMP levels were blocked by intrastriatal pertussis toxin (500 ng) pretreatment, indicating the involvement of pertussis toxin-sensitive G-proteins (Gi, Go) and possibly of the adenosine A1 receptor coupled to the G-proteins in the striatum. Furthermore, ethanol alone significantly decreased the basal as well as the cyclic AMP-stimulated catalytic activities of the striatal cyclic AMP protein kinase, which were further reduced by intrastriatal N6-cyclohexyladenosine. The results of the present study therefore support an involvement of a cyclic AMP signaling pathway in the striatal adenosinergic modulation of ethanol-induced motor incoordination at the post-adenosine A1 receptor level.
6-Hydroxydopamine is a neurotoxin that produces degeneration of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway in rodents. Its toxicity is thought to involve the generation of superoxide anion secondary to its autoxidation. To examine the effects of the overexpression of Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase activity on 6-hydroxydopamine-induced dopaminergic neuronal damage, we have measured the effects of 6-hydroxydopamine on striatal and nigral dopamine transporters and nigral tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons in Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase transgenic mice. Intracerebroventricular injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (50 microg) in non-transgenic mice produced reductions in the size of striatal area and an enlargement of the cerebral ventricle on both sides of the brains of mice killed two weeks after the injection. In addition, 6-hydroxydopamine caused marked decreases in striatal and nigral [125I]RTI-121-labelled dopamine transporters not only on the injected side but also on the non-injected side of non-transgenic mice; this was associated with decreased cell number and size of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta on both sides in these mice. In contrast, superoxide dismutase transgenic mice were protected against these neurotoxic effects of 6-hydroxydopamine, with the homozygous transgenic mice showing almost complete protection. These results provide further support for a role of superoxide anion in the toxic effects of 6-hydroxydopamine. They also provide further evidence that reactive oxygen species may be the main determining factors in the neurodegenerative effects of catecholamines.
The present study utilized a newly developed quantitative immunohistochemical assay to measure changes in mu opioid receptor abundance following chronic administration of the opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone. These data were compared with those obtained from mu receptor radioligand binding on adjacent tissue sections, in order to determine whether the characteristic antagonist-induced increase in radioligand binding is due to an increase in the total number of mu receptors and/or to an increase in the proportion of receptors that are in an active binding conformation in the absence of a change in the total number of receptors. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were administered naltrexone, 7-8 mg/kg per day, or saline continuously for seven days by osmotic minipumps, after which time their brains were processed for immunohistochemistry and receptor autoradiography on adjacent fresh frozen tissue sections. Semiquantitative immunohistochemistry was performed using a radiolabelled secondary antibody for autoradiographic determination and a set of radioactive standards. Results demonstrate an overall concordance between the distribution of mu opioid receptors as measured by the two different methods with a few exceptions. Following naltrexone administration, mu receptor immunoreactivity was significantly higher in the amygdala, thalamus, hippocampus, and interpeduncular nucleus as compared with the saline-treated control animals. [3H]D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly-ol5-enkephalin binding to mu opioid receptors was significantly higher in the globus pallidus, amygdala, thalamus, hypothalamus, hippocampus, substantia nigra, ventral tegmental area, central gray, and interpeduncular nucleus of the naltrexone-treated rats. These findings indicate that in some brain regions chronic naltrexone exposure increases the total number of mu opioid receptors, while in other regions there is an increase in the percent of active receptors without an observable change in the total number of receptors. Quantitative receptor immunodetection together with ligand autoradiography provides a new approach for investigating the regulation of mu opioid receptors on tissue sections.
Melatonin secretion from the mammalian pineal gland is strongly stimulated by noradrenaline and also by vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP). Three types of receptors for VIP and PACAP have been characterized so far: VIP1/PACAP receptors and VIP2/PACAP receptors, which possess similar high affinities for VIP and PACAP, and PACAP1 receptors which exhibit a 100-1000-fold higher affinity for PACAP. The aim of the present study was to characterize the receptor subtype(s) mediating the stimulatory effects of VIP and PACAP on melatonin synthesis in the rat pineal gland. Autoradiographic studies showed that PACAP and VIP were equally potent in displacing binding of radioiodinated PACAP27 from pineal sections. Amplification of pineal complementary DNAs by polymerase chain reaction using specific primers for the different receptor subtypes revealed that all three receptor messenger RNAs are expressed and that VIP1/PACAP receptor messenger RNA was predominant over VIP2/PACAP receptor messenger RNA. In vitro, VIP and PACAP stimulated melatonin synthesis with similar high potency and the effect of the two peptides were not additive. The selective VIP1/PACAP receptor agonists [R16]chicken secretin (1-25) and [K15, R16, L27]VIP(1-7)/growth hormone releasing factor(8-27) were significantly more potent than the selective VIP2/PACAP receptor agonist RO 25-1553 in stimulating melatonin secretion. The stimulatory effects of VIP and PACAP were similarly inhibited by the VIP1/PACAP antagonist [acetyl-His1, D-Phe2, K15, R16, L27]VIP(3-7)/growth hormone releasing factor(8-27). These data strongly suggest that VIP and PACAP exert a stimulatory effect on melatonin synthesis mainly through activation of a pineal VIP1/PACAP receptor subtype.
To directly compare the regulation of the cloned kappa and mu opioid receptor, we expressed them in the same cells, the mouse anterior pituitary cell line AtT-20. The coupling of an endogenous somatostatin receptor to adenylyl cyclase and an inward rectifier K+ current has been well characterized in these cells, enabling us to do parallel studies comparing the regulation of both the kappa and the mu receptor to this somatostatin receptor. We show that the kappa receptor readily uncoupled from the K+ current and from adenylyl cyclase after a 1 h pretreatment with agonist, as indicated by the loss in the ability of the agonist to induce a functional response. The desensitization of the kappa receptor was homologous, as the ability of somatostatin to mediate inhibition of adenylyl cyclase or potentiation of the K+ current was not altered by kappa receptor desensitization. The mu receptor uncoupled from the K+ current but not adenylyl cyclase after a 1 h pretreatment with agonist. Somatostatin was no longer able to potentiate the K+ current after mu receptor desensitization, thus this desensitization was heterologous. Interestingly, pretreatment with a somatostatin agonist caused uncoupling of the mu receptor but not the kappa receptor from the K+ current. These results show that in the same cell line, after a 1 h pretreatment with agonist, the kappa receptor displays homologous regulation, whereas the mu receptor undergoes only a heterologous form of desensitization. mu receptor desensitization may lead to the alterations of diverse downstream events, whereas kappa receptor regulation apparently occurs at the level of the receptor itself. Broad alterations of non-opioid systems by the mu receptor could be relevant to the addictive properties of mu agonists. Comparison of kappa and mu receptor regulation may help define the properties of the mu receptor which are important in the development of addiction, tolerance, and withdrawal to opioid drugs. These are the first studies to directly compare the coupling of the kappa and mu receptors to two different effectors in the same mammalian expression system.
Although indirect evidence suggests that the control of sympathetic preganglionic neurons is mediated to a great extent through interneurons, little is known about the location, morphology or neurotransmitter phenotype of such interneurons. This limitation seriously impedes our understanding of spinal synaptic circuits crucial to control of arterial pressure and other visceral functions. We used a highly neurotropic, minimally cytopathic recombinant herpes simplex virus type-1 to study spinal &quot;sympathetic&quot; interneurons labelled by trans-synaptic transport of the virus from the adrenal gland in rats. Approximately 120-320 infected neurons/rat were identified by immunocytochemical detection of the viral antigen. We distinguished between virus-infected preganglionic neurons and infected interneurons by (i) their location within the spinal laminae, (ii) their size and shape and (iii) the presence or absence of immunoreactivity for the acetylcholine-synthesizing enzyme, choline acetyltransferase, a marker of sympathetic preganglionic neurons. Virus-labelled sympathetic preganglionic neurons were found within the known spinal preganglionic nuclei. Non-cholinergic, virus-labelled neurons were located throughout lamina VII and in the ventral portion of lamina V. These putative interneurons were found in the major spinal preganglionic nuclei, usually intermingled with the preganglionic neurons. Sometimes, they were located in clusters separate from the preganglionic neurons. The interneurons were approximately 15 microm in diameter, smaller than the average preganglionic neuron (diameter=25 microm), and had a few fine processes emanating from them. These non-cholinergic interneurons constituted approximately one-half of the population of virus-infected neurons. In summary, with the use of a recombinant herpes simplex virus, we identified a large number of non-cholinergic interneurons close to, or intermingled with, adrenal sympathetic preganglionic neurons. The neurotransmitter phenotype of these neurons remains to be determined but they likely integrate much of the supraspinal and primary afferent inputs to spinal preganglionic neurons that control arterial pressure and other visceral functions.
The distribution of somatic, fibre-like and punctate, non-somatic reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) diaphorase activity was examined in dog spinal cord using horizontal, sagittal and transverse sections. The morphological features of NADPH diaphorase exhibiting neurons divided into six different neuronal types (N1-N6) were described and their laminar distribution specified. Major cell groups were identified in the superficial dorsal horn and around the central canal at all spinal levels, and in the intermediolateral cell column at thoracic level. NADPH diaphorase exhibiting neurons of the pericentral region were distributed in a thin subependymal cell column containing longitudinally-arranged small bipolar neurons with processes penetrating deeply into the intermediolateral cell column and/or running rostrocaudally in the subependymal layer. The second pericentral cell column located more laterally in lamina X contains large, intensely-stained NADPH diaphorase exhibiting neurons with long dendrites radiating in the transverse plane. Neurons of the sacral parasympathetic nucleus seen in segments S1-S3 exhibited prominent NADPH diaphorase activity accompanied by heavily-stained fibres extending from Lissauer's tract through lamina I along the lateral edge of the dorsal horn to lamina V. A massive dorsal gray commissure, with high NADPH diaphorase activity, was found in segments S1-S3. At the same segmental level a prominent group of moderately-stained motoneurons was detected in the dorsolateral portion of the anterior horn. Fibre-like NADPH diaphorase activity was found in the superficial dorsal horn and pericentral region in all segments studied. Punctate, non-somatic NADPH diaphorase activity was detected in the superficial dorsal horn, in the pericentral region all along the rostrocaudal axis and in the nucleus phrenicus (segments C4-C5), nucleus dorsalis (segments Th2-L2), nucleus Y (segments S1-S3), and the dorsal part of the dorsal gray commissure (S1-S3). A schematic diagram documenting the segmental and laminar distribution of NADPH diaphorase activity is given.
The descending serotonergic system provides a powerful inhibitory input to the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Little is known about the chemical identity of the spinal neurons that the serotonergic system innervates, although spinal enkephalinergic neurons are likely candidates. This study investigated the apposition of serotonin-immunoreactive varicosities onto enkephalin- and neurotensin-immunoreactive neurons in the rat lumbosacral spinal cord. Using a double immunofluorescence technique, serotonin-immunoreactive varicosities were observed to abut the soma or proximal dendrites of [Met]enkephalin- and neurotensin-immunoreactive neurons. Nearly 75% of all [Met]enkephalin- and neurotensin-immunoreactive neurons were apposed by serotonin-immunoreactive varicosities in the marginal zone and dorsal gray commissure. In substantia gelatinosa, approximately half of the [Met]enkephalin- and neurotensin-immunoreactive neurons were juxtaposed by serotonin-immunoreactive varicosities. [Met]enkephalin-immunoreactive neurons also were bordered by serotonin-immunoreactive varicosities in the nucleus proprius (65%) and sacral parasympathetic nucleus (75%). The results of this study suggest that the descending serotonergic system mediates nociception via probable contacts with intrinsic enkephalin and neurotensin spinal systems. The mode of action of spinal serotonin on enkephalin and neurotensin neurons may be through &quot;volume&quot; transmission vs synaptic or &quot;wiring&quot; transmission.
The effects of exogenous and endogenous galanin on spinal flexor reflex excitability was evaluated in rats one to eight days after the induction of inflammation by subcutaneous injection of carrageenan into the sural nerve innervation area. In normal rats, electrical stimulation of C-fibres in the sural nerve elicited a brisk reflex discharge. Conditioning stimulation of C-fibres (1/s) generated a gradual increase in reflex magnitude (wind-up), which was followed by a period of reflex hyperexcitability. Intrathecal galanin dose-dependently blocked reflex hyperexcitability induced by C-fibre conditioning stimulation whereas i.t. M-35, a high-affinity galanin receptor antagonist, moderately potentiated this effect. At one to three days after the injection of carrageenen, when inflammation was at its peak, the magnitude of the reflex was significantly increased and discharge duration became prolonged. However, wind-up and reflex hyperexcitability were significantly reduced. Furthermore, reduced reflex excitability during conditioning stimulation (&quot;wind-down&quot;) and depression of the reflex were sometimes present, which are rarely observed in normal rats. Intrathecal galanin reduced hyperexcitability during inflammation, although its potency was weaker than in normals. However, the galanin receptor antagonist M-35 strongly enhanced wind-up and reflex hyperexcitability, similarly as in normal rats. The baseline flexor reflex, wind-up and C-fibre conditioning stimulation-induced facilitation were normalized four to eight days after carrageenan injection when signs of inflammation were diminishing. Interestingly, intrathecal galanin and M-35 failed to influence spinal excitability. The results suggest a complex functional plasticity in the role of endogenous galanin in mediating spinal excitability during inflammation. There appears to be an enhanced endogenous inhibitory control by galanin on C-afferent input during the peak of inflammation, which may explain the relative ineffectiveness of exogenous galanin. During the recovery phase there may be a reduction in galanin receptors, which may impair the action of endogenous and exogenous galanin. These results further support the notion that galanin is an endogenous inhibitory peptide in nociception.
We investigated whether the neuropeptide galanin affects the nitric oxide synthase/cyclic GMP pathway in rat hippocampus by measuring in vivo the extracellular cyclic GMP levels during microdialysis. Galanin (2.5 and 3.5 nmol; i.c.v.) dose-dependently raised the extracellular levels of cyclic GMP in the ventral but not the dorsal hippocampus. The effect of 3.5 nmol galanin was blocked by local application of tetrodotoxin and inhibited by the high-affinity galanin antagonist M40 (galanin-[1-12]-Pro3-[Ala-Leu]2-Ala amide). The non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist dizocilpine maleate (30 microM infused into the ventral hippocampus or 0.2 mg/kg, i.p.) and the competitive one, 3-([R]-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-phosphonic acid (50 microM infused), but not local perfusion of the AMPA antagonist 6-nitro-7-sulphamoylbenzo(f)quinoxaline-2,3-dione (15 microM) abolished the galanin-evoked cyclic GMP response in the hippocampus. Inhibitors of nitric oxide synthase, L-Arg(NO2)-OMe.HCl and 7-nitroindazole monosodium salt, applied locally, blocked the galanin-induced increase in hippocampal extracellular cyclic GMP. This increase was also prevented by local application of 1H-(1,2,4)oxadiazolo(4,3a) quinoxalin-1-one, a selective inhibitor of soluble guanylyl cyclase. The galanin receptors mediating the rise in cyclic GMP reside outside the hippocampus, as galanin (0.35-3 nmol) locally applied had no effect. The results provide in vivo evidence that galanin stimulates the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor/nitric oxide synthase/cyclic GMP pathway in the ventral hippocampus, which may be of importance in memory processes.
The study was conducted on 48 free-moving male rats to find out the role of the medial preoptic alpha2 receptors in the regulation of sleep and body temperature. Recording electrodes for assessment of sleep-wakefulness, and injector cannulae for injection of drugs in the medial preoptic area were chronically fixed on the skulls of the animals. The noradrenergic fibres projecting to the medial preoptic area were destroyed in 24 rats by administration of 6-hydroxydopamine at the ventral noradrenergic bundle. Though arousal was produced in normal rats by the injection of the alpha2 adrenergic agonist, clonidine, at the medial preoptic area, it induced sedation in rats with noradrenergic fibre lesion. Clonidine did not alter the rectal temperature in normal rats but it induced hypothermia in lesioned rats. Injection of alpha2 antagonist, yohimbine, at the medial preoptic area induced sleep in rats with intact noradrenergic fibres. However, the sleep inducing effect of this drug was very much attenuated in the lesioned animals. There was no significant change in body temperature, in both these groups of animals, after yohimbine administration. The study indicates the role of presynaptic alpha2 adrenergic receptors in arousal response and indirectly supports the contention that the alpha1 postsynaptic receptors at the medial preoptic area are involved in hypnogenesis. It also suggests that the thermal changes induced by adrenergic system are mediated through alpha1 postsynaptic receptors. But the thermal changes do not contribute towards the induced alterations in sleep-wakefulness. It is proposed that there should be separate sets of noradrenergic terminals for regulation of sleep and body temperature.
Two brain-derived corticotropin-releasing hormone receptors have been cloned, termed corticotropin-releasing hormone receptors type I and type 2. Antisense oligodeoxynucleotides targeted to the cloned rat and mouse corticotropin-releasing hormone receptors type I messenger RNA reduced the binding of the natural ligand of the corticotropin-releasing hormone receptors type I and also the release of adenocorticotrophic hormone in primary rat anterior pituitary cells and in clonal mouse pituitary cells (AtT-20) by up to 60% in an application time-dependent manner. Studies on intracellular uptake of fluorescence-labelled oligodeoxynucleotides indicated a cytoplasmic accumulation starting within two to four hours after application of oligodeoxynucleotides in vitro. In vivo, antisense oligodeoxynucleotides infused intra-cerebroventricularly reduced binding of radiolabelled corticotropin-releasing hormone receptors in central sites of the rat brain. Anxiety induced by i.c.v. administration of corticotropin-releasing hormone was attenuated by corticotropin-releasing hormone receptors type I antisense treatment as determined in the elevated plus maze and in the novel open field test. The corticotropin-releasing hormone-induced behavioural changes were absent in corticotropin-releasing hormone receptors type I antisense-pretreated animals. These results show that the selected antisense probes used were able to suppress corticotropin-releasing hormone receptors type I function in vitro as well as in vivo and suggest that the development of drugs blocking this specific receptor might lead to a novel class of anxiolytics.
Effects of a pre-training intraperitoneal glucose injection on learning and memory were tested using two tasks: passive avoidance and Morris water maze. In the former task, mice that had received glucose 2 h prior (but not 1, 3, or 5 h prior) to a trial that combined acquisition with passive avoidance of foot shock showed a significantly increased retention latency when tested 24 h later. Thus, this effect was time-dependent, and it was also found to be dose-dependent by further experiment. In contrast, 2-deoxy-D-glucose and fructose had no such effect. In the Morris water maze task, glucose injection 2 or 3 h before a block of trials enhanced the spatial memory performance of mice. These glucose-induced memory-facilitation effects were abolished by an intracerebroventricular injection of anti-acidic fibroblast growth factor antibody 30 min before the glucose injection, suggesting a critical role for endogenous acidic fibroblast growth factor in this facilitatory effect. Furthermore, continuous intracerebroventricular infusion of acidic fibroblast growth factor in rats significantly increased retention latency (when tested repeatedly on successive days using a passive avoidance task). Our earlier studies demonstrated that brain acidic fibroblast growth factor is produced in the ependymal cells of the cerebroventricular system, and is released into the cerebrospinal fluid following either a meal or a (intraperitoneal or intracerebroventricular) glucose injection. This released acidic fibroblast growth factor also diffuses into the brain parenchyma, and is taken up by neurons in the hippocampus, hypothalamus, and elsewhere in the brain some 2 h after the meal or glucose injection. These and the present findings indicate (i) that pre-training glucose injection improves memory performance, and (ii) that acidic fibroblast growth factor, especially by its action within the hippocampus, is involved in this enhancement process.
Tottering (tg) is an autosomal recessive mutation of the calcium channel alpha1A subunit in the mouse that results in epileptic spike and wave discharges, mild ataxia and paroxysmal episodes of involuntary spasms of the limbs, trunk and face. These convulsions have been especially difficult to characterize because of their unpredictable occurrence and lack of electroencephalographic correlates. However, it is, in fact, possible to induce these convulsions, making this facet of the tottering phenotype amenable to controlled experimentation for the first time. Here, the neuroanatomical basis of the convulsions in tottering mice has been identified using in situ hybridization for c-fos messenger RNA to chart abnormal neuronal activity. Convulsion-induced c-fos messenger RNA expression was most prominent in the cerebellum of convulsing tottering mice. Additionally, cerebral cortex and principal cerebellar relay nuclei were also activated during a convulsion. The c-fos activation in the cerebellum temporally preceded expression in cerebral cortex, suggesting that cerebral cortex is not driving the expression of convulsions. These results suggest that the cerebellum, a region not classically associated with paroxysmal events, is important in the generation and/or maintenance of the intermittent convulsions in tottering mutant mice.
Sulfoglucuronyl carbohydrate is the terminal moiety of neolacto-oligosaccharides, expressed on several glycoproteins of the immunoglobulin superfamily involved in cell-cell recognition and on two glycolipids. Sulfoglucuronyl carbohydrate is temporally and spatially regulated in the developing nervous system. It appears to be involved in neural cell recognition and in cell adhesion processes through its interaction with specific proteins on cell surfaces. Previously we have characterized a specific sulfoglucuronyl carbohydrate-binding protein in rat brain. Sulfoglucuronyl carbohydrate binding protein-1 is structurally similar to a 30,000 mol. wt adhesive and neurite outgrowth promoting protein amphoterin [Rauvala and Pihlaskari (1987) J. biol. Chem. 262, p. 16,625]. The pattern of expression of sulfoglucuronyl carbohydrate binding protein-1 in developing rat nervous system was studied to understand the significance of its interaction with sulfoglucuronyl carbohydrate-bearing molecules. Biochemical analyses showed that the expression of sulfoglucuronyl carbohydrate binding protein-1 was developmentally regulated similarly to sulfoglucuronyl carbohydrate. Immunocytochemical localization of sulfoglucuronyl carbohydrate binding protein-1 and sulfoglucuronyl carbohydrate was performed by bright-field and fluorescent confocal laser scanning microscopy. In postnatal day 7 rat cerebellum, sulfoglucuronyl carbohydrate binding protein-1 was primarily associated with neurons of the external and internal granule cell layers. The sulfoglucuronyl carbohydrate binding protein-1 immunoreactivity was absent in Purkinje cell bodies and their dendrites in the molecular layer, as well as in Bergmann glial fibres and in white matter. In contrast, sulfoglucuronyl carbohydrate (reactive with HNK-1 antibody) was localized in processes surrounding granule neurons in the internal granule cell layer. Sulfoglucuronyl carbohydrate was also expressed in Purkinje neurons and their dendrites in the molecular layer and their axonal processes in the white matter. To a lesser extent Bergmann glial fibres were also positive for sulfoglucuronyl carbohydrate. In the cerebral cortex, at embryonic day 21, sulfoglucuronyl carbohydrate binding protein-1 was mainly observed in immature neurons of the cortical plate and subplate and dividing cells near the ventricular zone. Whereas, sulfoglucuronyl carbohydrate was strongly expressed in the fibres of the subplate and marginal zone. Sulfoglucuronyl carbohydrate was also found in the processes surrounding the sulfoglucuronyl carbohydrate binding protein-1-expressing neuronal cell bodies in the cortical plate and in ventricular zone. The specific localization of sulfoglucuronyl carbohydrate binding protein- in cerebellar granule neurons and neurons of the cerebral cortex was also confirmed by immunocytochemistry of the dissociated tissue cell cultures. The complementary localization of sulfoglucuronyl carbohydrate and sulfoglucuronyl carbohydrate binding protein-1, both in cerebral cortex and cerebellum, in apposing cellular structures indicate possible interaction between the two and signalling during the process of cell migration and arrest of migration.
The endogenous dipeptide, alpha-N-acetylaspartylglutamate behaves as a partial agonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, but can also activate metabotropic glutamate receptors, with a high degree of selectivity for the metabotropic glutamate receptor 3 subtype. Knowing that agonists of group-II metabotropic glutamate receptors (i.e. of mGlu2 and -3 receptors) are neuroprotective, we have examined the neuroprotective activity of alpha-N-acetylaspartylglutamate in mixed cultures of mouse cortical cells exposed to a toxic pulse with N-methyl-D-aspartate. Alpha-N-acetylaspartylglutamate co-applied with N-methyl-D-aspartate was neuroprotective, but its action was insensitive to the selective group-II metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist, ethylglutamate. Protection was instead antagonized by ethylglutamate when alpha-N-acetylaspartylglutamate was applied to the cultures immediately after the N-methyl-D-aspartate pulse, a condition in which there was no direct competition between alpha-N-acetylaspartylglutamate and N-methyl-D-aspartate at the level of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. alpha-N-acetylaspartylglutamate was highly neuroprotective when transiently applied to pure cultures of cortical astrocytes and the conditioned medium, collected 20 h later, was transferred to sister mixed cultures challenged with N-methyl-D-aspartate. This particular form of neuroprotection was attenuated or abolished when astrocytes where exposed to alpha-N-acetylaspartylglutamate in the presence of the group-II metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonists ethylglutamate or (2S, 1'S,2'S,3'R)-2-(2'-carboxy-3'-phenylcyclopropyl)glycine, but not in the presence of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate. These results indicate that alpha-N-acetylaspartylglutamate induces neuroprotective effects in culture, which are mediated, at least in part, by the activation of glial metabotropic glutamate receptor 3 receptors.
The type I metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGlu1) messenger RNA and protein are known to be widely expressed in rat brain, but knowledge of the regional expression of splice variants other than mGlu1a is limited. Probes were designed for in situ hybridization that specifically recognize each of the carboxy-terminal splice variants mGlu1a, -1b, -1c and -1d. The novel rat mGlu1d sequence was obtained by polymerase chain reaction and the predicted protein is highly homologous to the human sequence but contains both conservative and radical substitutions and is slightly longer (912 vs 908 amino acids). Each rat mGlu1 splice variant messenger RNA was found in a unique expression pattern. The messenger RNA encoding mGlu1a was abundant in cerebellar Purkinje cells and in mitral and tufted cells of the olfactory bulb. Strong expression was also detected in hippocampal interneurons, and neurons of the thalamus and substantia nigra, while moderate expression was found in colliculi and cerebellar granule cells. The mGlu1b messenger RNA was strongly expressed in Purkinje cells, hippocampal pyramidal neurons, dentate gyrus granule cells and lateral septum, and moderately expressed in striatal, superficial cortical and cerebellar granule neurons. The mGlu1d messenger RNA was expressed in all regions where mGlu1a and -1b were detected; abundant in Purkinje cells, mitral and tufted cells, and hippocampal principal neurons and interneurons, strong in thalamus and substantia nigra, and moderate in lateral septum, cortex, striatum and colliculi. Human mGlu1 splice variant expression in the cerebellum matched that found for the rat. No specific signal was found with a probe capable of hybridizing to the rat mGlu1c splice junction, although another probe designed against a more 3' sequence of mGlu1c gave strong signals in the cerebellum and hippocampus, and moderate signals in thalamus and colliculi. It is concluded that mGlu1d messenger RNA is widely expressed, that mGlu1a and -1b messenger RNAs are expressed in almost complementary patterns and that formation of the mGlu1c splice junction is a rare event.
Neuronal properties and topographic organization of the middle suprasylvian gyrus (cortical cytoarchitectonic field 7) were studied in three behaving cats with painlessly fixed heads. Two main neuronal types were found within this field. Type 1 neurons occupied the lateral part of the field and bordered representation of directionally selective neurons of the lateral suprasylvian visual area by vertical retinal meridian. Type 1 neurons had elongated and radially oriented receptive fields located in the lower part of contralateral visual field. Type 1 neurons preferred stimuli moving out or to the centre of gaze at a low or moderate speed, and many of them were depth selective. The responses were enhanced by attention, oriented to the presented stimulus. Medial part of the field 7 along the border with the area V3 was occupied by neurons with not elongated receptive fields (type 2). These neurons preferred moderate and high speeds of motion, and gratings of proper spatial frequency and orientation were effective stimuli for them. Border between representations of type 2 and type 1 neurons coincided with projection of horizontal retinal meridian. At the rostral and caudal borders of the field 7 abrupt changes of neuronal properties took place. Neurons which abutted field 7 anteriorly and posteriorly resembled hypercomplex cells and their small receptive fields were located in the central part of the visual field. Topographical considerations and receptive field properties allowed us to conclude that the medial part of the field 7 (included type 2 neurons) is functionally equivalent to the area V4 in the cortex of primates, while the lateral part (type 1 neurons) may correspond to the area V4T.
The hypothesis was tested that the mesial frontal cortex, including the supplementary motor area, is engaged in bimanual co-ordination. Three monkeys, trained in a well-co-ordinated bimanual pull-and-grasp task, were subjected to unilateral or bilateral lesions of the mesial frontal cortex. With unilateral lesions, the deficit consisted in a delay in movement initiation of the contralateral arm. With a bilateral lesion, the deficit was more pronounced with marked bilateral delays in movement onset and slowing in reaching. However, in the three monkeys bimanual co-ordination at the moment of goal achievement remained intact with an excellent temporal co-variation of the two limbs. In the two unilateral cases, an adaptive strategy developed after a few sessions, either by catching up during reaching with the limb contralateral to the lesion (monkey M1) or by delaying movement initiation of the limb ipsilateral to the lesion (monkey M2). This outcome is discussed in terms of Lashley's principle of motor equivalence, i.e. invariant goal achievement with variable means. Bilateral lesions led to a transient and near-total impairment in movement self-initiation when all external cues were absent. It is concluded that in monkeys the mesial frontal cortex does not play a crucial role in bimanual co-ordination but rather in movement initiation, especially when sensory cues are absent.
Physiological and morphological properties of large non-pyramidal cells immunoreactive for cholecystokinin, parvalbumin or somatostatin were investigated in vitro in the frontal cortex of 18-22-day-old rats. These three peptides were expressed in separate populations including large cells. Cholecystokinin cells and parvalbumin cells made boutons apposed to other cell bodies, but differed in their firing patterns in response to depolarizing current pulses. Parvalbumin cells belonged to fast-spiking cells. Parvalbumin fast-spiking cells also included chandelier cells. In contrast, cholecystokinin cells were found to be regular-spiking non-pyramidal cells or burst-spiking non-pyramidal cells with bursting activity from hyperpolarized potentials (two or more spikes on slow depolarizing humps). Large somatostatin cells belonged to the regular-spiking non-pyramidal category and featured wide or ascending axonal arbors (wide arbor cells and Martinotti cells) which did not seem to be apposed to the somata so frequently as large cholecystokinin and parvalbumin cells. For electron microscopic observations, another population of eight immunohistochemically-uncharacterized non-pyramidal cells were selected: (i) five fast spiking cells including one chandelier cell which are supposed to contain parvalbumin, and (ii) three large regular-spiking non-pyramidal cells with terminals apposed to somata, which are not considered to include somatostatin cells, but some of which may belong to cholecystokinin cells. The fast-spiking cells other than a chandelier cell and the large regular-spiking non-pyramidal cells made GABA-positive synapses on somata (4% and 12% of the synapses in two small to medium fast-spiking cells, 22% and 35% of the synapses in two large fast-spiking cells, and 10%, 18% and 37% of the synapses in three large regular-spiking non-pyramidal cells). A few terminals of the fast-spiking and regular-spiking non-pyramidal cells innervated GABAergic cells. About 30% of the fast-spiking cell terminals innervated spines, but few of the regular-spiking non-pyramidal cell terminals did. A fast-spiking chandelier cell made GABA-positive synapses on GABA-negative axon initial segments. These results suggest that large GABAergic cells are heterogeneous in neuroactive substances, firing patterns and synaptic connections, and that cortical cells receive heterogeneous GABAergic somatic inputs.
Using sharp-electrode intracellular recordings, we studied the dopaminergic facilitation of synaptic plasticity in layer I-II afferents--layer V neuron glutamatergic synapses in rat prefrontal cortex in vitro. Tetanic stimulation (100 pulses at 50 Hz, four times at 0.1 Hz) to layer I-II afferents induced N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-independent long-term depression (&gt;40 min) of the glutamatergic synapses when the stimulation was coupled with a bath-application of dopamine. Tetanic stimulation alone did not induce lasting synaptic changes. Dopamine application alone transiently depressed synaptic responses, which fully recovered within 30 min. Pharmacological analyses with antagonists suggested that dopamine action on either D1-like or D2-like receptors can facilitate the induction of long-term depression. However, results with agonists were not fully consistent with the antagonist results: while a D2 agonist mimicked the facilitatory dopamine effect, D1 agonists failed to mimic the effect. We also analysed the synaptic responses during tetanus and found that dopamine prolongs membrane depolarization during high-frequency inputs. Postsynaptic membrane depolarization is indeed critical for long-term depression induction in the presence of dopamine, since postsynaptic hyperpolarization during tetanus blocked the dopaminergic facilitation of long-term depression induction. Postsynaptic injection of the Ca2+ chelator bis-(o-aminophenoxy)-N,N,N',N'-tetra-acetic acid (100 mM in the electrode) also blocked long-term depression induction. Our results show that dopamine lowers the threshold for long-term depression induction in rat prefrontal glutamatergic transmission. A possible underlying mechanism of this dopaminergic facilitation is the enhancement of postsynaptic depolarization during tetanus by dopamine, which may increase the amount of Ca2+ entry from voltage-gated channels to the level sufficient for plasticity induction.
Gap junctions are intercellular channels which mediate the traffic of ions and a variety of molecular messengers between contiguous cells. Here, we report on the possibility that atypical gap junctions develop between heterologous tissues, such as regenerating nerve axons and Schwann cells, during peripheral nerve regeneration in adult rats. After a complete transection and subsequent regeneration in the rat sciatic nerve distal segment, a small scale gap junction-like structure was observed between the regenerating axons and adjoining Schwann cells. Immunoelectron microscopy showed that one of the gap junctional proteins, connexin32, was located at a small region of contact between the axon and Schwann cells. Biocytin, a small molecular weight dye, was transported from regenerating axons into adjoining Schwann cells. The present findings suggest that regenerating axons communicate directly with adjacent Schwann cells through small gap junctions, which may play a role in the mechanism of regeneration following nerve transection.
The hypothesis that the naturally occurring analgesic peptide, beta-endorphin, is released in the brain in response to pain had never been directly validated. In this study, we applied a brain microdialysis method for monitoring beta-endorphin release in vivo, to test this hypothesis in the brains of conscious, freely moving rats. Herein we first show that endogenous beta-endorphin can be measured in vivo in the brain under physiological conditions. Upon induction of a nociceptive stimulus by injection of formalin into the hind-paws of rats, the extracellular levels of beta-endorphin in their arcuate nucleus increased by 88%, corresponding to their nociceptive response. This direct evidence for the release of endogenous beta-endorphin in the brain in response to nociceptive stimulus indicates a possible mechanism for organisms to cope with pain.
Previous work has shown that responses of thalamic neurons in vivo to the metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists 1S,3R-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylate and S-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine can be reduced by a variety of phenylglycine antagonists. Responses of thalamic neurons to noxious thermal somatosensory stimuli were reduced in parallel by these antagonists, indicating that these responses are mediated by Group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (i.e. metabotropic glutamate receptor-1 and/or metabotropic glutamate receptor-5), which are known to be linked to phosphoinositol phosphate hydrolysis. The recent development of S-2-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine as an antagonist which is highly selective for metabotropic glutamate receptor-1 compared to metabotropic glutamate receptor-5 on human receptors expressed in AV-12 cells, now offers the possibility of discriminating between these two receptor subtypes in order to distinguish which is involved in thalamic responses. We have made recordings from single somatosensory neurons in the thalamus of the rat, and find that S-2-methyl-4-carboxy-phenylglycine is able to reduce responses of neurons to 1S,3R-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylate, S-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine, and noxious stimuli without significant effect on responses to either N-methyl-D-aspartate or (+/-)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate. These results suggest that excitatory responses of thalamic neurons to 1S,3R-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylate and S-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine may be mediated by metabotropic glutamate receptor-1. Furthermore, the reduction of nociceptive responses by S-2-methyl-4-carboxy-phenylglycine indicates that metabotropic glutamate receptor-1 is involved in thalamic nociceptive processing and that such antagonists may have analgesic properties.
We have isolated novel immediate early genes (IEGs) from the hippocampus by differential cloning techniques. These mRNAs are induced by synaptic activity and translated into proteins that may affect neural function. We have analyzed a variety of &quot;effector&quot; immediate early genes. These mRNAs encode: 1) cytoplasmic proteins, such as cyclooxygenase-2, a small G protein, Rheb, and a cytoskeleton-associated protein, Arc; 2) membrane-bound proteins, such as the cell adhesion protein Arcadlin, and a neurite-outgrowth protein, Neuritin; and 3) a secreted protein, Narp. We hypothesize that physiological stimulation induces &quot;effector&quot; proteins that might strengthen synaptic connections of activated synapses. In contrast, pathological conditions such as epilepsy or drug addiction may accelerate overproduction of these gene products, which cause abnormal synapse formation. Gene targeting and in vivo gene transfer techniques are required to prove this hypothesis.

The inability to predict outcome in patients with low back/neck pain leads to inappropriate or unnecessary treatment. The aims of the study were to identify prognostic factors for disability at 1-year follow-up in patients with back pain visiting primary care, and to compare the effect of these in two treatment strategies--chiropractic and physiotherapy. Data were taken from a randomised trial on patients with back/neck pain visiting the general practitioner, in which patients were allocated to chiropractic and physiotherapy as primary management. Three hundred and twenty-three patients, aged 18-60 years, who had no contraindications to manipulation and who had not been treated within the previous month were included in the study. Multiple regression analysis was used to identify prognostic factors. Dependent variables were mean Oswestry score and mean change in Oswestry score at 12-month follow-up. The multiple regression analysis revealed five significant (P &lt; 0.001-0.01) prognostic factors; duration of current episode, Oswestry score at entry, expectations of treatment, number of localisations, and well-being. Besides, the regression coefficients for the significant factors were compared between the two treatment strategies. No significant difference in effect or regression coefficients for the prognostic factors were seen between the two treatment strategies. Twelve per cent of the patients had poor prognostic factors (duration &gt; or = 1 month, more than one localisation, low expectations of treatment and low well-being) at entry. These patients had a mean Oswestry score above 20% at 1-year follow-up. Clinical decision models for the management of patients with back pain visiting primary care that consider prognostic factors need to be implemented and prospectively evaluated.

58 patients with probable Alzheimer dementia and 58 with probable multi-infarct dementia were given spiral mazes of differing complexity and 20 other neuropsychological tests. When age and over-all neuropsychological functioning were taken into account, spiral maze performance was poorer for patients with multi-infarct dementia but there were no significant group differences related to task complexity or indices of performance strategy.
Three projective personality tests were used to assess attitude to aggression (The Identification Test), anxiety and defenses (The Meta-Contrast Technique) and creative functioning (The Creative Functioning Test) in 70 patients with breast cancer. Discriminant analyses were applied pro primo to characterize psychologically patients with a better prognosis and patients with a poorer prognosis. A second aim was to characterize psychologically older (postmenopausal) and younger (premenopausal) women. Generally, high scores on the Identification Test indicated maladaptive attitudes towards aggression among all the patients. Patients with a poorer prognosis showed responses that in healthy subjects indicate acknowledgement of aggressive impulses, perhaps suggesting lack of &quot;defenses&quot; against such impulses among those patients. Another way to describe it would be that patients with a better prognosis seem to have (normally nonadaptive) &quot;defenses&quot; against aggressive impulses while those with poorer prognosis have not. Surprisingly, the patients with a better prognosis (but not those with a poorer prognosis) gave responses classified as depression in the Meta-Contrast Technique. Typical of premenopausal patients were responses classified as anxiety as well as reaction formation on the Identification Test. Responses classified as adaptive defenses (isolation) were seen in the Meta-Contrast Technique. A surprising finding was that many of these patients were characterized by high scores on the creativity test. These original statistically significant findings of attitudes towards aggression and creative functioning in breast cancer patients are discussed in relation to the underlying nature of aggression and creativity.
The lateralized use of the forebrain hemispheres during recall of imprinting memory was investigated using unilateral intrahemispheric injections of glutamate. Administration of glutamate to the right hemisphere 1.3, or 6 h after exposure to the imprinting stimulus disrupted recall 8 h after the end of training, whereas the same treatment of the left hemisphere had no effect. Imprinted chicks treated with glutamate injected into the right hemisphere did not approach the imprinting stimulus in preference to an alternative, unfamiliar stimulus during a simultaneous choice test, whereas imprinted chicks treated with glutamate injected into the left hemisphere showed a preference for the imprinting stimulus. Thus, the left and right hemispheres are involved differentially in the recall of imprinting memory. Fear behavior or activity levels were not altered by glutamate treatment of either the right or left hemisphere, indicating that the effects of glutamate were specific to recall of imprinting memory. However, the amnestic effect of treatment of the right hemisphere with glutamate was transient: it was no longer evident by 48 h after the end of training. Also, glutamate had no effect when the chicks were treated 9 h after the end of training. These results suggest that regions in right hemisphere of the chick brain are involved in early (0-8 h after training) recall of imprinting memory.
There are EM effects on biology that are potentially both harmful and beneficial. We have reviewed applications of EM fields that are relevant to MS. It is possible that EM fields could be developed into a reproducible therapy for both symptom management and long-term care for MS. The long-term care for MS would have to include beneficial changes in the immune system and in nerve regeneration.

The synaptic plasticity that is addressed in this review follows neurodegeneration in the brain and thus has both structural as well as functional components. The model of neurodegeneration that has been selected is the kainic acid lesioned hippocampus. Degeneration of the CA3 pyramidal cells results in a loss of the Schaffer collateral afferents innervating the CA1 pyramidal cells. This is followed by a period of structural plasticity where new synapses are formed. These are associated with changes in the numbers and shapes of spines as well as changes in the morphometry of the dendrites. It is suggested that this synaptogenesis is responsible for an increase in the ratio of NMDA to AMPA receptors mediating excitatory synaptic transmission at these synapses. Changes in the temporal and spatial properties of these synapses resulted in an altered balance between LTP and LTD. These properties together with a reduction in the inhibitory drive increased the excitability of the surviving CA1 pyramidal cells which in turn triggered epileptiform bursting activity. In this review we discuss the insights that may be gained from studies of the underlying molecular machinery. Developments in one of the collections of the cogs in this machinery has been summarized through recent studies characterizing the roles of neural recognition molecules in synaptic plasticity in the adult nervous systems of vertebrates and invertebrates. Such investigations of neural cell adhesion molecules, cadherins and amyloid precursor protein have shown the involvement of these molecules on the morphogenetic level of synaptic changes, on the one hand, and signal transduction effects, on the other. Further complex cogs are found in the forms of the low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDL-R) family of genes and their ligands play pivotal roles in the brain development and in regulating the growth and remodelling of neurones. Evidence is discussed for their role in the maintenance of cognitive function as well as Alzheimer's. The molecular mechanisms responsible for the clustering and maintenance of transmitter receptors at postsynaptic sites are the final cogs in the machinery that we have reviewed. Postsynaptic densities (PSD) from excitatory synapses have yielded many cytoskeletal proteins including actin, spectrin, tubulin, microtubule-associated proteins and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II. Isolated PSDs have also been shown to be enriched in AMPA, kainate and NMDA receptors. However, recently, a new family of proteins, the MAGUKs (for membrane-associated guanylate kinase) has emerged. The role of these proteins in clustering different NMDA receptor subunits is discussed. The MAGUK proteins are also thought to play a role in synaptic plasticity mediated by nitric oxide (NO). Both NMDA and non-NMDA receptors are highly clustered at excitatory postsynaptic sites in cortical and hippocampal neurones but have revealed differences in their choice of molecular components. Both GABAA and glycine (Gly) receptors mediate synaptic inhibition in the brain and spinal cord. Whilst little is known about how GABAA receptors are localized in the postsynaptic membrane, considerable progress has been made towards the elucidation of the molecular mechanisms underlying the formation of Gly receptors. It has been shown that the peripheral membrane protein gephyrin plays a pivotal role in the formation of Gly receptor clusters most likely by anchoring the receptor to the subsynaptic cytoskeleton. Evidence for the distribution as well as function of gephyrin and Gly receptors is discussed. Postsynaptic membrane specializations are complex molecular machinery subserving a multitude of functions in the proper communication between neurones. Despite the fact that only a few key players have been identified it will be a fascinating to watch the story as to how they contribute to structural and functional plasticity unfold.
It seems likely that the Alzheimer disease (AD)-related dendritic changes addressed in this article are induced by two principally different processes. One process is linked to the plastic response associated with deafferentation, that is, long-lasting transneuronally induced regressive changes in dendritic geometry and structure. The other process is associated with severe alterations of the dendritic- and perikaryal cytoskeleton as seen in neurons with the neurofibrillary pathology of AD, that is, the formation of paired helical filaments formed by hyperphosphorylated microtubule-associated protein tau. As the development of dendritic and cytoskeletal abnormalities are at least mediated by alterations in signal transduction, this article also reviews changes in signal pathways in AD. We also discuss transgenic approaches developed to model and understand cytoskeletal abnormalities.
A 52-year-old schizophrenic patient acutely showed blepharospasm and oromandibular dystonia following neuroleptic-induced akathisia. She had suffered from schizophrenia and been treated with neuroleptics for 15 years and had manifested tardive dyskinesia 5 years ago. Following a change in her neuroleptic medication, severe akathisia developed. Two days after the appearance of akathisia, blepharospasm and oromandibular dystonia appeared. After the disappearance of akathisia, the disorder continued. The frequency of blepharospasm ranged from 30 to 40 (times/min). The oral administration of trihexyphenidyl (6 mg/day), perphenazine (12 mg/day), and fluphenazine (12 mg/day) significantly decreased the frequency of blepharospasm, whereas carbamazepine (600 mg/day) and sulpiride (1200 mg/day) did not. These results suggest that overactivity of both cholinergic and dopaminergic functions in the striatum may be involved in this patient. Our patient, who showed acute onset of Meige's syndrome following neuroleptic-induced akathisia, is of interest to those studying the pathogenesis of Meige's syndrome.
This paper reviews the psychology (P) of psychoneuroendocrinology (PNE). The relationship between the P factors and the endocrine responses (E) is described within cognitive reformulations of stress theory and activation theory. The formulations are valid across species, including man. The emphasis is on acquired expectancies, which are assumed to determine the physiological response, including the E responses. The terms coping, helplessness, and hopelessness are defined, and related to other labels covering the same or similar phenomena. The implications of contemporary P theory for the typical PNE experimental situations are discussed. Finally, the PNE positions outlined in 1968 by Mason is revisited. The 30 years of PNE research that followed confirm and expand his conclusions.
Sabcomeline, (SB-202026 [R-(Z)-alpha-(methoxyimino)-1 -azabicyclo [2.2.2] octane-3-acetonitrile]), a functionally selective muscarinic M1 receptor partial agonist, was tested in rats trained to perform a delayed, reinforced alternation task in a T maze, a test of short-term spatial memory. For comparison the cholinesterase inhibitor tacrine (THA-9-amino- 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroaminoacridine) and the non-selective muscarinic receptor agonist RS86 (2-ethyl-8-methyl-2,8 diazospiro [4.5]-decane-1,3-dione hydrobromide) were also tested and all three compounds were also compared using a conditioned taste aversion (CTA) task. Sabcomeline (0.001-1.0 mg/kg i.p.) significantly reversed the T-maze choice accuracy deficit induced by a 20-s delay at 0.03 and 0.1 mg/kg. RS86 (0.1-3.0 mg/kg i.p.) reversed the deficit at 1.0 mg/kg and THA (0.1-3.0 mg/kg i.p.) had no effect at any dose. All three compounds induced conditioned taste aversion with minimum effective doses (MED) of 0.3, 1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg, respectively. The results show that sabcomeline reverses delay induced deficits in T-maze choice accuracy in a rewarded alternation task at doses approximately 10 times lower than those required to induce conditioned taste aversion. RS86 was equipotent in both tests. These data support the findings of clinical studies which have shown that SB-202026 provides significant symptomatic improvement in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease at doses which do not induce cholinergic side effects.
The impact of cancer on the psychological well-being of newly diagnosed cancer patients before and during the course of radiotherapy was assessed in 70 consecutive cancer patients. Most of the patients were over 40 years of age, women, illiterate and from a lower socioeconomic group. During the course of treatment there was a decrease in the well-being scores on some dimensions such as perceived family and primary group support. Improvements were seen in the dimensions of positive feelings, coping, social support other than the family and spiritual well-being. There were no changes in the dimensions of negative feelings and perceived ill-health. The results give a profile on well-being and the changes observed during radiotherapy.

A postal survey was carried out to identify the perceived epilepsy rehabilitation needs of a hospital-based outpatient population. A response rate of 70% resulted in 245 patients being surveyed. Data showed that 65% of the total sample wanted more rehabilitation assistance and that 27% required substantial contact with the rehabilitation services. The most common request was for more medical information both via written material and telephone contact with a specially trained epilepsy nurse. Approximately one in six patients would like to attend a course on how to live with epilepsy. Access to a psychologist was most often requested during the first year following diagnosis and demand for courses on how to live with epilepsy was highest in the second to fourth year following diagnosis. Requests for social worker assistance were associated with employment issues. Frequency of seizures, duration of epilepsy and age were significant variables in relation to demands for rehabilitation resources. The general conclusions are that (1) the minimum standards of a rehabilitation service should include greater access to medical information via a variety of authoritative sources; and (2) that team-based resources are wanted by a substantial proportion of the population in relation to specific and definable problems, which would involve intensive input from psychologists and social workers.
The employment experiences of 245 respondents with epilepsy as their main diagnosis were examined as part of a study into the rehabilitation needs of an epilepsy outpatient clinic. It was found that 9% of the sample was unemployed and a further 16% were in receipt of a disability pension. Patients with seizures in remission were more likely to be employed and less likely to have experienced job problems, to feel limited by the epilepsy or to experience stigma. Job problems per se were experienced by 35% of the population. Of those with uncontrolled seizures, 50% had had job problems; however, 22% thought that their current employment situation had not been unduly influenced by epilepsy. It was those respondents who were younger or who were diagnosed early with epilepsy who were most likely to perceive their current situation as a result of having epilepsy. The survey suggests that unemployment is not the major problem it was once thought to be but that discrimination at work is a more serious problem which could lead to under-employment and restricted career development. Career planning should be instigated early and employment services should include information, practical advice and emotional support.

Recent studies have reported an increase in GABAA receptor binding activity in several key corticolimbic regions, including the hippocampal formation, of postmortem schizophrenic brain. Because this change has been postulated to represent a compensatory upregulation of this receptor, the current report has sought to determine whether a decrease of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD), the enzyme responsible for the synthesis of GABA, may also be present in the hippocampus of schizophrenic subjects. A standard immunoperoxidase technique, together with a computer-assisted microscopic analysis, has been employed to evaluate the distribution of the 65 kDalton isoform of GAD (GAD65) in 12 normal controls and 13 schizophrenic subjects matched for age and postmortem interval (PMI). The results show no significant difference in the density of GAD65-immunoreactive (-IR) puncta in contact with pyramidal neurons (PN), nonpyramidal neurons (NP), or neuropil (NPL) in sectors CA1-4 and their various sub-laminae. When the data were considered in relation to neuroleptic exposure, a significant positive correlation between the density of GAD65-IR puncta and drug dose was found on both PNs (r = 0.814, P = 0.002; r = 0.777, P = 0.005, respectively) and NPs (r = 0.673, P = 0.023; r = 0.672, P = 0.024, respectively) in sectors CA4 and CA3. A similar result was found in the stratum oriens of CA3 (r = 0.704, P = 0.016) and CA2 (r = 0.774, P = 0.009). In each instance, two neuroleptic free schizophrenics showed the lowest density of GAD65-IR puncta. There was no significant relationship between the density of GAD65-IR puncta with either age or PMI. Taken together with previous data showing an upregulation of GABAA receptor activity in sectors CA3 and CA2, particularly the stratum oriens, this study provides further evidence in support of the hypothesis that an intrinsic defect of GABAergic activity may occur in the hippocampal formation of schizophrenic patients and show dose-related increases in relation to neuroleptic exposure.
While CART peptides have been implicated as novel, putative peptide neurotransmitters/cotransmitters, behavioral effects of these peptides have not yet been demonstrated. In this study, we show the first behavioral effect of CART peptides. I.c.v. administration of CART peptide fragments inhibits feeding in rats. Moreover, injection of an antibody to CART peptide 82-103 stimulates feeding, suggesting that endogenous CART peptides exert an inhibitory tone on feeding. Injection of CART peptide 82-103 five min before NPY reduces the increase in feeding caused by injection of NPY alone. Also, in light microscopic immunohistochemical studies, NPY-positive varicosities were observed around CART peptide-positive cell bodies in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. These data suggest functional interactions between CART peptides and NPY. These results indicate that CART peptides play a role in the control of food intake by the brain.
We studied polymorphism of the HLA-DP gene in 46 patients with optico-spinal form (Asian type) multiple sclerosis (MS) showing recurrent opticomyelitis and 46 patients with Western type MS with disseminated central nervous system involvement. We previously reported a significant association between an HLA-DRB1 *1501-DRB5*0101 haplotype and susceptibility to Western type but not Asian type MS. In the present study, we found that the frequencies of DPA1 *0202 and DPB1 *0501 alleles were significantly increased in patients with Asian type MS, as compared with findings in 92 healthy control subjects (91.3% vs 65.2%, P(corr)&lt;0.05 and 89.1% vs 63.0%, P(corr)&lt;0.05 respectively), but not in Western type MS. Our data provide further evidence that Asian and Western type MS are distinct regarding the immunogenetic background.

Beginning with the first step of visual processing and proceeding outward from that point, the neurons involved in different aspects of vision are distinct. Stated simply, neurons doing different things look different. They often display distinct morphological features and they usually express different molecules. In addition, neurons that perform a common function usually aggregate together to form recognizable layers or compartments that can be studied in isolation because they are neurochemically distinct. Here is found, then, a junction of two major domains in neuroscience research, as discovery of molecular diversity among neurons is exploited to study organization and function of the primate visual system.
'Amygdala' and 'amygdalar complex' are terms that now refer to a highly differentiated region near the temporal pole of the mammalian cerebral hemisphere. Cell groups within it appear to be differentiated parts of the traditional cortex, the claustrum, or the striatum, and these parts belong to four obvious functional systems--accessory olfactory, main olfactory, autonomic and frontotemporal cortical. In rats, the central nucleus is a specialized autonomic-projecting motor region of the striatum, whereas the lateral and anterior basolateral nuclei together are a ventromedial extension of the claustrum for major regions of the temporal and frontal lobes. The rest of the amygdala forms association parts of the olfactory system (accessory and main), with cortical, claustral and striatal parts. Terms such as 'amygdala' and 'lenticular nucleus' combine cell groups arbitrarily rather than according to the structural and functional units to which they now seem to belong. The amygdala is neither a structural nor a functional unit.
The melanocortin MC3 and MC4 receptors are the main melanocortin receptors expressed in brain. Of the endogenous melanocortins, gamma2-melanocortin stimulating hormone (MSH) selectively activates the melanocortin MC3 receptor, whereas alpha- and beta-MSH activate all melanocortin receptors. The aim was to gain an insight into the contribution of amino acids in positions 5 and 10 of melanocortins to the selectivity of [Nle4]Lys-gamma2-MSH for the melanocortin MC3 receptor versus the melanocortin MC4 receptor. Introduction of Asp10 into [Nle4]alpha-MSH as in [Nle4,Gly5,Asp10]alpha-MSH selectively increased the EC50 value for the melanocortin MC4 receptor. Conversely, removal of Asp10, as in [Nle4,Gly10]Lys-gamma2-MSH, selectively decreased the EC50 value for the melanocortin MC4 receptor. Thus, Asp10 in Lys-gamma2-MSH determined selectivity for the melanocortin MC3 receptor versus the melanocortin MC4 receptor.
In this study, the ability of human amniotic epithelial cells to synthesize dopamine from L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) was examined. Dopamine synthesis was significantly increased time and L-DOPA concentration dependently, suggesting the presence of an aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase enzyme. This was confirmed by the decrease in dopamine synthesis in the presence of an aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase inhibitor, benserazide. These findings suggest that human amniotic epithelial cells have the capacity to take up and convert L-DOPA into dopamine.
Pharmacological, neurochemical and behavioural findings support a possible role of endogenous opioids in clinical depression. There is evidence from animal studies that delta-opioid receptors are involved in several behavioural responses to opioids, including motivational activities. In the present study, the mixed enkephalin catabolism inhibitor, RB 101 (N(R,S)-2-benzyl-3[(S)-(2-amino-4-methylthiobutyldithio]-1-oxoprop yl)-L-phenylalanine benzyl ester) (1.25, 2.5 and 5 mg/kg), induced a dose-dependent antidepressant-like effect in a learned helplessness model. Thus, RB 101 reversed escape deficits in rats previously subjected to inescapable shocks, suggesting the involvement of endogenous enkephalins in depression. Similar effects were observed after administration of the selective delta-opioid receptor agonist, BUBU (Tyr-D.Ser-(O-tert-butyl)-Gly-Phe-Leu-Thr(O-Tet-butyl-OH) (1 and 2 mg/kg). Moreover, RB 101 effects were antagonized by administration of naltrindole (NTI) (0.1 mg/kg), which points to a preferential involvement of delta-opioid receptors in this enkephalin-controlled behaviour. As RB 101 has been reported to be almost devoid of opiate-related side-effects, it could represent a promising alternative in the treatment of depressive patients who are unresponsive to, or intolerant of, classical antidepressants.
Strongly inwardly rectifying potassium channels of the Kir 2 subfamily (IRK1, IRK2, and IRK3) are involved in maintenance and modulation of cell excitability in brain and heart. Electrophysiological studies of channels expressed in heterologous systems have suggested that the pore-conducting pathway contains four subunits. However, inferences from electrophysiological studies have not been tested on native channels and do not address the possibility of nonconducting auxiliary subunits. Here, we investigate the subunit stoichiometry of endogenous inwardly rectifying potassium channel Kir 2.2 (IRK2) from rat brain. Using chemical cross-linking, immunoprecipitiation, and velocity sedimentation, we report physical evidence demonstrating the tetrameric organization of the native channel. Kir 2.2 was sequentially cross-linked to produce bands on SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis corresponding in size to monomer, dimer, trimer, and three forms of tetramer. Fully cross-linked channel was present as a single band of tetrameric size. Immunoprecipitation of biotinylated membranes revealed a single band corresponding to Kir 2.2, suggesting that the channel is composed of a single type of subunit. Hydrodynamic properties of 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]-1-propane sulfonic acid-solubilized channel were used to calculate the molecular mass of the channel. Velocity sedimentation in H2O or D2O gave a sharp peak with a sedimentation coefficient of 17.3 S. Gel filtration yielded a Stokes radius of 5.92 nm. These data indicate a multisubunit protein with a molecular mass of 193 kDa, calculated to contain 3.98 subunits. Together, these results demonstrate that Kir 2.2 channels are formed by the homotetrameric association of Kir 2.2 subunits and do not contain tightly associated auxiliary subunits. These studies suggest that Kir 2.2 channels differ in structure from related heterooctomeric ATP-sensitive K channels and heterotetrameric G-protein-regulated inward rectifier K channels.
58K was previously identified as a rat liver protein that binds microtubules in vitro and is associated with the cytoplasmic surface of the Golgi apparatus in vivo (Bloom, G. S., and Brashear, T. A. (1989) J. Biol. Chem. 264, 16083-16092). We now report that 58K is a formiminotransferase cyclodeaminase (FTCD), a bifunctional enzyme that catalyzes two consecutive steps in the modification of tetrahydrofolate to 5,10-methenyl tetrahydrofolate. Comparative immunoblotting using several monoclonal antibodies made against 58K and a polyclonal antibody made against a chicken liver protein (p60) with similar properties (Hennig, D., Scales, S. J., Moreau, A., Murley, L. L., De Mey, J., and Kreis, T. E. (1998) J. Biol. Chem. 273, 19602-19611) demonstrated precise co-purification of protein recognized by all antibodies through multiple fractionation steps, including gel filtration and ion exchange chromatography, and sucrose gradient ultracentrifugation. Eight peptides derived from 58K showed high sequence identity to amino acid sequences predicted by full length cDNA for p60 and porcine liver FTCD. Furthermore, purified 58K was associated with formiminotransferase and cyclodeaminase activities. Based on these collective results, 58K was concluded to be a rat liver version of FTCD. Microtubules assembled from brain tubulin, but not from liver tubulin, were able to bind rat liver FTCD. Binding to brain microtubules is suspected to occur via polyglutamates that are added post-translationally to tubulin in brain, which was shown to contain very low levels of FTCD, but not to tubulin in liver, which was determined to be the richest tissue source, by far, of FTCD. The physiological significance of the microtubule binding activity of FTCD is thus called into question, but an association of FTCD with the Golgi apparatus has now been established.
Human and Drosophila melanogaster serotonin (5-HT) transporters (SERTs) exhibit similar 5-HT transport kinetics and can be distinguished pharmacologically by many, but not all, biogenic amine transporter antagonists. By using human and Drosophila SERT chimeras, major determinants of potencies of two transporter antagonists, mazindol and citalopram, were tracked to the amino-terminal domains encompassing transmembrane domains I and II. Species-scanning mutagenesis, whereby amino acid substitutions are made switching residues from one species to another, was employed on the eight amino acids that differ between human and Drosophila SERTs in this region, and antagonist potencies were reassessed in 5-HT uptake assays. A single mutation in transmembrane domain I of human SERT, Y95F, shifted both citalopram and mazindol to Drosophila SERT-like potencies. Strikingly, these potency changes were in opposite directions suggesting Tyr95 contributes both positive and negative determinants of antagonist potency. To gain insight into how the Y95F mutant might influence mazindol potency, we determined how structural variants of mazindol responded to the mutation. Our studies demonstrate the importance of the hydroxyl group on the heterocyclic nucleus of mazindol for maintaining species-selective recognition of mazindol and suggest that transmembrane domain I participates in the formation of antagonist-binding sites for amine transporters.
We studied the effect of local application of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on functional recovery after dorsal spinal cord transection in the adult rat. BDNF was applied at the site of the lesion in rat tail collagen type I. Locomotion was measured for 4 weeks using the BBB locomotor rating scale. One day after injury and application of BDNF the performance of treated rats was significantly increased as compared to controls (BBB-score 11.5+/-1.3 (mean +/- SEM) and 7.5+/-1.3, respectively). This difference remained significant during the first week. Histological examination of the spared spinal cord tissue at the lesion centre 4 weeks after lesioning showed no significant difference between control and BDNF-treated animals. The results indicate that local application of BDNF results in a decreased loss of function in the partially transected rat spinal cord starting one day after injury.
Both N-acetylaspartate (NAA) and N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG) are localized almost exclusively to neurons, and have become important markers of neuronal viability in a number of cerebral pathological conditions. Using nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy combined with [1-13C]glucose administration (200 min infusion) we show that the synthesis of both NAA and NAAG can be observed. Label was incorporated into NAA from labeled acetate and from labeled aspartate, while NAAG was labeled from labeled glutamate. The low fractional enrichment of NAA (ca. 3%) relative to aspartate (20%) suggests a slow turnover rate, while NAAG (20.0%) and glutamate (25.2%) labeling were nearly equal, suggesting that NAAG labeling is near steady state. The rapid turnover of NAAG suggests an important role in glutamate delivery, while the slow rate of NAA turnover implies that its major role is as substrate for the formation of NAAG.
Nerve growth factor is a target derived growth factor. In the peripheral nervous system, it is produced by tissues innervated by the sympathetic nervous system and small sensory neurons. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that an alternate source of nerve growth factor must be available to support dorsal root ganglion neurons before they make connection with the target. Using reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), we detected nerve growth factor mRNA at embryonic day 12 to 17, but not in adult dorsal root ganglia. In situ hybridization studies revealed positive staining in satellite/supportive cells juxtaposed to dorsal root ganglion neurons. Our study suggests that nerve growth factor from supporting cells may have a paracrine function during development of primary sensory neurons.
Recent studies have confirmed that a retrograde signal is produced at the neuromuscular junction that can adjust the efficacy of transmission to meet long-term changing needs. Genetic manipulations in Drosophila have begun to define the circumstances in which such signals are generated and how they act.
Neuroepithelial and radial glial cells span between the ventricular and the pial surfaces of the neural tube and express two intermediate filaments (IFs), nestin and vimentin, which form a filamentous network throughout the length of the cells. In this report we study the polymerization characteristics of nestin and examine how mutations affect the assembly and localization of the nestin protein in cultured cells and in the developing CNS of transgenic mice. A wild-type rat nestin gene transfected into the IF-free SW13 cell line failed to assemble into a filamentous network but was incorporated into the existing IF network of a subclone expressing vimentin, demonstrating that nestin requires vimentin for proper assembly. In transgenic mice, rat nestin formed a network indistinguishable from that formed by endogenous nestin and vimentin, but a mutant form lacking five amino acids at the carboxy terminus of the rod domain was largely restricted to the pial endfeet. Since nestin mRNA is localized to the pial endfoot region we propose that both transgenes are translated there, but that the wild-type protein is preferentially incorporated into the IF network. These observations provide evidence for hierarchical assembly and a complex organization of the IF network along the ventricular-pial axis in the early CNS.
In the present investigation, the rationale for the design, synthesis, and biological evaluation of potent inhibitors of neuronal Na+ channels is described. N,N'-diaryl- and N-aryl-N-aralkylguanidine templates were locked in conformations mimicking the permissible conformations of the flexible diarylguanidinium ion (AS+, AA+, SS+). The resulting set of constrained guanidines termed &quot;lockamers&quot; (cyclophane, quinazoline, aminopyrimidazolines, aminoimidazolines, azocino- and tetrahydroquinolinocarboximidamides) was examined for neuronal Na+ channel blockade properties. Inhibition of [14C]guanidinium ion influx in CHO cells expressing type IIA Na+ channels showed that the aminopyrimidazoline 9b and aminoimidazoline 9d, compounds proposed to lock the N,N'-diarylguanidinium in an SS+ conformation, were the most potent Na+ channel blockers with IC50's of 0.06 microM, a value 17 times lower than that of the parent flexible compound 18d. The rest of the restricted analogues with 4-p-alkyl substituents retained potency with IC50 values ranging between 0.46 and 2.9 microM. Evaluation in a synaptosomal 45Ca2+ influx assay showed that 9b did not exhibit high selectivity for neuronal Na+ vs Ca2+ channels. The retention of significant neuronal Na+ blockade in all types of semirigid conformers gives evidence for a multiple mode of binding in this class of compounds and can possibly be attributed to a poor structural specificity of the site(s) of action. Compound 9b was also found to be the most active compound in vivo based on the high level of inhibition of seizures exhibited in the DBA/2 mouse model. The pKa value of 9b indicates that 9b binds to the channel in its protonated form, and log D vs pH measurements suggest that ion-pair partitioning contributes to membrane transport. This compound stands out as an interesting lead for further development of neurotherapeutic agents.

Micromanipulation by optical tweezers has been tested in cultures of mature isolated retinal cells to determine its potential for use in creating synaptic circuits in vitro. Rod and cone photoreceptors as well as other retinal nerve cell types could be optically trapped with a 980 nm diode laser mounted on an inverted light microscope using a 40x oil immersion objective numerical aperture of 1.3. Manipulation was done under sterile conditions using transparent culture dishes. To form cell groups, one half of a culture dish was made less adhesive by application of a thin layer of silicone elastomer. Unattached cells were trapped and relocated next to cells lying on an adhesive culture substrate. Optical trapping did not affect the ability of neurons to subsequently attach to the culture substrate. Up to 60% of trapped cells survived for 2 or more days. The pattern and rate of process outgrowth for manipulated cells was comparable to unmanipulated cells and by 2 days, cell-cell contacts were observed. Cultures were fixed at 2 and 5 days for electron microscopy. Organelle, nuclear and cytoplasmic structure of manipulated cells was completely normal and in photoreceptors, synaptic vesicles and ribbons were intact. Optical tweezers, therefore, provide a benign technique with which to micromanipulate whole neurons. The procedures also bestow increased precision to the study of cell-cell interactions by allowing the selection of potentially interacting cell types at a single cell level.
Streptozotocin-diabetic rats express deficits in water maze learning and hippocampal synaptic plasticity. The present study examined whether these deficits could be prevented and/or reversed with insulin treatment. In addition, the water maze learning deficit in diabetic rats was further characterized. Insulin treatment was commenced at the onset of diabetes in a prevention experiment, and 10 weeks after diabetes induction in a reversal experiment. After 10 weeks of treatment, insulin-treated diabetic rats, untreated diabetic rats and non-diabetic controls were tested in a spatial version of the Morris water maze. Next, hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) was measured in vitro. To further characterize the effects of diabetes on water maze learning, a separate group of rats was pre-trained in a non-spatial version of the maze, prior to exposure to the spatial version. Both water maze learning and hippocampal LTP were impaired in diabetic rats. Insulin treatment commenced at the onset of diabetes prevented these impairments. In the reversal experiment, insulin treatment failed to reverse established deficits in maze learning and restored LTP only partially. Non-spatial pre-training abolished the performance deficit of diabetic rats in the spatial version of the maze. It is concluded that insulin treatment may prevent but not reverse deficits in water maze learning and LTP in streptozotocin-diabetic rats. The pre-training experiment suggests that the performance deficit of diabetic rats in the spatial version of the water maze is related to difficulties in learning the procedures of the maze rather than to impairments of spatial learning.
The rapid activation and feedback regulation of many G protein signaling cascades raises the possibility that the critical signaling proteins may be tightly coupled. Previous studies show that the PDZ domain containing protein INAD, which functions in Drosophila vision, coordinates a signaling complex by binding directly to the light-sensitive ion channel, TRP, and to phospholipase C (PLC). The INAD signaling complex also includes rhodopsin, protein kinase C (PKC), and calmodulin, though it is not known whether these proteins bind to INAD. In the current work, we show that rhodopsin, calmodulin, and PKC associate with the signaling complex by direct binding to INAD. We also found that a second ion channel, TRPL, bound to INAD. Thus, most of the proteins involved directly in phototransduction appear to bind to INAD. Furthermore, we found that INAD formed homopolymers and the homomultimerization occurred through two PDZ domains. Thus, we propose that the INAD supramolecular complex is a higher order signaling web consisting of an extended network of INAD molecules through which a G protein-coupled cascade is tethered.
Calretinin (CaR) is a calcium-binding protein that is distributed extensively in the central nervous system. It is localized in the cell bodies and neurites of specific neuronal populations and serves, therefore, as a reliable anatomical marker. Some components of the pretectocerebellar projection, which connects specific pretectal nuclei to caudal cerebellar folia, are concerned with the cerebellar control of visual reflexes. We investigated the distribution of pretectocerebellar-projecting neurons in relation to cells that show CaR immunoreactivity. Cells that project to the cerebellar cortex in the diencephalic primary visual nuclei and in other grisea, like the nucleus spiriformis medialis and the nucleus dorsofrontalis, colocalized with those that appeared to be immunolabeled intensely with anti-CaR antiserum. To explore the hypothesis of a common developmental origin of these pretectal cerebellopetal neurons, we also investigated the development of CaR-immunopositive cells in the chick pretectum and the arrival of their fibers in the cerebellum, from 10 days of incubation (stage 36) to posthatching stages. Finally, we analyzed the source of CaR+ climbing fibers and found a subpopulation of CaR+ cells in the inferior olivary nucleus. On the whole, these results suggest that there is a common developmental origin of pretectal cerebellopetal neurons, some of which share the property of CaR expression. The functional significance of this correlation needs to be investigated.
Schizophrenia is generally thought to arise as a result of interactions between genetic vulnerability and environmental risk factors. However, research methods to actually investigate the pattern of hypothesized interactions have only recently been developed. In this article, we review the evidence that genes increase the risk for schizophrenia by making individuals more sensitive to environmental risk factors (genotype-environment interaction), or by making individuals more likely to select high-risk environments (genotype-environment correlation). It is likely that at least some of the impact of genes on the occurrence of schizophrenia is mediated through (sensitivity for) environmental risk factors such as a dysfunctional early family rearing environment, cannabis, viral infections, complications of birth and pregnancy, stressful life events and unknown environmental risk factors associated with urban birth or residence and membership of certain ethnic groups. With the advent of molecular genetics, further knowledge about possible genotype-environment interactions is urgently required in order to develop and improve strategies for the prevention and early treatment of schizophrenia.
Many of those sustaining head injury recover to the point that they no longer require hospital care. However, the family frequently has to cope with an individual with varying degrees of disability involving physical, psychological, cognitive and social dysfunctioning. This review of the literature briefly considers the possible effects that head injury may have for the injured person before going on to discuss the consequences that such an injury may have for the family of that individual. The family's need for information and education is highlighted and it is suggested that the nurse has an important role to play in this context.
Circadian clocks are complex biochemical systems that cycle with a period of approximately 24 hours. They integrate temporal information regarding phasing of the solar cycle, and adjust their phase so as to synchronize an organism's internal state to the local environmental day and night. Nocturnal light is the dominant regulator of this entrainment. In mammals, information about nocturnal light is transmitted by glutamate released from retinal projections to the circadian clock in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus. Clock resetting requires the activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors, which mediate Ca2+ influx. The response induced by such activation depends on the clock's temporal state: during early night it delays the clock phase, whereas in late night the clock phase is advanced. To investigate this differential response, we sought signalling elements that contribute solely to phase delay. We analysed intracellular calcium-channel ryanodine receptors, which mediate coupled Ca2+ signalling. Depletion of intracellular Ca2+ stores during early night blocked the effects of glutamate. Activators of ryanodine receptors induced phase resetting only in early night; inhibitors selectively blocked delays induced by light and glutamate. These findings implicate the release of intracellular Ca2+ through ryanodine receptors in the light-induced phase delay of the circadian clock restricted to the early night.
Modifications to the spirocyclic aryl sulfonamide portion of serine derived NK1 antagonists allow a partial pharmacophore model to be developed.
A series of novel serine derived NK1 antagonists is described. The effect of variations in the N-benzyl, O-benzyl and serine groups are used to define the elements which are necessary for binding.
Light and dark have immediate effects on sleep and wakefulness in mammals, but the neural mechanisms underlying these effects are poorly understood. Lesions of the visual cortex or the superior colliculus-pretectal area were performed in albino rats to determine retinorecipient areas that mediate the effects of light on behavior, including rapid eye movement sleep triggering by lights-off and redistribution of non-rapid eye movement sleep in short light-dark cycles. Acute responses to changes in light conditions were virtually eliminated by superior colliculus-pretectal area lesions but not by visual cortex lesions. Circadian entrainment was evident in both groups with lesions and in normal controls. Thus, acute light-dark effects on sleep and wakefulness appear to be mediated independently from cortical vision or circadian rhythms.
The classic neurologic model for reading, based on studies of patients with acquired alexia, hypothesizes functional linkages between the angular gyrus in the left hemisphere and visual association areas in the occipital and temporal lobes. The angular gyrus also is thought to have functional links with posterior language areas (e.g., Wernicke's area), because it is presumed to be involved in mapping visually presented inputs onto linguistic representations. Using positron emission tomography , we demonstrate in normal men that regional cerebral blood flow in the left angular gyrus shows strong within-task, across-subjects correlations (i.e., functional connectivity) with regional cerebral blood flow in extrastriate occipital and temporal lobe regions during single word reading. In contrast, the left angular gyrus is functionally disconnected from these regions in men with persistent developmental dyslexia, suggesting that the anatomical disconnection of the left angular gyrus from other brain regions that are part of the &quot;normal&quot; brain reading network in many cases of acquired alexia is mirrored by its functional disconnection in developmental dyslexia.
The precursor of non-amyloid beta protein component of Alzheimer's disease amyloid (NACP/alpha-synuclein) is aggregated and fibrillated under certain conditions, i.e., increasing time lag, high temperature and low pH. These in vitro aggregates form Thioflavine-S-positive filamentous structures, reminiscent of amyloid-like fibrils. Since some Lewy bodies in Parkinson's disease display Thioflavine-S reactivity, our results may suggest that amyloidogenic properties of NACP/alpha-synuclein may play a crucial role in pathogenesis of disorders with Lewy bodies such as Parkinson's disease.
Telomeres help to maintain chromosomal stability and integrity. They are progressively lost, conditioning aging and mortality. Telomerase enzyme activation stabilizes the telomere length, permitting the proliferation of cancer cells. Four papers are reviewed dealing with increased expression of telomerase associated with increased labelling index of MIB-1 (Ki-67) and malignancy in astrocytomas, ependymomas, and oligodendrogliomas. Telomerase expression can be utilized for differentiating malignant from benign tumors with histological resemblance. The significance of telomerase in tumor progression is discussed within the field of brain neoplasias.
Acid maltase deficiency (AMD) causes a lysosomal glycogenosis inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. The infantile type of AMD (Pompe disease) leads to early death due to severe dysfunction of cardiac and respiratory muscles and no effective therapy is available. Replication-defective adenovirus vectors offer a promising tool for in vivo gene delivery and gene therapy. We constructed a recombinant adenovirus containing the human acid maltase (AM) cDNA downstream of the CAG promoter, composed of modified chicken beta-actin promoter and CMV IE enhancer (AxCANAM). Japanese quail with AMD was used for this study as an animal model for human AMD. When cultured fibroblasts from AMD quail were infected with AxCANAM, AM activity in the cells increased in proportion to the multiplicity of infection (MOI). When AxCANAM (4.5 x 10(8) PFU) was injected into unilateral superficial pectoral muscle of AMD quail, PAS staining showed that glycogenosomes disappeared and stainability of acid phosphatase was reduced in the injected area as compared with the contralateral muscle of the same birds. Biochemically, AM activity increased and glycogen content decreased in the injected muscle. Western blot analysis showed that AMD quail muscle injected with AxCANAM expressed human AM protein processed to active forms. These results suggest that the human AM cDNA transferred by an adenovirus vector was sufficiently expressed, leading to a marked reduction of the glycogen accumulation in the skeletal muscle of AMD quail.
The amphibian Xenopus laevis is able to adjust its skin color to the light intensity of the environment. Paling of the skin is achieved by inhibiting the release of alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) from the melanotrope cells in the pars intermedia of the pituitary gland. The release of alpha-MSH is inhibited by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), neuropeptide Y (NPY), and dopamine (DA). To locate and identify neurons that might be responsible for the inhibitory input, double and triple immunocytochemistry, retrograde tracing from the pars intermedia with the carbocyanine membrane probe 1,1'dilinoleyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine, 4-chlorobenzene-sulfonate (Fast DiI), and confocal laser-scanning microscopy were combined. Glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), and NPY were found to coexist in an axonal network innervating the pars intermedia. The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SC) contained different populations of neurons that were single, double, or triple labelled for GAD, NPY, and TH. In the lateral SC, NPY+ neurons were observed. TH-immunoreactive (TH-IR) neurons occurred in the medial, dorsolateral, lateral, and ventrolateral SC. Neurons that were double labelled for NPY and TH and triple labelled for Fast DiI, NPY, and TH were present in the ventrolateral SC. This same area contained neurons that were triple labelled for GAD, NPY, and TH. It is concluded that the triple-labelled and probably the double-labelled ventrolateral SC neurons (suprachiasmatic melanotrope-inhibiting neurons) innervate the pituitary pars intermedia and are responsible for the NPY-, DA-, and GABA-mediated inhibition of melanotrope cell activity in Xenopus laevis.
The presence of P2X purinoceptors in human umbilical vessels were studied with organ bath recording, radioligand binding assays, autoradiography, and immunohistochemistry. In isolated umbilical arteries and veins from normal term pregnancy, both ATP and alpha,beta-methylene ATP caused concentration-dependent contractions. ATP-induced responses were blocked by desensitisation with alpha,betamethylene ATP. However, both the ATP- and alpha,beta-methylene ATP-induced responses were not antagonised by suramin. No significant difference in responses was observed in the vessels with or without endothelial cells. Radioligand binding assays using [3H]alpha,beta-methylene ATP showed the presence of a population of high-affinity binding sites in both the arteries and veins. The Kd values of the binding sites were 2.77 + 1.10 nM for the arteries, and 3.23+/-1.22 nM for the veins. The maximum binding site densities were 634+/-237 and 947+/-308 fmol/mg protein for the arteries and the veins, respectively. Autoradiographic localisation with [3H]alpha,beta-methylene ATP demonstrated that the specific binding sites were only distributed over the smooth muscle cells of the vessels. Immunohistochemical studies with specific polyclonal antibodies against P2X1-6 receptors showed that positive immunostaining was also restricted to smooth muscle cells. Antibodies against P2X1 receptors produced the strongest signals, while antibodies against the other five P2X subtypes produced much weaker signals. The results in the present study indicate the existence of P2X purinoceptors in the smooth muscle of human umbilical vessels. Their physiological functions remain to be studied.
Calcineurin is a widely distributed protein phosphatase regulated by calcium and calmodulin. It mediates the immunosuppressive actions of drugs such as cyclosporin and FK506, and has been implicated in a number of calcium-sensitive pathways in the nervous system, including regulation of neurotransmitter release and modulation of long-term changes in synaptic plasticity. Calcineurin associates physiologically with other proteins, including calmodulin, FKBP12 (FK506-binding protein), the ryanodine receptor, and the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor. We now report the identification, molecular cloning, and functional characterization of a novel protein, cain (calcineurin inhibitor), that interacts with and inhibits calcineurin. The full-length cain cDNA predicts a 240-kDa protein with no significant homology to any known protein. Cain associates with calcineurin both in vitro and in vivo, leading to a non-competitive inhibition of calcineurin activity. The putative calcineurin-binding domain of cain, a 38-amino acid region defined by mutational analysis, is highly basic. Like calcineurin, cain has a prominent neuronal expression and a wide tissue distribution. Cain's expression pattern in the brain closely resembles that of calcineurin, indicating a physiologic association between the two proteins.
We examined the effects of nicergoline on hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-induced neurotoxicity in cultured rat neuronal cell line (B50). H2O2 induced death of B50 cells in a dose-dependent manner. The H2O2-induced neuronal cell death was significantly decreased in B50 cells maintained in the presence of nicergoline. We compared the levels of antioxidants (glutathione, catalase and superoxide dismutase) in nicergoline-treated and untreated B50 cells. Lipid peroxidation products (thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, TBARS) levels were also measured. Cultures treated with nicergoline had higher levels of catalase activity. TBARS level was significantly lower in nicergoline-treated cells than in untreated cells. Our results suggest that nicergoline may induce the up-regulation of intracellular antioxidant defences and protect the neuronal cells against oxidative stress.


Abeta1-40 (20 microM) has been reported to selectively inhibit Na+/K+-ATPase activity in rat primary hippocampal cultures after 2-6 days of exposure. We expanded these studies to include Abeta's effects on Na+/K+-ATPase activity in rat primary cortical cultures and hippocampal slices, and we correlated these effects with estimates of cell survival in rat brain primary cultures. Using optimized assay conditions, a 5-day exposure to 50 microM Abeta 25-35, 20 microM Abeta 1-40, and 20 microM Abeta 1-42 decreased Na+/K+-ATPase activity in rat primary cortical cultures 66%, 60%, and 22%, respectively. Abeta 25-35 (50 microM) at 24 h was the only condition that caused inhibition of Na+/K+-ATPase activity in the absence of cell death, defined as an extracellular shift in the localization of the cytoplasmic enzyme lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). We also found that hippocampal slices were sensitive to Abeta, exhibiting a 40-60% reduction in membrane Na+/K+-ATPase activity when exposed to 1-30 nM of Abeta 1-40 for 60 min. This inhibition was not readily reversible, as it withstood homogenization and repeated dilution and centrifugation. Additionally, this inhibition occurred only after amyloid incubation with intact hippocampal slices, not with disrupted membranes. The inhibition of Na+/K+-ATPase in brain slices by physiological, low nM concentrations of Abeta 1-40 is consistent with effects on neurotransmitter release and intrasynaptosomal calcium responses.
The hypothalamic magnocellular neurosecretory system consists of the paraventricular nucleus and supraoptic nucleus and a number of accessory nuclei. There is evidence that each of the accessory nuclei has a preferential source of afferents. Two of the accessory nuclei, namely the nucleus circularis (NC) and the lateral hypothalamic perivascular nucleus (LHPN), are particularly interesting due to their very close relationship with the blood vessels. The NC is composed of small dense clusters of neurons in the medial anterior hypothalamus. The groups of lateral hypothalamic neurons gathering around vascular branches are collectively called the LHPN. Their close topographical relationship with the blood vessels may indicate that the latter may serve as a source of input to these nuclei. As a part of the effort to investigate this issue, the present study examined in these two nuclei the distribution pattern of terminal-like elements containing 11 transmitters/modulators. Only a few, if any, terminal-like elements of the transmitters/modulators studied could be found distributed in the NC proper, although its immediate vicinity could be densely innervated. On the contrary, the LHPN proper was often densely innervated by fibers expressing the examined markers. These terminal patterns were found to be quite different from those of the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei. The present findings further substantiate the notion of a functional differentiation among the subnuclei of the magnocellular neurosecretory system. The significance of the relationship of these two perivascular nuclei with the blood vessels is discussed.
Preceded by a companion paper on Galvani's life, this article is written on the occasion of the bicentenary of the death of Luigi Galvani. From his studies on the effects of electricity on frogs, the scientist of Bologna derived the hypothesis that animal tissues are endowed with an intrinsic electricity that is involved in fundamental physiological processes such as nerve conduction and muscle contraction. Galvani's work swept away from life sciences mysterious fluids and elusive entities like &quot;animal spirits&quot; and led to the foundation of a new science, electrophysiology. Two centuries of research work have demonstrated how insightful was Galvani's conception of animal electricity. Nevertheless, the scholar of Bologna is still largely misrepresented in the history of science, because the importance of his researches seems to be limited to the fact that they opened the paths to the studies of the physicist Alessandro Volta, which culminated in 1800 with the invention of the electric battery. Volta strongly opposed Galvani's theories on animal electricity. The matter of the scientific controversy between Galvani and Volta is examined here in the light of two centuries of electrophysiological studies leading to the modern understanding of electrical excitability in nerve and muscle. By surveying the work of scientists such as Nobili, Matteucci, du Bois-Reymond, von Helmholtz, Bernstein, Hermann, Lucas, Adrian, Hodgkin, Huxley, and Katz, the real matter of the debate raised by Galvani's discoveries is here reconsidered. In addition, a revolutionary phase of the 18th century science that opened the way for the development of modern neurosciences is reevaluated.
We used RT-PCR to measure relative differences in cannabinoid receptor (CB) mRNAs in the rat eye, comparing CB1 or CB2 transcripts to that of the normalizing reference gene beta2 microglobulin (beta2m). Significantly higher levels of CB1 mRNA levels were found in the ciliary body (0.84+/-0.05% of beta2m) than in the iris, (0.34+/-0.04% of beta2m), retina (0.07+/-0.005% of beta2m) and choroid (0.06+/-0.005% of beta2m). CB2 mRNA was undetectable. This expression pattern supports a specific role for the CB1 receptor in controlling intraocular pressure, helping to explain the antiglaucoma property of cannabinoids.
Lithium, a monovalent cation, is the mainstay in the treatment of manic-depressive (MDI) illness, but despite extensive research, its mechanism of action remains to be elucidated. Since lithium requires chronic administration for therapeutic efficacy, and because its beneficial effects last well beyond its discontinuation, it has been postulated that lithium may exert major effects at the genomic level. In the present study we found that lithium, at therapeutically relevant concentrations, increases AP-1 DNA binding activity in human SH-SY5Y cells and rat C6 glioma cells. Additionally, in both SY5Y and C6 cells transiently transfected with a reporter gene vector driven by an SV40 promoter, lithium increased the activity of the reporter gene in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. Furthermore, mutations in the AP-1 sites of the reporter gene promoter significantly attenuated lithium's effects. These data indicate that lithium stimulates gene expression through the AP-1 transcription factor pathway, effects which may play a role in its long-term mood-stabilizing effects.
The endogenous interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra), a protein with partial homology with the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), prevents binding of IL-1beta to the signalling receptor. Exogenous IL-1ra has been shown to reduce the neuronal damage occurring after excitotoxic amino acid administration and ischemia. In the present study, in situ hybridization histochemistry was employed to investigate the regulation of endogenous IL-1ra mRNA expression in the rat brain after peripheral administration of kainic acid (10 mg/kg). IL-1ra mRNA expression was markedly induced in the hippocampus, thalamus, amygdala, piriform cortex, perirhinal cortex, entorhinal cortex, and to a lesser extent in the hypothalamus, and parietal and temporal cortex. The expression was first detected at 5 h after the kainic acid administration and it was markedly increased at 24 h. No signal was detected at 4 days after the injection. The majority of the cells expressing IL-1ra mRNA displayed the morphological characteristics of microglia. Expression of IL-1ra mRNA in neurons occurred mainly in the piriform and perirhinal cortex. The distribution pattern of IL-1ra mRNA expressing microglia-like cells was similar to that of cells labelled with ED1, a marker for activated microglia. The induction of IL-1ra mRNA expression may represent an endogenous response to balance IL-1 receptor mediated activity in the brain following kainic acid administration, conceivably to elicit neuroprotective and/or antiinflammatory effects.
The neuropeptide galanin mediates a diverse spectrum of biological activities by interacting with specific G protein-coupled receptors. We have used homology genomic library screening and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) techniques to isolate both genomic and cDNA clones encoding the human homolog of the recently cloned rat GALR2 galanin receptor. By fluorescence in situ hybridization, the gene encoding human GALR2 (GALNR2) has been localized to chromosome 17q25.3. The two coding exons of the human GALNR2 gene, interrupted by an intron positioned at the end of transmembrane domain III, encode a 387 amino acid G protein-coupled receptor with 87% overall amino acid identity with rat GALR2. In HEK-293 cells stably expressing human GALR2, binding of [125I]porcine galanin is saturable and can be displaced by galanin, amino-terminal galanin fragments and chimeric galanin peptides but not by carboxy-terminal galanin fragments. In HEK-293 cells, human GALR2 couples both to Galphaq/11 to stimulate phospholipase C and increase intracellular calcium levels and to Galphai/o to inhibit forskolin-stimulated intracellular cAMP accumulation. A wide tissue distribution is observed by reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR analysis, with human GALR2 mRNA being detected in many areas of the human central nervous system as well as in peripheral tissues.
The biological actions of the neuropeptides somatostatin-14 and -28 are receptor-mediated. To date, five G protein-coupled receptors sst1 to sst5 have been characterised pharmacologically and their genes have been cloned. In this study, we used an affinity-purified polyclonal antibody (AS-68) raised against a specific N-terminal peptide sequence of sst2 to localise N-terminal sst2-immunoreactive regions in the rat brain and the cervical spinal cord. The specificity of the antiserum was demonstrated by Western and slot blotting experiments using a N-terminal sst2 fusion protein. Further blotting experiments with a sst2(A)-transfected cell line and rat CNS membrane proteins showed that the antibody detected the non-glycosylated and/or non-sialated receptor. A strong signal using an sst2(A)-transfected CHO-K1 cell line was obtained only if the cells had been treated with N-Glycosidase F prior to the immunochemical detection. Two variants of sst2 (sst2(A) and sst2(B)) have been identified by cloning procedures and gene expression studies in the rodents. They differ in their carboxy-termini: AS-68 would, however, be able to recognise the non-glycosylated form of both these variants. We present here the central nervous system distribution of non-glycosylated sst2-immunoreactivity in the rat using this N-terminal antibody. The sst2 non-glycosylated N-terminal like immunoreactivity was distributed throughout the brain with cells and processes labelled in the cerebral cortex and the basal ganglia (neostriatum, substantia nigra), in the limbic system (hippocampal formation, amygdala), in the diencephalon (epithalamus, thalamus, hypothalamus), the superior colliculus, the periaqueductal grey matter and some of the reticular formation nuclei. The distribution of the non-glycosylated sst2-like immunoreactivity detected here was consistent with that predicted from the localisation of sst2 mRNA and SRIF-ligand binding studies.
We examined whether apoptosis is involved in hypoxic cell death using primary cultures of rat cortical neurons and whether the cell death is associated with changes in Bcl-2 and Bax expressions and activities of caspases. Hypoxic insult accelerates apoptosis, as shown by apoptotic nuclei and by chromatin degradation of internucleosomal fragments. This apoptotic process is accompanied by a rapid and sustained down-regulation of Bcl-2, whereas levels of Bax are unchanged. Furthermore, hypoxic insult activates sequentially caspase-1-like and caspase-3-like proteases, following down-regulation of Bcl-2 expression. Peptide inhibitors of either caspase-1 or caspase-3 protect against neuronal death, although they do not prevent hypoxia-induced down-regulation of Bcl-2. Furthermore, treatment of cortical neurons with either insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) or basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), growth factors which are implicated to prevent neuronal loss in ischemic brain, partly prevented neuronal death accompanied by inhibition of alterations in Bcl-2 protein levels and caspase-3-like activities. These results suggest that hypoxia induces neuronal death by down-regulation of Bcl-2 protein levels followed by sequential activation of the caspases, and the protection from neuronal cell death of these growth factors under hypoxic conditions derives at least partly from their capability to prevent down-regulation of the anti-apoptotic protein levels.
The survival of cultured neurons is promoted by the presence of antioxidants or astrocytes. This indicates that extracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) impair neuronal survival and suggests that astrocytes exert their survival-enhancing effect through inactivation of these toxicants. However, to our knowledge, data supporting this hypothesis are lacking. Previously, we showed that loss of the antioxidant glutathione abolishes the neuronal survival-stimulating action of astrocytes in cocultures, consisting of rat striatal astrocytes and mesencephalic, dopaminergic neurons. Using uptake of [3H]dopamine as marker of neuronal survival, we presently investigated whether this effect of glutathione depletion is mediated by extracellular ROS. For this purpose, we incubated glutathione-depleted cocultures with superoxide dismutase, catalase or both. Whereas superoxide dismutase had no effect and catalase only partially protected, addition of the enzymes together completely prevented the impairment of neuronal survival caused by glutathione loss. No change in neuronal survival occurred upon exposure of control cocultures to superoxide dismutase and/or catalase. These data strongly implicate scavenging of extracellular ROS in astrocyte-stimulated neuronal survival and moreover suggest a crucial role for glutathione in this process.
There is no general agreement regarding several aspects of the role of the sympathetic system on cerebral haemodynamics such as extent of effectiveness, operational range and site of action. This study was planned to identify the effect of a generalised sympathetic activation on the cerebral haemodynamics in healthy humans before it is masked by secondary corrections, metabolic or myogenic in nature. A total of 35 healthy volunteers aged 20-35 underwent a 5 min lasting cold pressor test (CPT) performed on their left hand. The cerebral blood flow (CBF) velocity in the middle cerebral arteries and arterial blood pressure were recorded with transcranial Doppler sonography and with a non-invasive finger-cuff method, respectively. The ratio of arterial blood pressure to mean blood velocity (ABP/Vm) and Pulsatility Index (PI) were calculated throughout each trial. CPT induced an increase in mean ABP (range 2-54 mmHg depending on the subject) and only a slight, though significant, increase in blood velocity in the middle cerebral artery (+2.4 and +4.4% on ipsi- and contralateral side, respectively). During CPT, the ratio ABP/Vm increased and PI decreased in all subjects on both sides. These changes began simultaneously with the increase in blood pressure. The increase in ABP/Vm ratio is attributed to an increase in the cerebrovascular resistance, while the concomitant reduction in PI is interpreted as due to the reduction in the compliance of the middle cerebral artery. The results suggest that generalised increases in the sympathetic discharge, causing increases in ABP, can prevent concomitant increases in CBF by acting on both small resistance and large compliant vessels. This effect is also present when a slight increase in blood pressure occurs, which suggests a moderate increase in the sympathetic discharge, i.e. when ABP remains far below the upper limit of CBF autoregulation.
Our previous work suggests that virtually all of the synapses on sympathetic preganglionic neurons projecting to the rat adrenal medulla are immunoreactive for either the inhibitory amino acid, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) or the excitatory amino acid, L-glutamate. To investigate whether or not this is true for other groups of sympathetic preganglionic neurons, and to determine whether or not the proportion of inputs containing each type of amino acid neurotransmitter is the same for different groups of sympathetic preganglionic neurons, we retrogradely labelled rat and rabbit sympathetic preganglionic neurons projecting to the superior cervical ganglion and used post-embedding immunogold on ultrathin sections to localise GABA- and glutamate-immunoreactivity. The cell bodies and dendrites of both rat and rabbit sympathetic preganglionic neurons projecting to the superior cervical ganglion received synapses and direct contacts from nerve fibres immunoreactive for GABA and from nerve fibres immunoreactive for glutamate. In the rat, GABA was present in 48.9% of the inputs to sympathetic preganglionic neurons projecting to the superior cervical ganglion, and glutamate was present in 51.7% of inputs. Double immunogold labelling for glutamate and GABA on the same section, as well as labelling of consecutive serial sections for the two antigens, indicated that GABA and glutamate occur in separate populations of nerve fibres that provide input to rat sympathetic preganglionic neurons projecting to the superior cervical ganglion. We now have shown that GABA or glutamate is present in virtually all of the inputs to sympathetic preganglionic neurons projecting to the superior cervical ganglion and in essentially all of the inputs to sympathetic preganglionic neurons supplying the adrenal medulla. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that all fast synaptic transmission in central autonomic pathways may be mediated by either excitatory or inhibitory amino acids. Furthermore, we showed a statistically significant difference in the proportion of glutamate-immunoreactive inputs between sympathetic preganglionic neurons projecting to the superior cervical ganglion and sympathoadrenal neurons (data from Llewellyn-Smith et al. [Llewellyn-Smith, I.J., Phend, K.D., Minson, J.B., Pilowsky, P.M., Chalmers, J.P., 1992. Glutamate immunoreactive synapses on retrogradely labelled sympathetic neurons in rat thoracic spinal cord. Brain Res. 581, 67-80]), with preganglionics supplying the adrenal medulla receiving more excitatory inputs than those supplying the superior cervical ganglion. This increased excitatory input to sympathoadrenal neurons may explain the predominant activation of these neurons following baroreceptor unloading.
The goal of the present study was to examine the effect of clonidine withdrawal on the neural control of blood pressure. Rats were treated for 7-13 days with clonidine via osmotic minipumps (200 microg kg(-1) day(-1), s.c.). Controls received saline or were sham operated. Withdrawal was precipitated by the alpha2-adrenergic receptor (alpha2-AR) antagonist atipamezole. Most experiments were done under halothane anesthesia. Chronic treatment with clonidine did not change mean arterial pressure (MAP) or heart rate (HR) but raised femoral artery resistance and the activity of locus coeruleus neurons slightly. Atipamezole given to rats treated chronically with clonidine produced the following effects: no change in MAP, severe tachycardia, sustained increase in splanchnic sympathetic nerve discharge (SND; +75 +/- 13%), transient increase in lumbar SND (+23 +/- 7%), ON-OFF activity pattern in the locus coeruleus (LC). The ON phase of LC activity was synchronized with upswings of SND and with small changes in MAP. A second alpha2-AR antagonist, methoxyidazoxan, produced effects identical to those of atipamezole. Atipamezole given to control rats produced no effect on MAP, HR, SND or LC activity. Atipamezole reversed the hypotension, sympathoinhibition and bradycardia produced by acute administration of clonidine. In awake rats treated chronically with clonidine, atipamezole did not change MAP but produced arterial pressure lability and tachycardia. In conclusion, under anesthesia, selective alpha2-AR antagonists elicit a clonidine withdrawal syndrome that displays autonomic characteristics reminiscent of the spontaneous withdrawal syndrome found in awake rats. The most prominent features of this syndrome are tachycardia, sympathoactivation, lack of hypertension and an oscillating activity pattern of brainstem neurons leading to abrupt changes in SND and in MAP.
Intradendritic recordings in Purkinje cells from a defined area in parasaggital slices of cerebellar lobule HVI, obtained after rabbits were given either paired (classical conditioning) or explicitly unpaired (control) presentations of tone and periorbital electrical stimulation, were used to assess the nature and duration of conditioning-specific changes in Purkinje cell dendritic membrane excitability. We found a strong relationship between the level of conditioning and Purkinje cell dendritic membrane excitability after initial acquisition of the conditioned response. Moreover, conditioning-specific increases in Purkinje cell excitability were still present 1 month after classical conditioning. Although dendritically recorded membrane potential, input resistance, and amplitude of somatic and dendritic spikes were not different in cells from paired or control animals, the size of a potassium channel-mediated transient hyperpolarization was significantly smaller in cells from animals that received classical conditioning. In slices of lobule HVI obtained from naive rabbits, the conditioning-related increases in membrane excitability could be mimicked by application of potassium channel antagonist tetraethylammonium chloride, iberiotoxin, or 4-aminopyridine. However, only 4-aminopyridine was able to reduce the transient hyperpolarization. The pharmacological data suggest a role for potassium channels and, possibly, channels mediating an IA-like current, in learning-specific changes in membrane excitability. The conditioning-specific increase in Purkinje cell dendritic excitability produces an afterhyperpolarization, which is hypothesized to release the cerebellar deep nuclei from inhibition, allowing conditioned responses to be elicited via the red nucleus and accessory abducens motorneurons.
Nitric oxide (NO) is recognized as a signaling molecule in the CNS where it is a candidate retrograde neurotransmitter. Here we provide direct evidence that NO mediates slow excitatory anterograde transmission between the NO synthase (NOS)-expressing B2 neuron and an NO-responsive follower neuron named B7nor. Both are motoneurons located in the buccal ganglia of the snail Lymnaea stagnalis where they participate in feeding behavior. Transmission between B2 and B7nor is blocked by inhibiting NOS and is suppressed by extracellular scavenging of NO. Furthermore, focal application of NO to the cell body of the B7nor neuron causes a depolarization that mimics the effect of B2 activity. The slow interaction between the B2 and B7nor neurons can be re-established when the two neurons are cocultured, and it shows the same susceptibility to NOS inhibition and NO scavenging. In cell culture we have also examined spatial aspects of NO signaling. We show that before the formation of an anatomical connection, the presynaptic neuron can cause depolarizing potentials in the follower neuron at distances up to 50 micro(m). The strength of the interaction increases when the distance between the cells is reduced. Our results suggest that NO can function as both a synaptic and a nonsynaptic signaling molecule.
Cell-cell interactions mediated via cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) are dynamically regulated during nervous system development. One mechanism to control the amount of cell surface CAMs is to regulate their recycling from the plasma membrane. The L1 subfamily of CAMs has a highly conserved cytoplasmic domain that contains a tyrosine, followed by the alternatively spliced RSLE (Arg-Ser-Leu-Glu) sequence. The resulting sequence of YRSL conforms to a tyrosine-based sorting signal that mediates clathrin-dependent endocytosis of signal-bearing proteins. The present study shows that L1 associates in rat brain with AP-2, a clathrin adaptor that captures plasma membrane proteins with tyrosine-based signals for endocytosis by coated pits. In vitro assays demonstrate that this interaction occurs via the YRSL sequence of L1 and the mu 2 chain of AP-2. In L1-transfected 3T3 cells, L1 endocytosis is blocked by dominant-negative dynamin that specifically disrupts clathrin-mediated internalization. Furthermore, endocytosed L1 colocalizes with the transferrin receptor (TfR), a marker for clathrin-mediated internalization. Mutant forms of L1 that lack the YRSL do not colocalize with TfR, indicating that the YRSL mediates endocytosis of L1. In neurons, L1 is endocytosed preferentially at the rear of axonal growth cones, colocalizing with Eps15, another marker for the clathrin endocytic pathway. These results establish a mechanism by which L1 can be internalized from the cell surface and suggest that an active region of L1 endocytosis at the rear of growth cones is important in L1-dependent axon growth.
Neurons in the adult rat superior cervical sympathetic ganglion (SCG) dramatically increase their content of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and its mRNA after axotomy in vivo and after explantation. Because the VIP gene contains a functional cAMP response element, the effects of cAMP-elevating agents on VIP expression were examined. VIP, forskolin, or isoproterenol increased cAMP accumulation in explanted ganglia. Secretin, a peptide chemically related to VIP, or forskolin increased VIP levels above those seen in ganglia cultured in control medium, whereas treatment with VIP or secretin increased the level of peptide histidine isoleucine (PHI), a peptide coded for by the same mRNA that encodes VIP. VIP or forskolin also increased VIP-PHI mRNA. In contrast, isoproterenol did not alter levels of VIP, PHI, or VIP-PHI mRNA. Although VIP or forskolin increased cAMP levels in both dissociated neurons and in non-neuronal cells, isoproterenol significantly stimulated cAMP accumulation only in the latter. VIP6-28 was an effective antagonist of the actions of exogenous VIP on cAMP and VIP-PHI mRNA in neuron-enriched cultures. When adult SCG explants were cultured in defined medium, endogenous VIP immunoreactivity was released. When VIP6-28 was added to such cultures, it significantly inhibited the increase in VIP-PHI mRNA that normally occurs. These data indicate that VIP, or a closely related molecule, produced by adult neurons after injury can enhance the expression of VIP. Such a mechanism may prolong the period during which VIP is elevated after axonal damage. The possibility is also discussed that, because VIP is present in preganglionic neurons in normal animals, its release during periods of increased sympathetic nerve activity could alter VIP expression in the SCG.
Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) are implicated in the regulation of axonal growth. We previously reported that the neurite-promoting activity of laminin is inhibited by association with a Schwann cell-derived CSPG and that endoneurial laminin may be inhibited by this CSPG as well [Zuo J, Hernandez YJ, Muir D (1998) Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan with neurite-inhibiting activity is upregulated after peripheral nerve injury. J Neurobiol 34:41-54]. Mechanisms regulating axonal growth were studied by using an in vitro bioassay in which regenerating embryonic dorsal root ganglionic neurons (DRGn) were grown on sections of normal adult nerve. DRGn achieved slow neuritic growth on sections of normal nerve, which was reduced significantly by treatment with metalloproteinase inhibitors. Similar results were obtained on a synthetic substratum composed of laminin and inhibitory CSPG. DRGn expressed the matrix metalloproteinase, MMP-2, which was transported to the growth cone. Recombinant MMP-2 inactivated the neurite-inhibiting CSPG without hindering the neurite-promoting potential of laminin. Similarly, neuritic growth by DRGn cultured on normal nerve sections was increased markedly by first treating the nerve sections with MMP-2. The proteolytic deinhibition by MMP-2 was equivalent to and nonadditive with that achieved by chondroitinase, suggesting that both enzymes inactivated inhibitory CSPG. Additionally, the increases in neuritic growth resulting from treating nerve sections with MMP-2 or chondroitinase were blocked by anti-laminin antibodies. From these results we conclude that MMP-2 provides a mechanism for the deinhibition of laminin in the endoneurial basal lamina and may play an important role in the regeneration of peripheral nerve.
The sequence for cDNA encoding the NMDA receptor subunit 1 (aptNR1) of the weakly electric fish Apteronotus leptorhynchus has been determined. The deduced amino acid sequence is approximately 88% identical to other vertebrate NR1 proteins, with sequence homology extending to the alternatively spliced cassettes N1 and C1. The fish and mammalian N1 and C1 splice cassettes are identical at 20 of 21 and 30 of 37 amino acid positions, respectively. We did not detect a C2 splice cassette in aptNR1 mRNA, but we did find two novel C-terminal alternative splice cassettes labeled C1' and C1&quot;. The relative levels of NR1 transcripts containing the N1 and C1 splice cassettes were determined by using RNase protection and in situ hybridization analysis. N1-containing mRNAs are more abundant in caudal brain regions, similar to the patterns reported for mammalian brain. In contrast, the relative levels of transcripts containing the C1 splice cassette are much lower in fish than in mammals, averaging only 9% for the whole brain. The levels of C1 splicing increased in more rostral brain regions. In situ hybridizations with N1- and C1-specific probes demonstrated that N1 cassette splicing occurs in most neurons but that C1 splicing is heterogeneous and is restricted to a subset of neuronal types in the electrosensory system.
Induction of the mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) has been implicated in cellular apoptosis and in ischemia-reperfusion injury. During MPT, a channel in the inner mitochondrial membrane, the mitochondrial megachannel, opens and causes isolated mitochondria to swell. MPT and mitochondrial swelling is inhibited by cyclosporin A (CsA), which may also inhibit apoptosis in some cells. Treatment with CsA (50 mg/kg, i.v.) showed a robust reduction of brain damage when administered 30 min before insulin-induced hypoglycemic isoelectricity of 30 min duration. Ultrastructural examination of the dentate gyrus revealed a marked swelling of dendrites and mitochondria during the hypoglycemic insult. In CsA-treated animals, mitochondria resumed a normal and contracted appearance during and after the hypoglycemic insult. Treatment with FK 506 (2 mg/kg, i.v.), a compound with immunosuppressive action similar to that of CsA, was not protective. Studies on the swelling kinetics of isolated mitochondria from the hippocampus showed that CsA, but not FK 506, inhibits calcium ion-induced MPT. We conclude that CsA treatment during hypoglycemic coma inhibits the MPT and reduces damage and that mitochondria and the MPT are likely to be involved in the development of hypoglycemic brain damage in the rat.
Following injury to the peripheral nervous system, circulating monocytes/macrophages are recruited to the damaged tissue, where they play vital roles during both nerve degeneration and subsequent regeneration. Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), a member of the C-C or beta-chemokine family, is a powerful leukocyte recruitment/activation factor that is relatively specific for monocytes/macrophages. Because these are the predominant leukocyte type recruited by injured nerve, we hypothesized that upregulation of MCP-1 expression is involved in recruitment of these cells. Indeed, assay of steady-state levels of MCP-1 mRNA in rat sciatic nerve during tellurium-induced primary demyelination indicated up-regulation of this chemokine with a peak after 3 days of tellurium exposure, preceding the peak of accumulation of phagocytic macrophages (assayed as lysozyme mRNA levels) by 6 days. Increasing levels of MCP-1 mRNA expression, induced by increasing levels of tellurium exposure, resulted in corresponding increases in subsequent recruitment of macrophages. In situ hybridization suggested that MCP-1 mRNA was localized in Schwann cells. No expression of MIP-2, which is a C-X-C or alpha-chemokine that is specific for recruitment of neutrophils, was detected, consistent with the lack of recruitment of significant numbers of these cells. In addition, we also investigated the response seen following nerve transection (axonal degeneration and secondary demyelination with no subsequent regeneration) and nerve crush (degeneration followed by regeneration). In these latter two nerve injury models, there was also a marked, early up-regulation of MCP-1 mRNA, with a time course that is compatible with a role for this chemokine in macrophage recruitment. We conclude that MCP-1 is involved in recruiting monocytes/macrophages to injured peripheral nerve and that the specificity of leukocyte types recruited results from specificity of chemokine production.
Early and selective deposition of amyloid beta protein(Abeta) is thought to be a pathological feature central to Alzheimer's disease (AD). It has been a great challenge to identify the mechanism(s) responsible for the selectivity of Abeta deposition and the deposition into a temporal sequence of the pathogenesis in this disorder. We now report that the transgenic mouse (PDAPP), which overexpresses the human amyloid precursor protein containing the familial AD mutation (APP717V-F), develops brain region-specific Abeta deposits along with some pathologies associated with AD. By using monoclonal antibodies that recognize multiple sites on the human Abeta peptide, we show that Abeta deposits are localized primarily to the entorhinal cortex and hippocampal/dentate gyrus regions. Abeta deposition exhibited consistent laminar distribution throughout the hippocampal formation that was confined mostly to a dense terminal field in the outer portion of the stratum moleculare of the dentate gyrus and the stratum lacunosum of the hippocampus proper of 13-month-old heterozygous PDAPP mice. Abeta deposits were also observed in the supragranular zone of the dentate gyrus. Similarly, laminar distribution of Abeta deposits were evident in the entorhinal cortex, most notably in the molecular layer and in laminar layer II-III. The defined laminar pattern of the Abeta deposition, which resembles that of AD, suggests that intrinsic factors in the perforant path, the major projection from the entorhinal cortex to the hippocampal formation, and their respective local paths contribute, at least in part, to the extracellular Abeta deposition in the transgenic mouse model of AD.
During development, dopaminergic neurons innervate the developing striatal target, forming two different growth patterns: a patchy growth and a diffuse growth. Chronic treatment with the dopamine antagonist haloperidol increase the neurotrophic activity in striatum, but it is not known how this trophic activity influences different patterns of dopaminergic growth. In this paper we have studied dopaminergic growth patterns by evaluating tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive growth from mature midbrain dopaminergic neurons innervating grafted fetal lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE) or fetal cortical tissue implanted into the dorsal striatum. Host dopaminergic neurons innervated LGE grafts with a patchy growth pattern, leaving large portions of the striatal graft noninnervated, and cortical grafts with diffuse, nonpatchy growth, evenly distributed over the total volume of the graft. Both types of growth patterns were enhanced over time, albeit the most pronounced change was found in the nonpatchy pattern in the cortical grafts. When fetal LGE or cortical tissues were transplanted into the dorsal striatum of chronically haloperidol-treated animals, the nonpatchy growth into fetal cortical grafts was enhanced while the patchy growth into fetal striatal tissue was not. Taken together, the results suggest that both the patchy and diffuse growth patterns may be induced from adult midbrain dopaminergic neurons depending on the target of innervation, and that increased striatal trophic activity due to blockade of the dopaminergic input stimulates growth from a subpopulation of dopaminergic neurons that produce the nonpatchy growth.
Quantitative evaluation of gamma-aminobutyric acid immunoreactivity (GABA-IR) in the hindlimb representation of the rat somatosensory cortex after 14 days of exposure to hypergravity (hyper-G) was conducted by using computer-assisted image processing. The area of GABA-IR axosomatic terminals apposed to pyramidal cells of cortical layer V was reduced in rats exposed to hyper-G compared with control rats, which were exposed either to rotation alone or to vivarium conditions. Based on previous immunocytochemical and behavioral studies, we suggest that this reduction is due to changes in sensory feedback information from muscle receptors. Consequently, priorities for muscle recruitment are altered at the cortical level, and a new pattern of muscle activity is thus generated. It is proposed that the reduction observed in GABA-IR of the terminal area around pyramidal neurons is the immunocytochemical expression of changes in the activity of GABAergic cells that participate in reprogramming motor outputs to achieve effective movement control in response to alterations in the afferent information.
1. Molecular mechanisms underlying maturation of the central respiratory rhythm are largely unknown. Previously, we found that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is required for expression of normal breathing behaviour in newborn mice, raising the possibility that maturation of central respiratory output is dependent on BDNF. 2. Respiratory activity was recorded in vitro from cervical ventral roots (C1 or C4) using the isolated brainstem-spinal cord preparation from postnatal day (P) 0.5-2.0 and P4.5 wild-type mice and mice lacking functional bdnf alleles. 3. Loss of one or both bdnf alleles resulted in an approximately 50% depression of central respiratory frequency compared with wild-type controls. In addition, respiratory cycle length variability was 214% higher in bdnf null (bdnf-/-) animals compared with controls at P4.5. In contrast, respiratory burst duration was unaffected by bdnf gene mutation. 4. These derangements of central respiratory rhythm paralleled the ventilatory depression and irregular breathing characteristic of bdnf mutants in vivo, indicating that central deficits can largely account for the abnormalities in resting ventilation produced by genetic loss of BDNF. BDNF is thus the first growth factor identified that is required for normal development of the central respiratory rhythm, including the stabilization of central respiratory output that occurs after birth.
1. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were made from rat striatal cholinergic interneurones in slices of brain tissue in vitro. In the absence of ATP in the electrode solution, these neurones were found to gradually hyperpolarize through the induction of an outward current at -60 mV. This outward current and the resultant hyperpolarization were blocked by the sulphonylureas tolbutamide and glibenclamide and by the photorelease of caged ATP within neurones. 2. This ATP-sensitive outward current was not observed when 2 mM ATP was present in the electrode solution. Under these conditions, 500 microM diazoxide was found to induce an outward current that was blocked by tolbutamide. 3. Using permeabilized patch recordings, neurones were shown to hyperpolarize in response to glucose deprivation or metabolic poisoning with sodium azide (NaN3). The resultant hyperpolarization was blocked by tolbutamide. 4. In cell-attached recordings, metabolic inhibition with 1 mM NaN3 revealed the presence of a tolbutamide-sensitive channel exhibiting a unitary conductance of 44.1 pS. 5. Reverse transcription followed by the polymerase chain reaction using cytoplasm from single cholinergic interneurones demonstrated the expression of the ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channel subunits Kir6.1 and SUR1 but not Kir6.2 or SUR2. 6. It is concluded that cholinergic interneurones within the rat striatum exhibit a KATP channel current and that this channel is formed from Kir6.1 and SUR1 subunits.
We have previously shown that heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein C (hnRNP C) and nucleolin bound specifically to a 29 nt sequence in the 3'-untranslated region of amyloid precursor protein (APP) mRNA. Upon activation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells, hnRNP C and nucleolin acquired APP mRNA binding activity, concurrent with APP mRNA stabilization. These data suggested that the regulated interaction of hnRNP C and nucleolin with APP mRNA controlled its stability. Here we have directly examined the role of the cis element and trans factors in the turnover and translation of APP mRNA in vitro . In a rabbit reticulocyte lysate (RRL) translation system, a mutant APP mRNA lacking the 29 nt element was 3-4-fold more stable and synthesized 2-4-fold more APP as wild-type APP mRNA. Therefore, the 29 nt element functioned as an APP mRNA destabilizer. RNA gel mobility shift assays with the RRL suggested the presence of endogenous nucleolin, but failed to show hnRNP C binding activity. However, wild-type APP mRNA was stabilized and coded for 6-fold more APP when translated in an RRL system supplemented with exogenous active hnRNP C. Control mRNAs lacking the 29 nt element were unaffected by hnRNP C supplementation. Therefore, occupancy of the 29 nt element by hnRNP C stabilized APP mRNA and enhanced its translation.
Behavioral and biochemical studies in animals indicate that central dopaminergic neurotransmission may be modulated by sex steroids. This may be the mechanism underlying the suggested association between estrogen and schizophrenia. The aim was to examine if different levels of sex steroids during the menstrual cycle are associated with variations in D2 dopamine receptor density as measured with positron emission tomography (PET) and [11C]raclopride. Five healthy women were examined, one during two subsequent follicular phases and four during two different phases of their menstrual cycle. In none of the women did the difference in putamen to cerebellum (P/C) ratios (-11 to 10%) exceed the difference in P/C ratios previously reported in test-retest analyses in men (-11 to 9%). The findings do not support the conclusion that there is a menstrual-cycle-dependent variation in D2 receptor density detectable with single PET examinations and [11C]raclopride. Furthermore, a stable P/C ratio throughout the menstrual cycle indicated a stable D2 receptor occupancy in schizophrenic women treated with antipsychotic drugs. Repeated PET examinations of schizophrenic women known to deteriorate during particular phases of their menstrual cycle may further contribute to our understanding of the association between schizophrenia and sex steroids.
Immunocytochemical techniques were employed to examine the distribution of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptor alpha1 subunit within the hippocampus of 19 elderly subjects with Alzheimer-related neuropathologic changes. In mild cases (i.e., Braak stages I and II), the most intense neuropil immunolabeling was observed in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, the stratum pyramidale of the CA1 subregion and subiculum, while the weakest labeling was observed in the CA3 subfield. In CA4 region, the proximal dendrites and cell bodies of mossy cells were intensely alpha1 positive. Throughout the hippocampus, we observed a number of alpha1 labeled interneurons. These cells consisted of both large and small multipolar cells as well as small bipolar neurons. In moderate cases (i.e., Braak stages III and IV), the pattern and intensity of alpha1 immunolabeling appeared indistinguishable from mild cases. In severe cases (i.e., Braak stages V and VI), we observed a marked decrease in neuropil immunolabeling within the CA2, CA1 subregions and prosubiculum, while the labeling of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, subiculum proper and presubiculum was indistinguishable from mild and moderate cases. These data together with our previous immunocytochemical study in which we demonstrated a marked preservation of the GABAA receptor subunit beta2/3 suggest that responses of selected GABAA receptor subunits to AD pathology are variable with the alpha1 subunit displaying a high degree of vulnerability.
alpha-Latrotoxin (alpha-LT) potently enhances quantal release of neurotransmitter from nerve terminals. To develop the adrenal chromaffin cell as a 'model' system for the study of mechanisms of toxin action, we used amperometry to examine secretion of catecholamines and spectrofluorometry to measure cytosolic Ca. Several key features of toxin action emerged. (1) Release occurs at concentrations of toxin &gt;35 pM and the pattern of release changes from repeated brief bursts to more continuous discharges of varying duration as the toxin concentration increases. (2) Release requires extracellular calcium in the micromolar range, but not the activity of native voltage-dependent calcium channels. (3) Release is associated with a rise in cytosolic calcium to near micromolar range. (4) Provided calcium is later restored, release can be induced even though the toxin is applied and washed away in calcium-free saline. These features largely resemble those of alpha-LT action on nerve terminals. They suggest that in chromaffin cells, as in neurons, the Ca-dependence of toxin-enhanced quantal release is based on Ca entry through toxin-induced channels rather than a requirement of extracellular Ca for toxin binding.
Rats were exposed to either a footshock stimulus (FS) or emotional stimulus (ES, forced perception of another rat receiving footshocks) during a daily 10-min session for 5 consecutive days. The consequences of FS and ES on their behavioural responsiveness were assessed at different post-stress intervals using a small open-field. FS induced a decrease in ambulation, rearing and sniffing and an increased immobility in the small open field. These effects were present in rats tested immediately after the last session and remained present for at least 15 days. In contrast, ES induced a transient decrease in ambulation and rearing immediately after the last session, but in the period from half an hour until at least 15 days after the stimulus experience, an increase in ambulation, rearing and sniffing was observed. Exposure to one footshock per session for 5 consecutive days or to 10 footshocks in a single session also resulted in a long-lasting reduction in ambulation and sniffing and an increase in immobility. The former regime did not influence the behavioural response of ES rats, but the latter resulted in an increase in ambulation, rearing and sniffing in ES rats. Naloxone (1 mg/kg s.c.) pretreatment antagonized the increased behavioural activity of the ES rats whereas the activity of control and FS animals was not affected, suggesting an involvement of endogenous opioid systems in the behavioural responses observed in ES rats. It is suggested that the behavioural responses of the ES and FS animals are regulated by different mechanisms.
Previously the hexapeptide motif FXNPXY807 in the cytoplasmic tail of the LDL receptor was shown to be essential for clustering in clathrin-coated pits. We used nuclear magnetic resonance line-broadening and transferred nuclear Overhauser effect measurements to identify the molecule in the clathrin lattice that interacts with this hexapeptide, and determined the structure of the bound motif. The wild-type peptide bound in a single conformation with a reverse turn at residues NPVY. Tyr807Ser, a peptide that harbors a mutation that disrupts receptor clustering, displayed markedly reduced interactions. Clustering motif peptides interacted with clathrin cages assembled in the presence or absence of AP2, with recombinant clathrin terminal domains, but not with clathrin hubs. The identification of terminal domains as the primary site of interaction for FXNPXY807 suggests that adaptor molecules are not required for receptor-mediated endocytosis of LDL, and that at least two different tyrosine-based internalization motifs exist for clustering receptors in coated pits.
Considerable knowledge concerning developmental cell death has come from the study of somatic motor neurons (SMNs), but a related set of spinal neurons, the autonomic motor neurons (AMNs), have been studied less extensively in this respect. In the present study, we used three different approaches to determine the amount of AMN cell death during normal development in the rat. First, target dependency was studied in organotypic slice cultures, and it was found that AMNs survived for at least 12 days after removal of their postsynaptic targets. No factors were added to the serum-free medium to substitute for the ablated targets, indicating that AMNs were able to survive without target-derived trophic factors. Such target-independent survival is not characteristic of neurons that undergo typical developmental cell death. Second, AMNs were counted in double-stained choline acetyltransferase immunocytochemical and NADPH diaphorase histochemical preparations at ages (postnatal days 4-22) encompassing the period when AMN postsynaptic target cells undergo developmental death. Neuron numbers were essentially identical at all ages examined, indicating that no AMN cell death occurred postnatally. Finally, from embryonic day 13 to postnatal day 22, animals were analyzed by using terminal transferase-mediated nick-end labeling to identify dying cells. Many fewer labeled cells were observed among AMNs than among SMNs. Thus, all three approaches indicated that there is a significant SMN/AMN difference in developmental cell death. The phenotypic trait(s) that underlies this difference may also be important in the relative resistance of AMNs to pathological conditions that induce death of SMNs, e.g., those involved in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and excitotoxicity.
The aim of this study was to assess the effect of potential target tissue on regenerating neurones of the snail Lymnaea stagnalis using the three-dimensional collagen gel culture system. Mammalian type I collagen supported the regenerative outgrowth of snail neurones, and the neurofilament antibody SMI31 specifically labelled regenerating processes both within the gel and those growing over the surface of the ganglia. Using these techniques we tested the effect of co-culturing ganglia with either additional nervous tissue, previously shown to produce trophic substances, or buccal muscle on both the amount and direction of outgrowth. We conclude that, under the conditions used, neither target tissue provided trophic or tropic support in collagen gel cultures.
In vivo neuroprotective effects of melatonin on the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system in rats unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions were tested. Two weeks after lesioning the dopamine receptor agonist, apomorphine produced rotational asymmetry. In contrast, melatonin treatment significantly reduced the motor deficit following apomorphine challenge. Analysis by tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunocytochemistry revealed the loss of cell bodies in the substantia nigra (SN) and absence of terminals in the dorsolateral striatum ipsilaterally. Melatonin treatment also resulted in the survival of dopaminergic neurons in SN and TH-immuoreactive terminals in the dorsolateral striatum. These behavioral and histochemical results may indicate a neuroprotective action of melatonin and suggest a potential pharmacological role in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of ageing on optokinetic function in labyrinthine-intact human subjects. Subjects aged 18-39 years, 40-59 years and &gt; or = 60 years were tested for sensitivity to optokinetic stimulation using latency to the illusion of circularvection in an optokinetic drum. The latency to circularvection significantly increased with increasing age. These results suggest a decline in optokinetic sensitivity with increasing age, which may be related to age-related deterioration in the optokinetic visual pathways.
Auditory P300 amplitude reductions are well-established in young adults with schizophrenia. Little is known, however, regarding the P300 in older schizophrenia patients, especially those with late onset. We studied 28 middle-aged and elderly (mean age = 62.7 years) patients [14 with early onset schizophrenia (EOS) and 14 with late onset schizophrenia (LOS)] and 14 normal comparison (NC) participants using an auditory oddball paradigm. Event-related potentials were recorded from 15 scalp electrodes and six non-scalp sites. There were no significant differences between EOS and LOS groups in neuroleptic dosage, symptom severity, reaction times, target-detection accuracy, or N100 and N200 ERP measures. The EOS, but not the LOS, group had significantly smaller auditory oddball P300 amplitudes than the NC group. Twelve of the 14 LOS patients had P300 amplitudes in the normal range. Smaller P300 amplitudes were associated with earlier age of onset (r = 0.48), longer duration of illness (r = -0.49) and more severe alogia (r = -0.50). We conclude that P300 abnormalities in schizophrenia may be a marker for a disease subtype with early onset and more severe information-processing deficits.
Drosophila eye-specific protein kinase C (eye-PKC) is involved in light adaptation and deactivation. eye-PKC, NORPA (phospholipase Cbeta), and transient-receptor-potential (TRP) (calcium channel) are integral components of a signal transduction complex organized by INAD, a protein containing five PDZ domains. We previously demonstrated the direct association between the third PDZ domain of INAD with TRP in addition to the carboxyl-terminal half of INAD with the last three residues of NORPA. In this work, the molecular interaction between eye-PKC and INAD is defined via the yeast two-hybrid and ligand overlay assays. We show that the second PDZ domain of INAD interacts with the last three residues in the carboxyl-terminal tail of eye-PKC, Thr-Ile-Ile. The association between eye-PKC and INAD is disrupted by an amino acid substitution (Ile-700 to Asp) at the final residue of eye-PKC. In flies lacking endogenous eye-PKC (inaCp215), normal visual physiology is restored upon expression of wild-type eye-PKC, whereas the eye-PKCI700D mutant is completely inactive. Flies homozygous for inaCp209 and InaDp215, a mutation that causes a loss of the INAD-TRP association, were generated. These double mutants display a more severe response inactivation than either of the single mutants. Based on these findings, we conclude that the in vivo activity of eye-PKC depends on its association with INAD and that the sensitivity of photoreceptors is cooperatively regulated by the presence of both eye-PKC and TRP in the signaling complex.
Specific transport proteins mediate the packaging of neurotransmitters into secretory vesicles and consequently require targeting to the appropriate intracellular compartment. To identify residues in the neuron-specific vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT2) responsible for endocytosis, we examined the effect of amino (NH2-) and carboxyl (COOH-)-terminal mutations on steady state distribution and internalization. Deletion of a critical COOH-terminal domain sequence (AKEEKMAIL) results in accumulation of VMAT2 at the plasma membrane and a 50% reduction in endocytosis. Site-directed mutagenesis shows that replacement of the isoleucine-leucine pair within this sequence by alanine-alanine alone reduces endocytosis by 50% relative to wild type VMAT2. Furthermore, the KEEKMAIL sequence functions as an internalization signal when transferred to the plasma membrane protein Tac, and the mutation of the isoleucine-leucine pair also abolishes internalization of this protein. The closely related vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) contains a similar di-leucine sequence within the cytoplasmic COOH-terminal domain that when mutated results in accumulation of VAChT at the plasma membrane. The VAChT di-leucine sequence also confers internalization when appended to two other proteins and in one of these chimeras, conversion of the di-leucine sequence to di-alanine reduces the internalization rate by 50%. Both VMAT2 and VAChT thus use leucine-based signals for efficient endocytosis and as such are the first synaptic vesicle proteins known to use this motif for trafficking.
We examined the cellular and subcellular localization of agmatine in the hippocampal CA1 region by immunocytochemistry. By light microscopy, agmatine-like immunoreactivity (agmatine-LI) was found primarily in the perikarya and dendritic profiles of pyramidal cells and in punctate processes preponderantly in stratum radiatum. Electron microscopy revealed that agmatine-LI was cytoplasmic and concentrated in 'clusters' associated with mitochondria and tubular vesicles. In stratum radiatum, agmatine-LI was primarily in axons and axon terminals associated with small, synaptic vesicles. The terminals almost exclusively formed asymmetric synapses on the spines of dendrites, many of which originated from pyramidal cells. Some agmatine-LI also was present in shafts and spines of pyramidal cell dendrites and in astrocytic processes. The results demonstrate that agmatine in the hippocampus is found primarily in terminals forming excitatory (asymmetric) synapses on pyramidal cells, some of which contain agmatine-LI. These findings further implicate agmatine as an endogenous neurotransmitter which may be co-stored with L-glutamate and may act in part in the rat hippocampus as a blocker of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor and nitric oxide synthase.
We have isolated and characterised the mouse gene for the p39 activator, designated p39is, which encodes a protein of 369 amino acids. The mouse p39 protein exhibits 95% amino acid identity to a previously characterised human p39 cDNA and the novel gene sequence corresponds to a single genomic locus in mouse. The p39is mRNA is highly expressed in the mouse central nervous system.
The human calmodulin-1 gene (hCALM1) contains a (CAG)7 repeat in its 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR). We found this repeat to be stable and nonpolymorphic in the human population. To determine whether the repeat region affects hCALM1 expression and whether repeat expansions to numbers known to be associated with disease in other genes may alter expression, we tested luciferase reporter genes driven by the hCALM1 promoter and 5'-UTR containing 0, 7 (wild-type), 20, and 45 CAG repeats in human NT2/D1 teratoma cells. Interestingly, the repeat deletion, (CAG)0, decreased expression by 45%, while repeat expansions to (CAG)20 and (CAG)45, or the insertion of a scrambled (C,A,G)7 sequence did not alter gene expression. These data indicate (1) that the endogenous repeat element is required for full expression of hCALM1, and (2) that some triplet repeat expansions in the 5'-UTR of protein-coding genes may be well tolerated and even optimize gene expression.
Long-term potentiation (LTP), the increase in synaptic strength evoked by high-frequency stimulation, is often considered to be a cellular model for learning and memory. The validity of this model depends on the assumptions that physiological stimuli can induce LTP in vivo and that the resulting synaptic modifications correlate with behavioural changes. However, modifiable synapses are generally embedded deep in complex circuits. In contrast, the goldfish Mauthner (M)-cell and its afferent synapses are easily accessible for electrophysiological studies, and firing of this neuron is sufficient to trigger fast escape behaviour in response to sudden stimuli. We have previously shown that tetanic stimulation can induce LTP of the feedforward inhibitory synapses that control the excitability of the M-cell. Here we report that natural sensory stimulation can induce potentiation of this inhibitory connection that resembles the LTP induced by afferent tetanization. Furthermore, comparable acoustic stimulation produced a parallel decrease in the probability of the sound-evoked escape reflex. Thus we demonstrate for the first time, to our knowledge, a behavioural role for the long-term synaptic strengthening of inhibitory synapses.
p70 S6 kinase (p70(S6k)) is a mitogen-activated protein kinase that plays a central role in the control of mRNA translation. It physiologically phosphorylates the S6 protein of the 40s ribosomal subunit in response to mitogenic stimuli and is a downstream component of the rapamycin-sensitive pathway, which includes the 12-kDa FK506 binding protein and includes rapamycin and the 12-kDa FK506 binding protein target 1. Here, we report the identification of neurabin (neural tissue-specific F-actin binding protein), a neuronally enriched protein of 1,095 amino acids that contains a PDZ domain and binds p70(S6k). We demonstrate the neurabin-p70(S6k) interaction by yeast two-hybrid analysis and biochemical techniques. p70(S6k) and neurabin coimmunoprecipitate from transfected HEK293 cells. Site-directed mutagenesis of neurabin implicates its PDZ domain in the interaction with p70(S6k), and deletion of the carboxyl-terminal five amino acids of p70(S6k) abrogates the interaction. Cotransfection of neurabin in HEK293 cells activates p70(S6k) kinase activity. The mRNA of neurabin and p70(S6k) show striking colocalization in brain sections by in situ hybridization. Subcellular fractionation of rat brain demonstrates that neurabin and p70(S6k) both localize to the soluble fraction of synaptosomes. By way of its PDZ domain, the neuronal-specific neurabin may target p70(S6k) to nerve terminals.
A rapid, reversible enhancement of synaptic transmission from a sensory neuron is reported and explained by impulses that reverse direction, or reflect, at axon branch points. In leech mechanosensory neurons, where one can detect reflection because it is possible simultaneously to study electrical activity in separate branches, action potentials reflected from branch points within the central nervous system under physiological conditions. Synapses adjacent to these branch points were activated twice in rapid succession, first by an impulse arriving from the periphery and then by its reflection. This fast double-firing facilitated synaptic transmission, increasing it to more than twice its normal level. Reflection occurred within a range of resting membrane potentials, and electrical activity produced by mechanical stimulation changed membrane potential so as to produce and cease reflection. A compartmental model was used to investigate how branch-point morphology and electrical activity contribute to produce reflection. The model shows that mechanisms that hyperpolarize the membrane so as to impair action potential propagation can increase the range of structures that can produce reflection. This suggests that reflection is more likely to occur in other structures where impulses fail, such as in axons and dendrites in the mammalian brain. In leech sensory neurons, reflection increased transmission from central synapses only in those axon branches that innervate the edges of the receptive field in the skin, thereby sharpening spatial contrast. Reflection thus allows a neuron to amplify synaptic transmission from a selected group of its branches in a way that can be regulated by electrical activity.
The pharmacological properties of voltage-dependent calcium channel (VDCC) subtypes appear mainly to be determined by the alpha1 pore-forming subunit but, whether P-and Q-type VDCCs are encoded by the same alpha1 gene presently is unresolved. To investigate this, we used IgG antibodies to presynaptic VDCCs at motor nerve terminals that underlie muscle weakness in the autoimmune Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS). We first studied their action on changes in intracellular free Ca2+ concentration [Ca2+]i in human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cell lines expressing different combinations of human recombinant VDCC subunits. Incubation for 18 h with LEMS IgG (2 mg/ml) caused a significant dose-dependent reduction in the K+-stimulated [Ca2+]i increase in the alpha1A cell line but not in the alpha1B, alpha1C, alpha1D, and alpha1E cell lines, establishing the alpha1A subunit as the target for these autoantibodies. Exploiting this specificity, we incubated cultured rat cerebellar neurones with LEMS IgG and observed a reduction in P-type current in Purkinje cells and both P- and Q-type currents in granule cells. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that the alpha1A gene encodes for the pore-forming subunit of both P-type and Q-type VDCCs.
The characteristics of adenosine receptors found in glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP)-positive astrocytes acutely isolated from the cerebral cortices of 4- to 12-day old rats were examined by evaluating the effects of adenosine and its analogues on intracellular calcium levels. First, these effects were compared with those seen in primary astrocytic cultures, and it was found that acutely isolated astrocytes showed much greater sensitivity to adenosine than their cultured counterparts. Then, the adenosine evoked calcium responses in acutely isolated cells were evaluated under various conditions. The responses to adenosine were not inhibited by papaverine, an uptake blocker, or by removal of extracellular calcium. U73122, a phospholipase C inhibitor, was able to completely inhibit the adenosine response. The receptor inhibitor 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine inhibited the calcium response to adenosine, providing evidence that the response is not coupled to the xanthine-insensitive A3 receptor. The stimulatory action of NECA, a non-selective analogue, was blocked neither by the A2A-selective receptor antagonist 8-(3-chlorostyryl) caffeine nor by the A1-selective receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine. The A2B receptor antagonist alloxazine, however, was able to completely inhibit the increase in intracellular calcium produced by NECA. Taken together, these data suggest that the adenosine-evoked calcium response in acutely isolated astrocytes is coupled to the A2B receptor.
A native opioid peptide, [Met5]-enkephalin, termed opioid growth factor (OGF), serves as a constitutively expressed and autocrine produced inhibitory molecule related to developing, neoplastic, renewing, and healing tissues. The present study was designed to examine the effects of interfering with opioid-receptor interaction during re-epithelialization of the cornea in the rat using both systemic injections and topical applications of the potent opioid antagonist naltrexone (NTX). A 4 mm diameter epithelial defect was made in the center of the rat cornea. NTX injected twice daily or applied as eyedrops four times daily significantly accelerated re-epithelialization compared to controls. Beginning as early as 8 h after wounding, both the systemic and topical NTX treatment groups had defects that were approximately 10% to 67% smaller than control abrasions at the time points examined. Similarly, the rate of healing for the NTX groups was 4.7- and 2.8-fold greater than controls for systemic and topical paradigms, respectively. The incidence of complete re-epithelialization in animals given systemic administration of NTX was markedly accelerated in comparison to control rats; however, differences in incidence of repair between NTX and control groups receiving topical application were not observed. These results show that native opioid peptides function in wound healing, and exert a tonically inhibitory influence at the receptor level on repair of corneal epithelial injuries.
In human hippocampal epilepsy, there is a consistent pathology of cell loss and reactive synaptic reorganization of 'excitatory' mossy fibers (MF) into the inner molecular layer (IML) of the fascia dentata (FD). In this study, neo-Timm's histochemistry of MFs and immunocytochemistry of GluR1 were used to determine, in patients with or without hippocampal sclerosis (HS), if there was a correlation between aberrant supragranular (IML) mossy fiber sprouting and increased densities of AMPA GluR1 subunit proteins in the IML of the FD. Computerized quantified densitometric grey values of Timm and GluR1 densities were corrected for the densities of granule cell losses using cell counts. In the IML of the HS group, despite the losses of granule cells, mossy fiber sprouting was significantly greater (P&lt;0.000001) and GluR1 protein densities were significantly higher (P&lt;0.0005) than those of the non-HS group. Unlike supragranular mossy fiber sprouting, which was limited to the IML, the increased GluR1 stainings were distributed throughout the whole molecular layer. For all cases, MF synaptic reorganization in the supragranular ML was correlated with GluR1 subunit protein densities in the IML (R=0.784, P&lt;0.0093). These data demonstrate that in the human epileptic fascia dentata, there are significantly increased AMPA GluR1 subunit proteins associated with aberrant MF synaptic reorganizations. This suggests that the hyperexcitability of sclerotic hippocampus occurs, at least in part, from the associated changes of both presynaptic mossy fiber glutamatergic neoinnervation and increased GluR1 subunit proteins in the dendritic domains of the FD.
There is a considerable degree of variation in the amount of potentiation induced in different animals following the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP). This variation provided us with the opportunity to determine what types of synaptic changes were dependent upon the degree of induced potentiation. To examine possible 'degree of potentiation' effects on synapses, we conducted a multiple regression analysis examining the relationship between the degree of potentiation in LTP animals and a series of synaptic structural measures. We examined synapses in the middle third of the molecular layer (MML) of the rat dentate gyrus following repeated high frequency tetanization of the perforant path. LTP was induced over a 4 h period, and the animals were sacrificed 24 h after the final stimulation. Synapses from the ipsilateral inner third of the dentate molecular layer (IML) and from implanted only animals were also examined for comparison. Ultrastructural quantification included the total number of synapses per neuron, synaptic curvature, the presence of synaptic perforations, and the maximum length of the synaptic apposition. The only structural change that was significantly associated with the degree of potentiation was a positive correlation between the degree of LTP and the number of synapses per neuron. Therefore, synaptic number, while not appearing to be significantly associated with the induction of LTP, appears to be important for the degree of LTP expressed.
The role of GABA receptors in regulating the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system and drug reinforced behaviors has not been well characterized. Using fast-cyclic voltammetry, the effects of specific GABA receptor modulation on DA release in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) and heroin self-administration (SA) behavior was investigated. The GABAA agonist muscimol, administered either intravenously or directly into the ventral tegmental area (VTA), significantly increased DA release in the NAcc in 7 of the 10 rats tested. DA release decreased in the remaining three rats; both effects were blocked by pretreatment with the GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline. In contrast, the GABAB agonist baclofen decreased, while 2-OH-saclofen (a GABAB antagonist) increased DA release in the NAcc. However, when VTA GABAB receptors were previously activated or inactivated by microinjections of baclofen or 2-OH-saclofen, systemic injections of muscimol caused an inhibition of NAcc DA release. These results suggest that GABAA receptors may be co-localized on both DA neurons and non-DA (GABAergic) interneurons in the VTA, with the effects of GABAA determined by the net effect of both direct inhibition and indirect disinhibition of DA neurons. Finally, although a DA releaser, muscimol was neither self-administered in drug naive rats, nor did it substitute for heroin in rats previously trained to self-administer heroin, suggesting that GABAA receptors appear to play a complex role in mediating drug reinforcement, depending upon the dynamic functional state of GABAA receptors on both tegmental DA and non-DA neurons.
The molecular mechanisms regulating the retrograde axonal transport of nerve growth factor (NGF) are currently unknown. This study identifies some of the signalling events involved. The phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3-kinase) inhibitor wortmannin (1 nmol/eye) irreversibly inhibits the amount of 125I-betaNGF retrogradely transported in both sensory and sympathetic neurons. Another PI3-kinase inhibitor LY294002 (100 nmol/eye) also inhibited 125I-betaNGF retrograde transport in sensory neurons. The pp70S6K inhibitor rapamycin (1 micromol/eye) had the same effect, inhibiting 125I-betaNGF transport only in sensory neurons. The cPLA2 inhibitor AACOCF3 (10 nmol/eye) had no effect on 125I-betaNGF transport in either sensory or sympathetic neurons. The TrkA receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor AG-879 (10 nmol/eye) reduced 125I-betaNGF transport by approximately 50% in both sensory and sympathetic neurons. Cytochalasin D (2 nmol/eye), a disruptor of actin filaments and the dynein ATPase inhibitor erythro-9-[3-(2-hydroxynonyl)]adenine (EHNA) both inhibited 125I-betaNGF retrograde transport. These results demonstrate that in vivo TrkA tyrosine kinase activity, actin filaments and dynein are involved in the retrograde transport of NGF. In addition, different PI3-kinase isoforms may be recruited within different neuronal populations to regulate the retrograde transport of NGF. Potentially, these isoforms could activate alternative signalling pathways, such as pp70S6K in sensory neurons.
To determine the potency and efficacy of 5-HT1F receptor ligands, a [35S]GTPgammaS binding assay was developed and optimized for the human 5-HT1F receptor. Compounds which are known to be effective in the abortive treatment of migraine were tested for efficacy and potency in this assay. Naratriptan, sumatriptan, zolmitriptan, and rizatriptan all had agonist activity. The 5-HT1F receptor ligand LY334370 (4-fluoro-N-[3-(1-methyl-4-piperidinyl)-1H-indol-5-yl]-benzamide) was the most potent compound tested with an EC50 of 2.13 +/- 0.15 nM. LY302148 (5-fluoro-3-[1-[2-(1-methyl-1H-pyrazol-4-yl)ethyl]-4-piperidinyl]-1H-ind ole), methysergide, LY306258 (3-dimethylamino-2,3,4,9-tetrahydro-1H-carbazol-6-ol), dihydroergotamine (DHE), L-694,247 and CP-122,288 were also investigated for potency and efficacy. There was a statistically significant correlation between the pEC50 for the stimulation of [35S]GTPgammaS binding and the pID50 for the inhibition of trigeminal nerve-stimulated dural plasma protein extravasation in the guinea pig. In the course of these studies, it was found that the purportedly selective 5-HT1D receptor antagonist GR127935 inhibited 5-HT1F receptor-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding with a Ki of 39.6 +/- 9.5 nM. These studies demonstrate that 5-HT1F receptor-mediated stimulation of [35S]GTPgammaS binding in a clonal cell system is a reproducible, high throughput assay that is predictive of an in vivo model of 5-HT1F receptor activation.
Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) is a neuromodulator expressed with great anatomical specificity throughout the nervous system. Cell-specific expression of the VIP gene is mediated by a tissue specifier element (TSE) located within a 2.7-kilobase (kb) region between -5.2 and -2.5 kb upstream from the transcription start site, and requires an intact promoter proximal VIP-CRE (cyclic AMP-responsive element) (Hahm, S. H., and Eiden, L. E. (1997) J. Neurochem. 67, 1872-1881). We now report that the TSE comprises a 425-base pair domain located between -4.7 and -4.2 kb containing two AT-rich octamer-like sequences. The 425-base pair TSE is sufficient to provide full cell-specific regulation of the VIP gene, when fused to the 5' proximal 1.55 kb of the VIP gene. Mutational analysis and gel shift assays of these octamer-like sequences indicate that the binding of proteins related to the ubiquitously expressed POU-homeodomain proteins Oct-1 and/or Oct-2 to these octamer-like sequences plays a central role for the function of the TSE. The TSE interacts with three additional discrete domains besides the cAMP response element, which are located within the proximal 1.55 kb of the VIP gene, to provide cell-specific expression. An upstream domain from -1.55 to -1.37 kb contains E-boxes and MEF2-like motifs, and deletion of this domain results in complete abrogation of cell-specific transcriptional activity. The region from -1.37 to -1. 28 kb contains a STAT motif, and further removal of this domain allows the upstream TSE to act as an enhancer in both SH-EP and HeLa cells. The sequence from -1.28 to -0.9 kb containing a non-canonical AP-1 binding sequence (Symes, A., Gearan, T., Eby, J., and Fink, J. S. (1997) J. Biol. Chem. 272, 9648-9654), is absolutely required for TSE-dependent cellspecific expression of the VIP gene. Thus, five discrete domains of the VIP gene provide a combination of enhancer and repressor activities, each completely contingent on VIP gene context, that together result in cell-specific transcription of the VIP gene.
Previous studies of a tau polymorphism in Caucasian subjects with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) showed an over-representation of one genotype, A0/A0, versus normal control subjects. This result suggested that tau may be playing a genetic role in the progression of PSP. This study examines whether the over-representation of A0/A0 is Caucasian-specific or universal to PSP. Unfortunately, we found this dinucleotide repeat was relatively non-polymorphic in Japanese subjects. As a result, the genotypes were virtually the same, A0/A0, between Japanese PSP and control subjects. However, this outcome, albeit negative, does suggest two possible roles of the tau gene in PSP pathogenesis: (1) the role of this dinucleotide repeat in PSP may be different between Caucasian and Japanese populations or (2) this repeat may not be causal for PSP but represents a marker for other molecular genetic risk factors within or close to the tau gene on chromosome 17.
To date, the role of nitric oxide (NO) in mediation of cerebrovascular regulation during spreading depression (SD) in rats remains controversial. Studies are compromised by indirect assay of 'regional' nitric oxide synthase activity (NOS) and/or inappropriate doses of antagonists. The present study utilises direct electrochemical detection in the pia to demonstrate a local, biphasic release of NO associated with each wave of cortical depolarisation. The mean peak of SD-induced NO release was 0.35 microM, which was significantly inhibited by L-N(G)-nitroarginine methyl ester (L-NAME) pre-treatment. Changes in cerebrovascular flux remained intact following treatment with L-NAME, indicating little role for NO in mediation of rat SD blood-flux changes. Mean peak NO release was found to be lower than that observed in rat cerebral ischaemia studies (approximately 4 microM) and in SD in the cat gyrencephalic brain (approximately 0.8 microM).
In this study, we analyzed the influence of vitamin E succinate (5-80 microM), supplemented in the culture medium, on the survival of cultured retinal cells. The release of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) was decreased in the presence of low concentrations (10-20 microM) of vitamin E succinate, whereas high concentrations (80 microM) induced a significant increase (about 2-fold) in the release of LDH, indicating a reduction of plasma membrane integrity. Supplementing with vitamin E succinate (80 microM) greatly enhanced its cellular content, as compared to vitamin E acetate (80 microM), and the membrane order of the retinal cells, as evaluated by the fluorescence anisotropy (r) of TMA-DPH (1-(4-(trimethylammonium)-phenyl)-6-phenylhexa-1,3,5-triene), was not altered. Furthermore, vitamin E succinate was more potent than vitamin E acetate in reducing thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) formation upon ascorbate-Fe2+-induced oxidative stress (TBARS formation after cell oxidation decreased by about 15-fold or 1.6 fold, respectively, in the presence of 20 microM vitamin E succinate or 20 microM vitamin E acetate). A decrease in MTT (3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide) reduction induced by supplementing with vitamin E succinate (80 microM), to 35.99 +/- 1.96% as compared to the control, but not by vitamin E acetate (80 microM), suggests that vitamin E succinate may affect the mitochondrial activity. Vitamin E succinate also reduced significantly the ATP:ADP ratio in a dose-dependent manner, indicating that vitamin E succinate-mediated cytotoxic effects involve a decrement of mitochondrial function.
The mRNA expression of presenilin-1 (PS1) and beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP) was investigated in the embryonic day 20 rat olfactory bulb, nasal cavity, and inner ear using in situ hybridization histochemistry. In the olfactory bulb, PS1 mRNA was strongly expressed in both olfactory bulb neuroepithelium and the differentiating olfactory bulb. In contrast, betaAPP mRNA was preferentially expressed in differentiating fields. In the nasal cavity, PS1 mRNA was strongly expressed throughout the olfactory epithelium, while betaAPP mRNA expression was concentrated in the middle part of the epithelium. In the membrane labyrinth of the inner ear, although PS1 mRNA was evenly distributed in both sensory epithelium and supporting cells, betaAPP mRNA was exclusively expressed in the sensory epithelium. These data suggest that PS1 is expressed earlier than betaAPP, and that PS1 and betaAPP co-operatively play pivotal roles in the development of the olfactory and vestibulocochlear systems.
In a post-mortem study five chronic schizophrenic men were matched with respect to age and sex to five control subjects without a known history of psychiatric illness, and were compared in pairs with regard to neurone number and pyramidal cell orientation in the left hippocampus. All five schizophrenics had significantly more disoriented pyramidal cells in the Cornu Ammonis subregions CA1-CA3 than their matched controls. They also had significantly fewer pyramidal cells in the observed areas of CA1 and CA3, but not in CA2 and CA4. There was no difference in the number of granular cells of the dentate gyrus. In pairwise comparisons the pattern was never reversed with respect to these two parameters, except in a single case where one schizophrenic proband had more cells in subregion CA2. In the absence of gliosis the findings were interpreted as sequelae of an early, presumably prenatal, injury.
The aim of the present study was to analyse first-incidence anxiety in the Lundby Study with regard to course and predictors of outcome between 1947 and 1972. The Lundby concept of anxiety corresponds broadly to that of anxiety disorders in DSM-III-R. The Lundby Study is a prospective, psychiatric study of a geographically defined total population. The present study includes 124 subjects (46 men and 78 women) who between 1947 and 1972 developed anxiety as their first mental illness in life. The median total duration of illness was 1.6 years in men and 1.4 years in women. In both sexes episodes of mild impairment dominated. In total, 54% of the men and 71% of the women were mentally healthy at the follow-up in 1972. A minority of the probands (27%) received psychiatric treatment. They significantly more often suffered from panic disorder with agoraphobia during their first episode, and from comorbidity of other mental illnesses, than did untreated subjects. They also had a significantly longer total duration of illness, a variable with a negative predictive influence on the probability of being mentally healthy in 1972. Men with anxiety showed a 55% increase in alcoholism compared to standard values. They also displayed an increased risk of relapsing into mental illness compared to female cases, a result which, in the light of earlier findings of increased mortality rates, suggests that further investigations of men with anxiety syndromes in the general population are warranted.
To conduct a meta-analysis of the antispastic efficacy and tolerability of tizanidine, we reviewed records of the European sponsor of tizanidine trials and selected double-blind, randomized studies of moderate duration in which oral tizanidine was compared with baclofen or diazepam. Studies were required to have individual patient data; three key outcome measures (Ashworth Rating Scale for muscle tone, a measure of muscle strength, and Global Tolerability to Treatment Rating); and patients with multiple sclerosis or cerebrovascular lesions. Ten trials involving 270 patients met these criteria. Seven studies used baclofen as the positive control; three used diazepam. As measured by Total and Lower Body Ashworth scores, tizanidine and similar spasticity-reducing effects to both baclofen and diazepam. Muscle strength was affected less by tizanidine than by either comparator, and investigators judged tizanidine to have greater tolerability. Within the limits of these comparisons, tizanidine, baclofen, and diazepam were equally effective in decreasing excessive muscle tone in patients with multiple sclerosis or cerebrovascular lesions. Muscle strength improved in all three treatment groups, but improvement was greatest with tizanidine.

The intracellular signal transduction pathways utilized by the HIV-1-derived protein, Tat, in the activation of human central nervous system-derived endothelial cells (CNS-ECs) were examined using specific enzymatic assays. Tat induced an increase in interleukin 6 (IL-6) mRNA within 1 hr of treatment. This biological effect of Tat involved activation of both protein kinase C (PK-C) and cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PK-A) in CNS-ECs. Tat at 10 ng/ml induced a sharp, transient increase in membrane PK-C activity within 30 sec of incubation, and reached maximum levels at 2 min, declining to control values within 10 min. Tat also induced a sharp increase in intracellular cAMP levels and PK-A activity in these cells, with the PK-A activity reaching a maximum at 10 min and slowly declining to control values in 4 hr of incubation. Activation of PK-A was dependent on a Tat-induced increase in membrane PK-C activity as demonstrated by calphostin C (a PK-C inhibitor) abolishing this effect. Incubation of cells with the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin did not affect Tat-induced activation of PK-A, indicating that prostacyclins are not involved in this process. Tat-induced increase in IL-6 mRNA was abolished in the presence on PK-A inhibitor H-89, demonstrating that activation of PK-A is necessary and sufficient for the increase in IL-6 production by these cells. Both the Tat-induced increase in intracellular cAMP and IL-6 mRNA levels in CNS-ECs may play a role in altering the blood-brain barrier and thereby inducing pathology often observed in AIDS dementia.
Previous studies with rats exposed to altered ambient temperature (Ta) or with mice selectively bred for their thermal response to ethanol have shown that a reduced hypothermic response is correlated with decreased place aversion and greater place preference, respectively. The present experiment was designed to test whether alterations in Ta would alter ethanol's ability to produce conditioned place preference in genetically heterogeneous mice. Three groups of mice underwent a differential conditioning procedure that paired one distinctive floor texture with ethanol (2.25 g/kg, i.p.) and a different floor texture with saline. During conditioning, each group was exposed to a different Ta: cold (10 degrees C), normal (21 degrees C), or warm (34 degrees C). Each group was further divided and subgroups were tested for preference at either the conditioning temperature or a different temperature. Consistent with previous findings, mice conditioned and tested at normal Ta developed a conditioned preference for the ethanol-paired floor. In contrast, mice exposed to a warm or cold Ta during conditioning or testing failed to show place conditioning. Although exposure to either warm or cold Ta interfered with place conditioning, only the warm Ta had an effect on hypothermia. These findings suggest that altered Ta produced stimuli that may have interfered with the association between floor cues and ethanol during conditioning or interfered with expression of this association during testing.
The distribution and chemical phenotypes of hindbrain neurons that are activated in rats after food ingestion were examined. Rats were anesthetized and perfused with fixative 30 min after the end of 1-h meals of an unrestricted or rationed amount of food, or after no meal. Brain sections were processed for localization of the immediate-early gene product c-Fos, a marker of stimulus-induced neural activation. Hindbrain c-Fos expression was low in rats that ate a rationed meal or no meal. Conversely, c-Fos was prominent in the medial nucleus of the solitary tract (NST) and area postrema in rats that ate to satiety. There was a significant positive correlation between postmortem weight of gastric contents and the proportion of NST catecholaminergic neurons expressing c-Fos. Cells in the ventrolateral medulla (VLM) were not activated in rats after food ingestion, in contrast with previous findings that stimulation of gastric vagal afferents with anorexigenic doses of cholecystokinin activates c-Fos expression in both NST and VLM catecholaminergic cells. These findings indicate that anatomically distinct subsets of hindbrain catecholaminergic neurons are activated in rats after food ingestion and that activation of these cells is quantitatively related to the magnitude of feeding-induced gastric distension.
Spillover of norepinephrine (NE) into plasma is used frequently as an index of NE release and therefore of sympathetic nerve activity. An important limitation of NE spillover is that it reflects not only release but also uptake processes that intervene before the transmitter reaches the circulation. To overcome this limitation, we developed a method for estimating NE release based on measurements of the specific activities of [3H]NE in plasma and interstitial fluid during intravenous infusion of [3H]NE. We applied this method to examine relationships among NE release, tissue uptake, and spillover in the human heart, kidneys, and forearm. The sum of uptake and spillover of released NE provided an estimate of NE release into the interstitial fluid. In the kidneys, NE release averaged three times NE spillover, in skeletal muscle, 12 times NE spillover, and in the heart, &gt;20 times NE spillover. Thus NE release greatly and variably exceeds NE spillover from these organs, so that assessing regional sympathetic function requires an understanding of the relationship of NE spillover to NE release.
Food deprivation inhibits ovulatory cycles and estrous behavior in Syrian hamsters. Lesions of the area postrema (AP) prevented the suppression of estrous behavior in food-deprived hamsters, but they did not prevent the suppression of estrous cyclicity or the increase in running-wheel activity caused by food deprivation. Food deprivation or treatment with pharmacological inhibitors of glycolysis and fatty acid oxidation decreased estrogen-receptor immunoreactivity (ERIR) in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH), increased ERIR in the arcuate nucleus (Arc) and the posterior parvicellular paraventricular nucleus (PaPo), but had no effect on ERIR in the posterodorsal medial amygdala or the anterior parvicellular paraventricular nucleus. Lesions of the AP prevented the food deprivation-induced decrease in VMH ERIR and the increase in Arc ERIR, but they did not prevent the increase in ERIR in the PaPo. Thus, whatever physiological cues are produced by food deprivation, an intact AP is required for their transmission to the neural circuits controlling estrous behavior, VMH ERIR, and Arc ERIR. The AP is not essential for transmission of this information to the neural circuits controlling estrous cyclicity, running-wheel activity, or PaPo ERIR.




The Human Figure Drawing (HFD) test is a non-verbal test, mainly based on visuo-spatial and constructional abilities. In screening for dementia, the HFD test can be hypothesised as a good complement to Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), which is inherently limited by its verbal nature. In order to test this hypothesis, both MMSE and HFD tests were administered to 461 individuals recruited from a community-based study of the elderly (the Kungsholmen project). According to the Third Revised Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 95 subjects were affected by dementia and 366 were non-demented. We calculated the sensitivity and specificity of MMSE, the HFD test, and the combination of the two. Results showed that MMSE mean scores were significantly reduced between the non-demented group and groups with different severities of dementia. The mean scores of a short version of 29 HFD body details (HFD29) and seven HFD essential body details (HFDess) showed similar, but weaker trends than MMSE. However, the sensitivity increased by 4.2% when HFD29 and HFDess were added to MMSE, compared to the MMSE test alone. This increase partially derived from the portion of questionable and mild demented subjects. Unfortunately, a high drop-out rate was present in the HFD test. We conclude that the use of HFD test has limitations in this well-educated population, due to a high number of refusals and only a small improvement in detecting mild demented cases. The application of this test in lower educated populations requires further investigation.




The neuronal network underlying lamprey swimming has stimulated extensive modelling on different levels of abstraction. The lamprey swims with a burst frequency ranging from 0.3 to 8-10 Hz with a rostrocaudal lag between bursts in each segment along the spinal cord. The swimming motor pattern is characterized by a burst proportion that is independent of burst frequency and lasts around 30%-40% of the cycle duration. This also applies in preparations in which the reciprocal inhibition in the spinal cord between the left and right side is blocked. A network of coupled excitatory neurons producing hemisegmental oscillations may form the basis of the lamprey central pattern generator (CPG). Here we explored how such networks, in principle, could produce a large frequency range with a constant burst proportion. The computer simulations of the lamprey CPG use simplified, graded output units that could represent populations of neurons and that exhibit adaptation. We investigated the effect of an active modulation of the degree of adaptation of the CPG units to accomplish a constant burst proportion over the whole frequency range when, in addition, each hemisegment is assumed to be self-oscillatory. The degree of adaptation is increased with the degree of stimulation of the network. This will make the bursts terminate earlier at higher burst rates, allowing for a constant burst proportion. Without modulated adaptation the network operates in a limited range of swimming frequencies due to a progressive increase of burst duration with increasing background stimulation. By introducing a modulation of the adaptation, a broad burst frequency range can be produced. The reciprocal inhibition is thus not the primary burst terminating factor, as in many CPG models, and it is mainly responsible for producing alternation between the left and right sides. The results are compared with the Morris-Lecar oscillator model with parameters set to produce a type A and type B oscillator, in which the burst durations stay constant or increase, respectively, when the background stimulation is increased. Here as well, burst duration can be controlled by modulation of the slow variable in a similar way as above. When oscillatory hemisegmental networks are coupled together in a chain a phase lag is produced. The production of a phase lag in chains of such oscillators is compared with chains of Morris-Lecar relaxation oscillators. Models relating to the intact versus isolated spinal cord preparation are discussed, as well as the role of descending inhibition.

1. The functional profile of the long form of the human cloned 5-HT7 receptor (designated h5-HT7(a)) was investigated using a number of 5-HT receptor agonists and antagonists and compared with its binding profile. Receptor function was measured using adenylyl cyclase activity in washed membranes from HEK293 cells stably expressing the recombinant h5-HT7(a) receptor. 2. The receptor binding profile, determined by competition with [3H]-5-CT, was consistent with that previously reported for the h5-HT7(a) receptor. The selective 5-HT7 receptor antagonist SB-258719 ((R)-3,N-Dimethyl-N-[1-methyl-3-(4-methylpiperidin-1-yl)propyl]ben zene sulfonamide) displayed high affinity (pKi 7.5) for the receptor. 3. In the adenylyl cyclase functional assay, 5-CT and 8-OH-DPAT were both full agonists compared to 5-HT and the rank order of potency for agonists (5-CT &gt; 5-HT &gt; 8-OH-DPAT) was the same in functional and binding studies. 4. Risperidone, methiothepin, mesulergine, clozapine, olanzapine, ketanserin and SB-258719 antagonised surmountably 5-CT-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity. Schild analysis of the antagonism by SB-258719 gave a pA2 of 7.2+/-0.2 and slope not significantly different from 1, consistent with competitive antagonism. 5. The same antagonists also inhibited basal adenylyl cyclase activity with a rank order of potency in agreement with those for antagonist potency and binding affinity. Both SB-258719 and mesulergine displayed apparent partial inverse agonist profiles compared to the other antagonists tested. These inhibitory effects of antagonists appear to be 5-HT7 receptor-mediated and to reflect inverse agonism. 6. It is concluded that in this expression system, the h5-HT7(a) receptor shows the expected binding and functional profile and displays constitutive activity, revealing inverse agonist activity for a range of antagonists.
1. Contractile responses to endothelin-1 (ET-1) and sarafotoxin S6c (S6c) were studied in pulmonary resistance arteries (approximately 320 microm i.d.) from fetal, 0-24 h, 4 day and 7 day rabbits. The effects of the ET(A)-selective antagonist FR139317, the selective ET(B) receptor antagonist BQ-788 and the non-selective ET(A)/ ET(B) receptor antagonist SB 209670, on these responses, were determined. Acetylcholine-induced vasodilation and noradrenaline-evoked contractions were also examined. 2. ET-1 potency was in the following order (pEC50 values): fetal (8.7) = 0-24 h (8.8) = 4 day (8.6) &gt; 7 day (8.0). The order of potency for S6c was 7 days (11.1) = 4 days (10.8) &gt; 0-24 h (9.7) &gt; fetal (8.6). Hence, S6c and ET-1 were equipotent in the fetus but S6c was increasingly more potent than ET-1 with increasing age, being some 1000 times more potent by 7 days. By 7 days, responses to ET-1 were also resistant to both FR139317 and BQ-788. FR139317 inhibited responses to ET-1 in vessels from 0-24 h and 4 day, but not fetal, rabbits (pKb: 6.4 in 4 day rabbits). BQ-788 inhibited responses to ET-1 at all age points except for 7 days (pKb: 6.7 at 0-24 h; 6.2 at 4 days). BQ-788 inhibited responses to S6c at all age points (pKb: 8.5 at 4 days). SB 209670 inhibited responses to ET-1 and S6c at 0-24 h and 4 days (pKb for ET-1: 8.3 and 8.0 respectively; pKb for S6c: 9.2 and 10.2 respectively). 3. Acetylcholine (1 microM) induced vasodilation at all age points (inhibited by 100 microM L-N(omega)-nitroarginine methylester) although the degree of vasodilation was significantly reduced (approximately 75%) at 0-24 h. Noradrenaline induced contraction at all age points except 7 days and its response was significantly enhanced at 0-24 h. 4. Over the first week of life, the potency of S6c increases whilst that to ET-1 decreases suggesting differential development of responses to ET-1 and S6c and heterogeneity of ET(A)- or 'ET(B)-like' receptor-mediated responses. There is no synergism between ET(A) and ET(B) receptors at birth but this is established by 7 days. Immediately after birth rabbit Pulmonary Resistance Arteries are hyperresponsive to ET-1 and noradrenaline but exhibit impaired nitric-oxide dependent vasodilation.
1. Whole cell patch clamp techniques were used to study the effects of 4030W92 (2,4-diamino-5-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-6-fluoromethylpyrimidine), a new antihyperalgesic agent, on rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurones. 2. In small diameter, presumably nociceptive DRG neurones under voltage-clamp, 4030W92 (1-100 microM) produced a concentration-related inhibition of slow tetrodotoxin-resistant Na+ currents (TTXR). From a holding potential (Vh) of -90 mV, currents evoked by test pulses to 0 mV were inhibited by 4030W92 with a mean IC50 value of approximately 103 microM. 3. The inhibitory effect of 4030W92 on TTX(R) was both voltage- and use-dependent. Currents evoked from a Vh of -60 mV were inhibited by 4030W92 with a mean IC50 value of 22 microM, which was 5 fold less than the value obtained at -90 mV. Repeated activation of TTX(R) by a train of depolarizing pulses (5 Hz, 20 ms duration) enhanced the inhibitory effects of 4030W92. These data could be explained by a preferential interaction of the drug with inactivation states of the channel. In support of this hypothesis 4030W92 (30 microM) produced a significant hyperpolarizing shift of 10 mV in the slow inactivation curve for TTX(R) and markedly slowed the recovery from channel inactivation. 4. Fast TTX-sensitive Na+ currents (TTXs) were also inhibited by 4030W92 in a voltage-dependent manner. The IC50 values obtained from Vhs of -90 mV and -70 mV were 37 microM and 5 microM, respectively. 4030W92 (30 microM) produced a 13 mV hyperpolarizing shift in the steady-state inactivation curve of TTXs. 5. High threshold voltage-gated Ca2+ currents were only weakly inhibited by 4030W92. The reduction in peak Ca2+ current amplitude produced by 100 microM 4030W92 was 20+/-6% (n=6). Low threshold T-type Ca2+ currents were inhibited by 17+/-8% and 43+/-3% by concentrations of 4030W92 of 30 microM and 100 microM, respectively (n=6). 6. Under current clamp, some cells exhibited broad TTX-resistant action potentials whilst others showed fast TTX-sensitive action potentials in response to a depolarizing current injection. In most cells a long duration (800 ms) supramaximal current injection evoked a train of action potentials. 4030W92 (10-30 microM) had little effect on the first spike in the train but produced a concentration-related inhibition of the later spikes. The number of spikes per train was significantly reduced from 9.7+/-1.5 to 4.2+/-1.0 and 2.6+/-1.1 in the presence of 10 microM and 30 microM 4030W92, respectively (n=5). 7. Thus, 4030W92 is a potent voltage- and use-dependent inhibitor of Na+ channels in sensory neurones. This profile can be explained by a preferential action of the drug on a slow inactivation state of the channel that results in a delayed recovery to the resting state. This state-dependent modulation by 4030W92 of Na+ channels that are important in sensory neurone function may underlie or contribute to the antihyperalgesic profile of this compound observed in vivo.
We report a 27-year-old woman with chronic auditory agnosia following Landau-Kleffner Syndrome (LKS) diagnosed at age 4 1/2. She grew up in the hearing/speaking community with some exposure to manually coded English and American Sign Language (ASL). Manually coded (signed) English is her preferred mode of communication. Comprehension and production of spoken language remain severely compromised. Disruptions in auditory processing can be observed in tests of pitch and duration, suggesting that her disorder is not specific to language. Linguistic analysis of signed, spoken, and written English indicates her language system is intact but compromised because of impoverished input during the critical period for acquisition of spoken phonology. Specifically, although her sign language phonology is intact, spoken language phonology is markedly impaired. We argue that deprivation of auditory input during a period critical for the development of a phonological grammar and auditory-verbal short-term memory has limited her lexical and syntactic development in specific ways.
Evidence from aged and demented humans has stimulated research on the effects of age on the integrity of cortical cholinergic afferents in rodents. However, a comprehensive review of the available data does not consistently support the hypothesis that normal aging in rodents robustly affects the function of basal forebrain cholinergic projections to the cortex. These data indicate the limited significance of age as an independent experimental variable in research on age-related changes in cortical acetylcholine and associated behavioral or cognitive functions. Alternatively, recent studies demonstrated that normal aging in rodents potently interacts with the consequences of experimental manipulations of this system. Thus, aging acts as an intervening variable in experiments designed to elucidate age-related changes in the vulnerability and restorative capacity of this neuronal system after injury and degenerative processes. Investigations of the interactions between the effects of age and the capacity of the cholinergic systems to respond to detrimental processes reveal robust consequences of aging on cortical acetylcholine and the cognitive functions mediated by this neuronal system.
To analyze sorting and compartmentalization of molecules in neuronal endomembranes, the distribution of endogenous proteins associated with the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), intermediate compartment, the Golgi apparatus in cultures of dorsal root ganglion (DRG), and hippocampal neurons was compared with that of newly synthesized ER-associated rotavirus proteins. The endogenous ER-retained immunoglobulin heavy chain binding protein, protein disulfide isomerase, and a peptide containing the KDEL amino acid sequence appeared in the soma and dendrites up to their first branching, but not in axons. However, two other endogenous ER-associated proteins, calreticulin and calnexin, occurred in axons as well as in the somatodendritic domains. The ER-associated rotavirus proteins, VP7 and NSP4, were widely distributed in cell bodies and dendrites. The former appeared also in axons and its localization partially overlapped with that of calreticulin and calnexin. One intermediate compartment protein, ER-Golgi-intermediate compartment-protein-53 (ERGIC-53), extended beyond the first division of the dendrites and did not, as the small guanosine 5'-triphosphate (GTP)-binding protein rab2, appear in axons. The location of rab2 to small vesicles was distinct from that of rotavirus VP7. Cis/medial Golgi cistern proteins were restricted to the cell bodies and proximal dendrites. This study emphasizes the marked heterogeneity in the targeting to axons and dendrites of proteins associated with ER and intermediate compartments. Therefore, the composition of axonal ER-retained molecules differs from that in the soma and this variation may reflect differences in functions between the ER compartments. Viral proteins are useful reporters for such heterogeneities and rotavirus VP7 may be a tool to reveal sorting signals for targeting of vesicular proteins to axons via a nonclassical Golgi-independent mechanism. Such signals may also determine viral targeting to different regions of the brain.
A simple model of vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) function was used to analyze several hypotheses currently held concerning the characteristics of VOR plasticity. The network included a direct vestibular pathway and an indirect path via the cerebellum. An optimization analysis of this model suggests that regulation of brain stem sites is critical for the proper modification of VOR gain. A more physiologically plausible learning rule was also applied to this network. Analysis of these simulation results suggests that the preferred error correction signal controlling gain modification of the VOR is the direct output of the accessory optic system (AOS) to the vestibular nuclei vs. a signal relayed through the cerebellum via floccular Purkinje cells. The potential anatomical and physiological basis for this conclusion is discussed, in relation to our current understanding of the latency of the adapted VOR response.
To estimate the extent of axonal growth in various areas of the cerebral cortex, we measured the amount of GAP-43 mRNA in the cerebral cortex of developing macaque monkeys. In four areas, i.e., the prefrontal area (FD delta), the temporal association area (TE), the primary somatosensory area (PC), and the primary visual area (OC), the amount of GAP-43 mRNA was measured from the intermediate fetal period [embryonic day 120 (E120)] to the adult stage. In two other areas, i.e., the parietal association area (PG) and the secondary visual area (OB), the amount of GAP-43 mRNA was measured during the postnatal period. The amount of GAP-43 mRNA was highest at E120, decreased roughly exponentially, and approached the asymptote by postnatal day 70 (P70). The amount of GAP-43 mRNA was higher in the association areas (FD delta, TE, and PG) than in the primary sensory areas (PC and OC) during development and at the adult stage. These findings suggest that axonal growth in the cerebral cortex is most exuberant before or during the intermediate fetal period and approximately ends by P70. Furthermore, axonal growth is evidently more intensive in the association areas than in the primary sensory areas during the stage following the intermediate fetal period.
Vasopressin and oxytocin neuroendocrine cells within the supraoptic nucleus of the adult hypothalamus (SON) display mRNA expression for the NMDA receptor subunits, NR1 and NR2B, NR2C and NR2D. The NR2B subunit confers slow decay kinetics (relative to NR1/NR2A receptors) and high magnesium sensitivity to NMDA receptor responses--properties which may contribute to the NMDA receptor-mediated bursting manifested by these cells. Therefore, we examined NR2B protein expression and its developmental profile in the SON and compared it to that in the cortex and cerebellum--areas which have been studied previously. We performed Western blot analysis on SON homogenates from embryonic, postnatal (PN7, 14, 21), and adult rats using an NR2B-specific antibody. Adult NR2B levels in the SON and PVN were similar but low relative to those of cortex. SON NR2B protein levels rose in the first postnatal week, remained high through PN21, and later declined to significantly lower levels in the adult. A similar profile was observed in cerebellum, where NR2B expression displayed a sharp peak at PN14 and later declined to minimal or undetectable levels in the adult. In contrast, NR2B continued to be overexpressed through adulthood in the cortex. The ontogenic pattern for NR1 expression, which included unregulation during early postnatal life and adulthood, was similar in the SON and cortex. A different pattern was observed for the cerebellum, where NR1 levels increased gradually after ED17 to reach significantly greater adult levels. Of all three areas studied, the SON displayed the earliest developmental rise in NR1 levels. SON explant cultures proved to be a useful preparation, since they contained neurons which synthesized NR1 and NR2B subunits in quantities similar to those of ED17 SON. Our findings suggest that NMDA receptors on SON neuroendocrine cells are assembled using NR1 and NR2B subunits, and that their plastic expression in early postnatal life may play a role during development.
A novel approach to laser scanning microscopy is presented that utilizes diffraction-based scanning principles to achieve fast random-access positioning of a focused laser beam. This non-imaging approach overcomes the speed limitation of present reflection-based scanning microscopes while maintaining high spatial resolution. The presented system combines conventional video microscopy with fast non-imaging scanning microscopy. Together with readily available optical indicators of neuronal activity, this system permits multi-site optical recording from living brain tissue. In this paper, we will review the underlying principles of laser scanning microscopy and the steps in development that led to the current acousto-optic scanning system. We will present typical signals recorded with the current system, and we will outline ongoing extensions of the system. We will also discuss the present limitation of this instrumentation and look into directions of future development.
We document the presence of subpopulations of neurons within the rat central nervous system that are labelled with a new Congo red staining technique. These neurons (CR neurons) show shrunken somata, and smaller and darker nuclei than Congo red-negative cells (non-CR cells). With the Bielschowsky and the cresyl violet Nissl staining methods, two comparable subpopulations of cells can be distinguished by the same morphometrical criteria as those used for CR and non-CR cells. CR neurons are located preferentially in some brain regions while in others they are virtually absent. Their distribution and proportion varied greatly from animal to animal and after particular treatments. Injections of water that damaged the hippocampal dentate gyrus, cortical lesions or eye enucleation decreased the number of CR-cells in the CA1 subfield, reflected in a shift from the CR-staining subclass to the non-CR subclass. Treatment with 200 mg/kg of CDP-choline also significantly reduced the number of CR cells observed in CA1. In the red nucleus, CR neurons showed a characteristic distribution of beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) immunoreactivity. The population of dendrites immunolabelled for microtubule-associated protein 2 was markedly decreased in the areas of the hippocampus with high numbers of CR cells. Therefore, it is proposed that neurons labelled with the present Congo red technique might be in a reversible degenerative state or represent a particular physiological state in some areas of the central nervous system.
The efficacy of flunarizine in migraine prophylaxis is confirmed in both open and controlled trials. However, it is unknown what factors may influence a good response to prophylaxis with flunarizine. The aim of this study was to determine the possible predictive factors for therapeutic responsiveness to 3 months' treatment with flunarizine. One-hundred headache patients treated with flunarizine were evaluated. We considered &quot;responders&quot; those patients who recorded a reduction in migraine frequency of 75% after treatment. Statistical analysis revealed four factors which might influence therapeutic responsiveness in our patients. Positive factors were a family history (p&lt;0.01) and high intensity of pain (p&lt;0.01); negative factors were frequent attacks (p&lt;0.01) and a history of analgesic abuse (p&lt;0.001). Patients with no previous history of analgesic abuse, low frequency of attacks at baseline, higher levels of migraine pain, and positive family history constitute the prototype of flunarizine long-term treatment responders.
The effect of the migraine drugs ergotamine and sumatriptan on the cerebral blood flow (CBF) autoregulation was studied in halothane/nitrous oxide-anesthetized normotensive Wistar Kyoto rats. Ergotamine, an ergot alkaloid affecting 5HT, norepinephrine, and dopamine receptors, was administered intravenously as a single dose of 25 microg/kg. Sumatriptan, a selective 5HT1-like receptor agonist, was administered by intravenous infusion of 300 microg/kg/h. CBF was measured with the intracarotid 133Xe-injection method. The blood pressure limits of CBF autoregulation were determined by computerized least sum of square analysis. CBF autoregulation was preserved after both ergotamine and sumatriptan. Ergotamine shifted the lower blood pressure limit of CBF autoregulation towards higher blood pressures from 60 +/- 3 mmHg to 82 +/- 4 mmHg (p&lt;0.01), but did not significantly affect the upper blood pressure limit of CBF autoregulation. Sumatriptan had no significant effects on the blood pressure limits of CBF autoregulation.
Dopamine afferents from the mesencephalon appear to play a critical role in the normal development and cognitive functions of multiple areas of the primate cerebral cortex. In some regions, such as the prefrontal and motor cortices, dopamine innervation changes substantially during postnatal development. However, little is known about the postnatal maturation of dopamine afferents to the primate rostral entorhinal cortex, a periallocortical region that receives a dense dopamine innervation in adults. In this study, we used immunocytochemical techniques and antibodies against tyrosine hydroxylase and the dopamine transporter to examine the postnatal development of dopamine axons in the rostral subdivision of macaque monkey entorhinal cortex. Within animals, the axons labeled with each antibody did not differ in overall density or laminar distribution. Across development, the density of dopamine axons in layers I and VI did not change appreciably. In contrast, the density of labeled axons in layer III significantly increased by a factor of three between birth and 5-7 months of age. The timing of this change differs substantially from that observed in prefrontal cortex, where peak dopamine innervation occurs between 2 and 3 years of age. These findings, in concert with other data, suggest that developmental changes in the dopamine innervation of cortical regions may parallel the functional maturation of those areas.
Interpersonal communication via the auditory modality is fundamental to normal human development. One of the prominent anatomical specializations supporting this communication is the transverse gyrus of Heschl on the superior surface of the temporal lobe. This gyrus frequently appears duplicated, either by a sulcus indenting the crown of an initially single gyrus (common stem), or by a complete posterior duplication. The frequency of these duplications has been reported to be elevated in populations with learning disabilities and genetic anomalies. The significance of this observation is unclear, however, due to conflicting reports of the base rate of duplication and the location of relevant sulcal landmarks. In this study we report the variation in frequency and location of the sulcal boundaries of Heschl's gyrus in volumetric magnetic resonance imaging scans of 105 normal controls aged 5-65. The major results were as follows: (i) duplications were unstable--the frequency of duplication ranged from 20 to 60% depending on distance from the midline; (ii) common stem duplications were more frequent than posterior duplications, particularly in the right hemisphere. Intra- and interindividual instability in sulcal landmarks pose serious obstacles to the attempt to map behavioral function onto the brain. Novel methods for dealing with structural variation are needed to facilitate the development of valid mapping techniques.
Natural visual images are typically composed of multiple objects, which need to be segregated from each other and from the background. The visual system has evolved to capture a great variety of cues that allow a meaningful segmentation of the visual input. One of these cues is connectedness. Connected image regions are likely to belong to a single visual object, whereas disconnected image regions typically belong to different objects. The visual system should therefore be rather proficient in recovering connected image regions. In the present article we will review evidence in favour of an important role of connectedness detection for figure-ground segmentation, and speculate on the physiological mechanisms that allow the visual system to perform this non-trivial task. We argue that biologically plausible feedforward networks are maladapted for the detection of connectedness. It is proposed that neurons that respond to connected image regions are linked by a network of recurrent connections that we call the interaction skeleton. Neurons spread a tag through the interaction skeleton, which labels cells that respond to the same perceptual object. Tag-spreading costs time and is therefore inconsistent with extremely rapid object recognition. We will discuss the pros and cons of two such tags: synchrony and rate modulation.
Parental adjustment is an important outcome in child disability interventions, as well as an important mediating variable for other child and family outcomes. This is just as true in developing countries using models of community-based rehabilitation. Previous experience with Western instruments indicated that an appropriate new measure was required. A questionnaire containing 34 attitude statements rated on a five point scale was administered to the mothers of 46 children with epilepsy in a treatment programme in rural West Bengal, India. Factor analysis was performed on the dataset. Mothers reported feelings of rejection, low self-esteem and guilt. Four domains were derived from the factor analysis. All these attitudes are consistent with previous indian studies on childhood disability. These preliminary findings have implications for social support and counselling intervention. Further research is necessary to validate this instrument for field studies of intervention.
Somatosensory evoked potentials (SEP) are not routinely used in spinal dysraphism. In this study 38 patients (29 children and 9 adults) with spinal dysraphism were prospectively studied with the objective of evaluating whether SEPs were a prognostic tool that could be used to predict clinical improvement after repair of a spinal dysraphic lesion. For all patients, preoperative SEP and postoperative SEP (within 1 week of operation) were recorded. Fifteen of these patients also had follow-up postoperative SEP recordings taken within 3 months of operation. A clinical examination was performed at the time of each SEP. Thirty patients had tethered cord, 12 had diastematomyelia and 15 had intra- and/or extradural tumours, which included lipomas and dermoid and epidermoid tumours. Twenty-one children and all adults had abnormal preoperative SEPs. Sixteen children and 4 adults had improved SEPs postoperatively. All these children and 2 of the 4 adults also experienced clinical improvement. Improvement in SEPs preceded clinical improvement in 12/20 patients. We observe that SEPs have a good prognostic value.
A total of 911 Danish children under 15 years of age were treated for an intracranial tumour in the 25-five year period 1960-1984. All cases were followed up to the end of 1994 or to emigration or death if one of these came sooner. The mean annual incidence was 32.5 per million children with a slight increase over the 25 years. The male/female ratio was 1.15 and close to the M/F ratio for the entire Danish population of children. Of the tumours, 46% were located in the supratentorial and 54% in the infratentorial compartment, and 94% were verified histologically. In order of frequency the most common types were astrocytomas (all grades, 35%), medulloblastomas (20%), ependymomas (14%), and craniopharyngiomas (5%). Total removal of the tumour was performed in 277 and partial removal, including biopsy, in 490 children. In 57 patients a shunt operation only was performed, and 87 children did not have an operation or died before the correct diagnosis was established. Radiotherapy was administered in 55%. The outcome depended on extent of removal, radiation, location and histology of the tumour. Most (784 or 86%) of the children survived more than 1 month after diagnosis or operation, and 353 children (39% of the whole series, 47% of those alive more than 1 month after diagnosis) were alive at follow-up. Of the survivors 29% had a tumour in the supratentorial midline, 26% one in the lateral part of the supratentorial area, 31% a cerebellar tumour and 13% a IV ventricle tumour. It was possible for 66% of the survivors with supratentorial and 90% of those with infratentorial tumours to lead a normal life. The long-term prognosis was especially good for children with cerebellar and supratentorial astrocytomas and optic chiasma tumours. Children with juvenile cerebellar astrocytoma had the best prognosis: 90% were alive at the end of the follow-up period, as against 20% of those with medulloblastoma and 6% of those with glioblastoma. A comparison of the data from the present series and from a similar Danish series of intracranial tumours in 533 children seen in the years 1935-1959 shows no significant differences in location or histology, a slight increase in annual incidence, and improved survival rates during the 50 years in question.
To optimize the labeling and visualization of PCR products we tested different variables, including deoxynucleotide concentration and ratio, dilution of labeled product, number of PCR cycles, and use of one-step or nested labeling protocols. Labeling was achieved using a fixed amount of labeled dATP, whose relative specific activity was varied by adding increasing amounts of cold dATP. Optimal PCR-labeling intensity was reached at dATP concentrations between 0.9 and 7.0 micromol/L, with a peak at 1.8 micromol/L. This concentration corresponded to an optimal ratio between the increase in specific activity and the decrease in DNA yield. Nucleotide imbalances &gt;1:2 were not advantageous. Mutational analysis by single-strand conformational polymorphism (SSCP) was used to validate PCR-labeling protocols. The limiting nucleotide concentrations did not affect SSCP. Clear SSCP patterns were obtained using DNA templates of different sizes derived from several genes. SSCP patterns obtained using one-step or nested PCR-labeling protocols were equivalent and were visualized after overnight exposure, using [alpha35S]dATP as the label. Dilutions of labeled products ranging between 1:10 and 1:2.5 influenced SSCP patterns, and the lowest dilution tested produced better-defined and more-intense signals. Optimized SSCP conditions allowed the detection of novel and previously characterized nucleotide variants. Clear microsatellite typing was also obtained using optimized protocols and [alpha35S]dATP as the label.
1. We hypothesized that burst activity induced in rat hippocampal tissue by a high-K+ medium in vitro would be increased by a previous episode of global ischaemia, severe enough to induce persistent neurological dysfunction. 2. Male Wistar rats that were subjected to 9 min of chest compression, sufficient to reduce blood pressure (BP) to zero, showed evidence of neurological damage attributed to a global ischaemic insult. Hindlimb function was impaired for 24-48 h and a susceptibility to sound-induced seizures was induced in 25 to 35 rats. The seizure susceptibility cleared spontaneously within 2 weeks in 10 of 25 rats. 3. Hippocampal slices from postischaemic rats were prepared, tested for viability and were then exposed to an 8.0 mmol/L K+ artificial cerebrospinal fluid in vitro. Spontaneous epileptiform bursting activity in the high-K+ medium was not increased. Instead, burst size decreased with time after ischaemia. 4. The decrement in bursting activity is attributed to loss of cellular activity or integrity. These changes correlate with functional changes described by others, but not necessarily to histologically verifiable cell death. The time course of these changes was remarkably long, continuing for almost 3 weeks. Thus, a less-than-lethal ischaemia appears to induce neuronal changes, possibly reversible, that continue for at least 20 days after the global ischaemic insult.
1. During normal development of the vertebrate central nervous system, a considerable number of neurons die. The factors controlling which neurons die and which survive are not fully understood. 2. Target populations are known to maintain their innervating neurons. However, the role of afferents in maintaining their targets is still under review. 3. In the developing nervous system, deafferentation of a neuron population is difficult to achieve because plasticity (structural re-organization) can cause re-innervation of the area. Re-innervation alters, rather than removes, the afferent supply. 4. Afferent input is important for neuronal survival during development because deafferentation increases neuronal death by 20-30% and increasing input diminishes neuronal death. 5. Deafferented neurons die at the normal time for cell death for any given population. This occurs after the arrival of afferent axons but before the completion of connectivity and the onset of function. 6. Neuronal survival is maintained by any input, such as reinnervation by inappropriate fibres, but for optimal survival, morphological maturation and the acquisition of normal physiology, the correct input is required. 7. Afferents maintain their target neurons via a combination of electrical activity and delivery of trophic agents, which adjust intracellular calcium, thereby facilitating protein synthesis, mitochondrial function and suppressing apoptosis. 8. Evidence from animal and in vitro experiments indicates that afferents play an extremely important role in the survival of developing neurons in the immature vertebrate nervous system.
Three solutions to the problem of serial order can be identified: chaining, ordinal and positional theories. Error patterns in serial recall from short-term memory fail to support chaining theories, yet provide unequivocal evidence for positional theories. In a new model of short-term memory, the Start-End Model (SEM), the positions of items in a sequence are coded relative to the start and end of that sequence. Simulations confirm SEM's ability to capture the main phenomena in serial recall, such as the effects of primacy, recency, list length, grouping, modality, redundant suffices, proactive interference, retention interval, and phonological similarity. Moreover, SEM is the first model to capture the complete pattern of errors, including transpositions, repetitions, omissions, intrusions, confusions, and, in particular, positional errors between groups and between trials. Unlike other positional models however, SEM predicts that positional errors will maintain relative rather than absolute position, in agreement with recent experiments (Henson, 1977).
Experiments were performed on rat right atria maintained at 37 degrees C in oxygenated Krebs-Henseleit solution, at a baseline diastolic transmural pressure of 2 mmHg. A step increment in right atrial pressure caused an increase in atrial rate which reached a steady value after 2-3 min (rate response). An 8-mmHg increase in atrial pressure caused an 8% increase in atrial rate (n = 9, P &lt; 0.01). When the atrial rate was reduced by carbamylcholine, the rate response was augmented. After a 34% reduction in atrial rate, an 8-mmHg increase in atrial pressure increased atrial rate by 51% (n = 7, P &lt; 0.01). When atrial rate was elevated 71% by isoprenaline, the rate response was reversed (atrial rate decreased 3% following an 8-mmHg increase in atrial pressure; n = 7, P &lt; 0.01). In another series of experiments, atrial rate was adjusted to a wide range of values by exposure to carbamylcholine and isoprenaline, first applied singly, and then in combination. At any given atrial rate, the rate response was always larger when both agonists were present; this difference was greatest when atrial rate was near the control untreated value.
Violent crime has been associated with the abuse of anabolic-androgenic steroids (AAS) in several reports. Speculations concerning such associations have been raised with regard to several recent crimes committed in Sweden. To test this hypothetical relationship, individuals in a Stockholm jail who had been arrested for violent crimes were screened for AAS in the urine. No AAS were detected in the urine samples of 50 prisoners who had volunteered for the study. However, 16 prisoners refused to participate. AAS abuse was admitted by two of the participating subjects. Although there is a great need for epidemiological studies to objectively confirm the association of AAS abuse and violence, it seems that such studies will be impossible to conduct as long as they, for legal reasons, depend on voluntary participation.

As there is some overlap between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VaD), it can be assumed that some particular features that they have in common are responsible for this overlap. One of the candidates is white matter changes whose presence in variants of the two entities is described in this paper. A common, although much debated, division of AD is into two types, type I usually with early and type II usually with late onset. As to VaD, the division can be based on neuropathological changes and vascular disease mechanisms. In one subtype, 'subcortical white matter dementia', white matter lesions are conspicuous features. The overlap between this subtype and AD type I is small, but the overlap is considerable between the same subcortical subtype and AD type II. In the latter, white matter changes and Alzheimer encephalopathy may interact to produce dementia.
Hypertension or high blood pressure is constantly reported to be the main risk factors for ischaemic white matter lesions (WMLs). These lesions show the histopathological picture of diffuse demyelination and moderate loss of axons in subcortical structures. The main hypothesis regarding the association between high blood pressure and ischaemic WMLs is that long-standing hypertension causes lipohyalinosis of the media and thickening of the vessel walls with narrowing of the lumen of the small perforating arteries and arterioles which nourish the deep white matter. Episodes of hypotension may then lead to hypoperfusion and hypoxia-ischaemia in the white matter. In line with this, low blood pressure has also been reported to be a risk factor for WMLs. However, also other pathogenetic mechanisms may be involved. Hypertension may cause disturbances in the blood-brain barrier, which may cause lesions in the white matter by cerebral oedema, by activation of astrocytes or by destructive enzymes or other poisons which pass through the damaged vessel walls. The renin-angiotensin system is an example of a system that may be involved in the pathogenesis of both hypertension and arteriosclerosis. Its effector peptide angiotensin II has several blood-pressure-increasing effects, such as direct vasoconstriction and activation of the sympathetic nervous system. It also promotes hyperplasia and hypertrophy in vascular smooth muscle cells. Recently an association between hypertension and Alzheimer's disease has been reported. It is not clear whether this may be the reason for the common occurrence of WMLs in cases of late-onset Alzheimer's disease, as Alzheimer's disease may also cause lesions in the cerebral microvasculature. The association between WMLs and hypertension may thus be mediated through several different pathogenetic pathways.
EEG slow-wave activity was correlated with the regional brain syndrome profile in 74 patients with dementia. The EEGs were visually assessed using a semiquantitative rating scale. The intensities of four regional brain syndromes (parietal, frontal, subcortical, global) and the degree of dementia were rated. The patients were examined twice with a 1-year interval. A significant relationship was found between the increase in EEG slow-wave activity and the increase in intensity of the parietal brain syndrome. A somewhat lower significance was found for the relation between increase in slow-wave activity and increase in dementia degree. The results suggest that the EEG deterioration in dementia mainly reflects the gradual decline of parietal brain function.
The Toll signaling pathway functions in several Drosophila processes, including dorsal-ventral pattern formation and the immune response. Here, we demonstrate that this pathway is required in the epidermis for proper muscle development. Previously, we showed that the zygotic Toll protein is necessary for normal muscle development; in the absence of zygotic Toll, close to 50% of hemisegments have muscle patterning defects consisting of missing, duplicated and misinserted muscle fibers (Halfon, M.S., Hashimoto, C., and Keshishian, H., Dev. Biol. 169, 151-167, 1995). We have now also analyzed the requirements for easter, sptzle, tube, and pelle, all of which function in the Toll-mediated dorsal-ventral patterning pathway. We find that sptzle, tube, and pelle, but not easter, are necessary for muscle development. Mutations in these genes give a phenotype identical to that seen in Toll mutants, suggesting that elements of the same pathway used for Toll signaling in dorsal-ventral development are used during muscle development. By expressing the Toll cDNA under the control of distinct Toll enhancer elements in Toll mutant flies, we have examined the spatial requirements for Toll expression during muscle development. Expression of Toll in a subset of epidermal cells that includes the epidermal muscle attachment cells, but not Toll expression in the musculature, is necessary for proper muscle development. Our results suggest that signals received by the epidermis early during muscle development are an important part of the muscle patterning process.
The cephalic gap genes specify anterior head development in the Drosophila embryo. However, the mechanisms of action of these genes remain poorly understood. Here, we focused on the cephalic gap gene orthodenticle (otd), which establishes a specific region of the anterior head. It has been proposed that otd acts in a combinatorial fashion with the cephalic gap genes empty spiracles (ems) and buttonhead (btd) to assign segmental identities in this region. To test this model, we used a heat-inducible transgene to generate pulses of ubiquitous otd expression during embryonic development. Ectopic otd expression caused significant defects in head formation, including the duplication of sensory structures derived from otd-dependent segments. However, these defects do not appear to result from the transformation of head segment identities predicted by the combinatorial model. Instead, they correlate with specific regulatory effects of otd on the expression of the segment polarity genes engrailed (en) and wingless (wg). Ectopic otd expression also caused the loss of head structures derived from the maxillary segment, which lies posterior to the otd domain. We show that this effect is associated with otd repression of the homeotic selector gene Deformed (Dfd).

Here, we report the effects of short exposure to melatonin on the human mt1 (h mt1) melatonin receptor-mediated signaling in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, and the consequences of an exposure that resembles the physiological pattern of melatonin release on cAMP-mediated signal transduction. Short exposure (10 min) of h mt1 melatonin receptors to melatonin (400 pM) inhibited forskolin-stimulated cAMP formation, cAMP-dependent protein kinase activity, and phosphorylation of the cAMP response element-binding protein. However, treatment of mt1-CHO cells with melatonin in a manner that closely mimics the in vivo activation of melatonin receptors (i.e. 400 pM melatonin for 8 h to mimic darkness) resulted in a supersensitization of the cAMP-dependent signal transduction cascade during the period of withdrawal (i.e. 16 h without melatonin to mimic the light cycle of a diurnal photoperiod). During the period of withdrawal, forskolin induced a time-dependent (1-16 h) increase in cAMP formation (approximately 200% of control cells). This effect of melatonin was dependent on the presence of the h mt1 melatonin receptor, as no potentiation of forskolin-induced cAMP formation was observed in CHO cells transfected only with the neomycin resistance plasmid. The time-dependent increase in forskolin-stimulated cAMP levels resulted in a potentiation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase activity 1 h after withdrawal (approximately 130% of control cells; P &lt; 0.05) and in the number of cells containing the phosphorylated form of cAMP response element-binding protein (approximately 75% of cells at 1 and 16 h compared with 30% in control cells; P &lt; 0.05). An increase in the undissociated state (G alphabetagamma) of Gi proteins may underlie this phenomenon as demonstrated by the increase in pertussis toxin-catalyzed ADP-ribosylation of G proteins (217 +/- 48% of control; P &lt; 0.05) after melatonin withdrawal. This increase in the ribosylation was not due to an up-regulation of Galpha(i) protein, as no significant change in Galpha(i) protein levels occurred at this time. We demonstrated that activation of the h mt1 melatonin receptor in a manner that resembles the physiological pattern of melatonin exposure alters signaling, as potentiation of cAMP-mediated signal transduction events is observed after hormone withdrawal. The CHO cells expressing the human melatonin receptor may provide an in vitro cellular model in which to investigate the putative signaling mechanisms leading to gene regulation by melatonin.
Estrogen acts in the brain to regulate female reproductive physiology and behavior, and protein kinase C (PKC) is estrogen-regulated in many estrogen-responsive tissues. We examined whether estrogen regulates PKC in the hypothalamus (HYP) and preoptic area (POA), brain regions which mediate estrogenic control of female reproductive function. PKC activity in tissue from hormone-treated and control female rats was measured, in the presence of phorbol ester and calcium, by quantifying 32p incorporation into a substrate peptide. PKC catalytic activity increased significantly in POA tissue extracts from estradiol-treated, ovariectomized (OVX) female rats but not in HYP or cortical extracts. Phorbol ester potentiation of cAMP accumulation also was examined to determine whether the ability of PKC to potentiate adenylyl cyclase activity was affected by estrogen. PKC stimulation potentiated forskolin-induced cAMP accumulation to a greater degree in POA, but not HYP, slices from estrogen-treated OVX female rats. PKC enzyme levels were examined using phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate binding assays and immunoblots. Estrogen treatment did not change phorbol ester binding affinity or the density of binding sites in the POA or HYP. Immunoblots for the alpha, beta, and gamma PKC isoforms combined, or the gamma PKC isoform alone, did not detect differences between hormone-treated and control OVX female rats. Therefore, estrogen treatment increased PKC catalytic activity in the POA of OVX female rats but not in the HYP. However, the increased PKC catalytic activity was not correlated with detectable changes in the level of the alpha, beta, or gamma PKC isoforms or in the density of phorbol ester binding sites.


Noxious stimuli may directly activate peripheral nerve endings of primary sensory neurons. Such impulses are conveyed centrally as well as, through antidromic axon-reflexes, peripherally where they release pro-inflammatory neuropeptides that cause the set of changes collectively referred to as &quot;neurogenic inflammation&quot;. These peptides are able to regulate cutaneous inflammatory processes. Thus, for instance, quantitative variations in cutaneous levels of some neuropeptides, such as calcitonin gene-related peptide, neuropeptide Y, substance P, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, neurokinin A and somatostatin, have been found in lesional skin in a number of dermatoses. In addition, they may also serve as selective markers of nerve fiber degeneration and regeneration, and they can also act as trophic agents.
We investigated in adult rats whether a relatively short exposure to a novel odour can lead to changes in reactivity of olfactory bulb principal neurons. Naive rats were exposed to isoamyl acetate for 20 min per day either for 6 consecutive days or for a single 20-min exposure. Control group was non-exposed. Under anaesthesia, responsiveness of each recorded single mitral/tufted cell was tested towards isoamyl acetate and four other odours. Results show that the proportion of responding cells in the exposed groups decreased drastically when compared to controls. In the two experimental groups recorded 24 h following the last exposure, mitral/tufted cells show a significant decrease in the number of excitatory responses. In parallel, the number of non-responsive cells increased by at least a fourfold factor. This decrease in reactivity was not selective towards the odour used during the exposure but concerned any of the five test-odours presented during recordings. Finally, this lower responsiveness was long lasting as it was still observed 10 days after the end of the last exposure. This preliminary study points out the importance of even limited sensory experience in neural representation of odours.
This study was aimed at determining the effects of either Diazepam administration or chronic alcohol consumption (CAC) on spatial memory measured by concurrent discriminations in an eight arm radial maze using mice as subjects. Two different protocols involving a non-matching rule were used to evaluate either temporal order (recurrent items) or item recognition (non-recurrent items). Results showed that both Diazepam administration and CAC produced a memory deficit which was primarily observed in the temporal task, whereas item recognition was spared. These data show that Diazepam and CAC produced similar memory impairments. Thus, our study stressed the potential importance of the GABA/BDZ dysfunction in the production of organic amnesia of alcoholic origin. The overall analysis of the data suggests that both CAC and Diazepam injections would impair forms of memory sustained by automatic or incidental learning.
Impairments in learning and memory, induced by surgical or excitotoxic lesions of the septo-hippocampal or basalo-cortical pathways, can be ameliorated by grafts of cholinergic-rich foetal basal forebrain tissue into the hippocampus and/or neocortex. However, the effects of such grafts have been only partial, which may be due to the non-specific nature of the lesioning procedures used in these studies, known to destroy both cholinergic and non-cholinergic neuronal projections. In the present study, we have explored the effects of cholinergic-rich grafts in rats subjected to selective cholinergic lesions, induced by intraventricular injections of the immunotoxin 192 IgG-saporin. This lesion, which selectively destroyed 85-95% of the cholinergic neurons in both the septal-diagonal band and nucleus basalis, produced a long-lasting, substantial impairment in both the acquisition of spatial reference memory in the Morris water maze task and delay-dependent short-term memory performance, as seen in a delayed matching-to-position test. Foetal cholinergic grafts (but not control grafts of cerebellar tissue) implanted at multiple sites into both the hippocampus and fronto-parietal neocortex, bilaterally, completely reversed the acquisition deficit in place navigation in the water maze, to an extent that greatly exceeded that previously seen in animals with non-selective lesions. Most notably, however, the impairment in short-term memory was only partially and inconsistently affected, and only at the longest delay times. The morphological analysis, performed at about 7 months after transplantation, showed that the grafts had re-established a close to normal cholinergic innervation in the initially denervated cortical and hippocampal territories. It is proposed that the differential effects of cholinergic-rich transplants on different aspects of cognitive performance may define intrinsic limitations to the functional capacity of the ectopically placed grafts, which may be due to incomplete integration of the grafted cholinergic neurons into functional regulatory circuitries normally available to the basal forebrain cholinergic system.

This purpose of this study was to examine the spatial coding of eye movements during static roll tilt (up to +/-45 degrees) relative to perceived earth and head orientations. Binocular videographic recordings obtained in darkness from eight subjects allowed us to quantify the mean deviations in gaze trajectories along both horizontal and vertical coordinates relative to the true earth and head orientations. We found that both variability and curvature of gaze trajectories increased with roll tilt. The trajectories of eye movements made along the perceived earth-horizontal (PEH) were more accurate than movements along the perceived head-horizontal (PHH). The trajectories of both PEH and PHH saccades tended to deviate in the same direction as the head tilt. The deviations in gaze trajectories along the perceived earth-vertical (PEV) and perceived head-vertical (PHV) were both similar to the PHH orientation, except that saccades along the PEV deviated in the opposite direction relative to the head tilt. The magnitude of deviations along the PEV, PHH, and PHV corresponded to perceptual overestimations of roll tilt obtained from verbal reports. Both PEV gaze trajectories and perceptual estimates of tilt orientation were different following clockwise rather than counterclockwise tilt rotation; however, the PEH gaze trajectories were less affected by the direction of tilt rotation. Our results suggest that errors in gaze trajectories along PEV and perceived head orientations increase during roll tilt in a similar way to perceptual errors of tilt orientation. Although PEH and PEV gaze trajectories became nonorthogonal during roll tilt, we conclude that the spatial coding of eye movements during roll tilt is overall more accurate for the perceived earth reference frame than for the perceived head reference frame.
Previous work found that transplants of embryonic (E) day 16 occipital cortex placed into the frontal cortex of newborn hosts failed to receive input from visual-related nuclei of the host thalamus. The present study is aimed at determining the possible causes of the lack of visual-related thalamic input to these transplants. For that purpose, a retrograde neurotracer was injected into transplants of embryonic (E16) occipital origin which were placed into the frontal cortex of newborn rats with either intact or damaged occipital cortex. In rats with intact occipital cortex, occipital-to-frontal transplants were indeed not contacted by axons from the dorsal lateral geniculate (DLG) nucleus and received only sparse to negligible input from, respectively, the lateral posterior (LP) and laterodorsal (LD) thalamic nuclei. Yet, following neonatal lesion of the host occipital cortex, the occipital-to-frontal transplants received a significant input from the LP and to a much lesser degree from the LD but practically none from the DLG. Additional control cases with frontal-to-frontal transplants and prior lesion of the occipital cortex did not receive significant input from any of these thalamic nuclei. Thus, following neonatal deprivation of cortical target cells in their main terminal field, LP and to a lesser extent LD axons have the capacity to recognize and significantly innervate appropriate targets even those at some distance from their normal terminal site. DLG neurons degenerate or are not able to contact and invade available terminal space that is provided at some distance from the occipital cortex.
The presented classification of astrocytic gliomas follows the system adopted by the WHO which was last published in 1993. The nosographic position of each tumour type is discussed in relation to previous positions and the rationale of changes is provided. The biology and pathology of anaplasia, leading from astrocytoma to glioblastoma, are discussed briefly. The increasing genotypic and phenotypic heterogeneity is described in its progressive stages. A series of genetic changes are associated with the main histologic features of malignancy , such as TP53 mutations, EGFR amplification, CDKN2 deletion, etc. The genetic differences between primary and secondary glioblastomas are emphasised. Tumour-associated biological events are presented: cell invasion and spread, necrosis and apoptosis and angiogenesis are all discussed in some detail. Of each event a short survey on the principal phenotypic and molecular features is given with emphasis on their significance to pathogenesis. Each tumour type is briefly summarised from epidemiological, clinical and pathological standpoints.
By using otoacoustic emission, we looked for change in outer hair cell (OHC) motile activity and medial olivocochlear (MOC) system inhibition due to benzodiazepine administration, a drug that is known to produce a pharmacological effect by interacting with GABAergic inhibitory neurotransmission. No effect was observed on OHC motile activity, in contrast benzodiazepines decreased MOC system effectiveness suggesting the existence of GABAergic fibers projecting onto the MOC system.
Previous studies indicate a left-right asymmetry in the function of peripheral auditory system. Contralateral acoustic suppression of TEOAEs (transient evoked otoacoustic emissions) enables assessment of medial olivocochlear efferent system functioning, and has demonstrated that this system is more effective in the right than in the left ear. Moreover, TEOAE amplitudes are lower in the left than in the right ear. The aim of the present experiment was to verify firstly the absence of a relationship between medial efferent system asymmetry and TEOAE amplitude asymmetry, and secondly to study TEOAE input/output function slopes. There was no link between the asymmetries in TEOAE amplitude and in the medial efferent system functioning. Further, as previously shown, the medial olivocochlear system increased the TEOAE input/output function slopes. These TEOAE input/output function slopes seem to be consistent factors in peripheral asymmetry since the slope is lower in the right than in the left ear. Moreover, the lower the TEOAE amplitudes, the greater the TEOAE slopes. The slope asymmetry of the two ears could correspond to earlier saturation or a lower augmentation ability of the TEOAE response in the right ear, where the TEOAE amplitude is higher. This asymmetry in growth slopes reinforces the notion of peripheral auditory lateralization.
A highly specific anti-glutamate monoclonal antibody, mAb2D7, was used together with light and electron microscopy to elucidate the role played by the amino acid glutamate in the projection from the olfactory bulb to the piriform cortex in the rat. By light microscopy, glutamate-like immunoreactivity was observed in neuronal cell bodies and in the neuropil of the piriform cortex. Double labelling experiments which involved injections of wheat germ agglutinin-horse--radish peroxidase into the olfactory bulb and a post-embedding immunogold method for electron microscopy revealed anterogradely labelled terminals making asymmetric synaptic contacts on dendrites in the piriform cortex which contained high levels of glutamate as assessed by quantification. These results further support a role for glutamate as a neurotransmitter in the efferent pathway of the rat olfactory bulb.
Molecular cloning of the breakpoints of a t(1;10)(p22q21) constitutional translocation breakpoint in a patient with stage 4S neuroblastoma has identified two genes which are fused in-frame to generate a novel gene. The 1p22 gene, which we have called NB4S , encodes a 7.5 kb transcript with an 810 amino acid open reading frame and is expressed in a wide variety of tissues. NB4S has &gt;88% homology with the mouse EVI -5 gene within the coding region and shows strong homology over a 200 amino acid region with TBC1 box motif genes involved in cell growth and differentiation. The C-teminal end of the protein contains a number of coiled coil domains, indicating a possible protein-protein binding function. The chromosome 10 breakpoint interrupts a novel transcript (TRNG10) which could only be detected in tumor cells. This transcript has no exon/intron structure or significant open reading frame, suggesting that it is a structural RNA which is transcribed but not translated. The chromosome rearrangement creates a fusion gene product which combines the TBC1 motif of NB4S with a polyadenylation signal from TRNG10 , potentially generating a truncated protein with oncogenic properties.
This meeting was an important forum for investigators to address the latest understanding in the field of AIDS dementia complex (ADC), a clinical condition characterized by a set of neurological impairments, such as cognitive dysfunction, motor difficulties, co-ordination abnormalities and other neurological signs and symptoms developed in many HIV-1-infected individuals. This meeting aimed to bridge the gap between basic and clinical science in the field of NeuroAIDS.
We report here a serendipitous observation of marked variations in blood thrombocyte count without agranulocytosis in a patient being treated with clozapine. Possible mechanisms of this thrombocytopenia and thrombocytosis related to clozapine are discussed, raising questions regarding monitoring of platelet counts alongwith granulocyte counts to prevent serious complications as a result of thrombocytosis or thrombocytopenia.
Alcoholism is associated with impairment of information processing attention, memory and concept formation, which hamper the patients response to psychotherapy aimed at treating alcoholism. We improved cognitive functioning in abstinent alcoholics through cognitive retraining. Eight detoxified male alcoholics, comparable on age, education, marital status, medication and years of alcohol consumption were assigned, four each to the treatment and control groups. Cognitive retraining given to the treatment group improved attention, information processing, memory, planning and reasoning. Daily, individual, one hour sessions were conducted for six weeks. Patients in the control groups were seen weekly once and counselled if necessary. In the treatment group, significant improvement of information processing, memory, and reduction of neuropsychological deficits resulted from retraining. Control group showed no changes in cognitive function. Family functioning and long term abstinence were not influenced by cognitive retraining. Neuropsychological rehabilitation is effective in improving cognitive deficits of abstinent alcoholics.
There is little published research in mainstream Indian journals of the clinical psychotropic properties of herbal medicines. The present study therefore evaluated the psychotropic effects of Memorin (from a pharmaceutical house based at Maharashtra), a herbal formulation. Subjects with DSM-IV age-related cognitive decline were randomized to receive Memorin (n=22) or placebo (n=23) for three months. Before and after treatment, all subjects completed a battery of neuropsychological tests that assessed visual and verbal memory, visuospatial skills, and perceptuomotor functioning Subjects and rater were alike blind to treatment group. The results revealed that in the Memorin group, on most tests significant improvement in performances were observed after treatment; improvement in many of the memory tasks was however confined to males; age did not significantly influence the results. In contrast, in placebo-treated subjects there was little therapeutic gain. It is concluded that irrespective of the subject's actual age, Memorin may benefit elderly persons, particularly males, who experience age-related cognitive decline.
The serotonergic system in the brain modulates many types of behavioural and physiological processes. An example of this modulatory function is seen with the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) which enhance serotonin transmission and influence mood, anxiety states, aggression, feeding and sexual behaviour. At present, 14 different serotonin receptors have been described and, although the function and localization of many of these receptors is becoming increasingly clear, much remains unknown. The SSRIs are intriguing drugs; by blocking presynaptic and somatodendritic serotonin transporters, they enhance serotonergic neurotransmission and thereby activate serotonin receptors. It is this effect which leads to the characteristic effects of the SSRIs. Theoretically, however, it appears possible that they may have differential effects on the various subpopulations of serotonin receptors. Differences between the SSRIs have recently been reported in males with rapid ejaculation; fluvoxamine, in contrast to other SSRIs, did not affect rapid ejaculation. What difference in the mechanism of action between the SSRIs is responsible for this differential profile? A conditioned taste aversion procedure has been used in mice to investigate the discriminatory stimuli (cues) of fluvoxamine and fluoxetine. It appeared that the discriminatory stimulus of fluvoxamine is primarily mediated via 5-hydroxytryptamine (HT)1A receptors, whilst that of fluoxetine is primarily mediated via 5-HT2C receptors. Both types of receptors have been implicated in depression and it is conceivable that different SSRIs have intrinsic activity at these receptors. Investigations are now ongoing to determine whether this differential mechanism of action also applies to the other SSRIs and whether there are differences between the SSRIs with respect to their effect on sexual behaviour in rodents.

Histidine decarboxylase catalyses the formation of histamine, an important biological messenger. In spite of the essential biological functions exerted by histamine the knowledge about the mechanisms involved in the regulation of histidine decarboxylase is rather limited. This is most likely due to the limited supply of suitable tools, including highly specific antibodies. In the present study we describe the production and characterisation of specific antisera against rat histidine decarboxylase using recombinant protein synthesised in a bacterial expression system. The antisera were shown to effectively immunoprecipitate histidine decarboxylase activity in extracts of fetal rat liver as well as to detect the histidine decarboxylase protein by Western blot analysis of COS-7 cells expressing recombinant rat histidine decarboxylase. The results demonstrate the successful production of highly specific antisera to histidine decarboxylase which may become valuable tools in future studies of the structure and function of this enzyme.
Patients with acute stroke may become malnourished because of feeding difficulties, so dietary supplementation may improve outcome. We investigated the validity and reliability of an 'eyeball' assessment of nutritional status for use in an international trial of different feeding following acute stroke. One hundred and one inpatients (mean age 75 years), of whom 40 had suffered an acute stroke, were independently observed by two medical students, a doctor and a nurse, and categorised as underweight, normal weight or overweight. Body mass index (BMI) was calculated using height and weight. Sensitivity of the informal assessment for correctly classifying the patient as underweight (BMI &lt; 20 kg/m2), normal (20-30 kg/m2) and overweight (BMI &gt; 30 kg/m2) ranged from 64% to 100% and specificity from 71% to 100%. Interobserver agreement between different pairs of observers was moderate to good. An 'eyeball' assessment of nutritional status is valid and reliable enough for use in a multicentre trial of feeding regimens following acute stroke.
We have previously shown that the four promoters of the IGF2 gene are under a tight but dynamic control during human liver development, whereby P3 and P1 are reciprocally active before and after birth respectively while the P2 and P4 promoters are constitutively active at a relatively lower level. In this study, we investigated the methylation status of the promoters P1 and P3 of IGF2 and the promoter region of the H19 gene in developing human livers ranging from fetal to late adult. A region of about 300 bp immediately upstream of the IGF2 exon 5 was found to be subjected to a developmental-specific methylation and this may correlate to the P3 promoter activity. The P1 domain of IGF2 was also found to be methylated in a developmentally-specific pattern. The promoter region of the H19 gene displayed different methylation patterns in different development stages showing decreased general methylation with increase of age. Therefore, regional- and developmental-specific DNA methylation is displayed in the promoter regions of the IGF2 and H19 genes. This may be an important factor involved in gene regulation in the developing human liver.

The neurological manifestations of multiple sclerosis (MS) have been considered to result from demyelination of axons with relative preservation of axonal integrity. This concept has been challenged recently by a landmark pathological study, published in the New England Journal of Medicine, which has demonstrated that axonal degeneration is also present. The authors of the study hypothesized that axonal degeneration is the pathological correlate of the irreversible neurological impairment in this disease. However, this hypothesis cannot be reconciled with the clinical results obtained with transcranial applications of AC pulsed electromagnetic fields (EMFs) of picotesla flux density which have shown rapid and sustained improvement of symptoms including normalization of evoked potential responses in patients with chronic progressive or secondary progressive MS without demyelinated areas first undergoing remyelination or transected axons undergoing regeneration. Biochemical studies have shown that MS patients are serotonergically depleted with the extent of cerebral depletion correlating with the degree of motor disability and a chronic progressive course. It is believed that progressive serotonergic neuronal atrophy with synaptic inactivation, not axonal degeneration, are the hallmarks of the disease and that administration of AC pulsed magnetic fields improves symptoms of MS partly through reactivation of serotonergic neurons and amplification of synaptic serotonergic transmission.
Intracerebral administration of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) elicits in experimental animals a yawning stretching behavior which is believed to reflect an arousal response mediated through the septohippocampal cholinergic neurons. A surge in plasma ACTH levels at night and just prior to awakening from sleep is also associated in humans with yawning and stretching behavior. Recurrent episodes of uncontrollable yawning and body stretching, identical to those observed upon awakening from physiological sleep, occur in a subset of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) during transcranial therapeutic application of AC pulsed electromagnetic fields of picotesla flux density. This behavioral response has been observed exclusively in young female patients who are fully ambulatory with a relapsing remitting course of the disease who also demonstrate a distinctly favorable therapeutic response to magnetic stimulation. ACTH is employed for the treatment of MS due to its immunomodulatory effects and a surge in its release in response to AC pulsed magnetic stimulation could explain some of the mechanism by which these fields improve symptoms of the disease.


A-53930A, B and C, which inhibit N-type Ca2+ channels, were isolated from the culture broth of Streptomyces vinaceusdrappus SANK 62394. A-53930A and B were new compounds which contained a carbamoyl group on the 6-hydroxyl group of the D-gulosamine part of streptothricin. A-53930C was identical to streptothricin B. A-53930A, B and C inhibited [125I]omega-conotoxin MVIIA binding to N-type Ca2+ channels (IC50= 0.17, 0.091 and 0.071 microM), but did not inhibit [3H]PN200-110 binding to L-type Ca2+ channels (IC50 &gt; 50 microM). These compounds also inhibited [3H]norepinephrine release from chick cerebral cortex synaptosomes (IC50=91.0, 20.6 and 39.5 microM), indicating these compounds selectively block N-type Ca2+ channels which are important for neurotransmitter release. It was also revealed that although A-53930C had antimicrobial activity against gram-negative and -positive bacteria and fungi, A-53930A and B showed weak activity only against gram-negative bacteria.
Only a limited number of genetic mouse models of abnormal sphingolipid metabolism are known to occur spontaneously. However, recent progress in the combined homologous recombination and embryonic stem cell technology allows inactivation of any genes of choice once they are cloned. Not only is it possible to generate mutant mouse lines that are equivalent to known human genetic disorders but genetic conditions unknown or highly unlikely to occur in humans, such as simultaneous inactivation of more than one gene, can also be created. Most of the human disorders due to genetic defects in sphingolipid catabolism have been duplicated in the mouse. With increasing activity in cloning of the enzymes involved in sphingolipid biosynthesis, genetic mouse models of abnormal sphingolipid biosynthesis are beginning to appear. These models have already provided invaluable insight into the metabolism and physiological functions of sphingolipids and are expected to be utilized extensively for evaluation of the pathogenesis and of treatment approaches of these genetic disorders.
We have used homologous recombination in embryonic stem cells to generate mice with a targeted disruption of the osteopontin (Opn, or Spp1, for secreted phosphoprotein 1) gene. Mice homozygous for this disruption fail to express osteopontin (OPN) as assessed at both the mRNA and protein level, although an N-terminal fragment of OPN is detectable at extremely low levels in the bones of -/- animals. The Opn -/- mice are fertile, their litter size is normal, and they develop normally. The bones and teeth of animals not expressing OPN are morphologically normal at the level of light and electron microscopy, and the skeletal structure of young animals is normal as assessed by radiography. Ultrastructurally, proteinaceous structures normally rich in OPN, such as cement lines, persist in the bones of the Opn-/- animals. Osteoclastogenesis was assessed in vitro in cocultures with a feeder layer of calvarial osteoblast cells from wild-type mice. Spleen cells from Opn-/- mice cells formed osteoclasts 3- to 13-fold more frequently than did control Opn+/+ cells, while the extent of osteoclast development from Opn -/- bone marrow cells was about 2- to 4-fold more than from the corresponding wild-type cells. Osteoclast development occurred when Opn-/- spleen cells were differentiated in the presence of Opn-/-osteoblasts, indicating that endogenous OPN is not required for this process. These results suggest that OPN is not essential for normal mouse development and osteogenesis, but can modulate osteoclast differentiation.
The authors investigated the gene expression of the NR2A and NR2B subunits of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor and the functional electrophysiologic activity of NMDA receptor complexes in the vulnerable CA1 and less vulnerable dentate gyrus subfields of the rat hippocampus at different times after transient cerebral ischemia. Decreased expression for both subtypes was observed in both the CA1 subfield and dentate granule cell layer at early times after challenge; however, the decreased expression in the dentate granule cell layer was reversible because mRNA levels for both the NR2A and NR2B subtypes recovered to, or surpassed, sham-operated mRNA levels by 3 days postchallenge. No recovery of expression for either subtype was observed in the CA1 subfield. The functional activity of NMDA receptor complexes, as assessed by slow field excitatory postsynaptic potentiations (slow f-EPSP) in CA1 pyramidal neurons, was maintained at 6 hours postchallenge; however, this activity was diminished greatly by 24 hours postchallenge, and absent at 7 days postchallenge. A similar pattern was observed for the non-NMDA receptor-mediated fast f-EPSP. In dentate granule neurons, however, no significant change in NMDA receptor-mediated slow f-EPSP from sham control was observed at any time after insult. The non-NMDA receptor-generated fast f-EPSPs also were maintained at all times postinsult in the dentate gyrus. These results illustrate that the activity of NMDA receptors remains functional in dentate granule neurons, but not in the pyramidal neurons of the CA1 subfield, at early and intermediate times after transient cerebral ischemia, and suggest that there is a differential effect of ischemia on the glutamatergic transmission systems in these two hippocampal subfields.
Previous immunohistochemical staining procedures of the brain and pituitary in Xenopus laevis, using an antiserum against neuronal nitric oxide (NO) synthase (nNOS) and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase histochemistry, have revealed NOS activity in neurons and fibers in a number of brain areas, as well as in fibers in the pituitary. In the present study we have localized the target structures of the NOergic system in the Xenopus brain by visualizing the sites of NO-sensitive cyclic 3',5'-guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) accumulation, according to a method for cGMP visualization in rat brain slices. Brain slices of unfixed Xenopus are incubated in the presence of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor isobutylmethylxanthine and the NO donor sodium nitroprusside, followed by fixation and cryosectioning. Sections were then processed for immunohistochemistry using rabbit and sheep antisera against cGMP and a sheep antiserum against nNOS. Visualization of single and double labeling of cGMP immunoreactive and/or nNOS immunoreactive structures was performed with combined CY3/fluorescein isothiocyanate fluorescence microscopy. Following this procedure, we provide immunohistochemical evidence for the distribution of cGMP-accumulating neurons in the brain of adult Xenopus. In most brain areas, the distribution of nNOS and cGMP immunoreactive structures (neuron somata and fibers) is distinct and separate, for instance in the dorsal pallium, the lateral thalamic nuclei, the optic tectum, the locus coeruleus and the reticular formation. However, nNOS and cGMP immunoreactive structures are often found in the vicinity of each other, and in the optic tectum even in adjacent neuron fibers and somata. The present observations are in line with the presence of an NO-dependent soluble guanylate cyclase in distinct brain areas of Xenopus laevis, corroborating similar data in the mammalian brain. Further, our observations may add to the understanding of the anatomical connectivity pattern and functional relevance of the NOergic system in the amphibian brain.
Quantitative proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy was performed on six children with Sturge-Weber syndrome following gadolinium enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). MRI revealed only unilateral involvement in all cases. The mean concentration (mmol/kg wet weight) of the neuronal marker N-acetyl-aspartate was significantly reduced by 37% in the ipsilateral gadolinium enhanced volume of interest compared to a similarly placed contralateral volume of interest (5.39 +/- 1.70 [SD] vs 8.50 +/- 1.14, P &lt; .005, two-tailed paired Student's t-test). Decreased N-acetyl-aspartate in the ipsilateral volume of interest was observed in all patients studied. No significant differences were found in the concentrations of creatine/phosphocreatine or choline compounds between the ipsilateral and contralateral volumes of interest. These findings give possible new insight into the pathophysiology of this disease and suggest that quantitative proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy may be useful for the early characterization and monitoring of neuronal dysfunction or loss in infants and children with Sturge-Weber syndrome.



Computational modeling is being used increasingly in neuroscience. In deriving such models, inference issues such as model selection, model complexity, and model comparison must be addressed constantly. In this article we present briefly the Bayesian approach to inference. Under a simple set of commonsense axioms, there exists essentially a unique way of reasoning under uncertainty by assigning a degree of confidence to any hypothesis or model, given the available data and prior information. Such degrees of confidence must obey all the rules governing probabilities and can be updated accordingly as more data becomes available. While the Bayesian methodology can be applied to any type of model, as an example we outline its use for an important, and increasingly standard, class of models in computational neuroscience--compartmental models of single neurons. Inference issues are particularly relevant for these models: their parameter spaces are typically very large, neurophysiological and neuroanatomical data are still sparse, and probabilistic aspects are often ignored. As a tutorial, we demonstrate the Bayesian approach on a class of one-compartment models with varying numbers of conductances. We then apply Bayesian methods on a compartmental model of a real neuron to determine the optimal amount of noise to add to the model to give it a level of spike time variability comparable to that found in the real cell.
Mental disorders due to cerebral microvascular disease have been known for over 100 years. Recently, an autosomal dominant form of cerebral arteriopathy (CADASIL) has been described in association with a Notch3 family gene on the short arm of chromosome 19. CADASIL causes subcortical lacunar infarction and dementia in over 80% of cases and depression in a large proportion of patients. Clinically, CADASIL may appear to be very similar to hypertensive microvascular disease (Binswanger's disease), a condition that is seen in the elderly. This article reviews the clinical, pathologic, and genetic features of CADASIL. CADASIL is of interest to neurologists and psychiatrists because it is the first syndrome of vascular dementia and depression with an identified gene. How the gene causes the widespread arteriopathy is not yet known. Insights gained from the study of CADASIL should help us better understand its etiology, as well as the options for treatment of the more common forms of microvascular disease seen in the elderly.
Huntington disease (HD) is a fascinating neurodegenerative disorder whose features straddle the boundaries of psychiatry, neurology, and genetics. The clinical symptoms of HD consist of a triad of motor, cognitive, and psychiatric/behavioral disturbances. In 1993, the HD Collaborative Research Group identified the gene and the mutation responsible for HD. HD was one of the first neurodegenerative disorders discovered to be caused by a novel mutational mechanism known as trinucleotide repeat expansion. Since then, HD has been the model for autosomal dominant neurogenetic disorders. The clinical, pathological, and genetic aspects of the disease are reviewed and some of the questions that remain to be answered by researchers of the 21st century are outlined.
The present paper aimed to review findings obtained by our researches to elucidate sympathetic nerve mechanisms of cardiovascular deconditioning in humans exposed to short and long term simulation of microgravity. Sympathetic nerve activity in humans has been so far investigated using indirect methods by analyzing the activities of effector organs, such as heart rate, blood flow, blood pressure, sweating etc. or by measuring the plasma nor-adrenaline level. Now we have a technique called microneurography which has enabled us to measure directly the sympathetic nerve activity form human peripheral nerves. The microneurography technique was used for the first time before, during and after the Space Shuttle &quot;Neurolab&quot; mission launched in April 1998 to elucidate how sympathetic nerve activity in astronauts is modified by exposure to microgravity in space. In this paper, we would like to present our recent findings concerning sympathetic nerve responses to short and long term microgravity simulated by different methods.
Gravity-responsive eye torsion was studied simultaneously in both eyes during parabolic flight to determine the effects of weightlessness. Observed effects were that torsional position of eyes in the 1G states between parabolas was offset from the baseline positions obtained prior to the onset of parabolas, responses to hyper- and hypogravity were seen in most subjects, and responses were consistent within subjects but varied between subjects.
Researchers studied the effect of 2G exposure on body temperature in Wild type and BRN 3.1 Knockout mice to determine the feasibility to using BRN 3.1 Knockout mice as an animal model of the effects of altered gravitational fields on vestibular system physiology.
The nerve growth factor and its receptor are important in nerve growth, differentiation, maturation, and maintenance. In order to explore the exact distribution of p75 low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor (p75 NGFr) expression in cutaneous nerve fibers, p75 NGFr and neuron-specific enolase double immunofluorescence and immunoelectron microscopic studies were conducted on normal human skin samples. After p75 NGFr and neuron-specific enolase immunofluorescence double staining, the dermal nerves were strongly p75 NGFr-immunoreactive (IR); however, very few p75 NGFr-IR nerve fibers were found in the epidermis. p75 NGFr immunoreactivity was found mainly in the peripheral part of cutaneous nerve trunks and fibers, whereas neuron-specific enolase immunoreactivity was mainly seen within the axons. After ultrastructural immunostaining, the Schwann cell membrane was strongly p75 NGFr-IR. The Schwann cell membrane facing the connective tissue was more strongly p75 NGFr-IR than the part of the membrane close to the axon; the Schwann cell cytoplasm nearest to the membrane sometimes also showed a high p75 NGFr immunoreactivity, whereas the rest of the cytoplasm was generally more weakly p75 NGFr-IR; however, the axon itself seldom showed any such immunoreactivity; actually, only a few parts of the axonal membrane revealed a weak staining, leaving most of the membrane unstained. The axoplasm was not p75 NGFr-IR. The results--that in human cutaneous nerves it is mainly the Schwann cells that express p75 NGFr immunoreactivity--further stress the active role of the glial ensheathment in the control and maintenance of a normal target innervation.
Tight junctions (TJs) are cell-to-cell contacts made of strands, which appear as ridges on P faces and complementary furrows on E faces on freeze fracture replicas. Evidences and opinions on whether these strands are composed of either membrane-bound proteins or lipid micelles are somewhat varied. In the present work we alter the lipid composition of Madin-Darby canine kidney monolayers using a novel approach, while studying (i) their transepithelial electrical resistance, a parameter that depends on the degree of sealing of the TJs; (ii) the apical-to-basolateral flux of 4 kD fluorescent dextran (JDEX), that reflects the permeability of the intercellular spaces; (iii) the ability of TJs to restrict apical-to-basolateral diffusion of membrane lipids; and (iv) the pattern of distribution of endogenous and transfected occludin, the sole membrane protein presently known to form part of the TJs. We show that changing the total composition of phospholipids, sphingolipids, cholesterol and the content of fatty acids, does not alter TER nor the structure of the strands. Interestingly, enrichment with linoleic acid increases the JDEX by 631%. The fact that this increase is not reflected in a decrease of TER, suggests that junctional strands do not act as simple resistive elements but may contain mobile translocating mechanisms.
Alzheimer's disease is a devastating degenerative disorder of the central nervous system that results in gradual deterioration of cognitive function and severe alteration of personality. Degeneration of neurons in the nucleus basalis Meynert, the origin of the major cholinergic projections to the neocortex, occurs early in the course of the disease, and is correlated with the cognitive decline. This link between cholinergic dysfunction in the basal-cortical system and cognitive deficits has focused scientific efforts on developing tools to elucidate the neurobiological role of the cholinergic system in cognition and to develop therapeutic interventions in the disorder. An important step in understanding the mechanisms underlying cognitive dysfunction has been the development of in vivo rodent models that mimic some of the features of Alzheimer's disease. Acute excitotoxic or immunotoxic lesions of the nucleus basalis in rodents have revealed a role of the basal-cortical system in attention, learning and memory. More recent advances in developing mouse gene technology offer newer models to systematically examine the underlying neuropathological cascade leading to dysfunctions in mnemonic processing. Using in vivo rodent models, several cholinergic enhancement strategies have been tested and proven to be effective in alleviating lesion-induced cognitive deficits, including neuropharmacological approaches (acetylcholinesterase inhibitors), neurotrophic factor administration (nerve growth factor), and transplantation of cholinergic-enriched fetal grafts. Successful results have also been obtained using ex vivo gene transfer to deliver nerve growth factor or acetylcholine to compromised regions of the basal-cortical system. Gene therapy may be of particular interest for clinical applications, because this approach provides a method for topographically restricted and selective delivery of therapeutic genes and their products to afflicted areas of the brain. Advanced techniques in molecular biology (e.g., exogenous regulatable gene transfer) and newly developed tools of modern neuroscience (e.g., neural precursor cells) will be important contributions for deciphering the biological bases of neuronal degeneration and for refining therapeutic strategies for Alzheimer's disease.
In the adult songbird forebrain, neurons continue to be produced from precursor cells in the forebrain ependymal/subependymal zone (SZ), from which they migrate upon radial guide fibers. The new neurons and their radial cell partners may coderive from a common SZ progenitor, which may be the radial cell itself. On this basis, we asked whether radial cells might provide trophic support for the migration or survival of newly generated neurons. We focused upon the insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) IGF-1 and IGF-2, which have previously been shown to support the survival and differentiation of neural progenitor cells. We found that IGF-1 immunoreactivity was expressed heavily by adult zebra finch radial cells and their fibers, with little expression otherwise. IGF-2, in contrast, was expressed by parenchymal astrocytes and exhibited little radial cell expression. Despite their distinct distributions, IGF-1 and IGF-2 exerted similar trophic effects on finch SZ cells in vitro; both greatly increased the number of neurons migrating from explants of the adult finch SZ, relative to explants raised in low-insulin, IGF-1-deficient media. However, neither factor extended neuronal survival. These results suggest that in neurogenic regions of the adult avian forebrain, IGF-1 acts as a radial cell-associated neuronal differentiation and/or departure factor, which may serve to regulate neuronal recruitment into the adult brain.
Sporadic Parkinson's disease is associated with a defect in the activity of complex I of the mitochondrial electron transport chain. This electron transport chain defect is transmitted through mitochondrial DNA, and when expressed in host cells leads to increased oxygen free radical production, increased antioxidant enzyme activities, and increased susceptibility to programmed cell death. Pramipexole, a chemically novel dopamine agonist used for the treatment of Parkinson's disease symptoms, possesses antioxidant activity and is neuroprotective toward substantia nigral dopamine neurons in hypoxic-ischemic and methamphetamine models. We found that pramipexole reduced the levels of oxygen radicals produced by methylpyridinium ion (MPP+) both when incubated with SH-SY5Y cells and when perfused into rat striatum. Pramipexole also exhibited a concentration-dependent inhibition of opening of the mitochondrial transition pore induced by calcium and phosphate or MPP+. These results suggest that pramipexole may be neuroprotective in Parkinson's disease by attenuating intracellular processes such as oxygen radical generation and the mitochondrial transition pore opening, which are associated with programmed cell death.
Caspase activation has been shown to be a critical step in several models of neuronal apoptosis such as staurosporine treatment of human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells and potassium deprivation of rat cerebellar granule neurons. One common event is the appearance of caspase-mediated 120-kDa nonerythroid alpha-spectrin breakdown product (SBDP120). Second, inhibitors of the caspase family are effective blockers of such neuronal death. In this study, we report the appearance of caspase-mediated SBDP120 in excitotoxin-challenged fetal rat cerebrocortical neurons [N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid, and kainate] and rat cerebellar granule neurons (NMDA and kainate). A general caspase inhibitor, carbobenzoxy-Asp-CH2OC(O)-2,6-dichlorobenzene (Z-D-DCB), blocked the formation of SBDP120 under these conditions and attenuated the observed NMDA-induced lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release in both cell types. Furthermore, hydrolytic activity toward a caspase-3-preferred synthetic peptide substrate, acetyl-DEVD-7-amido-4-methylcoumarin, was significantly elevated in NMDA-treated granule neurons. Lastly, oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD)-challenged cerebrocortical cultures also showed the appearance of SBDP120. Again, Z-D-DCB blocked the SBDP120 formation as well as attenuated the LDH release from the OGD-challenged neurons. Taken together, the presence of caspase-specific SBDP120 and the neuroprotective effects of Z-D-DCB strongly suggest that caspase activation contributes at least in part to excitotoxin- and OGD-induced neuronal death.
The non-Abeta component of Alzheimer's disease amyloid precursor protein (NACP) is predominantly a neuron-specific presynaptic protein that may play a central role in neurodegeneration because NACP fragments are found in Alzheimer's disease amyloid and a mutation in the NACP gene is associated with familial Parkinson's disease. In addition, NACP may play an important role during synaptogenesis and CNS development. To understand better the patterns of NACP expression during development, we analyzed the levels of this protein as well as the levels of another synaptic protein (synaptophysin) by ribonuclease protection assay, western blotting, and immunocytochemistry in fetal, juvenile, and adult mouse brain. From embryonic day 12 to 15, there was a slight increase, which was then followed by a more dramatic increase at later time points. Immunocytochemical staining for NACP increases throughout these stages as well. Although NACP appeared early in CNS development, synaptophysin levels started to rise at a later stage. These findings support the contention that NACP might be important for CNS development. Furthermore, the cytosolic component of NACP precedes the particulate component in development, indicating that a redistribution of the protein to the membrane fraction may be important for events later in neuronal development and in synaptogenesis.
We have previously purified and characterized a nervous system-specific glycoprotein antigen from adult Drosophila heads, designated Nervana [nerve antigen (NRV)] and identified two separate genes coding for three different proteins. All three proteins share homology with the beta subunits of Na+,K+-ATPase from various other species. In this study we have isolated a new Drosophila Na+,K+-ATPase alpha subunit cDNA clone (PSalpha; GenBank accession no. AF044974) and demonstrate expression of functional Na+,K+-ATPase activity when PSalpha mRNA is coinjected into Xenopus oocytes along with any of the three different Nrv mRNAs. Western blotting, RNase protection assays, and immunocytochemical staining of adult fly sections indicate that NRV2 is expressed primarily in the nervous system. Staining is most intense in the brain and thoracic ganglia and is most likely associated with neuronal elements. NRV1 is more broadly expressed in muscle and excretory tissue and also shows diffuse distribution in the nervous system. Similar to other species, Drosophila expresses multiple isoforms of Na+,K+-ATPase subunits in a tissue- and cell type-specific pattern. It will now be possible to use the advantages of Drosophila molecular and classical genetics to investigate the phenotypic consequences of altering Na+,K+-ATPase expression in various cell and tissue types.
Recently, a tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-expressing CNS-derived cell line, CAD, was obtained that is capable of undergoing reversible morphological differentiation. The isolation of the CAD line allowed us to ask whether different DNA regulatory elements direct TH transcription when cells are growing and undifferentiated versus postmitotic and differentiated. To this end, we compared expression of a transiently transfected bacterial chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene under the transcriptional control of TH 5' flanking DNA in CAD cells grown in the presence and absence of serum. Mutational analysis indicates that CAD cells differently regulate TH transcription depending on their state of differentiation. In both states, the cyclic AMP response element and AP1 site each activate transcription. However, in undifferentiated cells, the dyad/E-box element represses expression by approximately 2.7-fold, whereas it modestly activates transcription in differentiated cells. The role of the dyad/ E-box as a repressor correlates well with the two- to threefold lower amount of endogenous TH protein present in the undifferentiated CAD cells. This study demonstrates the differential use of TH DNA regulatory elements in proliferating, undifferentiated and nonproliferating, differentiated immortalized neuronal cells.
Phylogenetic, physiological and morphological evidence indicates that interactions between chromaffin and adrenocortical cells are involved in the differentiation and maintenance of function of both cell types. Chromaffin-adrenocortical interaction has become recognized as an important component of adrenocortical regulation; however, the mechanisms by which chromaffin cells modulate adrenocortical function are not well understood. To study directly chromaffin-adrenocortical cellular interactions, we developed primary frog (Rana pipiens) adrenal co-cultures. In these co-cultures, chromaffin cells extend processes that project towards or onto adrenocortical cells, mimicking their organization in vivo and indicating a potential for interaction between the two cell types. Cell survival and differentiation were optimized using a combination of NGF, FGF and histamine to enhance neurite outgrowth and fetal calf serum plus 10(-10) M ACTH to maintain steroidogenesis. Characterization of the cells by immunocytochemistry and histochemistry showed that chromaffin cells maintain expression of catecholamine biosynthetic enzymes and that adrenocortical cells maintain expression of steroidogenic enzymes. Furthermore, chromaffin cells release catecholamines upon stimulation with carbamylcholine or potassium while adrenocortical cells sustain a basal secretion rate of aldosterone and corticosterone that is augmented 10-40-fold by 0.1 nM to 10 nM ACTH. We therefore propose that these co-cultures serve as a useful model system to study the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which chromaffin cells modulate adrenocortical cell function.
The fish pineal organ, through its 24 h rhythmic release of melatonin, acts as a transducer of the photoperiod, influencing different physiological functions (e.g. reproduction, growth). We have investigated the binding of 2-[125I]iodomelatonin to whole brain membrane preparations from pikes (Esox lucius L., teleost) maintained for 24-48 h under different photoperiodic conditions. Specific binding was stable, reversible, saturable and sensitive to the presence of a GTP analogue. Scatchard analysis revealed one class of binding sites. Displacement experiments suggested the presence of two components with affinities in the femtomolar and nanomolar range of concentrations, respectively. The Bmax exhibited monophasic nycthemeral variations, with higher values at the light-to-dark transition (34.0 +/- 4.5 fmol/mg protein) and low values during the second half of night (10.0 +/- 1.0 fmol/mg protein). Under the same conditions, the KD exhibited biphasic variations: values were low during daytime and at the middle of the dark phase (approximately 100 pM); they were high at the beginning (approximately 225 pM) and at the end (approximately 330 pM) of the night. These variations were maintained under constant light (LL) and constant darkness (DD). Thus, the variations in the number and affinity of the melatonin binding sites were controlled by circadian oscillators, synchronized by the photoperiod. The nature of these oscillators is not known. Therefore, in fish, we suggest that the photodependent effects of melatonin result from the circadian variations of both its production by the pineal and its binding sites in the brain.
The central nervous system (CNS) has been considered an immunologically privileged site. However, this concept is now changing because rejection of histoincompatible neural grafts is commonly observed in the CNS. To be able to use neural transplantation as therapy for human diseases, it is important to determine factors that are related to brain-graft rejection. In the present study, we examined the phenotype of infiltrating T cells around grafts in the cerebra that had received xenogeneic (mouse to rat) neural transplants. Furthermore, the amount of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokine mRNA was determined by competitive PCR at various time points after the neural transplantation. Immunohistochemical examination revealed that both CD4-positive and CD8-positive T cells infiltrated the CNS parenchyma. In competitive PCR analysis, levels of IFN-gamma and perforin in xenografts on days 10 and 13 post-transplantation (PT) were higher than those in isografts (rat to rat) at the same stage, whereas the levels of TNF-alpha, which was detected only on day 7 PT, were not significantly different between the two groups. With regard to anti-inflammatory cytokines, TGF-beta1 mRNA was recognized throughout the examination period, but there was no significant difference between xeno- and iso-grafts at most time points. These findings suggest that IFN-gamma and perforin secreted by infiltrating CD4-positive and CD8-positive T cells, respectively, play an important role in neural graft rejection. The responses of anti-inflammatory cytokines seem to be nonspecific reactions to grafts or surgical procedures.
Parkinsonism as well as dystonic signs are rarely seen in central pontine myelinolysis and extrapontine myelinolysis. A 51 year old woman developed central pontine myelinolysis and extrapontine myelinolysis with parkinsonism after severe vomiting which followed alcohol and drug intake, even though marked hyponatraemia had been corrected gradually over six days. Parkinsonism resolved four months after onset, but she then exhibited persistent retrocollis, spasmodic dysphonia, and focal dystonia of her left hand. Although the medical literature documents three similar patients, this patient is different as dystonic symptoms only developed four months after parkinsonian signs had resolved.


Certain aspects of the clinical syndrome of dementia, cerebral atrophy, predominantly sensory neuropathy, and vacuolar myelopathy in AIDS resemble those seen in vitamin B12 deficiency. Pathologically, there are similarities not only in the changes in the spinal cord, but also in the brain and peripheral nerves. The pathogenesis of vacuolar myelopathy may be secondary to a combination of immune mediated myelin and oligodendrocyte injury, and simultaneous impairment of repair mechanisms due to a deficiency of S-adenosylmethionine (SAM). Products derived from macrophages may interfere directly with the methyl transfer cycle through the generation of reactive oxygen intermediates and reactions involving nitric oxide and peroxynitrite which may limit the supply of methionine for conversion to SAM, both by direct interaction as well as through inhibition of methionine synthase. Macrophage activation with secretion of cytokines and other biologically reactive substances within the nervous system is sustained in the late stages of HIV infection by the general effects of immune depletion, including loss of T cells (with concomitant reduction of macrophage regulatory molecules) and recurrent opportunistic infections, and may be further augmented by the local presence of the virus itself (or its surface glycoprotein gp120). This would account for the common, but not exclusive, occurrence of vacuolar myelopathy in AIDS. The ability of the virus and its products to stimulate macrophage and microglial activation may also explain the association between severity of vacuolar myelopathy and the presence of HIV encephalitis. A similar mechanism may underlie the pathogenesis of dementia, cerebral atrophy, and peripheral neuropathy. Local factors or differential susceptibility between the central and peripheral nervous system may determine whether myelinotoxic or neurotoxic processes predominate; the prominence of myelin involvement in the spinal cord, and axonal involvement peripherally may reflect both ends of this range, with the brain manifesting a more equal balance of both processes.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) in hippocampal area CA1 is generally dependent on N-methyl--aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation. Reactive oxygen species (ROS), including superoxide, are produced in response to NMDA receptor activation in a number of brain regions, including the hipppocampus. In this study, two cell-permeable manganese porphyrin compounds that mimic superoxide dismutase (SOD) were used to determine whether production of superoxide is required for the induction of LTP in area CA1 of rat hippocampal slices. Incubation of hippocampal slices with either Mn(III) tetrakis (4-benzoic acid) porphyrin (MnTBAP) or Mn(III) tetrakis (1-methyl-4-pyridyl) porphyrin (MnTMPyP) prevented the induction of LTP. Incubation of slices with either light-inactivated MnTBAP or light-inactivated MnTMPyP had no effect on induction of LTP. Neither MnTBAP nor MnTMPyP was able to reverse preestablished LTP. These observations suggest that production of superoxide occurs in response to LTP-inducing stimulation and that superoxide is necessary for the induction of LTP.
The mechanisms involved in rapidly terminating human gait were studied. Subjects were asked to walk at a comfortable speed and to stop walking as soon as they felt an electrical stimulus to the superficial peroneal nerve. This simulated hitting an obstacle with the top of the foot. Stimuli were presented repeatedly at random during a 20-min period of walking. Electromyograms and joint angular movements of the right leg and forces under both feet were recorded. The step cycle was divided into 16 parts, and the responses to stimuli in each part were analyzed separately. Subjects generally stopped with the right foot in front of the left or vice-versa, depending on when the stimulus was applied in the step cycle. There was also a transition region in which subjects would rise up on their toes and either back down or take one more quick, short forward step. Three different mechanisms were used to produce a stop. 1) An extension synergy in the swing leg was initiated just before this leg hit the ground to brake the forward momentum of the body. 2) The push-off phase of the stance leg was inhibited to reduce the forward thrust and maintain the stance leg on the ground behind the body. 3) If these mechanisms were insufficient, the body rose up onto the toes of the extended forward leg and thereby converted more kinetic energy to potential energy. A decision to take an additional step depends on whether the momentum of the body is sufficient to carry the center of mass in front of its support on the forward leg. If so, an additional step is taken. Despite the complexity of the decisions that must be made, changes in electromyographic activity are seen throughout the legs and trunk in 150-200 ms.
Gamma oscillations were evoked in the subiculum in rat transverse hippocampal slices by tetanic stimulation (200 ms/100 Hz) of either CA1 or subiculum. Gamma oscillations in the subiculum differed from those in CA1 in containing population spike doublets as well as singlets. The present study addresses the origin of this more complex form of gamma oscillation in the subiculum. Intracellular recordings from subicular neurons revealed that 63% of them fired double action potentials on cycles of the gamma oscillation that generated population spike doublets after tetanic stimulation of either CA1 or subiculum. The remaining cells produced excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs), and occasional single spikes, on each cycle. Neurons that fired occasional single action potentials during gamma rhythms were &quot;regular spiking&quot; cells. They did not produce burst discharges during depolarizing steps, had minimal membrane potential sags on hyperpolarizing steps, and responded to single afferent volleys with a single action potential on an EPSP followed by a large inhibitory postsynaptic potential complex. Fast spiking cells were observed too infrequently to be studied in detail. Neurons that fired doublets during gamma rhythms were &quot;intrinsic burst&quot; (IB) cells. They generated bursts of action potentials on step membrane depolarizations, had significant membrane potential sags on step hyperpolarizations with an anodal break potential on return to rest, and fired multiple action potentials in response to high-intensity single afferent volleys. IB neurons did not fire action potential doublets during 1-s membrane depolarizations. Double action potentials, however, were evoked in these cells by depolarizing pulses at 40 Hz from hyperpolarized membrane potentials (-100 mV). Computer simulations suggest that the hyperpolarization between the depolarizations was essential for action potential doublets. The results in this and the previous paper suggest the following: either CA1 or subiculum alone can generate gamma oscillations gated by local networks of interneurons, oscillations in CA1 project through pyramidal cell axons to subiculum with a time lag expected from axon conduction delays, and oscillating sequences of EPSPs and intrinsic and/or synaptic hyperpolarizing potentials in IB subicular neurons generate gamma frequency spike doublets, which depend on both the intrinsic properties of these neurons and their temporally patterned synaptic input. This phenomenon could amplify gamma output from CA1 and modify its coupling to gamma oscillations in the wider limbic system.
Gamma oscillations (approximately 40 Hz) were induced in transverse hippocampal slices by tetanic stimulation of CA1 and/or subiculum. Tetanic stimulation of each site elicited population gamma oscillations in the surrounding tissue &lt;400 micro(m) away. Stimulation of CA1 alone could evoke activity at both CA1 and subiculum. Subicular stimulation, however, did not transmit to CA1. When the rostral end of CA1 was stimulated, gamma oscillations transmitted across &lt;1.5 mm of silent CA1 before reappearing in the subiculum. Tetanic stimulation of CA1 increased [K+]o to 8.2 +/- 1.5 mM (mean +/- SE). The location of the peak increase corresponded to the site of local gamma generation. Silent areas of CA1 experienced smaller [K+]o increases, to 4.9 +/- 0.7 mM. The subiculum, which generated gamma, remained at the baseline 3.0 mM. Although fluctuations in [K+]o may have an impact on the generation of gamma rhythms, they are not necessary for them. Gamma oscillations had similar frequencies in CA1 and subiculum (40.4 +/- 2.9 and 43.9 +/- 3.1 Hz, respectively). When present in both, the oscillations typically were phase locked with the subiculum lagging by 5.4 +/- 1.8 ms. When both CA1 and subiculum were stimulated the lag decreased by 28%. These delays approximate those expected for the conduction velocity of axons between the two regions, here estimated at 0.52 +/- 0.07 m/s. Transmission of gamma oscillations from CA1 to subiculum was blocked by the focal addition of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid-receptor antagonist, 6-nitro-7-sulfamoylbenzo[f]quinoxaline-2,3-dione, to the subiculum. Oscillations induced in CA1 by local tetanic stimulation were blocked by focal application of the gamma-aminobutyric acid-A (GABAA) receptor antagonist, bicuculline, to CA1. Focal application of bicuculline to the subiculum blocked gamma due to subicular stimulation but not that due to CA1 stimulation. Bath-applied bicuculline disrupted subicular gamma evoked by subicular stimulation and led to a transient period of epileptiform responses before completely blocking responses. The further addition of the GABAB receptor antagonist, CGP 55845A, reversed this block, restoring the epileptic discharges evoked by tetanic stimulation. This suggests that the subiculum differs from hippocampal CA3 and neocortex, in having a powerful GABAB receptor-dependent mechanism to prevent epileptic discharges. The subiculum generates gamma rhythms both in response to local stimulation and to gamma rhythms evoked in CA1. Subicular gamma differs from that in CA1 in the presence of population spike doublets rather than singlets on many cycles. In both areas, generation of gamma by local stimulation depends on GABAA receptors, suggesting that the subiculum shares the interneuronal network mechanism we proposed for CA1.
A method is described for identifying the effect of single gamma static (gamma(s)) axons on bag2 or chain intrafusal fibers using random (Poisson-distributed) stimuli. The cross-correlogram of the stimuli with the firing of spindle primary afferents took one of three forms. A large, simple, brief response was taken to indicate pure chain fiber activation and a small, prolonged response to indicate pure bag2 activation. A compound response with brief and prolonged components was taken to be a sign of mixed innervation. The correlogram components could be well fitted with lognormal curves. They could also be transformed into curves of gain as a function of frequency, which were convenient for estimating the strength of the effects. In 68 effects of gammas axons on Ia afferents, 16 were pure chain, 17 pure bag2, and 35 mixed. This distribution was significantly different (P &lt; 0. 05) from that expected from chance nonspecific innervation of chain and bag2 fibers. Making use of the estimates of the strength of chain and bag2 effects derived from the gain curves, the classification was modified by treating mixed responses that had one effect more than five times stronger than the other as belonging to the dominant type. The distribution was then as follows: chain 16, bag2 28, and mixed 24. This differed very significantly from the prediction of chance distribution (P &lt; 0.001). This evidence for some degree of specific innervation of chain and bag2 fibers is discussed in relation to previous work and with regard to the ways in which the two fiber types might be used in natural movements.
Substance P (SP)-containing afferents and the NK-1 tachykinin receptor to which SP binds are present in the dentate gyrus of the rat; however, direct actions of SP on principal cells have not been demonstrated in this brain region. We have examined the effect of SP on N-methyl--aspartate (NMDA) channels from acutely isolated dentate gyrus granule cells of adult rat hippocampus to assess the ability of SP to regulate glutamatergic input. SP produces a robust enhancement of single NMDA channel function that is mimicked by the NK-1-selective agonist Sar9, Met(O2)11-SP. The SP-induced prolongation of NMDA channel openings is prevented by the selective NK-1 receptor antagonist (+)-(2S, 3S)-3-(2-methoxybenzylamino)-2-phenylpiperidine (CP-99,994). Calcium influx or activation of protein kinase C were not required for the SP-induced increase in NMDA channel open durations. The dramatic enhancement of excitatory amino acid-mediated excitability by SP places this neuropeptide in a key position to gate activation of hippocampal network activity.
Specific effects of stimulating different parts of the reticulospinal (RS) system on the spinal locomotor pattern are described in lamprey. In the in vitro brain stem and spinal cord preparation, microstimulation in different areas of the reticular formation was performed by ejecting a small amount of -glutamate from a micropipette. These areas were distributed over the four reticular nuclei of the brain stem: the mesencephalic reticular nucleus (MRN) and the anterior, middle and posterior rhombencephalic reticular nuclei (ARRN, MRRN, and PRRN, respectively). To prevent synaptic spread of excitation within the brain stem, the synaptic transmission was blocked by using a low Ca2+, high Mn2+ physiological saline in the brain stem pool. &quot;Fictive&quot; locomotion was evoked by applying N-methyl--aspartate (NMDA) to the spinal cord. Rhythmical discharges of motoneurons were recorded bilaterally in the midbody area, from the ventral roots that had been subdivided in dorsal and ventral branches, supplying the dorsal and ventral part of the myotome, respectively. Two major effects of brain stem stimulation were elicited: a change in the frequency of the locomotory rhythm and an induction of asymmetry (left/right, dorsal/ventral) in the segmental motor output. Approximately 50% of the stimulated sites evoked a change in locomotor frequency. In the PRRN almost all effective sites evoked an increase in frequency (10-50%). In the other nuclei, increase and decrease (10-30%) were observed equally frequently. Most of the stimulated sites (50-80%) in any reticular nucleus evoked asymmetry in the segmental motor output. Distortion of the segmental output symmetry was classified into eight categories by comparing the intensity of locomotor bursts in the dorsal and ventral branches of the two ventral roots, ipsilateral and contralateral to the stimulated side. These categories differed in the direction of the body flexion, which would be evoked during normal swimming: ipsilateral (I), contralateral (C), dorsal (D), ventral (V), ipsilateral and dorsal (ID), ipsilateral and ventral (IV), contralateral and dorsal (CD), and contralateral and ventral (CV). The different categories were not equally represented in each nucleus and across the nuclei. The most pronounced categories for each nucleus were as follow. In MRN: I (33%); ARRN: C (44%); MRRN: rostral part, I (36%) and caudal part, CV (42%); and PRRN: rostral part, I (40%) and caudal part, IV (35%). Other categories were also present but less common in each nucleus. To examine if the effects of brain stem stimulation were uniform along the spinal cord, recordings were performed from distal parts of the cord. Stimulation of a given point in the brain stem produced similar pattern of effects in 59% of cases and different patterns in 41% of cases. The main conclusion of the present study is that the proportion of RS neurons with different influences on the spinal locomotor network differs significantly among different parts of the reticular formation of the lamprey. The specificity of RS influences may represent a basis for modifications of the segmental locomotor output necessary for the control of equilibrium and steering during locomotion.
The effects of lesions, receptor blocking, electrical self-stimulation, and drugs of abuse suggest that midbrain dopamine systems are involved in processing reward information and learning approach behavior. Most dopamine neurons show phasic activations after primary liquid and food rewards and conditioned, reward-predicting visual and auditory stimuli. They show biphasic, activation-depression responses after stimuli that resemble reward-predicting stimuli or are novel or particularly salient. However, only few phasic activations follow aversive stimuli. Thus dopamine neurons label environmental stimuli with appetitive value, predict and detect rewards and signal alerting and motivating events. By failing to discriminate between different rewards, dopamine neurons appear to emit an alerting message about the surprising presence or absence of rewards. All responses to rewards and reward-predicting stimuli depend on event predictability. Dopamine neurons are activated by rewarding events that are better than predicted, remain uninfluenced by events that are as good as predicted, and are depressed by events that are worse than predicted. By signaling rewards according to a prediction error, dopamine responses have the formal characteristics of a teaching signal postulated by reinforcement learning theories. Dopamine responses transfer during learning from primary rewards to reward-predicting stimuli. This may contribute to neuronal mechanisms underlying the retrograde action of rewards, one of the main puzzles in reinforcement learning. The impulse response releases a short pulse of dopamine onto many dendrites, thus broadcasting a rather global reinforcement signal to postsynaptic neurons. This signal may improve approach behavior by providing advance reward information before the behavior occurs, and may contribute to learning by modifying synaptic transmission. The dopamine reward signal is supplemented by activity in neurons in striatum, frontal cortex, and amygdala, which process specific reward information but do not emit a global reward prediction error signal. A cooperation between the different reward signals may assure the use of specific rewards for selectively reinforcing behaviors. Among the other projection systems, noradrenaline neurons predominantly serve attentional mechanisms and nucleus basalis neurons code rewards heterogeneously. Cerebellar climbing fibers signal errors in motor performance or errors in the prediction of aversive events to cerebellar Purkinje cells. Most deficits following dopamine-depleting lesions are not easily explained by a defective reward signal but may reflect the absence of a general enabling function of tonic levels of extracellular dopamine. Thus dopamine systems may have two functions, the phasic transmission of reward information and the tonic enabling of postsynaptic neurons.
Human NT2 teratocarcinoma cells differentiate into neuron-like NT2-N cells when treated with retinoic acid. GABA evoked concentration-dependent whole-cell currents in NT2-N cells with an EC50 of 21.8 microM and a Hill slope of 1.2. GABAA receptor (GABAR) currents reversed at ECl- and did not display voltage-dependent rectification. GABAR single channels opened in bursts to a 23 pS main conductance level and a 19 pS subconductance level, with infrequent openings to a 27 pS conductance level. Kinetic properties of the main conductance level were similar to other native and recombinant GABAR channels. Diazepam and zolpidem enhanced GABAR currents with moderate affinity, whereas methyl-6, 7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate inhibited GABAR currents. Loreclezole enhanced GABAR currents with high affinity, but furosemide antagonized GABAR currents with low affinity. The neurosteroids alphaxalone and pregnenolone sulfate appropriately modulated GABAR currents. Zinc blocked GABAR currents with low affinity, but lanthanum did not significantly alter NT2-N GABAR currents. Reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR) performed on RNA from NT2-N cells clearly detected transcripts encoding human alpha2, alpha3, alpha5, beta3, gamma3, and pi subtypes. The combined pharmacological and RT-PCR results are most consistent with a single or predominant GABAR isoform composed of an alpha2 and/or alpha3 subtype combined with the beta3 and gamma3 subtypes. The data do not rule out receptors containing combinations of alpha2 and/or alpha3 subtypes with the alpha5 subtype or receptors with both beta1 and beta3 subtypes. The presence or absence or the pi subunit in functionally expressed receptors could not be determined.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) exhibits potent effects on survival and function of midbrain dopaminergic (DA) neurons in a variety of models. Although other growth factors expressed in the vicinity of developing DA neurons have been reported to support survival of DA neurons in vitro, to date none of these factors duplicate the potent and selective actions of GDNF in vivo. We report here that neurturin (NTN), a homolog of GDNF, is expressed in the nigrostriatal system, and that NTN exerts potent effects on survival and function of midbrain DA neurons. Our findings indicate that NTN mRNA is sequentially expressed in the ventral midbrain and striatum during development and that NTN exhibits survival-promoting actions on both developing and mature DA neurons. In vitro, NTN supports survival of embryonic DA neurons, and in vivo, direct injection of NTN into the substantia nigra protects mature DA neurons from cell death induced by 6-OHDA. Furthermore, administration of NTN into the striatum of intact adult animals induces behavioral and biochemical changes associated with functional upregulation of nigral DA neurons. The similarity in potency and efficacy of NTN and GDNF on DA neurons in several paradigms stands in contrast to the differential distribution of the receptor components GDNF Family Receptor alpha1 (GFRalpha1) and GFRalpha2 within the ventral mesencephalon. These results suggest that NTN is an endogenous trophic factor for midbrain DA neurons and point to the possibility that GDNF and NTN may exert redundant trophic influences on nigral DA neurons acting via a receptor complex that includes GFRalpha1.
The nucleus accumbens (Nacb) receives inputs from hippocampus and amygdala but it is still unclear how these inputs are functionally organized and may interact. The interplay between these input pathways was examined using electrophysiological tools in the rat, in vivo, under halothane anesthesia. After fornix/fimbria stimulation (Fo/Fi, subicular projection fibers to the Nacb), mono- and polysynaptically driven single units were recorded in the medial shell/core regions of the Nacb and in the ventromedial caudate putamen. Monosynaptically driven neurons by basolateral amygdala (BLA) stimulation were found in the medial shell/core and in the ventrolateral shell/core regions. In the areas of convergence (medial shell/core), paired activation of BLA followed by that of Fo/Fi resulted in an enhancement of the Fo/Fi response, whereas stimulation in the reverse order, Fo/Fi followed by BLA, led to a depression of the BLA response. In addition to these patterns of interactions, the tetanization of the Fo/Fi to Nacb pathway caused a homosynaptic decremental (long-term) potentiation in the Nacb, accompanied by a heterosynaptic (long-term) depression of the nontetanized BLA to Nacb pathway. We postulate that the hippocampal inputs may close a &quot;gate&quot; for the amygdala inputs, whereas the gate is opened for the hippocampus inputs by previous amygdalar activity. These opposite effects on the Nacb neuronal populations should be taken into account when interpreting behavioral phenomena, particularly with respect to the contrasting effects of the amygdala and the hippocampus in locomotion and place learning.
Correlations between substantia nigra (SN) dopamine (DA) cell activity and striatal extracellular DA were examined using simultaneous extracellular single-unit recordings and in vivo microdialysis performed in drug-naive rats and in rats treated repeatedly with haloperidol (HAL). Intact rats treated with HAL for 21-28 d exhibited significantly fewer active DA cells, indicating the presence of depolarization block (DB) in these cells. However, in rats that received surgical implantation of the microdialysis probe followed by a 24 hr recovery period, HAL-induced DA cell DB was reversed, as evidenced by a number of active DA neurons that was significantly higher than that in HAL-treated intact rats and similar to that of drug-naive rats. In contrast, using a modified probe implantation procedure that did not reverse SN DA neuron DB, we found striatal DA efflux to be significantly lower than in controls and significantly correlated with the reduction in DA neuron spike activity. Furthermore, although basal striatal DA efflux was independent of SN DA cell burst-firing activity in control rats, these variables were significantly correlated in rats with HAL-induced DA cell DB. Therefore, HAL-induced DB of SN DA neurons is disrupted by implantation of a microdialysis probe into the striatum using standard procedures. However, a modified microdialysis method that allowed reinstatement of DA neuron DB revealed that the HAL-induced inactivation of SN DA neurons was associated with significantly lower extracellular DA levels in the striatum. Moreover, the residual extracellular DA maintained in the presence of DB may, in part, depend on the burst-firing pattern of the noninactivated DA neurons in the SN.
Neurotrophins are known to promote the survival, differentiation, and neurite outgrowth of developing neurons. Here we report that acutely applied brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) induces rapid growth cone collapse and neurite retraction of embryonic Xenopus spinal neurons in culture. The collapsing effect of BDNF depends on the activation of Trk receptor tyrosine kinase, requires an influx of extracellular Ca2+, and is regulated by cAMP-dependent activity. Elevation of intracellular cAMP levels ([cAMP]i) by forskolin or (Sp)-cAMP completely blocked the collapsing effect, whereas inhibition of protein kinase A (PKA) by (Rp)-cAMP potentiated the collapsing action. BDNF-induced growth cone collapse was only observed in 6 hr cultures but not in 24 hr cultures. However, inhibition of PKA by (Rp)-cAMP restored the collapsing response of these &quot;old&quot; neurons in 24 hr cultures, suggesting that embryonic Xenopus spinal neurons may upregulate their endogenous cAMP-dependent activity during development in culture, leading to the blockade of their collapsing response to BDNF. Taken together, our results suggest the presence of cross-talk between Ca2+- and cAMP-signaling pathways involved in the collapsing action of neurotrophins, in which the cAMP-pathway regulates the Ca2+-mediated signal transduction required for BDNF-induced collapse. By modulating the cAMP-dependent activity through the intrinsic programming or interaction with other factors present in the environment, a neuron thus could respond to the same extracellular factors with different morphological and cellular changes at different stages during development.
The Ca2+ channel beta subunit has been shown to reduce the magnitude of G-protein inhibition of Ca2+ channels. However, neither the specificity of this action to different forms of G-protein inhibition nor the mechanism underlying this reduction in response is known. We have reported previously that coexpression of the Ca2+ channel beta3 subunit causes M2 muscarinic receptor-mediated inhibition of alpha1B Ca2+ currents to become more voltage-dependent. We report here that the beta3 subunit increases the rate of relief of inhibition produced by a depolarizing prepulse and also shifts the voltage dependency of this relief to more hyperpolarized voltages; these effects are likely to be responsible for the reduction of inhibitory response of alpha1B channels to G-protein-mediated inhibition seen after coexpression of the Ca2+ channel beta3 subunit. Additionally, the beta3 subunit alters the rate and voltage dependency of relief of the inhibition produced by coexpressed Gbeta1gamma1, in a manner similar to the changes it produces in relief of M2 receptor-induced inhibition. We conclude that the Ca2+ channel beta3 subunit reduces the magnitude of G-protein inhibition of alpha1B Ca2+ channels by enhancing the rate of dissociation of the G-protein betagamma subunit from the Ca2+ channel alpha1B subunit.
The action of ethosuximide (ETX) on Na+, K+, and Ca2+ currents and on tonic and burst-firing patterns was investigated in rat and cat thalamic neurons in vitro by using patch and sharp microelectrode recordings. In thalamocortical (TC) neurons of the rat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), ETX (0.75-1 mM) decreased the noninactivating Na+ current, INaP, by 60% but had no effect on the transient Na+ current. In TC neurons of the rat and cat LGN, the whole-cell transient outward current was not affected by ETX (up to 1 mM), but the sustained outward current was decreased by 39% at 20 mV in the presence of ETX (0.25-0.5 mM): this reduction was not observed in a low Ca2+ (0.5 mM) and high Mg2+ (8 mM) medium or in the presence of Ni2+ (1 mM) and Cd2+ (100 microM). In addition, ETX (up to 1 mM) had no effect on the low-threshold Ca2+ current, IT, of TC neurons of the rat ventrobasal (VB) thalamus and LGN and in neurons of the rat nucleus reticularis thalami nor on the high-threshold Ca2+ current in TC neurons of the rat LGN. Sharp microelectrode recordings in TC neurons of the rat and cat LGN and VB showed that ETX did not change the resting membrane potential but increased the apparent input resistance at potentials greater than -60 mV, resulting in an increase in tonic firing. In contrast, ETX decreased the number of action potentials in the burst evoked by a low-threshold Ca2+ potential. The frequency of the remaining action potentials in a burst also was decreased, whereas the latency of the first action potential was increased. Similar effects were observed on the burst firing evoked during intrinsic delta oscillations. These results indicate an action of ETX on INaP and on the Ca2+-activated K+ current, which explains the decrease in burst firing and the increase in tonic firing, and, together with the lack of action on low- and high-threshold Ca2+ currents, the results cast doubts on the hypothesis that a reduction of IT in thalamic neurons underlies the therapeutic action of this anti-absence medicine.
A critical problem in neuroscience is the lack of database tools for integrating neuronal property data. We report here the development of a combined object oriented-relational database (NeuronDB, http://senselab.med.yale.edu/neurondb) that meets these needs by providing tools for integrating data within neurons and comparing data across neurons. It focuses on three types of neuronal properties voltage-gated channels, neurotransmitter receptors, and neurotransmitters. The data are organized in relation to different regions of neurons as represented in canonical forms; using simple canonical models of complex cells as a vehicle for indexing information permits the database to be searchable across different neurons. Using these multidimensional search tools, users can locate specific properties in specific regions of a neuron; obtain integrated summaries of all properties within a region; and carry out searches to compare properties across equivalent compartments in different neurons. These tools thus permit searches of the multidimensional neuron property space equivalent to homology searches of sequence databases. NeuronDB is accessible over the Internet; it provides immediate links to citation indexes and abstracts supporting the deposited data, and annotations that indicate the state of acceptance of the data. Users are encouraged to contribute data. The ability to input the data from NeuronDB directly to NEURON and GENESIS is being developed. As a shared Web resource, NeuronDB should enhance the efforts of neuroscientists and neuronal modellers to analyze and compare the functional operations of different types of neurons.
The understanding of the brain structure and function and its computational style is one of the biggest challenges both in Neuroscience and Neural Computation. In order to reach this and to test the predictions of neural network modeling, it is necessary to observe the activity of neural populations. In this paper we propose a hybrid modular computational system for the spike classification of multiunits recordings. It works with no knowledge about the waveform, and it consists of two moduli: a Preprocessing (Segmentation) module, which performs the detection and centering of spike vectors using programmed computation; and a Processing (Classification) module, which implements the general approach of neural classification: feature extraction, clustering and discrimination, by means of a hybrid unsupervised multilayer artificial neural network (HUMANN). The operations of this artificial neural network on the spike vectors are: (i) compression with a Sanger Layer from 70 points vector to five principal component vector; (ii) their waveform is analyzed by a Kohonen layer; (iii) the electrical noise and overlapping spikes are rejected by a previously unreported artificial neural network named Tolerance layer; and (iv) finally the spikes are labeled into spike classes by a Labeling layer. Each layer of the system has a specific unsupervised learning rule that progressively modifies itself until the performance of the layer has been automatically optimized. The procedure showed a high sensitivity and specificity also when working with signals containing four spike types.
In this study, we investigated the presence, possible synthesis, and release of catecholamines (CA) by monkey amniotic epithelial cells (MAEC) using different methods. Immunocytochemical techniques demonstrated the presence of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC), dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH), and dopamine (DA) immunoreactivities, suggesting the capability of these cells to synthesize CA. Further evidence from high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) studies indicated the presence of norepinephrine (NE), DA, and its metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) in the cell extracts of cultured MAEC. Incubation of MAEC for various time intervals in medium supplemented with L-tyrosine and tetrahydrobiopterin significantly increased the production of CA, thus confirming active synthesis of CA by MAEC and that increasing the incubation time increases this synthesis. In contrast, pharmacological inhibition of TH by alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine significantly reduced CA production, further confirming CA synthesis by MAEC. Catecholamines were also detected in the cell incubation media, suggesting the ability of MAEC to spontaneously secrete CA. Moreover, depolarization with high concentration of K+ increased the amount of CA released into the incubation media. Additionally, the detection of DOPAC, a primary metabolite of DA, in MAEC strongly indicates that these cells contain DA metabolizing enzymes. These results demonstrate the presence of CA in MAEC and that these cells can synthesize and release CA. Further extensive studies are needed to fully explore MAEC so that it may serve as a model to study the aspects of catecholaminergic activity in primate cells and may be a possible candidate for allotransplantation therapy of monkey model of Parkinson's disease.
Presenilin 1 (PS1) is a causative gene for chromosome 14-linked familial Alzheimer's disease. The gene product is known to be cleaved into N-terminal fragments (PS1-N) and C-terminal fragments (PS1-C). To understand the pathophysiological role of PS1, we conducted immunohistochemical studies using antibodies specific for PS1-N and PS1-C in sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD). Both antibodies showed punctuate staining exclusively in neurons and their processes in both control and AD brains. PS1-N immunolabeling colocalized with neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) in 36% of NFT-bearing neurons and with dystrophic neurites in 28% of senile plaques (SPs). PS1-C immunolabeling colocalized with dystrophic neurites in 70% of NFT-bearing SPs and with intraneuronal NFTs in 32% of NFT-bearing neurons. Both antibodies did not detect PHF-tau-positive neuropil threads and Abeta amyloid fibrils. The colocalization was also found in 33-38 % of NFT-bearing neurons in progressive supranuclear palsy. These results indicate that both PS1-N and PS1-C fragments are deposited in part of NFT-bearing neurons and dystrophic neurites in SPs; both are the pathologic hallmarks of AD.
We have shown previously that pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF) acts as a survival factor for cerebellar granule cell neurons in culture, as well as protecting them against glutamate toxicity. In this study we have examined effects of PEDF on apoptotic cell death. We find that the granule cells die of apoptosis throughout the culture period, what we have termed &quot;natural&quot; apoptosis. PEDF prevents this natural apoptosis if added to immature cells, within the first 2 days in vitro (DIV), and the effect is maintained for up to DIV12. However, PEDF has no effect if added to mature cells at DIV5. Similar results are obtained when apoptosis is induced by shifting the cells from a serum- and 25 mM KCl-containing medium to serum-free medium with 5 mM KCl. PEDF most effectively blocks induced apoptosis in immature cells (DIV2) when added 24 hr prior to the change of medium, but still provides some protection when added simultaneously. However, 24 hr pretreatment with PEDF has a minimal effect when apoptosis is induced in mature DIV6 cells; addition at the same time is completely ineffective. Two polypeptide fragments of PEDF, only one of which contains the serine-protease inhibitory site, are equally active, supporting previous results which suggest that the neurotrophic effects of PEDF are not mediated by protease inhibition. We conclude that PEDF protects immature but not mature granule cells against both natural and induced apoptosis.
Hypertonic saline was recently introduced as a new hyperosmolar agent for treatment of intracranial hypertension and cerebral edema. It has the potential to cause a rebound phenomenon similar to other osmotic agents. The authors report on two patients with cerebral edema caused by hypertensive intracerebral hemorrhage who were treated with hypertonic saline infusion. Both patients improved clinically after 24 hours of hypertonic saline administration. However, both patients deteriorated clinically, 48 and 96 hours after initiation of therapy, despite continued hypertonic saline administration. Compared with pre-treatment computed tomographic scans, edema volume on repeat scans increased from 131 cc to 262 cc, and from 171 cc to 239 cc in the first and second patients, respectively, despite the lack of change in hematoma volume. Malignant edema formation late in the course of intracerebral hemorrhage after prolonged administration of hypertonic saline may represent a rebound phenomenon of hyperosmolar therapy. Further studies are warranted to identify the occurrence of this phenomenon and the subset of patients susceptible to it.
Interstitial glycerol may be a useful marker for posttraumatic and postischemic membrane phospholipid (PL) breakdown. Degradation of membrane PLs is thought to be triggered by both calcium and reactive oxygen species (ROS)-mediated mechanisms and to be associated with disturbed energy metabolism. In this study, we investigated the temporal changes of interstitial glycerol, lactate, and glucose after traumatic brain injury in the rat and the effect of pretreatment with the free radical spin trap alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (PBN; 30 mg/kg i.v.). Microdialysate was sampled continuously in 10-min fractions from 1 h before, until 2 h after a cortical contusion injury produced by the weight-drop technique. The maximal concentration of interstitial glycerol (a ninefold increase) was seen 10-30 min after trauma and subsided during the following 2 h, but remained above base line as compared to sham operated animals. Concomitantly, there was an increase in interstitial lactate (fivefold) and a fall in interstitial glucose, indicating a posttraumatic energy perturbation. PBN treatment significantly attenuated the interstitial accumulation of glycerol and lactate. The results support the concept that ROS are involved in posttraumatic membrane PL breakdown and that PBN improves mitochondrial function after CNS injury. Monitoring of interstitial glycerol with microdialysis may be a valuable tool for studies on membrane PL degradation and the efficacy of neuroprotective drugs in acute CNS injury.
This study investigated the regulation of reflex excitability in normal and midthoracic contusion-injured animals. Recent observations revealed that rate depression, a rate-modulatory process that decreases reflex excitability, was significantly decreased following experimental midthoracic contusion injury. The present experiments were performed to extend those studies and to determine if posttetanic potentiation (PTP), a rate-modulatory process that increases reflex excitability, also was altered in lumbar monosynaptic reflexes (MSRs) following midthoracic contusion injury. In normal animals, a mean PTP of 160% of the pretetanus control was observed at 30 sec following tetanus of the tibial MSR. The decay of the PTP in normal animals followed a rapid initial, then a more gradual pattern, before returning to pretetanus values by 5 min posttetanus. Following midthoracic contusion injury, the maximal (unpotentiated) MSRs were significantly increased in amplitude, whereas the percent potentiation of the PTP of the tibial MSRs was significantly decreased. PTP decay in postcontusion animals was significantly more gradual than observed in normal animals and followed a single decay process. Further analysis of rate depression of tibial MSRs in normal animals revealed that the attenuation pattern produced by stimulation within the lower range of test frequencies was different from that produced by stimulation at the higher test frequencies. Following contusion, rate depression of tibial MSRs was significantly reduced at all test frequencies. These physiological changes in the stretch reflex neural pathway are discussed relative to the development of spasticity.
Dynorphin, an endogenous opioid, may contribute to secondary nervous tissue damage following spinal cord injury. The temporal and spatial distribution of preprodynorphin (PPD) mRNA expression in the injured rat spinal cord was examined by in situ hybridization. Rats were subjected to traumatic spinal cord injury at the T13 spinal segment using the weight-drop method. Motor function of these rats was evaluated by their ability to maintain their position on an inclined plane. Two double-labeling experiments revealed that increased PPD mRNA and dynorphin peptide expression were found exclusively in dorsal horn neurons. Neurons exhibiting an increase in the level of PPD mRNA were concentrated in the superficial laminae and the neck of dorsal horn within several spinal segments from the epicenter of the injury at 24 and 48 h after injury. A number of neurons showing increased PPD mRNA were found in gray matter adjacent to the injury areas. Segments caudal to the injury site exhibited a long-lasting elevation of PPD mRNA in neurons, compared to the rostral segments. The number of neurons expressing PPD mRNA in each rat was significantly positively correlated with its motor dysfunction. These findings suggest that increased expression of dynorphin mRNA and peptide in dorsal horn neurons occurs after traumatic spinal cord injury. This also supports the hypothesis that the dynorphin has a pathological role in secondary tissue damage and neurological dysfunction after spinal cord injury.

The purposes of this study were to (a) test the feasibility of the Cancer Total Quality Pain Management (TQPM) Patient Assessment Tool in a population of oncology inpatient and outpatients; and (b) identify factors associated with poor pain relief. The Cancer TQPM Tool was adapted from the American Pain Society's Quality Assurance Standards on Acute Pain and Cancer Pain and was tested in a convenience sample of 200 patients. The majority of patients reported that the TQPM Tool was easy to understand and to use, providing evidence for the feasibility of the tool. Factors associated with higher pain intensity included the inpatient setting, the presence of metastatic disease, hesitancy in bothering the nurse, and concerns regarding tolerance and addiction. Although there was a strong relationship between concern about addiction and concern about tolerance, fear of tolerance appeared to have a greater effect on pain intensity scores than did fear of addiction. The findings from this study suggest that the Cancer TQPM Patient Assessment Tool can be used effectively in both inpatients and outpatients to determine outcomes and the quality of cancer pain management, as well identify factors associated with poor pain control. Clinical implications include more effective education of patients and caregivers, including equivalent emphasis on tolerance and addiction.
The role of drug efficacy in agonist-induced desensitization was studied in C-6 glioma cells transfected with the monkey dopamine D1A (mD1A) receptor. Dopamine pretreatment for 2 hr produced greater than 80% loss of responsiveness in the stimulation of cAMP accumulation that was blocked by the D1 antagonist SCH23390. A series of full and partial D1 agonists from structurally dissimilar classes were then examined. Three full agonists (dihydrexidine, SKF82958, A77636) desensitized the receptor to the same extent as dopamine, whereas two other full agonists (dinapsoline and A68930) and all the partial agonists tested (SKF38393, pergolide and d-lysergic acid diethylamide tartrate) produced only partial desensitization (i.e., 50% that of dopamine). Whereas partial agonists (i.e., SKF38393, pergolide and d-lysergic acid diethylamide tartrate) caused no alteration in ligand-accessible mD1A receptors, four of the full agonists (dopamine, dihydrexidine, dinapsoline, A68930) caused a 30 to 40% reduction in receptor number. One full agonist, A77636, caused nearly an 80% decrease in receptor number, despite the fact that the degree of functional desensitization was similar to the other full agonists. The desensitization of the D1 receptor was homologous, not affecting beta-2 adrenergic receptors endogenous to C-6 cells. Neither incubation with cAMP analogs, nor inhibition of protein kinase A, affected dopamine-induced desensitization, suggesting a cAMP-independent mechanism in this cell line. Together, these data suggest that functional desensitization of the mD1A receptor expressed in C-6 glioma cells is a cAMP-independent mechanism, cannot be predicted reliably from agonist efficacy for stimulating adenylate cyclase and can occur in the absence of changes in receptor number.
Functional effects of human alpha 5 nicotinic ACh receptor (AChR) subunits coassembled with alpha 3 and beta 2 or with alpha 3 and beta 4 subunits, were investigated in Xenopus oocytes. The presence of alpha 5 subunits altered some properties of both alpha 3 AChRs and differentially altered other properties of alpha 3 beta 2 AChRs vs. alpha 3 beta 4 AChRs. alpha 5 subunits increased desensitization and Ca++ permeability of all alpha 3 AChRs. The Ca++ permeabilities of both alpha 3 beta 2 alpha 5 and alpha 3 beta 4 alpha 5 AChRs were comparable to that of alpha 7 AChRs. As we have shown previously, alpha 5 subunits increased the ACh sensitivity of alpha 3 beta 2 AChRs 50-fold but had little effect on alpha 3 beta 4 AChRs. alpha 5 caused only subtle changes in the activation potencies of alpha 3 AChRs for nicotine, cytisine and 1,1-dimethyl-4-plenylpiperazinium (DMPP). However, alpha 5 increased the efficacies of nicotine and DMPP on alpha 3 beta 2 AChRs but decreased them on alpha 3 beta 4 AChRs. Immunoisolation of cloned human AChRs expressed in oocytes showed that alpha 5 efficiently coassembled with alpha 3 plus beta 2 and/or beta 4 subunits. As expected, human AChRs immunoisolated from SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells showed that AChRs containing alpha 3 and probably alpha 5 subunits were present, but alpha 4 AChRs were not. In brain, by contrast, alpha 4 beta 2 AChRs were shown to predominate over alpha 3 AChRs. Some of the brain alpha 4 beta 2 AChRs were found to contain alpha 5 subunits.
Single amino acid mutations in the third intracellular loop, as well as other domains of G protein-coupled receptors, have been shown to confer drastic changes in receptor properties and have been postulated to be responsible for various disease states. To determine whether an amino acid mutation can confer dramatic alterations in the 5-hydroxytryptamine2A (5-HT2A) receptor, we mutated amino acid 322 to lysine (C322K), glutamate (C322E) or arginine (C322R). Transient expression of the mutant receptors revealed properties associated with constitutive activity. Radioligand binding studies revealed an increase in 5-HT affinity from 293 nM (native) to 86 nM (C322E), 25 nM (C322K) and 11 nM (C322R). 5-HT potency for stimulation of inositol phosphate production increased from 152 nM (native) to 61 nM (C322E) and 25 nM (C322K). Basal inositol phosphate levels in COS-7 cells expressing C322K and C322E mutant receptors were 8-fold and 4-fold higher, respectively, than cells expressing native 5-HT2A receptors. Basal levels of inositol phosphate stimulated by C322K receptors represented 48% of total inositol phosphate production stimulated by native receptors in the presence of 10 microM 5-HT. Antipsychotic drugs (chlorpromazine, clozapine, haloperidol, loxapine and risperidone) displayed inverse agonist activity by inhibiting C322K constitutive activation of phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis. These data indicate that amino acid 322 in the 5-HT2A receptor plays an important role in maintaining the inactive conformation and provide further evidence that amino acid mutations can produce profound alterations in G protein-coupled receptor activity.
Two methods of measuring body temperature were compared in common marmosets. Subcutaneous temperatures were measured remotely via previously implanted subcutaneous microchips (Plexx BV, IPTT-100) prior to measurement of rectal temperature using a conventional rectal probe. Marmosets were treated with saline or the brain penetrant, 5-HT1A/B/D receptor agonist SKF-99101H (3-(2-dimethylaminoethyl)-4-chloro-5-propoxyindole hemifumarate) (0.3-3 mg/kg SC), which has previously been shown to induce hypothermia in guinea pigs. Body temperature was sampled immediately before drug administration and at 30-min intervals thereafter for a period of 2.5 h. SKF-99101H dose-dependently induced hypothermia in the common marmoset and there was close agreement between rectal and subcutaneous body temperatures, with an average difference in absolute body temperature of 0.26+/-0.02 degrees C. The data show that subcutaneously implanted microchips provide a simple, reliable measure of body temperature in common marmosets which is sensitive to pharmacological intervention, minimizes handling induced stress, and is minimally invasive.
1. The effects of Cs+ on the action potential, post-train after-hyperpolarization (AHP), Ca2+-dependent post-spike depolarizing after-potential (DAP) and phasic firing were examined during intracellular recordings from magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) in superfused rat hypothalamic explants. 2. Extracellular Cs+ reversibly inhibited (IC50, approximately 1 mM) DAPs, and associated after-discharges, that followed brief spike trains in each of sixteen cells tested. Although bath application of Cs+ also provoked a small reversible depolarization, inhibition of the DAP was retained when membrane voltage was kept constant by current injection. 3. Application of Cs+ had no significant effects on spike duration (n = 8), frequency-dependent spike broadening (n = 8), spike hyperpolarizing after-potentials (n = 14), or the amplitude of the isolated AHP (n = 7). Caesium-evoked inhibition of the DAP, therefore, does not result from diminished spike-evoked Ca2+ influx, and may reflect direct blockade of the conductance underlying the DAP. 4. Inhibition of the DAP was associated with an enhancement of the amplitude and duration of the AHP, indicating that the currents underlying the AHP and the DAP overlap in time following a train of action potentials, and that the relative magnitude of these currents is an important factor in determining the shape and time course of post-train after-potentials. 5. Bath application of Cs+ reversibly abolished phasic firing in each of seven cells tested. This effect was reversible and persisted at all subthreshold voltages tested. These results indicate that the current underlying the DAP is necessary for the genesis of plateau potentials and phasic firing in MNCs.
1. Glucose-induced insulin release from single islets of Langerhans is pulsatile. We have investigated the correlation between changes in cytosolic free calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) and oscillatory insulin secretion from single mouse islets, in particular examining the basis for differences in secretory responses to intermediate and high glucose concentrations. Insulin release was monitored in real time through the amperometric detection of the surrogate insulin marker 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) via carbon fibre microelectrodes. The [Ca2+]i was simultaneously recorded by whole-islet fura-2 microfluorometry. 2. In 82 % of the experiments, exposure to 11 mM glucose evoked regular high-frequency (average, 3.4 min-1) synchronous oscillations in amperometric current and [Ca2+]i. In the remaining experiments (18 %), 11 mM glucose induced an oscillatory pattern consisting of high-frequency [Ca2+]i oscillations that were superimposed on low-frequency (average, 0.32 min-1) [Ca2+]i waves. Intermittent high-frequency [Ca2+]i oscillations gave rise to a similar pattern of pulsatile 5-HT release. 3. Raising the glucose concentration from 11 to 20 mM increased the duration of the steady-state [Ca2+]i oscillations without increasing their amplitude. In contrast, both the duration and amplitude of the associated 5-HT transients were increased by glucose stimulation. The amount of 5-HT released per secretion cycle was linearly related to the duration of the underlying [Ca2+]i oscillations in both 11 and 20 mM glucose. The slopes of the straight lines were identical, indicating that there is no significant difference between the ability of calcium oscillations to elicit 5-HT/insulin release in 11 and 20 mM glucose. 4. In situ 5-HT microamperometry has the potential to resolve the high-frequency oscillatory component of the second phase of glucose-induced insulin secretion. This component appears to reflect primarily the duration of the underlying [Ca2+]i oscillations, suggesting that glucose metabolism and/or access to glucose metabolites is not rate limiting to fast pulsatile insulin release.
We have used a combination of sequence comparisons, computer-based modeling and site-directed mutagenesis to investigate the molecular interactions involved in ligand binding and signal transduction of the human 5-HT1B receptor. Two amino acid residues, S212 in transmembrane region (TM) V and F331 in TM VI, were replaced by alanines. These amino acids are conserved in many G protein-coupled receptors and therefore likely to be important for receptor function. The mutant receptors were expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells. The 5-HT-like agonist 5-carboxamido-tryptamine (5-CT) bound with 15-fold lower affinity to the S212A mutant as compared to wild-type receptor and the antagonist methiothepin bound with 17-fold lower affinity to the F331A mutant. No reduction in the affinity of 5-HT was seen for the S212A mutant, although an equivalent mutation in the 5-HT1A receptor resulted in a 100-fold reduction of 5-HT binding. The inhibition of forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP production by 5-HT was significantly reduced in cells expressing the F331A mutant, even though the endogenous ligand 5-HT bound with somewhat increased affinity. Methiothepin acted as an inverse agonist and increased the forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP production at both the wild-type receptor and the mutants, and the effect was stronger on the F331A mutant. These results suggest that F331 is involved in the conformational changes necessary for signal transduction.
Exposure to an acute stressful event facilitates classical eye-blink conditioning in the male rat. The facilitation persists for days after the stressor and its induction is prevented by antagonism of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) type of glutamate receptor. To determine whether NMDA receptor antagonists prevent the facilitated conditioning by activity in the amygdala, a competitive antagonist, AP5, was injected bilaterally into the lateral/basolateral versus central nuclei of the amygdala. Local injection of D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (AP5) into the lateral/basolateral nucleus before stressor exposure prevented the facilitated learning 24 hr later, whereas antagonism in the central nucleus before stressor exposure did not. To determine when the necessary activation occurs, AP5 was injected into the lateral/basolateral nucleus before versus after exposure to the acute stressful event. Blockade of NMDA receptors before but not after stressor exposure prevented the facilitated acquisition of the conditioning in response to stress. These results suggest that exposure to a stressful event transiently activates NMDA receptors in basolateral/lateral nuclei of the amygdala and thereby induces a persistent enhancement of associative learning.
Word recognition performance varies systematically as a function of where the eyes fixate in the word. Performance is maximal with the eye slightly left of the center of the word and decreases drastically to both sides of this optimal viewing position. While manipulations of lexical factors have only marginal effects on this phenomenon, previous studies have pointed to a relation between the viewing position effect (VPE) and letter legibility: When letter legibility drops, the VPE becomes more exaggerated. To further investigate this phenomenon, we improved letter legibility by magnifying letter size in a way that was proportional to the distance from fixation (e.g., TABLE). Contrary to what would be expected if the VPE were due to limits of acuity, improving the legibility of letters has only a restricted influence on performance. In particular, for long words, a strong VPE remains even when letter legibility is equalized across eccentricities. The failure to neutralize the VPE is interpreted in terms of perceptual learning: Since normally, because of acuity limitations, the only information available in parafoveal vision concerns low-resolution features of letters; even when magnification provides better information, readers are unable to make use of it.
In the current study, the potential blocking ability of K+ channels encoded by the human ether-a-go-go related gene (HERG) by the piperazine H1 receptor antagonist cetirizine has been examined and compared with that of other second-generation antihistamines (astemizole, terfenadine, and loratadine). Cetirizine was completely devoid of any inhibitory action on HERG K+ channels heterologously expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes in concentrations up to 30 microM. On the other hand, terfenadine and astemizole effectively blocked HERG K+ channels with nanomolar affinities (the estimated IC50 values were 330 and 480 nM, respectively), whereas loratadine was approximately 300-fold less potent (IC50 approximately 100 microM). In addition, in contrast to terfenadine, cetirizine did not show use-dependent blockade. In SH-SY5Y cells, a human neuroblastoma clone that constitutively expresses K+ currents carried by HERG channels (IHERG), as well as in human embryonic kidney 293 cells stably transfected with HERG cDNA, extracellular perfusion with 3 microM cetirizine did not exert any inhibitory action on IHERG. Astemizole (3 microM), on the other hand, was highly effective. Terfenadine (3 microM) caused a marked (approximately 80%) inhibition of IHERG in SH-SY5Y cells, whereas loratadine, at the same concentration, caused a 40% blockade. Furthermore, the application of cetirizine (3 microM) on the intracellular side of the membrane of HERG-transfected human embryonic kidney 293 cells did not affect IHERG, whereas the same intracellular concentration of astemizole caused a complete block. The results of the current study suggest that second-generation antihistamines display marked differences in their ability to block HERG K+ channels. Cetirizine in particular, which possesses more polar and smaller substituent groups attached to the tertiary amine compared with other antihistamines, lacks HERG-blocking properties, possibly explaining the absence of torsade de pointes ventricular arrhythmias associated with its therapeutical use.
Mental retardation is a prominent feature of many neurodevelopmental syndromes. In an attempt to identify genetic components of these illnesses, we isolated and sequenced a large number of human genomic cosmid inserts containing large trinucleotide repeats. One of these cosmids, Cos-4, maps to the X-chromosome and contains the sequence of a 7.3-kb mRNA. Initial polymorphism analysis across a region of repetitive DNA in this gene revealed a rare 12-bp exonic variation (&lt; 1% in non-iII males) having an increased prevalence in non-Fragile X males with mental retardation (4%, P &lt; 0.04, n = 81). This variant was not present in the highly conserved mouse homologue that has 100% amino acid identity to the human sequence near the polymorphism. Subsequent screening of two additional independent cohorts of non-Fragile X mentally retarded patients and ethnically matched controls demonstrated an even higher prevalence of the 12-bp variant in males with mental retardation (8%, P &lt; 0.0003, n = 125, and 14%, P &lt; 0.10, n = 36) vs the controls. Multivariate analysis was conducted in an effort to identify other phenotypic components in affected individuals, and the findings suggested an increased incidence of histories of hypothyroidism (P &lt; 0.001) and treatment with antidepressants (P &lt; 0.001). We conclude that the presence of this 12-bp variant confers significant susceptibility for mental retardation.
A three-dimensional tracking system was used to examine whether subjects with Parkinson's disease (PD) would show characteristic performance deficits in an unconstrained pointing task. Five targets were presented in a pyramidal array in space to 11 individuals with mild to moderate PD and 8 age-matched controls. After the target was indicated, subjects closed their eyes and pointed to the remembered target locations without vision. Despite the absence of visual feedback during movement, PD subjects were as accurate overall as controls. However, PD subjects showed greater variable errors, more irregular trajectories, and a vertical endpoint bias in which their endpoints were significantly lower than controls. They also showed deficiencies in the compensatory organization of joint rotations to ensure consistency in azimuthal (horizontal) positioning of the arm endpoint. We concluded that, under appropriate task conditions, PD subjects may not show overall deficits in accuracy even when making targeting movements at normal speed without visual feedback. Nevertheless, our findings indicate that there are certain dimensions of performance which are selectively altered in Parkinson's disease even when overall performance is normal.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the motor cortex was used to produce compound motor evoked potentials (cMEPs) in the first dorsal interosseus (FDI) muscle. The size of cMEPs was measured as an index of corticospinal excitability before and after initiation of a simple reaction task (SRT). The SRT, consisting of an abduction of the right index finger against a vertical support in response to a 1 kHz cueing tone, was performed in 6 healthy male subjects. cMEPs were facilitated when timed to occur just before the fastest simple reaction time (fSRT). When the cMEP was placed 15.5 +/- 1.5 ms before the fSRT, its amplitude increased to 176 +/- 36% of the control response seen in the relaxed state (no SRTs). Facilitation of the cMEP increased to 382 +/- 43% of the control when it was placed 11.9 +/- 1.5 ms after the fSRT. The facilitation of cMEP responses prior to the SRT is discussed with particular reference to the premovement potential that may be recorded over the cortex prior to a voluntary movement.
Involuntary upward and lateral eye movements are described in two Parkinson's disease patients who also experience levodopa-induced choreoathetoid limb movements simultaneously. These brief deviations of gaze represent a rare ocular manifestation of dyskinesia and are similar to oculogyric movements resulting from other causes.
We report three patients with bilateral GPi stimulation for stage 4 Parkinson's disease (PD) with severe levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID). In all three it was possible to completely inhibit LID using high-stimulation parameters. Parallel to complete inhibition of LID, an inhibition of the anti-akinetic effect of levodopa was observed, whereas, at the same time, rigidity was markedly improved. GPi stimulation is adaptable over time, and stimulation parameters have to be programmed according to off- and on-period motor symptoms. The main interest of stimulation is the possibility of finding a compromise between LID alleviation in on-phase without loss of the beneficial motor effects and improvement in parkinsonism in off-phase. In some patients, residual dyskinesias have to be accepted so as not to aggravate on-period motor symptoms by a presumed overinhibition of basal ganglia outflow.
Learning a new motor skill requires an alteration in the spatiotemporal pattern of muscle activation. Motor areas of cerebral neocortex are thought to be involved in this type of learning, possibly by functional reorganization of cortical connections. Here we show that skill learning is accompanied by changes in the strength of connections within adult rat primary motor cortex (M1). Rats were trained for three or five days in a skilled reaching task with one forelimb, after which slices of motor cortex were examined to determine the effect of training on the strength of horizontal intracortical connections in layer II/III. The amplitude of field potentials in the forelimb region contralateral to the trained limb was significantly increased relative to the opposite 'untrained' hemisphere. No differences were seen in the hindlimb region. Moreover, the amount of long-term potentiation (LTP) that could be induced in trained M1 was less than in controls, suggesting that the effect of training was at least partly due to LTP-like mechanisms. These data represent the first direct evidence that plasticity of intracortical connections is associated with learning a new motor skill.
Evidence is growing that the cAMP pathway through the cAMP responsive element binding protein (CREB) transcription factor plays an important role in long-term memory formation (LTM). To study the role of beta-noradrenergic receptors, positively linked to the cAMP second-messenger system, in the dynamics of LTM processes, we used a memory-reactivation paradigm because recent studies in our laboratory confirmed that reactivated memory is labile and undergoes an extended reconsolidation process. In an eight-arm maze, rats were trained to choose the same three baited arms; 24 hr later, memory was reactivated and then the rats were injected intracerebroventricularly at 5 min, 30 min, 60 min, or 5 hr later with the beta-antagonist timolol or with saline. The results showed that injection of timolol induced amnesia only at the 60 min post-reactivation interval, whereas all control groups and groups that were timolol-injected at other post-reactivation intervals displayed optimal retention. The delayed amnesic action of timolol suggests that beta noradrenergic receptors and the cAMP cascade are implicated in the late phase of reprocessing of a remembered event.
The efficacy of chemical synaptic connections of a single identified interneuron with different types of follower neurons was studied throughout the adult life of the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis. Simultaneous intracellular recordings were made from the interneuron RPeD1 and its follower neurons in isolated CNS preparations from animals of different age groups (3-18 months of age). The presence of postsynaptic responses to RPeD1 action potentials was tested. With increasing age, the number of A-group neurons that was found with a response to evoked RPeD1 action potentials decreased, yet the number of HIJK-group neurons responding to RPeD1 input increased. The number of G-group neurons and the number of individual neurons VD2/3 and VD4 with RPeD1 input did not differ significantly between age groups. However, there was variability in the presence of responses in these individual neurons. Thus, synaptic connections of the single interneuron RPeD1 change differentially throughout the adult life of L. stagnalis. Within the A-group we found indications that changes in RPeD1 input apply to the entire A-group. In the A-group neurons changes in several electrical properties could not account for the observed age-related changes in the number of neurons responding to RPeD1 action potentials.
The extent to which the loss of plasticity by aged neurons is due to changes in the neuronal environment or to a loss of growth potential of the neurons has not been determined. In previous studies we observed that young adult cerebrovascular axons undergo a sprouting response following a 2-week intracerebroventricular infusion of nerve growth factor (15 microg; NGF). The present study used electron microscopy to examine the innervation of the intradural segment of the internal carotid artery of the aged rat and to determine whether aged sympathetic perivascular axons would respond to in vivo infusion of NGF. Young adult and aged Fischer 344 female rats received a 2-week intracranial infusion of NGF (15 microg) or vehicle (VEH) and were perfused for electron microscopy. Although there was no change in the total number of perivascular axons associated in aged VEH when compared with young adult VEH, a significant reduction was observed in aged VEH when total axons and sympathetic axons were expressed per microm2 vascular wall, reflecting an age-related increase in blood vessel size. Following NGF infusion, aged sympathetic axons were significantly increased by 192% compared with aged VEH cases. These results suggest that there is a proportional reduction in sympathetic cerebrovascular neurons with aging but that they exhibit robust sprouting in response to an exogenous neurotrophin.
The rate of production of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and the caudorostral gradients of total CSF protein were measured in seven subjects with Down syndrome (DS) and compared to age-matched healthy normal volunteers. The CSF production rate in DS subjects (0.35 +/- 0.02 mL/min.) did not differ significantly from normal subjects (0.37 +/- 0.09 mL/min.). In addition, the caudorostral gradient of total protein was similar in DS and normal subjects, with more caudal fractions of lumbar CSF having higher total protein levels than more rostral fractions. These data suggest that there is no gross disturbance in CSF dynamics in DS.
We have previously identified alterations of K+ channel function, IP3-mediated calcium release, and Cp20 (a memory-associated GTP binding protein) in fibroblasts from Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients vs controls. Some of these alterations can be integrated into an index that distinguishes AD patients from controls with both high specificity and high sensitivity. We report here that alterations in IP3-mediated calcium responses are present in a large proportion of AD family members (i.e., individuals at high risk) before clinical symptoms of Alzheimer's disease are present. This was not the case if such members later &quot;escaped&quot; AD symptoms. This preclinical calcium signal correlate of later AD does not reflect, however, the presence of the PS1 familial AD gene.
Neurobiological distinctions among forms of memory have been investigated mainly from the perspective of lesion studies in nonhuman animals and experiments with human neurological patients. We consider recent neuroimaging studies of healthy human volunteers using positron emission tomography (PET) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) that provide new information concerning the neural correlates of particular forms of memory retrieval. More specifically, we consider evidence indicating that priming, a form of implicit retrieval, is associated with decreased activity in various cortical regions. We also consider evidence suggesting that two components of explicit retrieval-intentional or effortful search and successful conscious recollection-are preferentially associated with increased activity in prefrontal and medial temporal regions, respectively.

In a now classic study, W. J. Brogden and W. H. Gantt (1942, American Journal of Physiology, 119, 277-278) demonstrated that movements (limbs, head, eyelid) elicited by direct electrical stimulation of certain regions of the cerebellum (particularly the ansiform lobe) could be trained to respond to neutral auditory or visual conditioned stimuli with appropriate pairing. In recent work we have replicated these results in detail and presented considerable evidence that the reinforcing or &quot;teaching&quot; pathway so activated for the learning of discrete movements is the inferior olive-climbing fiber projection system to the cerebellum. Very strong evidence now indicates that the memory traces for this &quot;skilled response&quot; learning are formed and stored in the cerebellum. The climbing fiber system and inhibitory pathway from the interpositus nucleus to the inferior olive appear to form a neural instantiation of the Resorla-Wagner formulation of classical conditioning and accounts for the &quot;cognitive&quot; phenomenon of blocking. It is concluded that reinforcement in this form of learning is not due simply to contiguity/contingency or to unconditioned stimulus aversiveness, per se, but rather to activation of a particular brain circuit, here the climbing fiber system, a circumstance that may apply to other forms of learning, with other reinforcement circuits, as well.
Much has been learned over the past 15 years about the mechanisms of synaptic plasticity and their relationships to learning and memory processes. Some of the questions raised 15 years ago have been answered while others still remain elusive. This brief review attempts to evaluate the progress accomplished in this field and discusses four specific issues: (i) the relationships between mechanisms of synaptic plasticity and memory types, (ii) the relationships between stabilization of synaptic modifications and memory consolidation, (iii) the links between gene regulation and regulation of synaptic efficacy, and (iv) the relationships between synaptic dynamics and synaptic plasticity. Although it is relatively easy to identify areas in which progress has been made, it is also clear that many areas remain highly controversial and will keep neuroscientists busy for years to come.
Classical studies have demonstrated a role for protein synthesis in long-term memory. The focus of our research is to identify the proteins that are essential for memory and to discover how they contribute to activity-dependent neuronal plasticity. We have developed whole-animal models that maximize the induction of activity-dependent genes and have used differential cloning techniques to identify a set of novel, neuronal immediate-early genes (IEGs). Neuronal IEGs encode transcription factors, cytoskeletal proteins, growth factors, metabolic enzymes, and proteins involved in signal transduction. The biochemical and cell biological properties of these molecules provide important insights into mechanisms that contribute to neuronal plasticity. Recently, we identified a subset of IEGs that appear to function at the synapse. These molecules extend the functional repertoire of IEGs and may provide insight into how IEGs can contribute to synapse-specific plasticity.
These studies determined whether diabetes and estradiol treatment altered norepinephrine (NE) release from hypothalamus, preoptic area (POA), and cortical slices from ovariectomized (OVX) female rats. Animals were sacrificed 12 days after the onset of streptozotocin-induced diabetes and 48 h following vehicle or estradiol injection. Brain slices were preloaded with 3H-NE, and release was evoked twice (S and S2) by electrical stimulation. Diabetes increased hypothalamic NE release during S1 regardless of the administration of vehicle or estradiol. Neither estradiol treatment nor diabetes alone affected NE release during S2 in the hypothalamus or POA. Estradiol treatment elevated NE release in the POA during S2 but only in diabetic animals. Moreover, estradiol elevated cortical NE release during S2 regardless of the presence or absence of disease. We also examined whether alpha2-adrenoceptor regulation of NE release was influenced by diabetes or hormone treatment. Enhancement of NE release by alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonism was evident in all 3 brain regions. However, alpha2-adrenoceptor regulation of NE release was unaffected by diabetes and hormone treatment. These findings suggest that diabetes alters NE release in the hypothalamus/POA of female rats. Additionally, this work identifies a novel action of estradiol to enhance stimulated NE release in the cortex of female rats.
The period (per) and timeless (tim) genes are required for circadian behavioral rhythms in Drosophila. The current model for how these rhythms entrain to light is based upon the light induced decrease in timeless protein (TIM) levels. We show here that the TIM response to light correlates with the effect of light on the behavioral rhythm. To identify components of the entrainment pathway, we also assayed the TIM response in flies with mutant visual systems. Flies that lacked eyes displayed a normal response in lateral neurons. The TIM response to a light pulse was attenuated in flies that were mutant for the transient receptor potential (trp) and trp-like (trpl) genes, which are required for calcium conductance in the visual transduction cascade. The reduced TIM response was accompanied by a reduced phase shift in the behavioral rhythm, but neither response was completely eliminated, and the trpl;trp flies entrain to light-dark cycles, suggesting that these genes perturb some aspect of circadian entrainment when mutated but are not essential for it. The TIM response was also unaffected in ninaE flies that lack the rhodopsin protein (rh1). These results support the hypothesis that circadian entrainment does not rely on the visual system and likely involves a dedicated pathway for photoreception.
Spike transmission probability between pyramidal cells and interneurons in the CA1 pyramidal layer was investigated in the behaving rat by the simultaneous recording of neuronal ensembles. Population synchrony was strongest during sharp wave (SPW) bursts. However, the increase was three times larger for pyramidal cells than for interneurons. The contribution of single pyramidal cells to the discharge of interneurons was often large (up to 0.6 probability), as assessed by the presence of significant (&lt;3 ms) peaks in the cross-correlogram. Complex-spike bursts were more effective than single spikes. Single cell contribution was higher between SPW bursts than during SPWs or theta activity. Hence, single pyramidal cells can reliably discharge interneurons, and the probability of spike transmission is behavior dependent.
Patients with lesions to posterior cortex were compared to controls, matched for age and education, on tests on sustained attention. One test was a simple reaction time task requiring subjects to respond whenever they saw an 'X'. The other was a Continuous Performance Test that required subjects to respond to an 'X' but refrain from responding to other letters. The patients missed more targets than control subjects on both tests. On the Continuous Performance Test the difference between patients and controls increased with time on task, suggesting a sustained attention deficit similar to that previously observed in patients with right frontal lesions. However, whereas frontal patients showed a tendency toward greater impairment when the rate of stimulus presentation was relatively slow, the posterior patients performed significantly worse when the stimuli were presented at a faster rate.
We describe a modified Hamilton microsyringe that allows extracellular recording of neuronal activity and subsequent injections. It is assembled with a Hamilton removable needle and a syringe for injection, a Teflon-coated tungsten wire for recording, and polyimide tubing as a sheath. The device is inexpensive and easy to handle in anatomical and physiological experiments in awake monkeys.
An important general question in neurobiology concerns the development and expression of the rich context of neuronal phenotypes, especially in relation to the diverse patterns of connectivity. Organotypic cultures of brain slices may offer distinct advantages for such studies if such a preparation survives, maintains a wide diversity of neuronal phenotypes and displays appropriate synaptic connections between regions. To address these requirements, we utilized long-term organotypic cultures of intact horizontal slices of rat forebrain and midbrain and assessed a variety of markers of phenotype in combination with functional tests of connectivity. This explant preparation displayed a distinct viability requirement such that the greatest explant survival was seen in slices taken from pups of less than postnatal day 7 and was independent of N-methyl-D-aspartate channel blockade. The anatomical features of the major brain regions (e.g., neocortex, striatum, septum, hippocampus, diencephalon and midbrain) were observed in their normal boundaries. The presence of cholinergic and catecholaminergic neurons was demonstrated with acetylcholinesterase histochemistry and tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry. Labelled neurons displayed multiple, regionally-appropriate cytoarchitectures and, in some cases, could be seen to project to brain regions in a manner quite similar to that seen in vivo. Finally, the direct demonstration of spontaneous and evoked interregional excitatory synaptic transmission was made using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from striatal neurons which revealed an intact glutamate-using corticostriatal pathway. This simple explant preparation appears to contain a rich diversity of neuronal types and synaptic organization. Therefore, this preparation appears to have several distinct advantages for basic neurobiologic research since it combines long-term culture viability and many features of mature brain including complex interregional neuronal systems.

Nine giant interneurons located in the pleural and parietal ganglia of the terrestrial snail Helix lucorum L. were reported to be a key element in the network controlling withdrawal behaviour of the animal. Using a combination of complementary DNA subtraction cloning and differential screening approaches we have isolated a novel gene named HCS2 which is expressed predominantly in a subset of these interneurons. The predicted amino acid sequence of the HCS2 protein contains at the N-terminus a hydrophobic leader sequence and four putative neuropeptides, and at the C-terminus a perfect match to the consensus motif of the EF-hand family of the Ca2+-binding proteins. All four predicted neuropeptides bear a C-terminal signature sequence Tyr-Pro-Arg-X (where X is Ile, Leu, Val or Pro), and three of them are likely to be amidated. Physiological action of three synthetic peptides corresponding to the predicted mature HCS2 peptides mimics fairly well the described action of parietal interneurons on follower motoneurons controlling pneumostome closure. In situ hybridization experiments demonstrated that the HCS2 gene is selectively expressed in the four parietal giant interneurons, as well as in several small unidentified neurons. The onset of the HCS2 transcription during embryogenesis coincides temporally with the time-point when the first withdrawal responses of the embryo to tactile stimulation appear. We propose that the HCS2 gene encodes a hybrid precursor protein whose processed products act as neuromodulators or neurotransmitters mediating the withdrawal reactions of the snail, and in addition may participate in the calcium regulatory pathways or calcium homeostasis in command neurons.
We produced the monoclonal antibody RT10F7, characterized its antigenic specificity and expression in the adult and developing retina, in cultured retinal cells and in other parts of the central nervous system. In metabolically-labelled retinal cultures RT10F7 immunoprecipitated a protein of approximately 36,000 mol. wt. In the adult, RT10F7 stained endfeet of Mller cells in the ganglion cell layer, four horizontal bands in the inner plexiform layer, and radial fibres in the outer plexiform layer which terminated at the outer limiting membrane. In the inner nuclear layer, most somata were underlined by Mller processes that wrapped around them, but some cell bodies were immunoreactive for RT10F7 in the cytoplasm. During development, postnatal day 21 was the first age at which the adult pattern of immunoreactivity was present, although a fourth band in the inner plexiform layer was less clear than for the adult. By 14 and eight days after birth, the pattern of RT10F7 immunoreactivity approximated that of the adult; however, only three bands and one band were present, respectively, in the inner plexiform layer. At earlier ages, postnatal days 4, 1 and embryonic ages 19 and 15, the monoclonal antibody stained Mller cell endfeet and radial fibres, from the inner plexiform layer through the neuroblastic layer to the outer limiting membrane. At these ages, the immunoreactivity was more prominent at the level of Mller cell endfeet. The monoclonal antibody stained glia in preparations of dissociated retinal cells maintained in culture but not astrocytes or oligodendrocytes from optic nerve cultures. In brain sections, tanycytes exhibited RT10F7 immunoreactivity. The monoclonal antibody RT10F7 recognized a specific cell type in the retina, the Mller cell. In the adult and developing retina, RT10F7 recognized an antigen that is present primarily in Mller cell processes. This feature allowed us to follow the maturation of the Mller cell and correlate it with developmental events in the retina. RT10F7 is a specific marker for Mller cells in vivo and in vitro and may be useful for studies of function of Mller cells after ablation or after injuries that are known to activate Mller cells.
Previous electrophysiological studies in pigeons have shown that the vestibulocerebellum can be divided into two parasagittal zones based on responses to optic flow stimuli. The medial zone responds best to optic flow resulting from self-translation, whereas the lateral zone responds best to optic flow resulting from self-rotation. This information arrives from the retina via a projection from the accessory optic system to the medial column of the inferior olive. In this study we investigated inferior olive projections to translational and rotational zones of the vestibulocerebellum using the retrograde tracer cholera toxin subunit B. Extracellular recordings of Purkinje cell activity (complex spikes) in response to large-field visual stimuli were used to identify the injection sites. We found a distinct segregation of inferior olive cells projecting to translational and rotational zones of the vestibulocerebellum. Translation zone injections resulted in retrogradely labeled cells in the ventrolateral area of the medial column, whereas rotation zone injections resulted in retrogradely labeled cells in the dorsomedial region of the medial column. Motion of any object through space, including self-motion of organisms, can be described with reference to translation and rotation in three-dimensional space. Our results show that, in pigeons, the brainstem visual systems responsible for detecting optic flow are segregated into channels responsible for the analysis of translational and rotational optic flow in the inferior olive, which is only two synapses from the retina.
Adult olivocerebellar axons are capable of vigorous regeneration when provided with growth-permissive environmental conditions. To elucidate the contribution of intrinsic properties to the regenerative capabilities of inferior olivary neurons, we have examined the cellular modifications occurring in these neurons following axotomy and target deprivation in the absence of exogenous growth-promoting influences. Axotomized inferior olivary neurons undergo perikaryal shrinkage, dendritic atrophy and a loss of anti-calbindin immunoreactivity. A conspicuous cell death occurs during the first few weeks after lesion, but about 35% of the affected neurons survive up to 60 days. Coincidentally, a subset of the injured nerve cells become strongly reactive for NADPH diaphorase histochemistry, and this expression is correlated with survival in the medial accessory olive and in the principal olive. In addition, the affected neurons express or maintain the expression of several markers related to regenerative processes, including transcription factors c-Jun, JunD and Krox-24, the growth-associated protein GAP-43 and the developmentally regulated calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). The expression of all these markers is sustained up to two months after lesion, the longest survival time examined. These results show that although adult axotomized inferior olivary neurons undergo severe regressive modifications leading to a conspicuous cell loss, at least a subset of them is resistant to the lesion. In addition, the long-lasting expression of several axon-growth associated markers expressed in these neurons in response to injury reveals that they are endowed with a strong intrinsic regenerative potential.
Included among the exciting findings in auditory neuroscience are (i) central plasticity after peripheral injury and (ii) regeneration of auditory nerve fibres following excitotoxic damage. The present study extends our understanding of auditory system plasticity by examining changes in peripheral and central physiology as the cochlea recovers from temporary deafferentation due to excitotoxicity. Application of kainic acid (60 mM) to the round window membrane substantially depressed responses from both auditory nerve and brain stem (inferior colliculus), without affecting distortion-product otoacoustic emissions from the inner ear. The auditory nerve input/output functions recovered over a 30-day period whereas recovery of brainstem response amplitudes occurred within five days. In contrast to amplitudes, thresholds at both peripheral and central levels recovered simultaneously, within five days after kainic acid application. The results indicate that (i) cochlear afferent neurons can recover after excitotoxic damage; (ii) response threshold itself, either central or peripheral, is not sufficient to assess the integrity of the auditory periphery; (iii) the central auditory system can recover more rapidly than the periphery; and (iv) the system can maintain its function in the normal range as peripheral function continues to improve.
The data here reported show that the gene expression of the glycoprotein Po and of the myelin basic protein, the major components of myelin in the peripheral nervous system, dramatically decreases with ageing in the sciatic nerve of normal male rats. A one-month treatment with dihydroprogesterone, the 5alpha-reduced derivative of progesterone, is able to partially restore the fall in Po gene expression occurring in the sciatic nerve of aged male rats, without significantly modifying the gene expression of the myelin basic protein. In cultures of neonatal Schwann cells (the peripheral nervous system elements involved in the synthesis of myelin), the addition of progesterone and of dihydroprogesterone significantly increases Po gene expression; the 3alpha-reduced metabolite of dihydroprogesterone, tetrahydroprogesterone proved to be even more effective. These data suggest that the effect of progesterone is linked to its conversion into dihydroprogesterone and especially into tetrahydroprogesterone, since Schwann cells possess the 5alpha-reductase-3alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase system. The data provide the first demonstration that ageing decreases the gene expression of two major components of the peripheral myelin in the sciatic nerve; they also show that this phenomenon may be partially reversed by progesterone derivatives, which might act by stimulating Po gene expression in the Schwann cells.
The involvement of endogenous benzodiazepine octadecaneuropeptide in the regulation of corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA expression has been studied using in situ hybridization technique. Intracerebroventricular injection of octadecaneuropeptide (4 microg/kg) induced a 26% decrease in the corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA expression in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus. Concomitant injection of octadecaneuropeptide and i.p. injection of the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol (4 mg/kg) potentiated the corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA decrease ( - 34%). The depressing effect of octadecaneuropeptide on corticotropin-releasing hormone gene expression was totally reversed by pretreatment of the animals with the GABA(A) receptor antagonist picrotoxin (5 mg/kg; i.p.) or by pretreatment with the benzodiazepine receptor antagonist flumazenil (4 mg/kg; i.p.). To determine the reciprocal involvement of adrenal and sexual steroids in this regulation, animals are adrenalectomized and/or castrated. Adrenalectomy reversed the effect induced by octadecaneuropeptide, which increased corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA expression (+21%), while castration did not modify the negative influence of octadecaneuropeptide. When rats were adrenalectomized and castrated, the adrenalectomy influence was predominant, since octadecaneuropeptide increased significantly the hybridization signal (+18%). The involvement of neurosteroids, especially reduced metabolites of progesterone was also investigated. The concomitant injection of octadecaneuropeptide and subcutaneous injection of the 5alpha-reductase inhibitor MK-906 (14 mg/kg) to adrenalectomized and castrated rats, reduced significantly by 60% the increase of corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA expression induced by octadecaneuropeptide. These results indicate that in vivo the endogenous benzodiazepine octadecaneuropeptide, via an activation of the benzodiazepine sites of the GABA(A) receptor, negatively modulates corticotropin-releasing hormone neuronal activity and that this modulation can be negatively or positively influenced by central and peripheral steroids.
Although gonadal steroids are important determinants of the development and activity of various neuronal circuits in the brain and spinal cord, their function has been relatively poorly studied in the peripheral nervous system. In the present work, the effects of pre- and postpubertal castration were examined on the morphology of autonomic neurons that supply pelvic visceral organs in male rats. These neurons were identified by peripheral injection of fluorescent retrograde tracers and, in the major pelvic ganglion, were further classified as sympathetic or parasympathetic by means of immunostaining for tyrosine hydroxylase. Sizes of ganglion cell somata were indicated by areas of nucleated profiles in cryosections. The results show that, irrespective of whether castration was carried out at two or seven weeks-of-age, noradrenergic pelvic neurons that supply the vas deferens, prostate gland, urinary bladder or colon achieved only approximately 60% of the size of those in unoperated controls. In contrast, cholinergic pelvic neurons were unaffected by castration unless they supplied reproductive targets. Pre- and paravertebral sympathetic neurons that supplied the pelvic viscera were only slightly smaller following castration or were unchanged, depending on their target. All effects of castration were prevented by testosterone replacement following surgery. Androgen receptor-immunoreactivity was particularly prevalent in the nuclei of some pelvic ganglion neurons. The studies suggest that circulating androgens are essential for the maturation and maintenance of the structure of select groups of autonomic neurons that supply the viscera. The presence of androgen receptor immunoreactivity in many of these neurons indicates that direct neuronal effects of androgens are possible. However this does not exclude other less direct mechanisms of steroid action on neurons, such as by an effect on target organs, neurotrophic factor release or peripheral vascular supply. These studies point to the androgenic steroids as potentially important determinants of autonomic reflex function.
In the nervous system, the aminoacylhistidine dipeptide carnosine (beta-alanyl-L-histidine) has been shown to be expressed in the olfactory receptor neurons and in brain astrocytes. Using immunocytochemical techniques, we report here a dense carnosine-like immunoreactivity in the subependymal layer of the rodent forebrain. Since the subependymal layer involves two distinct compartments (astrocytic cells forming glial tubes and newly-generated cells of the rostral migratory stream, here organized to form chains contained within the glial tubes [Brannon Thomas L. et al. (1996) Glia 17, 1-14; Jancovski A. and Sotelo C. (1996) J. comp. Neurol. 258, 112-124; Lois C. et al (1996) Science 271, 978-981; Peretto P. et al. (1997) Brain Res. Bull. 42, 9-21]), we investigated in detail the cellular distribution of carnosine-like immunoreactivity in this area. By using double labelling techniques with antisera raised against carnosine and specific markers of glial tubes or chains of migrating cells, we show that carnosine-like immunoreactivity is associated with both the compartments. On the other hand, unlike markers of the rostral migratory stream, carnosine-like immunoreactivity was not observed in isolated, migrating cells located outside the subependymal layer, which spread through the olfactory bulb in a radially-oriented manner. This suggests that carnosine is transiently expressed by cells of the rostral migratory stream when moving in the tangentially-oriented part of the migration route. Moreover, we investigated the distribution of carnosine-like immunoreactivity in the postnatal rat forebrain and found that it is detectable in the subependymal layer only starting from the third postnatal week, although it is well known that the dipeptide is present in the olfactory receptor neurons since the embryonic day 16 [Biffo S. et al. (1992) J. chem Neuroanat. 5, 5162]. Taken together, these results show that camosine, other than abundantly present in astrocytes of the glial tubes, is associated to the tangential part of the rostral migratory stream.
The action of adenosine-5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate), a non-hydrolysable purine analogue and potent P2Y1-purinoceptor agonist, was studied on immediate early gene expression in rat astrocyte cultures. A rapid and transient increase in c-fos, junB, c-jun and Tis11 messenger RNA was observed in cultured astrocytes after treatment with adenosine-5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate). Maximal induction of immediate early gene expression was obtained within 30 min of stimulation and c-fos was the most sensitive indicator of P2Y-purinoceptor activation. Calcitonin gene-related peptide has also been shown to be a potent inducer of c-fos messenger RNA in cultured astroglial cells. The combined stimulation of astrocytes with calcitonin gene-related peptide and adenosine-5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) resulted in the potentiated expression of c-fos messenger RNA. The superinduction of immediate early gene expression by calcitonin gene-related peptide and extracellular ATP in cultured astrocytes might result from intracellular signal transduction cross-talk, since adenosine-5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) was found to increase calcitonin gene-related peptide-induced cyclic AMP accumulation by 35%. Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate also increased calcitonin gene-related peptide-evoked cyclic AMP accumulation and led to the induction of immediate early gene expression, suggesting that protein kinase C might be at least in part involved in purinergic cross-talk. Our results demonstrate synergistic roles for extracellular ATP and calcitonin gene-related peptide in the transcriptional activation of astroglial cells.
The subfornical organ and organum vasculosum laminae terminalis represent neuroglial circumventricular organ structures bordering the anterior third cerebral ventricle. Owing to the absence of the blood-brain barrier, the cellular elements of the subfornical organ and the organum vasculosum laminae terminalis can be reached by circulating messenger molecules transferring afferent information. As demonstrated for the control of extracellular fluid composition, the circulating hormone angiotensin II acts on these sensory circumventricular organs to induce drinking, elevated peripheral resistance and neurohypophyseal hormone release via interaction with membrane-spanning receptor proteins. To characterize the cell-specific distribution of angiotensin II receptors within the circumventricular organs, primary cell cultures derived from the subfornical organ or organum vasculosum laminae terminalis of five- to six-day-old rat pups were used to measure alterations in intracellular calcium at the single cell level. Neurons and astrocytes were identified by immunocytochemical staining for specific marker proteins. Bath application of angiotensin II (10(-10)-10(-6) M) dose-dependently induced calcium transients in neurons (19.6%) and astrocytes (15.7%), and angiotensin II threshold concentrations to elicit intracellular calcium signalling proved to be one order of magnitude higher in astrocytes as compared to neurons (10(-9) M). At angiotensin II concentrations higher than 10(-7) M, pronounced desensitization of the angiotensin II receptor occurred. Employing the angiotensin II receptor antagonists losartan (DUP-753; AT1-receptor) and PD-123319 (AT2-receptor), exclusive expression of the AT1 receptor subtype coupled to intracellular calcium concentration signalling could be demonstrated for neurons and astrocytes. In all cells examined, the angiotensin II-evoked increase in intracellular calcium concentrations could be fully suppressed in the absence of extracellular calcium. Co-activation by angiotensin II and other agents (vasopressin, its fragment 8-arginine-vasopressin(4-9), oxytocin, endothelin) was indicated for subfornical organ neurons and organum vasculosum laminae terminalis astrocytes.
Whole-cell transmembrane potassium currents were studied in somatic membrane of freshly isolated rat dorsal root ganglion neurons. We defined three types of potassium currents, which were separated on the basis of their different potential dependence of activation and sensitivity to external tetraethylammonium and 4-aminopyridine. The potential dependence of kinetic and steady-state properties of a fast inactivating potassium current, a slow inactivating potassium current and a non-inactivating delayed rectifier current were described by the Hodgkin-Huxley equations. A transient fast inactivating potassium current was activated at the most negative membrane potentials and was not reduced in the presence of 10 mM tetraethylammonium in the external solution. 4-Aminopyridine (2 mM) caused an 80% inhibition of this current. The activation of the fast inactivating potassium current was properly described by fitting a single exponent raised to the fourth power. The time constant of activation changed from 4 to 1 ms in the voltage range between -30 and +40 mV. The time constant of inactivation decreased from 35 to 15 ms over the same range of potentials. Parameters for the fit of a Boltzmann equation to mean values for steady-state activation were V1/2=-20mV, k=11.8mV, and for steady-state inactivation V1/2= -85 mV, k=-9.8 mV. A transient slow inactivating potassium current had an activation threshold between -40 and -30 mV. At 2 mM 4-aminopyridine, the depression of the slow potassium current was 55%. The extracellular application of 10 mM tetraethylammonium was less effective and evoked a 40% reduction. The activation of the slow inactivating potassium current was also described by a single exponential function raised to the fourth power. The time constant of activation decreased from 12 ms at a membrane potential of -10 mV to 4 ms at the potential of 60 mV. The inactivation of slow inactivating potassium current was described by two exponents. The time constant for the fast exponent ranged from 300 ms at -20 mV to 160 ms at +60 mV. The slower exponent was also potential dependent and its time constant ranged from approximately 2600 to 1600 ms over the same potentials. Parameters for the Boltzmann equation fittings to mean values were V1/2= -12.8 mV, k=13.4 mV and V1/2= -54.6 mV, k= -12 mV for steady-state activation and inactivation, respectively. A non-inactivating delayed rectifier potassium current was activated at the most positive membrane potentials. This non-inactivating current did not change in the presence of 4-aminopyridine. Extracellular tetraethylammonium (10 mM) caused a 70% reduction of this current. The activation of the non-inactivating potassium current was described by one exponent raised to the fourth power. The time constant for activation ranged from 85 ms at -5 mV to 30 ms at 45 mV. No time-dependent inactivation was observed during 15-s testing potentials in the voltage range between 10 and +60 mV. The activation behavior was characterized by V1/2=15.3 mV, k=12.5 mV. The densities of these potassium currents were studied for three groups of animals: one, five to six and 14-15 days of postnatal development. Fifty cells were examined in each age group. All three types of potassium currents were found in each investigated neuron. The mean densities of slow and fast inactivating potassium currents increased during ontogenetic development. The densities of non-inactivating delayed rectifier potassium current decreased in the first week of ontogenetic development and did not change thereafter.
The Drosophila melanogaster gene product TRPL (transient receptor potential-like) is a Ca2+-permeable cation channel that contributes to the light-induced Ca2+ entry in Drosophila photoreceptors and bears homology to several recently cloned mammalian channels. Intracellular Ca2+ has been implicated to stimulate TRPL channels. This constitutes a potentially dangerous mechanism that may lead to Ca2+ overload. Therefore, we studied whether TRPL channels, like other Ca2+-permeable channels, are inhibited by intracellular Ca2+ concentrations in the micromolar range and whether this effect is mediated by calmodulin. In Sf9 cells expressing the TRPL gene along with histamine H1 receptors after infection with baculoviruses containing the corresponding complementary DNA, histamine-induced TRPL currents were inhibited by intracellular Ca2+ with an IC50 of 2.3 microM. Moreover, TRPL currents were reversibly attenuated by a preceding hyperpolarization. This attenuation reflected the action of an increased Ca2+ influx, since it was abolished in the absence of extracellular Ca2+ and enhanced by raising extracellular Ca2+ to 20 mM. Finally, the activity of TRPL channels in inside-out patches was reversibly inhibited by raising the Ca2+ concentration on the cytosolic side of the patches to 10-50 microM. Addition of calmodulin or the calmodulin inhibitor calmidazolium did not modify the inhibition of the TRPL by Ca2+. We conclude that high intracellular Ca2+ concentrations inhibit the TRPL, but no evidence was found for the requirement of calmodulin. This mechanism makes Ca2+ influx through the TRPL self-limiting. Furthermore, the TRPL may allow one to study the structural requirements for channel regulation by Ca2+.
Heterotrimeric G-proteins, comprising alpha, beta and gamma subunits, have been shown to play a central role in coupling multiple receptors to a variety of enzymes and ion channels. In vitro studies have demonstrated the existence of selective interactions between various alpha, beta and gamma subunits, as well as between specific heterotrimers and target receptor and effector proteins. However, little is known of the physiological relevance of such associations, and the determinants of specificity in G-protein signaling within the brain remain largely unidentified. To investigate the possibility that specific heterotrimeric interactions result from discrete localizations of the G-protein subunits within the brain, we have used the technique of in situ hybridization to map the distribution of G-protein beta and gamma subunits in the rat brain. Beta1, beta2, beta3 and beta5 subunits were found to be widely expressed throughout the rat brain, whilst beta4 and the G-protein gamma subunit messenger RNAs generally showed more discrete expression patterns. The expression patterns for these subunits suggest that individual beta and gamma subunits may be co-expressed in certain cell types and brain regions; a particularly intriguing and striking co-localization was observed in the case of beta4 and gamma2 subunit messenger RNAs in layer VI of the occipital cortex. The localizations of the G-protein beta and gamma subunits, and their potential coupling to various receptor/effector systems, are discussed.
The neurokinin-1 and somatostatin sst2a receptors have both been identified on spinal cord neurons. In this study we have estimated the proportions of neurons in different parts of the spinal cord which express these receptors, by using a monoclonal antibody against a neuronal nuclear protein named NeuN and combining the optical disector method with confocal microscopy. The NeuN antibody was initially tested on over 3200 neurons identified with antisera against a variety of compounds, including neuropeptides, enzymes and receptors, and also on astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. All of the neurons, but none of the glial cells that were examined possessed NeuN-immunoreactivity, which suggests that NeuN is a reliable marker for all spinal cord neurons. We found that approximately 45% of neurons in lamina I, 23-29% of those in laminae IV-VI and 18% in lamina X possessed the neurokinin-1 receptor, while the receptor was present on a smaller proportion of neurons in laminae II and III (6% and 11%, respectively). Thirteen percent of lamina I neurons and 15% of those in lamina II expressed the sst2a receptor. To provide further information about the types of neuron which possess the sst2a receptor, we searched for possible co-existence with the neurokinin-1 receptor as well as with GABA and glycine. sst2a and neurokinin-1 receptors were not co-localized on neurons in laminae I and II. All of the sst2a-immunoreactive neurons examined were also GABA-immunoreactive, and 83.5% were glycine-immunoreactive, indicating that the receptor is located on inhibitory neurons in the superficial dorsal horn. These results demonstrate the proportions of neurons in each region of the spinal cord which can be directly activated by substance P or somatostatin acting through these receptors. Levels of receptors can change in pathological states, and this method could be used to determine whether or not these changes involve alterations in the number of neurons which express receptors. In addition, the method can be used to estimate the sizes of neurochemically-defined populations of spinal cord neurons.
After spinal cord injury, hyper-reflexia can lead to episodic hypertension, muscle spasticity and urinary bladder dyssynergia. This condition may be caused by primary afferent fiber sprouting providing new input to partially denervated spinal interneurons, autonomic neurons and motor neurons. However, conflicting reports concerning afferent neurite sprouting after cord injury do not provide adequate information to associate sprouting with hyper-reflexia. Therefore, we studied the effect of mid-thoracic spinal cord transection on central projections of sensory neurons, quantified by area measurements. The area of myelinated afferent arbors, immunolabeled by cholera toxin B, was greater in laminae I-V in lumbar, but not thoracic cord, by one week after cord transection. Changes in small sensory neurons and their unmyelinated fibers, immunolabeled for calcitonin gene-related peptide, were assessed in the cord and in dorsal root ganglia. The area of calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive fibers in laminae III-V increased in all cord segments at two weeks after cord transection, but not at one week. Numbers of sensory neurons immunoreactive for calcitonin gene-related peptide were unchanged, suggesting that the increased area of immunoreactivity reflected sprouting rather than peptide up-regulation. Immunoreactive fibers in the lateral horn increased only above the lesion and in lumbar segments at two weeks after cord transection. They were not continuous with dorsal horn fibers, suggesting that they were not primary afferent fibers. Using the fluorescent tracer DiI to label afferent fibers, an increase in area could be seen in Clarke's nucleus caudal to the injury two weeks after transection. In conclusion, site- and time-dependent sprouting of myelinated and unmyelinated primary afferent fibers, and possibly interneurons, occurred after spinal cord transection. Afferent fiber sprouting did not reach autonomic or motor neurons directly, but may cause hyper-reflexia by increasing inputs to interneurons.
Electrophysiological and staining techniques in the in vitro slice preparation of the rat and guinea-pig lateral amygdala were combined with immunocytochemical approaches, in order to characterize the neuronal substrate, the ionic basis and the pharmacological properties of glycine-mediated responses, and to map the distribution and composition of the mediating glycine receptors. Glycine was locally applied to spiny, pyramidal-like cells in the lateral amygdala, which possessed electrophysiological properties typical of projection neurons. Glycine induced a membrane hyperpolarization from rest and associated decrease in input resistance, and an interruption of spike firing and calcium-mediated high-threshold oscillations. The glycine-mediated response persisted during blocked synaptic transmission, reversed close to the presumed somatic chloride equilibrium potential and shifted during altered transmembrane Cl- gradients as expected for an increase in membrane chloride conductance. Responses to glycine were reversibly blocked by strychnine, but were insensitive to picrotoxin and bicuculline. Strychnine-sensitive components of spontaneous activity, but not of evoked synaptic responses, were frequently observed. Similar responses to glycine occurred in neurons of the guinea-pig and rat lateral amygdala, as well as in the central amygdala. The localization and composition of glycine receptors were examined through the use of monoclonal antisera directed against the binding protein (gephyrin), the alpha1 subunits (mAb2b) and alpha/beta subunits (mAb4a) of glycine receptors. A dense to moderate immunostaining for gephyrin was observed throughout the amygdaloid complex, whereas mAb4a immunofluorescent neurons, displaying strong punctate labelling around the soma and proximal dendrites, were confined to the lateral amygdala. No immunoreactivity was obtained with mAb2b antibodies in the amygdala. It is concluded that pyramidal-like projection cells in the lateral amygdala express functional glycine receptors at somatic and proximal dendritic sites, which are composed of beta and alpha subunits other than the alpha1 type, and which may play a functional role in the control of excitatory activity in the amygdala, particularly during periods of decreased GABAergic influence.
In vivo microdialysis experiments were conducted in transgenic mice with impaired glucocorticoid receptor function resulting from expression of antisense directed against glucocorticoid receptor messenger RNA. Basal corticosterone and serotonin levels in the nucleus accumbens of untreated transgenic mice were enhanced compared to control mice (B6C3F1). Following a systemic morphine injection (15 mg/kg) mesolimbic dopamine and serotonin release was markedly increased in transgenic mice compared to control mice and in parallel enhanced behavioural stimulation was observed in these animals. After pretreatment with the antidepressant moclobemide over a time period of eight weeks (15 mg/kg/day) elevated basal levels of both corticosterone and serotonin were normalized in transgenic mice. Furthermore, morphine-induced dopamine and serotonin release as well as behavioral stimulation were suppressed in transgenic mice and similar to that in control mice. The results indicate that impaired glucocorticoid receptor function influences the basal release of serotonin in the nucleus accumbens. This alteration has no effect on basal but on morphine-stimulated release of dopamine in the mesolimbic system. An enhanced sensitivity to the effects of morphine is apparently related to elevated brain corticosterone and serotonin levels and can be normalized by long-term antidepressant treatment.
The potential of a novel therapeutic approach for treating Parkinson's disease, which involves the transplantation of a transfected human astrocyte cell line SVG-TH, that stably expresses the rate-limiting enzyme for dopamine production, tyrosine hydroxylase, was examined. SVG-TH and untransfected parent cells were grafted into the diseased striatum of rats in which Parkinson's disease had been induced by the administration of 6-hydroxydopamine. The in situ production and spillover of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (the precursor of dopamine), dopamine and their metabolites in the striatal extracellular fluid of the grafted rats was determined in conscious animals using the microdialysis technique and a high pressure liquid chromatography apparatus. Alleviation of symptoms of Parkinson's disease (abnormal movements) was evaluated by rotation tests. Upon transplantation of the SVG-TH cells into the striatum of the parkinsonian rats, the levels of dopamine in extracellular fluid of the striatum reached those of the normal rats, and correlated well with the improvement (74%) in their rotating behaviour (behavioural deficit). The levels of the two main dopamine metabolites, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid, were low in the lesioned rats, even after SVG-TH transplantation. An alternative route of metabolism of dopamine may occur in the transplanted striatum, since the dopamine metabolite, 3-O-methoxy-4-hydroxy-phenylethylamine, appeared, which indicates activity of catechol-O-methyl transferase. Upon blockade of L-aromatic-amino acid decarboxylase, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine accumulated in extracellular fluid of the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned and SVG-TH-grafted rats, which indicated that these cells produced active tyrosine hydroxylase in vivo. These findings indicate the potential of treating Parkinson's disease by the intrabrain grafting of human astrocyte cells transfected with the rate limiting enzyme for dopamine production.
Electrophysiological consequences of activation of cannabinoid receptors have been mostly investigated on neuronal cell lines and on cells transfected with cannabinoid receptors. The aim of the present experiments was to study cannabinoid effects on identified neurons in situ. Electrically-evoked postsynaptic currents and voltage-dependent calcium currents were investigated in the principal neurons of the corpus striatum, the medium spiny neurons, with the patch-clamp method for brain slices. These neurons were chosen because they produce messenger RNA for cannabinoid receptors and because the density of cannabinoid binding sites in the striatum is high. Activation of muscarinic receptors by carbachol (10(-5) M) reduced inhibitory postsynaptic current amplitude by 67%. The synthetic cannabinoid receptor agonist R(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-[(morpholinyl)methyl]pyrrolo[1,2,3-de]-1,4- benzoxazin-yl]-(1-naphtalenyl)methanone (WIN55212-2; 10(-8) to 10(-5) M) dose-dependently reduced striatal inhibitory postsynaptic currents; the maximum effect, inhibition by 52%, was observed at 10(-6) M. Another cannabinoid agonist, (-)-cis-3-[2-hydroxy-4-(1,1-dimethylheptyl)phenyl]-trans-4-(3-hydr oxypropyl)cyclohexanol (CP55940; 10(-6) M), also reduced inhibitory postsynaptic currents, by 50%. The CB1 cannnabinoid receptor antagonist N-piperidino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)4-methyl-3-pyra zolecarboxamide (SR141716A; 10(-6) M) had no effect when given alone but abolished the effect of WIN55212-2 (10(-6) M). WIN55212-2 (10(-6) M) did not change the current evoked by the GABA(A)-receptor agonist muscimol (10(-6) M). Activation of muscarinic receptors by carbachol (10(-5) M) inhibited voltage-dependent calcium currents by 21%, but the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN55212-2 (10(-6) M) was without effect. The results show that activation of CB1 cannabinoid receptors reduces GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents in medium spiny neurons of the corpus striatum: the likely mechanism is presynaptic inhibition of GABA release from terminals of recurrent axons of the medium spiny neurons themselves.
Effects of a new kind of volatile anaesthetics, sevoflurane, on GABA- and glycine-gated chloride current (ICl) were examined in single pyramidal neurons acutely dissociated from the rat hippocampal CA1 region, using the voltage-clamp mode of the nystatin-perforated patch-clamp technique. Rapid application of sevoflurane-induced ICl by itself, with the time to peak reduced as the sevoflurane concentration was increased from 10(-3) to 3 x 10(-3) M. Although a pretreatment with 10(-3) M sevoflurane enhanced the peak amplitude of GABA (3 x 10(-6) M)-induced ICl and suppressed the peak amplitude when the GABA concentration was increased to 10(-4) M, the pretreatment decreased the time to peak of the ICl induced by any concentration of GABA (from 3 x 10(-6) to 10(-4) M). The treatment also accelerated the decay phase of the GABA-induced ICl. On the other hand, sevoflurane suppressed the peak ICl induced by 3 x 10(-5) M glycine in a concentration-dependent manner. In the presence of 3 x 10(-4) M sevoflurane, the peak amplitude of the glycine-induced ICl was decreased without changes in EC50 or Hill coefficients. Pretreatment with 10(-3) M sevoflurane did not affect the time to peak of the ICl induced by any concentration of glycine (from 3 x 10(-5) to 10(-3) M). Pretreatment with 3 x 10(-8) M strychnine markedly prolonged the time to peak of the glycine-induced ICl. These results suggest that sevoflurane modulated the amplitude of the GABA responses, depending on the balance of the accelerated activation and decay phases, and that sevoflurane suppressed the glycine-induced ICl in a non-competitive manner without noticeable effect on the kinetics. The reversible and differential modulation of GABA(A) and glycine receptors might underlie a part of the anaesthetic actions and less adverse clinical effects of sevoflurane.
The hippocampus plays a central role in the acquisition and storage of information. Long-term potentiation in the mossy fibre pathway to the CA3 region in the hippocampus, an animal model of memory acquisition, is modulated by dynorphin peptides. This study investigated the possible role of hippocampal dynorphin in spatial learning. Male rats were trained in the Morris Water Task after microinjection with different doses of dynorphin B (1, 3.3 or 10 nmol/rat) or artificial cerebrospinal fluid (as control) into the CA3 region of the dorsal hippocampus. Dynorphin B was found to impair spatial learning at all tested doses. The synthetic kappa1-selective opiate receptor antagonist nor-binaltorphimine (2 nmol) also given into the hippocampus fully blocked the acquisition impairment caused by dynorphin B (10 nmol), while nor-binaltorphimine alone did not affect learning performance. These findings suggest that dynorphin peptides could play a modulatory role in hippocampal plasticity by acting on hippocampal kappa-receptors and thereby impair spatial learning.
Cytoplasmic calcium-binding proteins are thought to shield neurons against damage induced by excessive Ca2+ elevations. Yet, in theory, a mobile cellular Ca2+ buffer could just as well promote neuronal injury by facilitating the rapid dispersion of Ca2+ throughout the cytoplasm. In sharp contrast to controls, in mice lacking the gene for calbindin-D28k, synaptic responses of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons which are normally extremely vulnerable to ischemia, recovered significantly faster and more completely after a transient oxygen-glucose deprivation in vitro, and sustained less cellular damage following a 12 min carotid artery occlusion in vivo. Other cellular and synaptic properties such as the altered adaptation of action potential firing, and altered paired-pulse and frequency potentiation at affected synapses in calbindin-D28k-deficient mice were consistent with a missing intraneuronal Ca2+ buffer. Our findings provide direct experimental evidence against a neuroprotective role for calbindin-D28k.
Changes in impulse activity of sensorimotor cortex neurons associated with interaction of glutamate and dopamine during conditioned placing reaction were investigated in experiments on cats. Application of either glutamate or levodopa as a dopamine precursor increased background and evoked impulse activity in many of sensorimotor cortex neurons. It occurred occasionally that an increased impulse activity of cortical neurons produced by joint application of glutamate and levodopa could be much more intense than that produced by one of these substances. Amphetamine acted on cortical neurons in a similar way as levodopa. Haloperidol, a non-selective blocker of dopamine1 and dopamine2 receptors, increased or did not change background and evoked impulse activity in some cortical neurons. In contrast to application of glutamate alone, simultaneous application of glutamate and haloperidol to the neocortex depressed neuronal responses connected with conditioned movement. Thus, glutamate cannot exert its potentiating effect on evoked neuronal activity due to the depressing action of haloperidol. This means that glutamate potentiation is realized to a great extent through molecular mechanisms common for glutamate and dopamine, possibly through G-proteins which are common for glutamate metabotropic and dopamine receptors.
The integration of the whole cerebral cortex and thalamus during forebrain activities that underlie different states of consciousness, requires pathways for the dispersion of thalamic activity across many cortical areas. Past theories have relied on the intralaminar nuclei as the sources of diffuse thalamocortical projections that could facilitate spread of activity across the cortex. A case is made for the presence of a matrix of superficially-projecting cells, not confined to the intralaminar nuclei but extending throughout the whole thalamus. These cells are distinguished by immunoreactivity for the calcium-binding protein, D28K calbindin, are found in all thalamic nuclei of primates and have increased numbers in some nuclei. They project to superficial layers of the cerebral cortex over relatively wide areas, unconstrained by architectonic boundaries. They generally receive subcortical inputs that lack the topographic order and physiological precision of the principal sensory pathways. Superimposed upon the matrix in certain nuclei only, is a core of cells distinguished by immunoreactivity for another calcium-binding protein, parvalbumin, These project in highly ordered fashion to middle layers of the cortex in an area-specific manner. They are innervated by subcortical inputs that are topographically precise and have readily identifiable physiological properties. The parvalbumin cells form the basis for sensory and other inputs that are to be used as a basis for perception. The calbindin cells, especially when recruited by corticothalamic connections, can form a basis for the engagement of multiple cortical areas and thalamic nuclei that is essential for the binding of multiple aspects of sensory experience into a single framework of consciousness.
Marijuana is one of the most widely used illicit recreational drugs. However, contrary to the majority of drugs abused by humans, there is a general opinion that rewarding effects are not manifested by animals. We studied a synthetic cannabinoid agonist WIN 55,212-2 using an intravenous self-administration model in drug-naive mice. The results of this study show that WIN 55,212-2 was intravenously self-administered by mice in a concentration-dependent manner according to a bell-shaped curve. Thus, self-administration of WIN 55,212-2 significantly increased, with respect to the vehicle self-administration control group, at concentrations of 0.5 and 0.1 mg/kg per injection. However, at WIN 55,212-2 concentration of 0.5 mg/kg per injection, self-administration significantly decreased. The results obtained show how WIN 55,212-2 is able to elicit both rewarding and aversive effects depending on the concentration used. Pretreatment of mice with the cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist SR 141716A (0.25 mg/kg, i.p.) completely prevented WIN 55,212-2 (0.1 mg/kg per injection) self-administration, indicating that WIN 55,212-2 rewarding effects are specifically mediated by cannabinoid CB1 receptors.
The AS/AGU rat is a mutant derived from the Albino Swiss (AS) strain. It is characterized by an ungainly, staggering gait, hind limb rigidity, whole body tremor and, in older animals, difficulty in initiating movement. As and AS/AGU males aged three, six and nine months (n=6 per group) were used to estimate the levels of dopamine and its metabolites in the extracellular fluid of the caudate-putamen. The results indicate a profound loss of dopamine in the extracellular fluid at all age points examined, together with an increase in the concentration of the metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid. It is suggested that these changes reflect a defect of dopaminergic neuron function which may underlie the motor disorder seen in these animals.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA expression in the amygdala of rats after adrenalectomy and bilateral lesions of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus was examined by in situ hybridization histochemistry. Corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA-containing cells are abundant in the intermediate subdivision of the central amygdaloid nucleus. Some corticotropin-releasing hormone-labeled cells are scattered in other subdivisions of the central nucleus and throughout the anterior amygdaloid area. Five days after bilateral adrenalectomy, the number of corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA-containing cells was reduced both in the central nucleus and the anterior area of the amygdala. This reduction was prevented by corticosterone replacement and contrasts sharply with the known rise of corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA in the paraventricular nucleus after adrenalectomy. Corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA expression in the amygdala was up-regulated in rats with six-week bilateral lesions of the paraventricular nucleus. This elevation in corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA was not influenced by adrenalectomy or corticosterone, and it did not correlate with plasma levels of adrenocorticotrophic hormone or corticosterone. The possible direct innervation of the amygdala by the paraventricular nucleus is supported by the demonstration of labeled axons from the paraventricular nucleus to the amygdala after injection of an anterograde tracer, Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin, into the paraventricular nucleus. Labeled fibers take two courses: through the lateral hypothalamus ventral amygdalofugal path and through the stria terminalis. Data presented here suggest that the paraventricular nucleus-amygdala connection is likely to be inhibitory to corticotropin-releasing hormone neurons in the central amygdala. These neurons may participate in behavioral responses to stress effected through brainstem autonomic centers rather than directly through the hypothalamo-pituitary adrenal axis.
From our previous studies, myotonic dystrophy protein kinase: gene product of myotonic dystrophy is localized at the terminal cisternae of sarcoplasmic reticulum of human adult muscle. Now we have studied the developmental expression of myotonic dystrophy protein kinase in aneurally cultured human muscles and contracting cross-striated muscles innervated with fetal rat spinal cord using a semi-quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction method for myotonic dystrophy protein kinase messenger RNA expression, Western blot analysis, immunohistochemical examinations by laser scanning confocal microscopy and immunoelectron microscopy. About 65,000 mol. wt myotonic dystrophy protein kinase was detected in aneurally cultured muscles. Myotonic dystrophy protein kinase messenger RNA was expressed in both aneurally and innervated cultured muscles, but in early innervated cultured muscles the message was transiently lower than in aneurally cultured muscles and innervated cultured muscles in long-term co-culture. In aneurally cultured muscles, immature aneurally cultured muscles show a diffuse and irregular distribution of myotonic dystrophy protein kinase in the deeper cytoplasm near the nuclei. Ultrastructurally the immuno-products against myotonic dystrophy protein kinase were observed as dense deposits in parts of the membranes near the mitochondria. In innervated cultured muscles, immunofluorescent microscopy showed myotonic dystrophy protein kinase to be localized regularly in the I bands and A-I junctions. Ultrastructurally myotonic dystrophy protein kinase was localized in branched duct-like membranes in the early stage of innervated cultured muscles and then in small sacs at the I bands and A-I junctions of the sarcolemma in the mature stage. Our present studies strongly suggest that innervation plays an important role in the localization of myotonic dystrophy protein kinase in human skeletal muscle during development. We conclude that the expression of myotonic dystrophy protein kinase during development is under neuronal influence.
Dorsal root ganglion neurons innervating skin via the saphenous nerve, muscle via the gastrocnemius nerve and viscera via the splanchnic nerve, were identified by retrograde tracing with Fast Blue applied to the cut nerve. Only neuronal profiles with nuclei were counted. At the survival times used no changes in immunohistochemical labelling patterns were detectable in the axotomized neurons. Percentages of Fast Blue-labelled neuronal profiles that were immunolabelled were calculated. The values for markers of carbohydrate groups were for skin, muscle and viscera, respectively: the lectin peanut agglutinin 55%, 24%, and 50%; the lectin soybean agglutinin 72%, 56%, 61%; the antibody 2C5 (against lactoseries groups) 43%, 20%, 6%; the antibodies SSEA-4 (against globoseries groups) 6%, 12%, 0% and SSEA-3 (against globoseries groups) 6%, 5%, 0%. The values for neurofilament rich profiles were for skin, muscle and viscera, respectively: 34%, 43%, 19%, and for carbonic anhydrase were 10%, 33%, 2%. Values for neuropeptides were, for calcitonin gene-related peptide 51%, 70%, 99%, for substance P 21%, 51%, 82%, and for somatostatin 10%, 2% and 0%. The population of skin afferents therefore contained the highest proportion of profiles expressing galactose containing carbohydrate groups labelled by 2C5 and the lectins and the highest proportion of cells with somatostatin. In contrast they had the lowest proportions of cells with calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P, compared with the other tissues. Muscle afferents had the highest proportions compared with the other tissues of the neurofilament-rich, carbonic anhydrase-positive and SSEA-4-labelled profiles, but the lowest proportions of profiles with lectin binding. The splanchnic visceral afferents had the highest proportions, compared with the other tissues, of neuronal profiles labelled for calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P, but the lowest proportions of neurofilament rich profiles and of profiles with carbonic anhydrase or 2C5 labelling and they totally lacked any labelling for globoseries carbohydrates and somatostatin. Both the muscle and skin afferent populations had clear small cell and large cell peaks in their size distributions, with the small cell peak being larger for skin than muscle afferents and the large cell peak being more marked for muscle afferents. The visceral afferent profiles had a unimodal size distribution with the peak size being between the small and large cell peaks of the somatic afferent units. This study therefore shows that the patterns of immunohistochemical labelling and cell size of primary afferent neurons differ according to their peripheral target tissue.
Three types of opioid receptors mediate peripheral opioid antinociception in inflammation. Recently, antisera that recognize unique epitopes of the cloned mu-, delta-, and kappa-opioid receptors have been developed. Using these antisera we examined the regulation of opioid receptors in rat dorsal root ganglia after hindpaw inflammation and the influence of neurotoxins for primary afferent neurons and sympathetic neurons thereon. Peripheral tissue inflammation was produced by injection of complete Freund's adjuvant into the right hindpaw. Capsaicin was injected subcutaneously once a day for three days using a total dose of 150 mg/kg. 6-hydroxydopamine was injected intraperitoneally 75 mg/kg/day for three days. Freund's adjuvant induced a marked increase in the percentage of mu-, but a decrease in delta- and kappa-opioid receptor-positive neurons. Capsaicin significantly decreased mu-, delta- and kappa-opioid receptor immunoreactivity in both Freund's adjuvant treated and non-treated rats. No significant changes on the mu-, delta- and kappa-opioid receptor immunoreactivities were observed after 6-hydroxydopamine treatment in either Freund's adjuvant-treated or non-treated rats. Our studies indicate: (1) Peripheral inflammation can differentially regulate the expression of the three opioid receptors in dorsal root ganglia neurons with an up-regulation of mu- and down-regulation of delta- and kappa-opioid receptors. 2) A significant portion of mu-, delta- and kappa-opioid receptors are located on capsaicin-sensitive neurons in dorsal root ganglia of both non-inflamed and inflamed hindlimbs. 3) The expression of opioid receptors in dorsal root ganglia of either inflamed or non-inflamed hindlimbs is not influenced by sympathetic postganglionic neurons.
Mixed glial cell cultures prepared from neonatal wild type and mutant male mice lacking either major histocompatibility complex class I, class II or both class I and II molecules (major histocompatibility complex class I(o/o)II(o/o)), and from syngeneic male rats were transplanted into female rat spinal cord white matter. Graft survival was monitored using DNA probes specific to the Y chromosome. Survival of major histocompatibility complex class-deficient grafts was not prolonged compared to wild-type grafts and in most cases grafts could not be detected at 28 days post-transplantation, at which time syngeneic grafts were still present. However, rejection of xenografts resulted in significant bystander damage to host tissue. In recipients of wild-type and major histocompatibility complex class I(o/o) xenografts the predominant pathology was demyelination. Demyelination was also observed in recipients of major histocompatibility complex class II(o/o) and major histocompatibility complex class I(o/o)II(o/o) xenografts, however in addition there was marked collagen deposition and meningeal cell invasion. Significantly more axons had undergone Wallerian degeneration in recipients of major histocompatibility complex class II(o/o) and major histocompatibility complex class I(o/o)II(o/o) xenografts than recipients of wild-type and major histocompatibility complex class I(o/o) xenografts. These findings were interpreted as evidence of a more destructive immune response associated with rejection of grafts lacking major histocompatibility complex class II molecules. It was proposed that the difference in the severity of bystander damage may be related to the previously demonstrated ability of xenogeneic major histocompatibility complex class II molecules to activate host T cells directly, whereas xenografts lacking major histocompatibility complex class II molecules were capable of activating host T cells only by the indirect pathway.
Previous research suggests that corticotropin-releasing hormone can act in the locus coeruleus to increase the firing of locus coeruleus neurons and elicit physiological responses resembling those associated with stress. The present study used immunocytochemical detection of Fos as a measure of neuronal activation to identify brain areas that were activated by bilateral injections of corticotropin-releasing hormone into the locus coeruleus of rats. Injection of corticotropin-releasing hormone into the locus coeruleus increased the expression of Fos in the locus coeruleus as compared with injection of vehicle into the locus coeruleus or injection of corticotropin-releasing hormone into neighbouring pontine sites. The pattern of Fos expression throughout the brain after injections of corticotropin-releasing hormone into the locus coeruleus was generally consistent with the anatomical organization of efferent projections arising from the locus coeruleus; increased Fos expression was observed in many brain areas including the ventral lateral septum, septohypothalamic nucleus, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the central amygdaloid nucleus, the dorsomedial nuclei of the hypothalamus, and the thalamic paraventricular and rhomboid nuclei. Foot shock also increased Fos expression in the locus coeruleus and the other brain regions that expressed Fos after corticotropin-releasing hormone injections into the locus coeruleus. A few brain regions, most notably the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, expressed Fos in response to foot shock but not corticotropin-releasing hormone. These results indicate that local injection of corticotropin-releasing hormone into the locus coeruleus stimulates the activity of the locus coeruleus neurons. However, the pattern of Fos expression throughout the brain evoked by injection of corticotropin-releasing hormone into the locus coeruleus does not fully replicate the effects of foot shock.
Changes in the kinetic properties of voltage-activated sodium currents (I(Na)) were studied in rat retinal ganglion cells during in vivo differentiation. Whole-cell recordings from cells maintained as retinal slices or whole-mounts were examined using the patch-clamp technique in the perforated patch mode. Voltage-clamp recordings revealed significant ontogenetic modifications in key properties of I(Na) and the present study described for the first time the detailed time course of such alterations. I(Na) was first expressed on embryonic day 17/18 (E17/18). Current density increased during development from an average of -81 pA/pF on E17/18 to a maximum of -747pA/pF on postnatal day 10/12 (P10/12). Simultaneously, the activation of I(Na) shifted towards more negative potentials, reflected by a shift in the potential of half-activation from -14.1 mV on E17/18 to - 37.5 mV on P10/12. No significant changes in these parameters were observed after P10/12. Steady-state inactivation shifted first towards more positive potentials, reflected by a shift in the potential of half-inactivation from -51 mV on E17/18 to -38 mV on P3/5, but shifted back towards more negative values thereafter (-44 mV in the adult). The most striking feature of I(Na) in rat RGCs was a transient slowing of I(Na) kinetics that was never described before. Time to peak and decay time constants increased between E20 and P5, resulting in slow and broad sodium currents within a developmental period that is characterized by intensive synaptogenesis in the target structures of retinal ganglion cells and maximum retinal ganglion cell death. Thereafter, time to peak and decay time constants decreased again to values found before E20, resulting in rapid sodium spikes. In conclusion, sodium currents in rat retinal ganglion cells displayed substantial electrophysiological changes during pre- and postnatal development. These changes in the sodium system had different temporal time patterns, indicating that they may play specific roles during the development of the visual system.
The correlated activity of developing retinal ganglion cells is essential for the reorganization and refinement of retinogeniculate projections. Previous studies have uncovered marked changes in the spiking properties of retinal ganglion cells during this period of reorganization; however, a full understanding of the changes in the underlying ionic conductances has yet to be obtained. To this end, the whole-cell configuration of the patch-clamp technique was used to record currents conducted by voltage-gated calcium channels in 83 dissociated cat retinal ganglion cells obtained from animals aged between embryonic day 34 and postnatal day 105. Calcium currents, magnified by using barium as the major charge carrier, were isolated by substituting choline for Na+ in the bathing solution and Cs+ for K+ in the electrode solution. Three voltage-gated Ca2+ conductances were identified based on their voltage dependence and kinetics of activation and inactivation: a transient low-voltage-activated conductance, a transient high-voltage-activated conductance and a sustained high-voltage-activated conductance. During the developmental period examined there were significant increases in the densities of all three conductances, as well as significant changes in some of their activation and inactivation properties. These findings, together with those reported previously for the voltage-gated Na+ and K+ conductances, are related to the generation of excitability in developing retinal ganglion cells during a period critical to the normal development of the visual system. Furthermore, while the sustained high-voltage-activated conductance was present in all of the retinal ganglion cells observed, only about 72% expressed the transient high-voltage-activated current. During the developmental period examined, there was also an increase in the proportion of cells expressing the transient low-voltage-activated conductance. This, along with our previous finding that retinal ganglion cells heterogeneously express different types of voltage-gated K+ channels, strongly suggests that the spiking patterns observed in different classes of retinal ganglion cell may be due, in part, to their intrinsic membrane properties.
The neuroprotective role of adenosine receptor agonists in various models of ischaemia and neuronal excitotoxicity has been attributed to adenosine A1 receptor activation. In this study we examine the role of the A2A receptor in the kainate model of excitotoxicity. Kainate (10 mg/kg) was administered systemically 10 min after the intraperitoneal injection of adenosine analogues. The A2A agonist 2-p-(2-carboxyethyl)phenethylamino-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine hydrochloride (CGS21680) protected the hippocampus at concentrations of 0.1 and 0.01 mg/kg, but not at 2 microg/kg. The addition of the centrally acting adenosine A1 receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine partially reduced protection only in the CA3a region, suggesting that only a small proportion of the protection was attributable to the A1 receptor. A less potent A2A agonist, N6-[2-(3,5-dimethyoxyphenyl)-2-(2-methylphenyl)-ethyl]adenosine (1 mg/kg), provided only partial protection against kainate. 4-(2-[7-Amino-2-[2-furyl][1,2,4]triazolo[2,3-a][1,3,5]triazin-5-yl -amino]ethyl)phenol, a selective A2A antagonist, also showed protection against kainate-induced neuronal death, when administered alone or in combination with CGS21680. These results show that adenosine A2A receptor activation is protective against excitotoxicity. The protection is largely independent of A, receptor activation or blockade.
Alpha, omega-adenine dinucleotides (Ap(n)A) consist of two adenosine molecules linked at the 5' position by phosphate groups, the number of which is denoted by n and can range from 2 to 6. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of Ap4A and Ap5A on the rate of epileptiform activity. Hippocampal slices (450 microm), when perfused with a medium containing no added magnesium and 4-aminopyridine (50 microM), generate epileptiform activity of an interictal nature. Ap4A and Ap5A at 1 microM depressed the discharge rate to a significant extent. At this concentration adenosine (1 microM) did not produce any effect. However at 10 microM adenosine, Ap4A and Ap5A all decreased the burst frequency. Adenosine deaminase (0.2 U/ml) totally annulled the inhibition of epileptiform activity produced by 10 microM adenosine or 1 microM Ap4A and Ap5A. Adenosine deaminase did not significantly change the maximum depression of activity produced by 10 microM Ap4A and Ap5A. 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dimethylxanthine, an A1, receptor antagonist, increased the basal rate of epileptiform activity and prevented the depression of burst discharges by Ap4A. 5'-adenylic acid deaminase converts AMP into IMP which is inactive. 5'-adenylic acid deaminase did not prevent the inhibitory effects of Ap4A. The results suggests that in the CA3 region of the hippocampus, Ap4A and Ap5A act partly by stimulating xanthine-sensitive receptors directly and partly through the formation of the metabolite, adenosine.
Cellular Ca2+ signalling is an important factor in the control of neuronal metabolism and electrical activity. Although the roles of Ca2+-release channels are well established for skeletal and cardiac muscle, less is known about their expression and roles in the central nervous system, especially in the human brain. We have isolated partial complementary DNAs derived from the human ryanodine receptor Ca2+-release channel genes (ryr1, ryr2 and ryr3), and examined their expression in the human hippocampus and cerebellum. For comparison, we have included in our analysis an inositol trisphosphate Ca2+-release channel type I complementary RNA probe. All four messenger RNAs show widespread distribution in the human hippocampus, where ryr2 is the most abundant isoform, and all four are expressed in the human cerebellum. However, striking differences were seen between ryr and inositol trisphosphate Ca2+-release channel type I complementary RNA expression in the cerebellum, with inositol trisphosphate Ca2+-release channel type I messenger RNA being largely restricted to, and very highly expressed, in Purkinje cells, whereas ryr1, ryr2 and ryr3 were all expressed predominantly in the granular layer. The widespread expression of ryr isoforms in the human hippocampus and cerebellum suggests that ryanodine receptor proteins may have a central role in Ca2+ signalling and Ca2+ homeostasis in the human central nervous system. These may include roles in fundamental processes like synaptic plasticity. Furthermore, these Ca2+-release channels may be involved in pathogenic processes such as excitotoxicity, where excessive rises in intracellular Ca2+ concentration mediate neuronal cell death.
In situ hybridization histochemistry technique with [35S]UTP-labelled riboprobes was used to study the expression pattern of 10 GABA(A) receptor subunit messenger RNAs in the basal ganglia and motor thalamic nuclei of rhesus monkey. Human transcripts were used for the synthesis of alpha2, alpha4, beta2, beta3, gamma1 and delta subunit messenger RNA probes. Rat complementary DNAs were used for generating alpha1, alpha3, beta1 and gamma2 subunit messenger RNA probes. Nigral, pallidal and cerebellar afferent territories in the ventral tier thalamic nuclei all expressed alpha1, alpha2, alpha3, alpha4, beta1, beta2, beta3, delta and gamma2 subunit messenger RNAs but at different levels. Each intralaminar nucleus displayed its own unique expression pattern. In the thalamus, gamma1 subunit messenger RNA was detected only in the parafascicular nucleus. Comparison of the expression patterns with the known organization of GABA(A) connections in thalamic nuclei suggests that (i) the composition of the receptor associated with reticulothalamic synapses, except for those in the intralaminar nuclei, may be alpha1alpha4beta2delta, (ii) receptors of various other subunit compositions may operate in the local GABAergic circuits, and (iii) the composition of receptors at nigro- and pallidothalamic synapses may differ, with those at nigrothalamic probably containing beta1 and gamma2 subunits. In the medial and lateral parts of the globus pallidus, the subthalamic nucleus and the substantia nigra pars reticularis, the alpha1, beta2 and gamma2 messenger RNAs were co-expressed at a high level suggesting that this subunit composition was associated with all GABAergic synapses in the direct and indirect striatal output pathways. Various other subunit messenger RNAs were also expressed but at a lower level. In the substantia nigra pars compacta the most highly expressed messenger RNAs were alpha3, alpha4 and beta3; all other subunit messenger RNAs studied, except for gamma1, alpha1 and alpha2, were expressed at a moderate to high level. In the striatum, the following subunit messenger RNAs were expressed (listed in order of decreasing signal intensity): alpha4, beta3, alpha2, alpha3, beta2, delta, gamma2, alpha1. The expression patterns found in the monkey were similar to those described in comparable nuclei in the rat by Wisden et al. [J. Neurosci. (1992), 12, p. 1040]; however, the monkey nuclei displayed a much greater variety of GABA(A) receptor subunit messenger RNAs.
The present study examined projections of GABAergic and cholinergic neurons from the basal forebrain and preoptic-anterior hypothalamus to the &quot;intermediate&quot; part of the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus. Retrograde transport from this region of the mediodorsal nucleus was investigated using horseradish peroxidase-conjugated wheatgerm agglutinin in combination with peroxidase-antiperoxidase immunohistochemical staining for glutamic acid decarboxylase and choline acetyltransferase. A relatively large number of retrogradely-labelled glutamic acid decarboxylase-positive neurons are located in the basal forebrain, amounting to more than 7% of the total population of glutamic acid decarboxylase-positive cells in this region. Moreover, retrogradely-labelled choline acetyltransferase-positive cells are interspersed among glutamic acid decarboxylase-positive neurons, accounting for about 6% of the total choline acetyltransferase-positive cell population in the basal forebrain. The glutamic acid decarboxylase-positive and choline acetyltransferase-positive retrogradely-labelled neurons are distributed throughout several regions of the basal forebrain, including the medial septum, the diagonal band of Broca, the magnocellular preoptic nucleus, the substantia innominata pars anterior, the substantia innominata pars posterior, and the globus pallidus where only a few retrogradely-labelled neurons were seen. The choline acetyltransferase-positive mediodorsal-projecting neurons are morphologically different from the choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons in the basal forebrain, suggesting that those projecting to the mediodorsal nucleus are a small proportion of the cholinergic neuronal population in the basal forebrain. In the preoptic-anterior hypothalamus, many retrogradely-labelled glutamic acid decarboxylase-positive cells were found, amounting to more than 7% of the total population of glutamic acid decarboxylase-positive cells in this region. These retrogradely-labelled glutamic acid decarboxylase-positive neurons are distributed throughout the preoptic-anterior hypothalamus in a continuous line with those in the basal forebrain, including the lateral preoptic area, the medial preoptic area, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and the anterior and dorsal hypothalamic areas. The highest percentage of mediodorsal-projecting GABAergic neurons is in the anterior lateral hypothalamus where more than 25% of the total population of glutamic acid decarboxylase-positive cells project to the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus. Overall, of the large population of retrogradely-labelled neurons in the basal forebrain and preoptic-anterior hypothalamus, a significant proportion are glutamic acid decarboxylase-positive neurons (&gt; 60% in the basal forebrain and &gt; 30% in the preoptic-anterior hypothalamus), while the choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons amount to a smaller percentage of the neurons projecting to the mediodorsal nucleus (&lt; 13% in the basal forebrain and &lt; 2% in the preoptic-anterior hypothalamus). These results provide anatomical evidence of direct GABAergic projections from the basal forebrain and preoptic-anterior hypothalamic regions to the &quot;intermediate&quot; part of the mediodorsal nucleus in the cat. This GABAergic projection field could be the direct pathway by which the basal forebrain directly modulates thalamic excitability and may also be involved in mechanisms modulating electroencephalographic synchronization and sleep through the &quot;intermediate&quot; mediodorsal nucleus.
Responses to injury in the ageing hippocampus were assessed utilizing the synaptic markers glial fibrillary acidic protein and synaptosomal-associated protein (mol. wt 25,000) following administration of the neurotoxin, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine, into the fimbria-fornix and cingulum bundle to denervate serotonergic afferent input to the dorsal hippocampus. Age-dependent alterations in hippocampal immunohistochemical localization of glial fibrillary acidic protein and synaptosomal-associated protein were evaluated in female Fischer 344 rats following serotonergic deafferentation with 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine. Across the lifespan, as indicated by measurements taken at three, 18, 21 and 29 months, marked increases in glial fibrillary acidic protein, but not synaptosomal-associated protein immunoreactivity, occurred throughout the hippocampus at 21 and 29 months compared to three and 18 months. Following three weeks pretreatment with 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (20 microg total dose) or vehicle (0.1% ascorbic saline; 2 microl total volume) infused in the fimbria-fornix/cingulum bundle, immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated marked increases of glial fibrillary acidic protein, but not synaptosomal-associated protein, in the 18-month 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine group compared to the 18-month vehicle and 3-month 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine groups. Additionally, a significant increase in glial fibrillary acidic protein concentration was found by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in the 18-month 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine group compared to the 18-month vehicle and three-month 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine groups. These results demonstrate that selective neurotoxicant damage of the hippocampal serotonergic system differentially alters the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein. This approach may provide a valuable tool to determine the ability of the hippocampus to respond to age-related neurodegenerative injury.
Striatin, a recently isolated rat brain calmodulin-binding protein belonging to the WD-repeat protein family, is thought to be part of a calcium signal transduction pathway presumably specific to excitatory synapses, at least in the striatum. This study was aimed to specify the cellular and subcellular localization of striatin, and to determine the possible synaptic relationships between the two main excitatory afferent pathways, arising from the cerebral cortex and the thalamus, and the striatin-containing elements, in the rat striatum. Anterograde tract-tracing by means of biotinylated dextran amine injection in the frontoparietal cerebral cortex or the parafascicular nucleus of the thalamus was combined with immunogold detection of striatin. Striatin-immunoreactivity was confined to the neuronal somatodendritic compartment, including spines. Whereas 90-95% of the striatal neurons were striatin-positive, only about 50% of the sections of dendritic spines engaged in asymmetrical synaptic contacts exhibited striatin labelling. Among the sections of striatin-immunopositive dendritic spines, the number of immunogold particles ranged from one to more than seven, indicating an heterogeneity of the spine labelling. Moreover, within each class of spines presenting at least two silver-gold particles, the distribution of the particles varied from a clear-cut alignment under the postsynaptic densities (24-33% of spines) to a location distant from the synaptic area. In the cell bodies and dendrites, striatin labelling was usually not associated with the cytoplasmic membrane nor with the postsynaptic densities. In the striatum ipsilateral to the tracer injections, only 34.8% of the synaptic contacts formed by corticostriatal afferents involved striatin-positive elements (slightly labelled dendritic spines), whereas 56.7% of the synaptic contacts formed by thalamostriatal boutons were made on striatin-positive targets (mostly dendrites). In both cases, striatin labelling was usually not associated with the postsynaptic density. Most of the immunoreactive dendritic spines were in contact with unidentified afferents. These data reveal that striatin is expressed in the vast majority of the cell bodies of striatal spiny neurons, but is heterogeneously distributed among the dendritic spines of those neurons. Data also indicate a preferential relationship between striatin-containing structures and afferents from the parafascicular thalamic nucleus with respect to the frontoparietal cerebral cortex. But, at the dendritic spine level, striatin may be involved in signal transduction mechanisms involving as yet unidentified excitatory afferents to striatal neurons.
Using apolipoprotein E knockout mice derived from the Maeda source [Piedrahita J. A. et al. (1992) Proc. natn. Acad Sci. US.A. 89, 4471 4475], we have studied the influence of apolipoprotein E gene deletion on normal CNS function by neurological tests and water maze learning, hippocampal ultrastructure assessed by quantitative immunocytochemistry and electron microscopy, CNS plasticity, i.e. hippocampal long-term potentiation and amygdaloid kindling, and CNS repair, i.e. synaptic recovery in the hippocampus following deafferentation. In each study there was little difference between the apolipoprotein E knockout mice and wild-type controls of similar age and genetic background. Apolipoprotein E knockout mice aged eight months demonstrated accurate spatial learning and normal neurological function. Synaptophysin and microtubule-associated protein 2 immunohistochemistry and electron microscopic analysis of these animals revealed that the hippocampal synaptic and dendritic densities were similar between genotypes. The induction and maintenance of kindled seizures and hippocampal long-term potentiation were indistinguishable between groups. Finally, unilateral entorhinal cortex lesions produced a marked loss of hippocampal synaptophysin immunoreactivity in both groups and a marked up-regulation of apolipoprotein E in the wild-type group. Both apolipoprotein E knockout and wild-type groups showed immunohistochemical evidence of reactive synaptogenesis, although the apolipoprotein E knockout group may have initially shown greater synaptic loss. It is suggested that either apolipoprotein E is of no importance in the maintenance of synaptic integrity and in processes of CNS plasticity and repair, or more likely, alternative (apolipo)proteins may compensate for the loss of apolipoprotein E in the knockout animals.
2,5-Diterbutyl-1,4-benzohydroquinone, a specific blocker of Ca2+-ATPase pumps, increased acetylcholine release from an identified synapse of Aplysia, as well as from Torpedo and mouse caudate nucleus synaptosomes. Because 2,5-diterbutyl-1,4-benzohydroquinone does not change the presynaptic Ca2+ influx, the enhancement of acetylcholine release could be due to an accumulation of Ca2+ in the terminal. This possibility was further checked by studying the effects of 2,5-diterbutyl-1,4-benzohydroquinone on twin pulse facilitation, classically attributed to residual Ca2+. While preventing the fast sequestration of Ca2+ by presynaptic organelles, 2,5-diterbutyl-1,4-benzohydroquinone magnified both twin pulse facilitation observed under low extracellular Ca2+ concentration and twin pulse dysfacilitation observed under high extracellular Ca2+ concentration. Thus, it is concluded that 2,5-diterbutyl-1,4-benzohydroquinone, by preventing Ca2+ buffering near transmitter release sites, modulates acetylcholine release. As 2,5-diterbutyl-1,4-benzohydroquinone was also shown to decrease by 50% the uptake of 45Ca2+ by isolated synaptic vesicles, we propose that synaptic vesicles can control the presynaptic Ca2+ concentration triggering the release of neurotransmitter.
Recent research has demonstrated that a variety of sensory stimuli can increase acetylcholine release in the frontal cortex of rats. The aim of the present experiments was to investigate the pharmacological regulation of sensory stimulation-induced increases in the activity of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons. To this end, the effects of agonists and antagonists at a variety of neurotransmitter receptors on basal and tactile stimulation-evoked increases in frontal cortical acetylcholine release were studied using in vivo brain microdialysis. Tactile stimulation, produced by gently stroking the rat's neck with a nylon brush for 20 min, significantly increased frontal cortical acetylcholine release by more than 100% above baseline. The noradrenergic alpha2 agonist clonidine (0.1 or 0.2 mg/kg) and alpha1 antagonist prazosin (1 mg/kg) failed to affect basal cortical acetylcholine release; however, both compounds significantly reduced the increases evoked by sensory stimulation. In contrast, the alpha2 antagonist yohimbine (3 mg/kg) increased basal cortical acetylcholine release, thereby preventing meaningful investigation of its effects on tactile stimulation-evoked increases. The benzodiazepine agonist diazepam (5 mg/kg) reduced, and the GABA(A) receptor antagonist picrotoxin (2 mg/kg) increased basal cortical acetylcholine release; in addition, diazepam attenuated the increases in cortical acetylcholine release evoked by tactile stimulation. While dopaminergic D1 (SCH 23390, 0.15 mg/kg) and D2 (raclopride, 1 mg/kg) receptor antagonists did not by themselves significantly influence the increases evoked by tactile stimulation, their co-administration produced a significant reduction. The opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone (1.5 mg/kg) failed to affect either basal or tactile stimulation-evoked increases in acetylcholine overflow. Finally, the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, dizocilpine maleate (MK-801; 0.025 and 0.05 mg/kg) increased basal cortical acetylcholine release. These results confirm that cortically projecting cholinergic neurons are activated by sensory stimuli, and indicate that the increases in cortical acetylcholine release produced by tactile stimulation are inhibited by stimulation of alpha2 or blockade of alpha1 noradrenergic receptors, and by enhanced GABAergic transmission. In addition, simultaneous blockade of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors appears necessary to achieve a significant reduction of sensory stimulation-evoked acetylcholine release in the frontal cortex. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that cortical acetylcholine release is a component of the neurochemistry of arousal and/or attention and indicate that this is modulated by GABAergic, noradrenergic and dopaminergic systems. In contrast, endogenous opioid actions do not appear to be involved.
The effects of hypercapnia upon local cerebral blood flow and local cerebral glucose utilization were measured by quantitative autoradiography in parallel groups of rats (six per group) which 14-16 weeks previously had been treated with the serotonergic neurotoxin, methylenedioxymethamphetamine, followed by implantation of fetal raph or basal forebrain tissues. Following the experiments, transplants were visualized by acetylcholinesterase histochemistry, and serotonergic reinnervation assessed using [3H]paroxetine binding to serotonin reuptake sites. In methylenedioxymethamphetamine-treated rats, contralateral to the implants, [3H]paroxetine binding was reduced by between 50 and 90% in the neocortex and hippocampus. Hippocampal glucose utilization was significantly increased in these rats, and the normal increase in flow which accompanies hypercapnia was also significantly enhanced. High levels of [3H]paroxetine binding were found within the raph transplants (308 +/- 13 fmol/mg tissue). In host brain adjacent to the implant, binding levels were normalized, and in these same areas glucose utilization was also normalized. Basal forebrain implants had no effect upon either [3H]paroxetine binding or glucose utilization. Raph transplants did not, however, alter the enhanced cerebrovascular response to hypercapnia induced by methylenedioxymethamphetamine, even in those areas where there was evidence of serotonergic reinnervation. The transplants also showed the same enhanced response. In conclusion, intracerebral fetal raph implants normalize hippocampal function but not cerebrovascular control in serotonin-depleted adult rat brain, and despite not sharing the serotonergic deficit, blood flow in the implants follows that of the dysfunctional host.
New evidence indicates that neural activity regulates the expression of trophic factors in the brain but regulation of these molecules by select aspects of behaviour remains solely a fascinating possibility. We report that following training in the Morris water maze, a spatial memory task, the hippocampus and cerebellum of learning rats exhibited an increase in basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA. Basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA levels were higher during the learning of the task and decreased once asymptotic performance was reached, suggesting an involvement of basic fibroblast growth factor in learning/memory. An active control group, which exercised for the same time as the learning group but the spatial learning component of the task was minimized, exhibited a minor increase in basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA. The intensification of the physical activity component of the task by massed or intensive training resulted in greater increases in basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA for both learning and yoked groups, but levels of basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA in the learning group remained higher than yoked only in the cerebellum. Changes in basic fibroblast growth factor were accompanied by an increase in astrocyte density in the hippocampus in agreement with described roles of basic fibroblast growth factor in astrocyte proliferation/reactivity. Results suggest that learning potentiates the effects of physical activity on trophic factor induction in select brain regions. Trophic factor involvement in behaviour may provide a molecular basis for the enhanced cognitive function associated with active lifestyles, and guide development of strategies to improve rehabilitation and successful ageing.
The distribution of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive neuronal structures in the barrel cortex (posteromedial barrel subfield) of adult rats was analysed after unilateral removal of the vibrissal follicles of row C in neonatal rats. The hypothesis was tested whether the distribution of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive structures depends on the normal anatomical organization of the specific sensory input. After three months survival the distribution of the vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive structures was morphometrically evaluated. This approach revealed alterations in the contralateral posteromedial barrel subfield, where the disappearance of barrel row C and a substantial increase in size mainly of barrel row D, but also of other rows could be detected. Increase in row D included both barrels and the interspace (septal segments between barrels in one row). As vasoactive intestinal polypeptide immunoreactivity of the barrel field was found previously to be localized in synaptic boutons involved in symmetric synapses, our present findings suggest that (i) the interspace is enriched in inhibitory vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive synapses as opposed to the excitatory thalamocortical input reaching the barrel hollow, (ii) the spatial distribution of the vasoactive intestinal polypeptide system in the barrel cortex is closely associated with the neuronal organization of the sensory input and reacts with a considerable plasticity to lesion-induced changes of the input, and (iii) the compensatory barrel hypertrophy in a row neighbouring the deafferented row involves an increasing number of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive synapses per barrel.
Long-term hyperexcitability was found after unilateral, permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion in exofocal neocortical areas of the adult mouse [Mittmann et al. (1998) Neuroscience 85, 15-27]. The aim of the present study was to test the hypothesis in an identical paradigm of ischemia. whether alterations in the densities of both excitatory and inhibitory amino acid receptors may underlie these pathophysiological changes. Alterations in densities of [3H]dizocilpine, [3H]D,L-amino-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid, [3H]kainate and [3H]muscimol binding sites were demonstrated with quantitative in vitro receptor autoradiography. All binding sites were severely reduced in the core of the ischemic lesion. A completely different reaction was found in the exofocal, histologically inconspicuous parts of the somatosensory cortex and the more remote neocortical areas of both hemispheres. The [3H]muscimol binding sites were significantly reduced four weeks after ischemia in the motor cortex, hindlimb representation area and exofocal parts of the primary and secondary somatosensory cortices of both hemispheres. The focus of the reduction in [3H]muscimol binding sites was found in lower layer V and upper layer VI. Contrastingly, the densities of [3H]dizocilpine binding sites were found to be increased in these areas, whereas those of [3H]D,L-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid and [3H]kainate binding sites did not show significant changes. The [3H]dizocilpine binding site density increased predominantly in layers III and IV. All binding sites were also reduced in the retrogradely reacting, gliotic part of the ipsilateral ventroposterior thalamic nucleus, whereas the [3H]D,L-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid binding sites were increased in the surround of the ipsilateral nucleus and no changes in binding sites were seen in the whole contralateral nucleus. We conclude that permanent local ischemia leads to a long-term and widespread impairment of the normal balance between binding sites of excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitter receptors in neocortical areas far away from the focus of the post-ischemic tissue damage. The imbalance comprises an up-regulation of the [3H]dizocilpine binding sites in the ion channels of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and a down-regulation of [3H]muscimol binding sites of the GABA(A) receptors in the ipsi- and contralateral neocortex. These changes at the receptor level explain the previously observed hyperexcitability with the appearance of epileptiform field potentials and the long duration of excitatory postsynaptic potentials four weeks after ischemia.
The long-term (&lt; or = six months) functional consequences of permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion were studied with in vitro extra- and intracellular recording techniques in adult mouse neocortical slices. After survival times of one to three days, 28 days and six months, intracellular recordings from layers II/III pyramidal cells in the vicinity of the infarct did not reveal any statistically significant changes in the intrinsic membrane properties when compared to age-matched control animals. However, a pronounced hyperexcitability could be observed upon orthodromic synaptic stimulation in neocortical slices obtained from mice 28 days after induction of ischemia. Low-intensity electrical stimulation of the afferents elicited particularly in this group epileptiform extracellular field potential responses and intracellular excitatory postsynaptic potentials, that were longer in duration as compared to the controls. When the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic potential was pharmacologically isolated in a bathing solution containing 0.1 mM Mg2+ and 10 microM 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, the synaptic responses were longer and larger in the ischemic cortex as compared to the controls. Higher stimulus intensities evoked in normal medium a biphasic inhibitory postsynaptic potential, that contained in the 28 days post-ischemia group a prominent amino-phosphonovaleric acid-sensitive component, indicating a strong concurrent activation of a N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic potential. This pronounced co-activation could only be observed in the 28 days ischemic group, and neither after one to three days or six months post-ischemia nor in the controls. The quantitative analysis of the efficiency of stimulus- evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials recorded in amino-phosphono-valeric acid revealed a reduction of GABA-mediated inhibition in ischemic cortex. Although this reduction in intracortical inhibition may already contribute to an augmentation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated excitation, our results do also indicate that the function of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors is transiently enhanced in the ischemic cortex. This transient hyperexcitability does not only cause cellular dysfunction in the vicinity of the infarct, but may also contribute to neuronal damage due to excitotoxicity.
Long-term potentiation is an experimental paradigm used to study synaptic plasticity and memory mechanisms. One similarity between long-term potentiation and memory is the existence of several distinct phases. However, our preliminary quantal analysis did not reveal essential differences in expression mechanisms of the early (&lt; 1 h) and later (up to 3 h) phases of long-term potentiation. The data were compatible with presynaptic mechanisms of both phases. Another approach to distinguish between presynaptic and postsynaptic mechanisms is analysis of interaction between long-term potentiation and presynaptic paired-pulse facilitation. Such analysis had been previously done mainly with recordings of field potentials reflecting the activity of large neuronal populations. Only the early potentiation phase had been previously analysed with recordings from single neurons. The results from different groups were contradictory. In the present study, minimal excitatory postsynaptic potentials were recorded from CA1 pyramidal neurons of rat hippocampal slices. Paired-pulse facilitation ratios were calculated for various periods (up to 2-3 h) following induction of long-term potentiation. The ratio persistently decreased in the majority of neurons following long-term potentiation induction. The decrease in the paired-pulse facilitation ratio correlated with the magnitude of long-term potentiation and with the initial (pretetanic) facilitation ratio. Therefore, the general results of the present analysis was similar with the results of the quantal analysis: it is consistent with a strong involvement of presynaptic mechanisms in maintenance of both early and late phases of long-term potentiation. However, individual neurons could show variable changes in the paired-pulse facilitation, e.g., increases at late (&gt; 0.5-1 h) periods after tetanus. Calculations of partial correlations and regression analysis indicated that positive correlation between potentiation magnitude and initial (pretetanic) paired-pulse facilitation tended to increase in the late potentiation phase (1.5-2.5 h post-tetanus) indicating that different mechanisms are involved in the early (0.5 h post-tetanus) and the late phase of long-term potentiation. The findings are compatible with involvement of presynaptic mechanisms in both the early and late phases of long-term potentiation. However, the results suggest that contribution of changes in release probability and in effective number of transmitter release sites may differ during the two phases. It is suggested that activation of silent synapses and increases in the number of transmission zones due to pre- and postsynaptic structural rearrangements represent important mechanisms of the late phase of long-term potentiation.


NNC 22-0215 has been found to be a metabolically stable dopamine D1 antagonist with high affinity and selectivity for D1 receptors in vitro. We prepared [11C]NNC 22-0215 with a specific radioactivity of about 50 GBq/micromol at time of administration. In PET experiments with [11C]NNC 22-0215 there was a rapid uptake of radioactivity in the cynomolgus monkey brain (1.8% of total radioactivity injected). Radioactivity accumulated most markedly in the striatum and the neocortex. The striatum to cerebellum ratio was about 4, with specific binding that remained at a plateau level from 50 min to 100 min after injection. Binding in the striatum and neocortex was markedly displaced by SCH 23390, whereas binding in the cerebellum was not reduced. Metabolite studies showed that about 80% of the radioactivity in the monkey plasma represented unchanged radioligand 30 min after injection. The rate of metabolism in monkey plasma in vivo was also determined for a series of structurally related 11C-labelled benzazepines, previously used as dopamine D1 receptor ligands for PET. Results indicate a significantly slower rate of metabolism for [11C]NNC 22-0215 than for any of the previously labelled benzazepines. Thus [11C]NNC 22-0215 has potential for imaging of selective binding to the dopamine D1 receptors in the human brain with high count rates at time of equilibrium.
Symptoms and disease processes can overlap, and neurologic symptoms of the hand or arm are not necessarily due to local pathology. To combat these difficulties, the authors present a basic review of neuroanatomy, the neurologic examination, the principles of electromyography, and the process of formulation.
Otolith-induced eye movements of rhesus monkeys were studied before and after the 1989 COSMOS 2044 and the 1992 to 1993 COSMOS 2229 flights. Two animals flew in each mission for approximately 2 weeks. After flight, spatial orientation of the angular vestibulo-ocular reflex was altered. In one animal the time constant of postrotatory nystagmus, which had been shortened by head tilts with regard to gravity before flight, was unaffected by the same head tilts after flight. In another animal, eye velocity, which tended to align with a gravitational axis before flight, moved toward a body axis after flight. This shift of orientation disappeared by 7 days after landing. After flight, the magnitude of compensatory ocular counter-rolling was reduced by about 70% in both dynamic and static tilts. Modulation in vergence in response to naso-occipital linear acceleration during off-vertical axis rotation was reduced by more than 50%. These changes persisted for 11 days after recovery. An up and down asymmetry of vertical nystagmus was diminished for 7 days. Gains of the semicircular canal-induced horizontal and vertical angular vestibulo-ocular reflexes were unaffected in both flights, but the gain of the roll angular vestibulo-ocular reflex was decreased. These data indicate that there are short- and long-term changes in otolith-induced eye movements after adaptation to microgravity. These experiments also demonstrate the unique value of the monkey as a model for studying effects of vestibular adaptation in space. Eye movements can be measured in three dimensions in response to controlled vestibular and visual stimulation, and the results are directly applicable to human beings. Studies in monkeys to determine how otolith afferent input and central processing is altered by adaptation to microgravity should be an essential component of future space-related research.
The vestibulo-ocular reflex has been used extensively for study of the neural mechanisms of learning that is dependent on an intact cerebellum. Anatomic, physiologic, behavioral, and computational approaches have revealed the neural circuits that are used to generate the vestibulo-ocular reflex and have identified two likely sites of plasticity within those circuits. One site of plasticity is in the vestibular inputs to floccular target neurons, which are located in the vestibular nuclei and receive monosynaptic inhibition from Purkinje cells in the floccular complex of the cerebellar cortex. The other site of plasticity is in the vestibular inputs to Purkinje cells in the floccular complex, possibly in the cerebellar cortex. After reviewing the evidence that supports these conclusions, I consider a number of observations showing that the dynamics of neural circuits or cellular mechanisms play important roles in learning in the vestibulo-ocular reflex.
Under anesthesia and sterile surgery, a small stainless steel rod (4 mm in length and 0.5-0.8 mm in diameter) was inserted into the L5 intervertebral foramen in the rat, developing intervertebral foramen stenosis and hence producing a chronic steady compression of the dorsal root ganglion (DRG). The hind paw on the injured side exhibited a significant reduction in the latency of foot withdrawal to noxious heat and manifested a persistent heat hyperalgesia 5-35 days after surgery. Injection of 1% carrageenan into the intervertebral foramen, presumably causing inflammation of the DRG, also produced hyperalgesia to heat on the hind paw of the injured side 5-21 days after surgery. Extracellular electrophysiological recordings from myelinated dorsal root fibers were performed in vivo. Spontaneous activity was present in 21.5% of the fibers recorded from DRG neurons injured with chronic compression in contrast to 1.98% from uninjured DRG neurons. The pattern of spontaneous activity was periodic and bursting in 75.3% of the spontaneously active fibers. These neurons had a greatly enhanced sensitivity to mechanical stimulation of the injured DRG and a prolonged after discharge. In response to TEA, topically applied to the DRG, excitatory responses were evoked in the injured, but not the uninjured, DRG neurons. Application of this experimental model may further our understanding of the neural mechanisms by which chronic compression of DRG induces low back pain and sciatica.
Vascular development was studied by means of immunohistochemistry, using a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) antibody in human normal and periventricular leukomalacia brains. In the cerebral cortex, VEGF was expressed transiently in the endothelial cells of vessels in the leptomeninges, cortex, deep white matter, subependymal germinal layer, ependymal cells facing the lateral ventricles, and choroid plexus epithelia. In the leptomeninges, VEGF was expressed from 20 to 40 weeks gestation. In the cerebral cortex and deep white matter, VEGF was expressed from 17 weeks gestation, increased with maturation, was highest between 24 and 28 weeks gestation, and decreased gradually thereafter. In the subependymal germinal layer, VEGF was expressed the earliest at 9 weeks gestation, increased with maturation, was highest between 20 and 24 weeks gestation, and then decreased. In the ependymal cells and choroid plexus epithelia, VEGF was expressed between 22 and 40 weeks gestation and between 9 and 37 weeks gestation, respectively. VEGF may be transiently expressed in the vessels in the fetal and neonate periods in connection with vascular maturation and proliferation. In periventricular leukomalacia brains, VEGF was expressed in both astrocytes and endothelial cells in vessels that comprised neovascularization around foci of necrosis. VEGF plays important roles in embryonic angiogenesis and neovascularization around foci of necrosis.
Serial examination of the cerebral hemispheres of 20 sudden infant death syndrome victims revealed high incidence of leukomalacia (40%), leptomeningeal glioneuronal heterotopias (70%) at the base of the cerebrum, and astrogliosis (65%) in the white matter and medulla reticular formation compared with 20 age-matched controls. These results suggest that an antepartum insult may become an important predisposing risk factor in some patients for sudden infant death syndrome.
Perceived movement of a stationary visual stimulus during head motion was measured before and after adaptation intervals during which participants performed voluntary head oscillations while viewing a moving spot. During these intervals, participants viewed the spot stimulus moving alternately in the same direction as the head was moving during either .25- or 2.0-Hz oscillations, and then in the opposite direction as the head at the other of the two frequencies. Postadaptation measures indicated that the visual stimuli were perceived as stationary only if traveling in the same direction as that viewed during adaptation at the same frequency of head motion. Thus, opposite directions of spot motion were perceived as stationary following adaptation depending on head movement frequency. The results provide an example of the ability to establish dual (or &quot;context-specific&quot;) adaptations to altered visual-vestibular feedback.
High altitude is characterized by hypoxic environmental conditions and is well known to induce both physiological and psychological disturbances. In the present study, called Everest-Comex 97, the authors investigated the effects of high altitude on the psychosensorimotor and reasoning processes of eight climbers participating in a simulated climb from sea level to 8,848 m over a 31-day period of confinement in a decompression chamber. Tests of visual reaction time, psychomotor ability, and number ordination were used. The climbers data were compared with data from a similar laboratory study at sea level in control subjects. Continued testing of the control subjects at sea level clearly led to learning effects and improvement of performance in psychomotor ability and number ordination. In the climbers, similar learning effects occurred up to an altitude of 5,5006,500 m. With further increases in altitude, the climbers psychomotor performance and mental efficiency deteriorated progressively, leading to significant differences in psychomotor ability and mental efficiency between control subjects and climbers (9 and 13% respectively at 8,000 m and 17.5 and 16.5% respectively at 8,848 m). Three days (72 h) after the climbers had returned to sea level, their mental and psychomotor performances were still significantly lower than those of control subjects (by approximately 10%). In contrast, visual reaction time showed no significant changes in either climbers or control subjects. It is suggested that chronic hypoxic stress could alter selectively mental learning processes, i.e. explicit, rather than implicit (stimulus-response learning processes) memory and cortico-limbic rather than basal ganglia-sensorimotor system function.
To investigate the behavioral consequences of benzodiazepines in subjects whose septo-hippocampal cholinergic (ACh) activity was impaired, C57BL/6 mice received an injection of 2.5 microg/0.2 microl of scopolamine into the medial septal area with an i.p. injection of 0.5 mg/kg of diazepam. The consequences of these treatments administered in combination or alone were evaluated on anxiety measured in an elevated plus-maze and on spontaneous alternation carried out in a T-maze, using two different intertrial intervals (ITI: 5s or 30s). In these conditions, only the combined treatment provoked a decrease of the anxiety level, which was associated with an impairment of spontaneous alternation restricted to the 5s ITI. Because mice were not impaired during the sequential 30s ITI, this seems to rule out the possibility that this alternation deficit resulted from a working memory loss. These results suggest an involvement of a septal ACh-GABA-A/BDZ interaction in the exaggeration of cognitive deficits produced by benzodiazepines in patients characterized by a cholinergic hypofunction.
The discriminative-stimulus, respiratory, and antinociceptive effects of OHM10579, an isotopic isomer of mirfentanil, were characterized in rhesus monkeys. In monkeys discriminating nalbuphine, 0.32 mg/kg of OHM10579 partially substituted for nalbuphine. In monkeys treated daily with 3.2 mg/kg of morphine and discriminating 0.01 mg/kg of naltrexone, 0.32 mg/kg of OHM10579 substituted for naltrexone. In morphine-abstinent monkeys, morphine reversed naltrexone-lever responding, an effect attenuated by OHM10579. The shift to the right in the morphine dose-effect curve was greater 2 h after 0.32 mg/kg of OHM10579 compared to 0.32 mg/kg of mirfentanil, indicating that OHM10579 has a longer duration of action than mirfentanil. In a warm-water tail-withdrawal procedure, 10 and 17.8 mg/kg of OHM10579 had antinociceptive effects that were not antagonized by naltrexone. Morphine decreased breathing in air to 48%, whereas the maximal decrease with OHM10579 was to 75% of control. OHM10579 attenuated hyperventilation induced by 5% CO2 and partially antagonized the respiratory-depressant effects of morphine. OHM10579 can be classified as a low-efficacy mu-opioid agonist with some nonopioid actions. These results indicate that the pharmacology of the mirfentanil isotope OHM10579 is similar to that of mirfentanil, but that OHM10579 might have a longer duration of action.
Severe falciparum malaria is one of the most lethal parasitic infections in the world and is responsible for more than one million deaths in African children per year. Changes to management over the last 40 years have not improved survival. A reduction in the mortality and morbidity may only come about by a better understanding of the pathophysiological processes that are responsible for severe disease and that determine the outcome before antimalarials have had time to work. This review discusses potential adjunctive therapies for severe malaria that are under development following such detailed clinical and pathophysiological studies.
Osmotic dehydration produced by systemic hypertonic NaCl (HS) inhibits gastric motility and emptying and also inhibits feeding in adult rats. Conversely, in neonatal rats, dehydration does not inhibit feeding. The present study examined whether the postnatal emergence of dehydration anorexia is temporally associated with the emergence of dehydration-induced inhibition of gastric emptying. Rat pups 4 to 19 days old were injected subcutaneously with HS (0.75 M NaCl; 200 microL/10 g body weight). Control rats were injected with isotonic saline (0.15 M NaCl). Thirty minutes later, rats were given access to milk that could be lapped from paper towels on the floor of a warm testing chamber. Other HS-treated and control rats were given an intragastric load of 0.15 M NaCl (2% body weight) and then killed after 30 min to determine how much of the load had emptied from the stomach. Consistent with previous reports, HS-treated rats consumed significantly more milk than control rats from postnatal Day 4 (P4) through P11 but consumed significantly less milk than controls at P19. HS treatment did not affect gastric emptying of 0.15 M NaCl at P4 or P11. Conversely, HS treatment significantly inhibited gastric emptying at P19. These findings suggest that the hypophagic effects of dehydration develop in tandem with inhibitory effects on gastric motility and are consistent with the view that the full complement of mature homeostatic responses to plasma hyperosmolality requires coordinated activation of forebrain and hindbrain neural circuits that are only partially formed in neonatal rats.
Viral vectors are becoming increasingly important tools to investigate the function of neural proteins and to explore the feasibility of gene therapy to treat diseases of the nervous system. This gene transfer technology is based on the use of a virus as a gene delivery vehicle. In contrast to functional analysis of gene products in transgenic mouse, viral vectors can be applied to transfer genes to somatic, post-mitotic cells of fully developed animals. To date, five viral vector systems are available for gene transfer in the nervous system. These include recombinant and defective herpes viral vectors, adenoviral vectors, adeno-associated viral vectors and lentiviral vectors. Of these vectors herpes and adenoviral vectors are the most common in use. To date, one of the main hurdles in applying these two vector systems is the focal immune response that occurs following intraparenchymal infusion. Despite this limitation, herpes and adenoviral vectors have been used successfully to modify the physiological response to injury in several rodent models of neurodegeneration. The first purpose of this review is to describe the principles of the generation of viral vectors and to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of the viral vector systems currently in use for gene transfer in the nervous system. Secondly, we give an overview of the performance of these vectors following direct infusion in the nervous system and review the results obtained with these vectors in animal models of neurodegeneration and regeneration. The results of these initial studies have provided a framework for future experiments based on gene transfer strategies with viral vectors to study normal physiology and pathology of the nervous system.
1. The authors have investigated the effects of a dopamine D3 receptor antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN), on neuropeptides (neurotensin and dynorphin) and transcription factor (c-fos) mRNA levels in rat forebrain. 2. Intracerebroventricular injections of ODNs were made into the lateral ventricle (5 and 10 micrograms/h, for 5 days). Effect of antisense administration on dopamine D2 and D3 receptor binding were measured by means of receptor autoradiography. Neuropeptides and c-fos mRNA levels were evaluated by in situ hybridization using specific complementary RNA probes. 3. Dopamine D3 receptor densities were dose-dependently reduced in the shell of nucleus accumbens of rats that received the D3 antisense ODN. Sense and missense controls remained without effect. No significant effect was observed on D2 receptor binding in any of the ODN groups studied, as measured with [3H]raclopride binding. Concomitant reductions of dynorphin and neurotensin mRNA levels were observed in the shell of nucleus accumbens after D3 antisense ODN administration. Interestingly, the D3 antisense administration also reduced c-fos mRNA levels in the cingulate cortex of these animals. 4. The results show that D3 receptors may tonically regulate basal transcription factor, as well as neuropeptides, gene expression in the rat forebrain. These results clearly demonstrate that an antisense strategy could be useful to identify molecular targets under control of specific dopamine receptor subtypes.


The present study determined the behavioural effects of the corticotropin releasing factor (CRF)-related peptides, human/rat CRF (h/rCRF), ovine CRF (oCRF), sauvagine (SAUV), urotensin I (UT) and the recently discovered neuropeptide, rat urocortin (rUCN). All of the peptides dose-dependently increased motor activity in a familiar environment and reduced feeding in hungry rats. There was no apparent relationship between potency/affinity at CRF2 receptors and effects in these two tests. In a comparison of h/rCRF and rUCN upon discrete spontaneous behaviours, both peptides (3.0 microg i.c.v.) increased activity and grooming, induced a fore-paw tremor and reduced the incidence of motionlessness. However, h/rCRF reduced motionlessness to a greater extent and was a more potent inducer of defaecation, weight loss, oral movements and fore-paw tremor than rUCN. In the elevated X maze, both h/rCRF and rUCN (1.0 microg i.c.v.) had anxiogenic-like effects upon behaviour. In contrast, h/rCRF (1.0 microg i.c.v.), but not rUCN (1.0-10 microg i.c.v.) increased the startle response to an acoustic stimulus. In summary, all the CRF-related peptides increased motor activity and reduced feeding in rats in a similar manner and both rUCN and h/rCRF induced anxiogenesis. However, there were some behavioural differences between rUCN and h/rCRF which require further study. Further pharmacological investigation of the role of CRF receptor subtypes requires the use of subtype selective antagonists.
While chronic intermittent administration of stimulants often induces behavioral sensitization in adulthood, stimulant sensitization has rarely been reported prior to weaning [around postnatal day (P) 21]. Consistent pairing of drug administration with the test context often facilitates sensitization in adults, yet young animals have been typically returned to the home cage immediately post-injection. To determine whether promoting context-dependent sensitization might facilitate expression of sensitization in preweanlings, Sprague-Dawley rats were injected daily from P14 to P20 with 0, 5, 15, or 30 mg/kg cocaine HCl and placed for 30 min in either the experimental chamber or home cage. On P21 (test day), subjects were challenged with either 15 mg/kg cocaine or saline prior to placement in the experimental chamber. Significant sensitization of cocaine-induced stereotyped head movements was evident in animals given 15 or 30 mg/kg chronically in the experimental chamber, but not when these same doses were given in the home cage. Less consistent evidence for cocaine-induced sensitization was seen when examining locomotion, although trends for sensitization of this behavior were seen in animals chronically injected in either the test chamber or home cage. Thus, preweanlings can exhibit cocaine sensitization, particularly in terms of stereotypy, when tested shortly after the chronic exposure period, with expression of this sensitization being facilitated by pairing the chronic injections with the test context.
Recent evidence suggests that many of the molecular cascades and substrates that contribute to learning-related forms of neuronal plasticity may be conserved across ostensibly disparate model systems. Notably, the facilitation of neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission that contribute to associative learning in Aplysia and Hermissenda, as well as associative LTP in hippocampal CA1 cells, all require (or are enhanced by) the convergence of a transient elevation in intracellular Ca2+ with transmitter binding to metabotropic cell-surface receptors. This temporal convergence of Ca2+ and G-protein-stimulated second-messenger cascades synergistically stimulates several classes of serine/threonine protein kinases, which in turn modulate receptor function or cell excitability through the phosphorylation of ion channels. We present a summary of the biophysical and molecular constituents of neuronal and synaptic facilitation in each of these three model systems. Although specific components of the underlying molecular cascades differ across these three systems, fundamental aspects of these cascades are widely conserved, leading to the conclusion that the conceptual semblance of these superficially disparate systems is far greater than is generally acknowledged. We suggest that the elucidation of mechanistic similarities between different systems will ultimately fulfill the goal of the model systems approach, that is, the description of critical and ubiquitous features of neuronal and synaptic events that contribute to memory induction.
The background concerns the present-day psychobiological construct on stress and its models. Psychoneuroendocrine mechanisms, cellular and molecular alterations, oxidative and immune reactions and stress system disorder, related to physical, psychosocial and emotional stress became hot research areas. Other important directions regard occupational stress, objective and subjective assessment methods and stress prevention and management. For the physiology of exercise the investigation of central and peripheral limiting factors of human physical performances and the involvement of neuroscience to exercise studies are of main interest. A commentary of the stress concept in terms of testability (Popper) and of a paradigm (Kuhn) follows. The contributions of the Cluj laboratory to the neuroendocrine control in stress, exercise and work, leading to some practical outcomes, and the connections between psychoanalysis and the stress construct are discussed.

Structural abnormalities develop progressively after trauma to the central nervous system suggesting that injury is a process of events rather than a singular event. Thus, numerous types of neuropathologies can occur, depending on the exact nature of the processes of cellular damage that are set into motion after injury. Four general interrelated processes of delayed cellular damage occur in different amounts and in different locations to result in the numerous types of traumatic brain damage. These include direct damage caused by calcium influx into cells, free radical-mediated damage, receptor-mediated damage, and inflammation. By these mechanisms, the general response of the brain to mechanical energy causes damage to vascular or neural components of the brain, and results in principally focal or diffuse brain damage, respectively. These form the phenotypic types of damage to the brain and the resulting clinically associated traumatic syndromes. Focal brain damage consists principally of vascular injury that results in confusions and hemorrhages in various locations. Diffuse brain damage mainly involves scattered damage to axons in the white matter (diffuse axonal injury) or secondary damage attributable to raised intracranial pressure, hypoxia, or ischemia.
It has been suggested that glucocorticoid insufficiency consequent to a blunted hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis response to stress may be associated with increased susceptibility to certain experimentally induced autoimmune diseases. We have developed a model which allows this hypothesis to be tested within a single population of rats, using the open field stress. Following the open field stress, rats were divided into groups of high or low emotivity on the basis of faecal pellet count. High and low emotivity groups exhibited significantly elevated plasma corticosterone following the open field stress compared to pre-stress levels, but the corticosterone response of the low emotivity rats was significantly lower than that of the high emotivity rats (p &lt; 0.01). Four hours following termination of the stress, groups of high or low emotivity rats were further divided into two groups and given either an intradermal injection of Mycobacterium butyricum or vehicle for the induction of arthritis. Fourteen days after injection of adjuvant, paw volumes in the arthritic high and low emotivity groups were significantly greater than their respective vehicle-injected non-arthritic controls. However, in spite of the differential corticosterone response to stress, there was no significant difference in paw volumes between the arthritic high and low emotivity groups. These data show that an attenuated response to stress is not associated with enhanced susceptibility to the inflammatory disease of adjuvant-induced arthritis, or with increased severity of inflammation as measured by paw volume on day 14. This experimental paradigm can be more widely applied to extend our observations on the relationship between the HPA axis response to stress and susceptibility to inflammation in other models of experimentally induced autoimmune disease.
The effects of brief stressor exposure on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) functioning was assessed in two strains of mice shown to be differentially responsive to stressors. Mild stress (1 min of cold swim, 20 C) led to marked elevations of plasma ACTH and corticosterone concentrations in the stress-reactive BALB/cByJ and the stress-resistant C57Bl/6ByJ mice. Moreover, it was observed that the strains differed in basal CRH content within the amygdala and the paraventricullar nucleus (PVN). Within 1 min of cold swim, the CRH changes were detected in these brain regions in BALB/cByJ mice, but were less apparent in C57Bl/6ByJ mice. Following a chronic stressor regimen, the marked elevations of plasma ACTH associated with acute stressors in BALB/cByJ mice were diminished. In contrast, in C57Bl/6ByJ mice in which acute stressors hardly affected ACTH concentrations, the chronic stressor regimen lead to a marked increase of plasma ACTH. Taken together, data indicate that the stress reactivity differences seen in the two strains of mice are not limited to ACTH and corticosterone, but are also detected with respect to CRH within the amygdala and PVN. Furthermore, the suggestion is offered that the reactivity differences in the two strains of mice may have lead to different profiles of ACTH secretagogues and hence the response profile to later acute and chronic stressors differed in these strains of mice.

During postnatal development of the rodent cerebellum, a transient enzyme activity of ecto-5'-nucleotidase has been shown in the asymmetrical synapses of Purkinje cells. The alterations of the afferent circuitry and microenvironment of the ectopic Purkinje cells present in the cerebellum of the reeler mutant mouse could enlighten parameters that influence the synaptic 5'-nucleotidase activity of these cells. Ecto-enzyme cytochemistry reveals intense 5'-nucleotidase activity in 43% of synapses of the Purkinje cells throughout the cortex and the core of the reeler cerebellar vermis, although the molecular layer displays large areas with less than 1% of labelled synapses. However, enzymatic labelling is found in considerably more Purkinje cells synapses (73%) throughout the granular layer and the subcortical mass. Climbing fiber synapses of monoinnervated Purkinje cells are labelled by 5'-nucleotidase activity in the molecular layer, as well as asymmetrical synapses made on the subjacent ectopic Purkinje cells by the multiple climbing fibers and by the heterologous afferences. The non-innervated dendritic spines of these cells are also labelled, suggesting that 5'-nucleotidase activity at postsynaptic sites of reeler Purkinje cells does not depend on the presynaptic innervation. Rather, 5'-nucleotidase enzyme activity is enhanced at theses sites when the Purkinje cells have not achieved chemodifferentiation but have conserved immature wiring, i.e., low parallel fiber and multiple climbing fiber inputs.
In this study, we assessed the effects of the acute (a single injection) and repeated (once daily injections for 21 days) administration of the atypical antipsychotic drug clozapine (1.5, 5, or 15 mg/kg i.p.) and the typical antipsychotic drug haloperidol (0.15, 0.5, and 1.5 mg/kg, i.p.) on hippocampal partial seizures generated by low-frequency electrical stimulation in male Wistar rats. The seizure threshold and severity were determined by measuring the pulse number threshold (PNT) and the primary afterdischarge duration (ADD), respectively. A single injection of either 5 or 15 mg/kg of clozapine significantly decreased the PNT and significantly increased the primary ADD, indicating a proconvulsant action. The repeated administration of clozapine (1.5, 5, or 15 mg/kg, i.p.) produced dose-dependent, proconvulsant effects by significantly decreasing the PNT and by significantly increasing the primary ADD. In contrast to clozapine, the acute administration of haloperidol did not significantly alter the PNT or the primary ADD. The repeated administration of haloperidol (0.5 and 1.5 mg/kg, i.p.), unlike clozapine, significantly decreased the primary ADD, but did not alter the PNT. Overall, clozapine produces a greater proconvulsant action than haloperidol in an animal model of hippocampal seizures.

The cytoplasmic copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (Cu, Zn SOD; SOD-1) is an abundant and well-conserved intracellular antioxidant enzyme which has been implicated in a number of oxidative stress mediated phenomena, especially Down Syndrome, in which SOD-1 activity is increased due to triplication of chromosome 21 containing the gene and, in hereditary amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, in which the gene is mutated. Overexpression of SOD-1 could theoretically, therefore, lead to increased vulnerability to oxidative stress in two distinct manners: increasing steady-state hydrogen peroxide levels or increasing toxic side reactions. We used two mouse neuronal culture systems--one in which the murine chromosome containing SOD-1 is triplicated and one in which human SOD-1 is a transgene--to test the effect of overexpression of this enzyme on antioxidant status in general and specifically on glutamate mediated oxidative stress. We found that SOD-1 overexpression increases antioxidant status at the same time it decreases vulnerability to glutamate.
The callosal projections of the cerebral cortex play an important role in the functional integration of the two hemispheres, and the anatomy of these connections has been extensively studied in primary sensory and motor regions. In the present investigation, we examined the synaptic targets of callosal terminals in a limbic association area, the prefrontal cortex (PFC) in the rat. In addition, we examined the relationship of callosal afferents to GABA local circuit neurons within the PFC. Callosal terminals were labeled by either anterograde transport of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin from superficial or deep layers or by anterograde degeneration following electrolytic lesion of the contralateral PFC. Callosal terminals in either the superficial or deep layers labeled by either method formed primarily asymmetric axo-spinous synapses (approximately 95%), while the remainder formed axo-dendritic synapses. Some of the dendrites postsynaptic to callosal terminals exhibited a morphology characteristic of local circuit neurons. This observation was confirmed in tissue immunolabeled for GABA, in which degenerating callosal terminals sometimes formed asymmetric synapses on GABA-labeled dendrites. In addition, GABA-labeled terminals and callosal afferents were sometimes observed to converge onto common postsynaptic dendritic shafts or spines within the PFC. These results indicate that callosal terminals in limbic association cortex, consistent with sensory and motor cortices, primarily target the spines of pyramidal neurons. In addition, the results suggest that callosal afferents to the PFC interact with GABA local circuit neurons at multiple levels. Specifically, a proportion of callosal terminals appear to provide excitatory drive to GABA cells, while GABA terminals may modulate the excitation from callosal inputs to the distal dendrites and spines of PFC pyramidal neurons.
Chronic low-level lead exposure has been associated with mental deficits in young children, possibly due to its actions on specific targets in the developing nervous system. Protein glycosylation has been demonstrated to play a critical role during CNS development, and the negatively charged sialic acid group has been particularly associated with the modulation of cell adhesion. In this study, we have used an in vitro model system to examine the effect of subchronic low-level lead on the expression and activity of the sialyltransferase (ST) enzyme family. Subchronic exposure of neuronal cells to low concentrations of lead (10(-6)-10(-16) M) resulted in up to a 3-fold induction of total cellular ST activity, the level of induction being more pronounced in embryonically derived cells compared with postnatally derived cells. The increase was not due to a direct interaction of the metal with the enzyme and was only observed after at least 72 h exposure to the metal. The induction was blocked by the protein synthesis inhibitor, cycloheximide, and could be reversed upon removal of the metal. The increase was due primarily to the induction of the alpha2,3(N) ST enzyme with no effect on the expression of the alpha2,6(N) enzyme. These results suggest that the ST enzyme may serve as a target for the actions of chronic low-level lead in vivo with an alteration in the developmental regulation of protein glycosylation being at least partially responsible for the behavioral deficits associated with toxin exposure.
edited by Michael D. Rugg, MIT Press, 1997. $45.00 (hbk)/$25.00 (pbk) (xi+373 pages) ISBN 0 262 18181 9 (hbk), ISBN 0 262 68094 7 (pbk).
Traditional studies of spatial attention consider only a single sensory modality at a time (e.g. just vision, or just audition). In daily life, however, our spatial attention often has to be coordinated across several modalities. This is a non-trivial problem, given that each modality initially codes space in entirely different ways. In the last five years, there has been a spate of studies on crossmodal attention. These have demonstrated numerous crossmodal links in spatial attention, such that attending to a particular location in one modality tends to produce corresponding shifts of attention in other modalities. The spatial coordinates of these crossmodal links illustrate that the internal representation of external space depends on extensive crossmodal integration. Recent neuroscience studies are discussed that suggest possible brain mechanisms for the crossmodal links in spatial attention.
Specific Language Impairment (SLI) is observed in children who fail to acquire age-appropriate language skills but otherwise appear to be developing normally. There are two main hypotheses about the nature of these impairments. One assumes that they reflect impairments in the child's innate knowledge of grammar. The other is that they derive from information-processing deficits that interfere with several aspects of language learning. There is considerable evidence that SLI is associated with impaired speech processing; however, the link between this deficit and the kinds of grammatical impairments observed in these children has been unclear. We suggest that the link is provided by phonology, a speech-based code that plays important roles in learning linguistic generalizations and in working memory.
Neuroscience is witnessing growing interest in understanding brain mechanisms of memory formation for emotionally arousing events, a development closely related to renewed interest in the concept of memory consolidation. Extensive research in animals implicates stress hormones and the amygdaloid complex as key, interacting modulators of memory consolidation for emotional events. Considerable evidence suggests that the amygdala is not a site of long-term explicit or declarative memory storage, but serves to influence memory-storage processes in other brain regions, such as the hippocampus, striatum and neocortex. Human-subject studies confirm the prediction of animal work that the amygdala is involved with the formation of enhanced declarative memory for emotionally arousing events.

Mammalian horizontal cells are believed to be GABAergic because, in most species, they contain both GABA and glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), and their terminals are presynaptic to GABA receptors. In adult rabbit, however, GABA and GAD immunoreactivity have not been consistently demonstrated in horizontal cells, casting doubts on the assumption that they too are GABAergic. Here we demonstrate that all rabbit horizontal cell terminals--dendritic terminals of type A, and both dendritic and axonal terminals of type B--immunostain for one isoform of GAD, GAD67, In addition, we show that type A horizontal cell somas and primary dendrites in the visual streak (identified by their immunoreactivity to calbindin) are immunoreactive for the other GAD isoform, GAD65. Double-labeling experiments for GAD65 and GABA reveal that every cell that stains for GAD65 also stains for GABA. The presence of GAD67 in horizontal cell terminals suggests that rabbit horizontal cells are GABAergic. The segregation of the two GAD isoforms to different cell compartments suggests that GABA is released at different sites, possibly by two different mechanisms.
The distributions of rod and cone photoreceptors have been determined in the retina of the California ground squirrel, Spermophilus beecheyi. Retinas were fixed by perfusion and the rods and cones were detected with indirect immunofluorescence using opsin antibodies. Local densities were determined at 2-mm intervals across the entire retina, from which total numbers of each receptor type were estimated and isodensity distributions were constructed. The ground squirrel retina contains 7.5 million cones and 1.27 million rods. The peak density for the cones (49,550/mm2) is found in a horizontal strip of central retina 2 mm ventral to the elongated optic nerve head, falling gradually to half this value in the dorsal and ventral retinal periphery. Of the cones, there are 14 M cones for every S cone. S cone density is relatively flat across most of the retina, reaching a peak (4500/mm2) at the temporal end of the visual streak. There is one exception to this, however: S cone density climbs dramatically at the extreme dorso-nasal retinal margin (20,000/mm2), where the local ratio of S to M cones equals 1. Rod density is lowest in the visual streak, where the rods comprise less than 5% of the local photoreceptor population, increasing conspicuously in the ventral retina, where the rods achieve 30% of the local photoreceptor population (13,000/mm2). The functional importance of the change in S to M cone ratio at the dorsal circumference of the retina is compromised by the extremely limited portion of the visual field subserved by this retinal region. The significance for vision, if any, remains to be determined. By contrast, the change in rod/cone ratio between the dorsal and ventral halves of the retina indicates a conspicuous asymmetry in the ground squirrel's visual system, suggesting a specialization for maximizing visual sensitivity under dim levels of illumination in the superior visual field.
Reverse correlation was used in conjunction with ternary white noise to estimate the first-order spatiotemporal receptive-field structure of LGN cells in the anesthetized, paralyzed cat. Based on a singular-value decomposition of these data, we conclude that most LGN cells are approximately space-time separable. An analysis of the timecourses of the first singular values revealed a strongly bimodal but continuous distribution of rise times and waveforms. The two modes represented cells generally associated with the lagged and nonlagged classes of Mastronarde (1987a,b), and this was confirmed by their responses to step and sine-modulated spots in their field centers. The intermediate cells, rather than appearing to constitute a separate group, smoothly filled the region between the obviously lagged and nonlagged cells in every respect. These conclusions are limited to X-cells although the data from a much smaller population of Y-cells conform to the same scheme. We conclude that lagged and nonlagged cells represent the modes of a continuous and very broad distribution of temporal responses in the cat LGN.
We report VEP studies which delineate interactions between chromatic and luminance contrast signals. We examined responses to sinusoidal luminance gratings undergoing 4-Hz square-wave contrast reversal, upon which standing gratings with various admixtures of luminance and chromatic contrast were alternately superimposed and withdrawn. The presence of the standing grating induced a VEP component at the fundamental frequency of the contrast-reversal grating. This VEP component appeared without any appreciable lag, and did not vary in amplitude over the 4 s during which the standing grating was present. The observed fundamental response differed from the fundamental component that would be expected from the known interaction between the luminance component of the standing grating with the modulated grating (Bodis-Wollner et al., 1972; Bobak et al., 1988), in three ways: (1) The fundamental response was not nulled for standing gratings that were isoluminant or near-isoluminant. (2) The chromatic dependence of the fundamental response implied an S-cone input to the interaction. (3) No single mechanism (driven by a linear combination of cone signals) could account quantitatively for the size of this response, particularly when the standing grating strongly modulated two cones in phase.

In this paper, I introduce the philosophical notion of strong emergence and argue that it is almost exclusively applied to properties related to (conscious) subjective experience. Contrary to the still common attitude of refraining anxiously from these topics, I argue that we have a promising scientific approach to them: the cognitive neurosciences. I list a spectrum of interesting, potentially strongly emergent properties already investigated, and discuss the example of volition in more detail. Psychiatric disorders, like antisocial personality disorder, schizophrenia, and obsessive compulsive disorder, open new ways for understanding aspects of volition such as willed action, decision making, and agency. I conclude that the notion of strong emergence is only a preliminary label which, however, might be understood as a challenge for empirical scientists to explain and understand phenomena related to subjectivity and consciousness.
Visual cortical neurons are broadly tuned to one or a few feature dimensions, like color and motion. This is advantageous because broadly tuned neurons can contribute to the representation of many visual scenes. However, if there are multiple objects in a visual scene, the cortex is at risk to combine features of different objects as if they belong to a single object. The term &quot;binding problem&quot; was introduced to refer to the difficulties that may occur in sorting out those responses that are evoked by a single perceptual object. The present article reviews proposals suggesting that the binding problem is solved by labelling an assembly of neurons that is responsive to a single perceptual object. Evidence is reviewed in favor of two possible assembly-labels: rate enhancement due to visual attention and neuronal synchrony. Assembly-labels should be spread through the cortical network to all neurons that have to participate in an assembly. The present article tries to shed light on the mechanisms that subserve such a selective spread of assembly labels. Moreover, it is suggested that assembly labels may fulfill an equivalent role in the motor system, since binding problems can also occur during the generation of useful patterns of motor activity.
The adaptive control of behaviour requires brain mechanisms for the selection (i.e. activation and suppression) of responses, as well as mechanisms for the modulation of the response vigour. The concept of motivation postulates the existence of brain centres that regulate the selection and strength of behavioural responses. The present paper provides examples from the behavioural neurosciences for brain mechanisms that lead to adaptive changes of an organisms responsiveness to external stimuli. The mammalian startle response is a simple defensive behaviour which is mediated by an oligosynaptic pathway located in the lower brainstem. The startle response is enhanced by aversive states (fear, anxiety) and attenuated by appetitive states (pleasure), which can be regarded as an example of motivational priming. Furthermore, the startle response is inhibited by a weak sensory stimulus presented shortly before the startling stimulus. The suppression of startle by a prepulse is an example of sensorimotor gating, a principle that is important for the hierarchical organisation of behaviour. This paper describes the neuronal mechanisms underlying the modulation (prepulse inhibition and fear potentiation) of the startle response in rats, and discusses the possible adaptive significance of these different phenomena of behavioural plasticity.


This study sets out to compare the combinations of potential vasodilator transmitters expressed by sympathetic and pelvic vasodilator neurons of guinea-pigs. Triple-labelling fluorescence immunohistochemistry was used to examine immunoreactivity (IR) to vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in lumbar sympathetic ganglia, and in perivascular axons supplying hindlimb skeletal muscles or pelvic viscera. Only 0.2% of VIP-IR nerve cell bodies in lumbar sympathetic ganglia (n = 4632 VIP-IR nerve cell profiles) contained NOS-IR, and one VIP-IR neuron contained CGRP-IR. The VIP-IR perivascular axons along the common and external iliac arteries, femoral artery and arteries to hindlimb muscles lacked NOS-IR and CGRP-IR. In contrast, all VIP-IR perivascular axons projecting from pelvic ganglia to the main uterine artery, and half of the VIP-IR axons along the internal iliac artery, contained NOS-IR and CGRP-IR. Thus, the neurochemical content of sympathetic vasodilator neurons to skeletal muscle arteries was clearly distinguishable from that of pelvic vasodilator neurons to the uterine vasculature. Furthermore, the autonomic dilation in each vascular bed is likely to be qualitatively different, and matched to the functional requirements of each target organ.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is a T-cell-dependent and antibody-mediated autoimmune disease of the neuromuscular junction, in which the cytokine network may be deranged. Specific receptors for interleukin (IL)-6, a cytokine with several effects on the neuroimmune system, have been found on human lymphocytes. The aim of the present study has been to assay IL-6 binding on peripheral blood T cells from MG patients. We found that T cells from MG patients have significantly more IL-6 receptors than those from controls (Bmax: 334 +/- 6 vs 251 +/- 4 (mean +/- SEM) receptors/cell). Such IL-6 binding sites are of the same type in patients and healthy subjects (Kd: 26.5 +/- 0.7 vs 25.7 +/- 0.9 (mean +/- SEM) pM). The enhanced T-cell interleukin-6 binding is due to an increased number of interleukin-6 receptors on T-helper lymphocytes. These results are discussed in terms of MG immunopathogenesis, since it has been reported that activated T cells have increased amounts of IL-6 receptors.
Recently, a receptor for the angiotensin II(3-8) (Ang IV) hexapeptide, was discovered in the hippocampus, suggesting a possible role in learning. The present study utilized intracerebroventricularly (icv) infused scopolamine hydrobromide (scop) to disrupt spatial learning in the circular water maze, followed by the Ang IV analog norleucine1-Ang IV (Nle1-Ang IV), to restore normal performance. Rats were icv pretreated with either scop or artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF) followed by either icv injected Nle1-Ang IV or aCSF, and then behaviourally tested. During acquisition training, each animal's latency to locate the platform, path distance, speed, and efficiency ratios were measured. A probe trial was conducted on the final day of training and the time spent in the target quadrant and the number of crossings over the former location of the platform (annulus crossings) were observed. The results indicate that those animals treated with scop followed by aCSF performed poorly during acquisition training as compared with controls. In contrast, those animals that received scop followed by Nle1-Ang IV attained equivalent latencies, distances, and efficiency ratios to find the platform as those achieved by controls. There were no observed differences in swimming speed, thus arguing against drug-induced motor impairment. During the probe trial, animals treated with scop followed by aCSF spent less time in the target quadrant and made fewer annulus crossings as compared to controls, while the scop, Nle'-Ang IV treated animals performed equivalently to controls. These results suggest that Nle1-Ang IV acts to counteract the disruption of spatial learning induced by scopolamine.
We prepared a cleavage site-directed antiserum against Caspase-3 (anti-p20/17), which reacts with the p20/17 fragment (p20/17) activated by cleavage but not proCaspase-3 (p32), and examined the relationship between the activation of Caspase-3 and apoptosis. We identified p20/17-positive cells where cell death occurs naturally: interdigits of the forelimbs, small intestine epithelium, thymus, trigeminal ganglia, and dorsal root ganglia of mouse embryos. Withdrawal of nerve growth factor induced the appearance of p20/17-positive cells with DNA fragmentation in the culture of dorsal root ganglia neurons, while DNA fragmentation was detected in both p20/17-positive and -negative neurons in dorsal root ganglia of mouse embryos. These results suggest that not only activation of Caspase-3 but also other molecular mechanism play a role in the naturally occurring dorsal root ganglia apoptosis. Cleavage site-directed antisera against Caspases will be useful for the analysis of the molecular mechanism of naturally occurring apoptosis during development.

Alteration of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) receptor and its mRNA after long-term adrenalectomy (ADX) was studied in the hippocampus by in vitro receptor autoradiography and in situ hybridization histochemistry, respectively. Significantly, decreased levels of IGF-1 receptor and its mRNA was noted in the dentate and CA1-CA4 regions of the hippocampus of the ADX animals, suggesting that the level and expression of IGF-1 receptors in the hippocampus is influenced by adrenal hormones.
Rats were given repeated infusions of i.v. amphetamine in association with placement in a novel test environment, a protocol that produces behavioral sensitization, or in the home cage, a protocol that fails to induce sensitization. In several brain areas amphetamine altered calmodulin content, but only in the group treated in a novel environment, suggesting that amphetamine-induced alterations in calmodulin may occur only when drug treatments induce behavioral sensitization.
Thrombin is a multifunctional protease. Recent studies on cultured neuronal cells have suggested a function for thrombin in the development and maintenance of the nervous system. Thrombin has been found to induce neurite retraction and reverse stellation in neuroblastoma cell lines and rat astrocytes, respectively. The major focus of our study was to investigate the potential role of thrombin in peripheral nervous system development using the rat embryonic dorsal root ganglion model. We found a dose dependent inhibition of neurite outgrowth from explant dorsal root ganglion cultures upon exposure to 2 to 200 nM thrombin. This effect was reversed by the specific thrombin inhibitor, hirudin. A synthetic peptide that imitates the fully active receptor, thrombin receptor activating peptide, was also found to inhibit neurite outgrowth from dorsal root ganglia. bis-Benzimide stained neuronal cultures did not show any evidence of cell death after exposure to thrombin or thrombin receptor activating peptides. Immunohistochemical studies revealed specific staining of the thrombin receptor on neurons, with intense labeling along neurites. Enriched neuronal cultures exposed to thrombin and thrombin receptor activating peptides revealed rapid activation of phospholipase Cgamma-1, a second messenger associated with the thrombin receptor. These findings are the first to describe the localization of the thrombin receptor to dorsal root ganglion neurons. We propose that receptor activation is associated with thrombin induced inhibition of neurite outgrowth.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5) is one of the candidate kinases involved in the abnormal hyperphosphorylation of tau. To have a direct effect on tau hyperphosphorylation, cdk5 protein levels and enzyme activity should be upregulated in especially those neurons that develop neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs). We studied the distribution of cdk5 immunoreactivity in neurons with or without early- and late-stage NFTs in hippocampal, entorhinal, transentorhinal, temporal and frontal cortices, and cerebellum of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and control brain. The immunocytochemical localisation of cdk5 was compared with that obtained using antibodies to PHF-tau (tau in paired helical filaments of NFTs, mAb AT8) and ubiquitin as markers of early and late stage NFTs, respectively. Immunoreactivities of cdk5 and PHF-tau were found in neuronal perikarya and processes of hippocampal, entorhinal, transentorhinal, temporal and frontal, and cerebellar cortices. An apparent increase of cdk5 immunoreactivity was seen in pretangle neurons and in neurons bearing early stage NFTs. These findings suggest that this kinase might be involved in the formation of NFTs at a relatively early stage in the neocortex.
Prefrontal corticostriatal afferents to the caudate-putamen nucleus (CPN) have been implicated in motor and cognitive functions that are subject to opioid modulation through the mu-opioid receptor (MOR). We examined the cellular basis for this modulation by combining anterograde transport of biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) following injections into the rat prefrontal cortex with immunocytochemical detection of MOR in patch compartments of the CPN. The BDA-labeled neurons in deep layer V and layer VI of the dorsal part of the anterior cingulate cortex and the medial agranular cortex projected bilaterally, with an ipsilateral predominance, to MOR-enriched patches in the dorsomedial and dorsocentral CPN, respectively. BDA-labeled terminals often apposed MOR-immunoreactive dendrites and perikarya but formed exclusively asymmetric, excitatory-type synapses mainly with dendritic spines. Of the total anterogradely labeled axon terminals forming asymmetric synapses, 40% (151 of 377) were with MOR-labeled spines, and 58% (220 of 377) were with unlabeled dendritic spines. In addition, immunogold-silver particles for MOR were seen in 14% (134 of 938) of all BDA-labeled axons and axon terminals. These dually labeled axon terminals also formed asymmetric synapses with dendritic spines that contained MOR immunoreactivity. The proportions of BDA-labeled axon terminals forming asymmetric synapses with MOR-labeled or unlabeled spines were similar in the CPN ipsilateral and contralateral to the cortical injections. These results suggest that, in patch compartments of the CPN, MOR plays a critical role in postsynaptic response to, but also in presynaptic modulation of, prefrontal corticostriatal excitation.
Loss of neurons has been considered to be a prime cause of nervous disturbances that occur with advancing age. However, the notion of a constitutive aging-related loss of neurons has been challenged recently in several studies that used up-to-date methods for counting neurons. In this study, we have applied stereological techniques with the objective of obtaining quantitative data on total neuron numbers and the distribution of neuron cross-sectional areas in the fifth cervical (C5) and fourth lumbar (L4) dorsal root ganglion (DRG) of 3- and 30-month-old Sprague-Dawley rats. Tissue data were recorded on a confocal laser-scanning microscope with the use of the optical-disector technique and random, systematic sampling. Aged rats of both sexes disclosed only a small decrease (approximately 12%) in the number of cervical and lumbar DRG neurons. Furthermore, there was no significant correlation between the degree of neuron loss and the extent of behavioral deficits among the aged individuals. The DRG neurons of aged rats had a smaller mean cross-sectional area (approximately 15%; P &lt; 0.001) at both DRG levels. Further analysis of the male cohorts was carried out by using isolectin B4 and neurofilament subunit (phosphorylated 200 kDa; RT97) immunoreactivity (IR) as selective markers for unmyelinated and myelinated axons, respectively, and disclosed no significant change in the relative frequencies of immunoreactive neuron profiles in the old rats. However, RT97-IR DRG neurons of the aged rats had significantly smaller cross-sectional areas (approximately 9% in C5; approximately 16% in L4; P &lt; 0.001) than the young adult rats, indicating a selective cell body atrophy among myelinated primary afferents during aging. The results indicate that loss of primary sensory neurons cannot exclusively explain the functional deficits in sensory perception among senescent individuals. It seems likely that other factors at the subcellular level and/or target interaction(s) contribute substantially to the sensory impairments observed with advancing age.
The effect of systemic administration of the nonselective dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine on efflux of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) in striatum and hippocampus of freely moving rats was examined using in vivo microdialysis. 5-HT efflux was increased by a moderate dose of apomorphine sufficient for a postsynaptic dopaminergic effect (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.), but not by a lower dose (0.1 mg/kg, s.c.), that acts preferentially on presynaptic dopamine receptors. This effect was blocked by a dopamine D2 receptor antagonist raclopride, administered either systemically or locally into striatum, but not by a 5-HT1A receptor antagonist N-2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl-N-(2-pyridinyl) cyclohexanecarboxamide 3HCI (WAY-100635). This indicates that dopamine D2 receptors, and not 5-HT1A receptors, mediate the facilitatory effect of apomorphine, and that this effect occurs at the nerve terminal level. Behavioral effects of apomorphine outlasted the concomitant changes in 5-HT efflux, suggesting that these changes resulted from dopaminergic receptor activation, rather than from the drug-induced behavioral arousal.
To investigate a possible association between G-proteins and presenilin-1 (PS-1), a series of glutathione S-transferase-fusion proteins containing portions of PS-1 were prepared and used in vitro in binding experiments with tissue and recombinant G-proteins. The results demonstrate that the 39 C-terminal amino acids of PS-1 selectively bind the brain G-protein, Go. Addition of guanosine 5'-3-O-(thio)triphosphate promoted Go dissociation from PS-1, indicating that this domain mimics the function of G-protein-coupling domains found in receptors. The 39-amino acid synthetic polypeptide activated Go in a magnesium ion-dependent manner. Physical interaction of full-length PS-1 and Go was also demonstrated. Following transfection of Goalpha and N-terminally FLAG-tagged PS-1 in COS-7 cells, Go was immunoprecipitated by FLAG antibodies. In addition, endogenous PS-1 and Goalpha were colocalized immunocytochemically in human glioma cell lines. The results indicate that PS-1 regulates Go activities in living cells.
This study examined the induction of c-Fos expression in the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) and entopeduncular nucleus (EP) in the rats with a globus pallidus (GP) lesion, following the administration of haloperidol. After a GP lesion was made unilaterally by stereotaxic administration of ibotenic acid, haloperidol was administered systemically, and the number of cells expressing c-Fos was quantitatively assessed. Haloperidol induced a high level of the expression of c-Fos in neurons of the SNr and EP, and the GP lesion significantly decreased the expression of c-Fos in the ipsilateral SNr and EP. Since it has been suggested that c-Fos expression in the SNr/EP is caused by increased excitatory inputs from the subthalamic nucleus (STN), the present results provide functional evidence indicating that neuronal activities of the basal ganglia output nuclei are not increased by GP ablation, unlike D2 receptor blockade, supporting the recently proposed hypothesis that overactivity of the STN resulting from dopamine depletion is not solely a result of disinhibition from inhibitory GP efferents.

Axonal damage to adult peripheral neurons causes changes in neuronal gene expression. For example, axotomized sympathetic, sensory, and motor neurons begin to express galanin mRNA and protein, and recent evidence suggests that galanin plays a role in peripheral nerve regeneration. Previous studies in sympathetic and sensory neurons have established that galanin expression is triggered by two consequences of nerve transection: the induction of leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) and the reduction in the availability of the target-derived factor, nerve growth factor. It is shown in the present study that no stimulation of galanin expression occurs following direct application of LIF to intact neurons in the superior cervical sympathetic ganglion. Injection of animals with an antiserum to nerve growth factor concomitant with the application of LIF, on the other hand, does stimulate galanin expression. The data suggest that the response of neurons to an injury factor, LIF, is affected by whether the neurons still receive trophic signals from their targets.
In an effort to determine mechanisms of action of the putative anti-addictive agent ibogaine, we have measured its effects on catecholamine release in a model neuronal system, cultured bovine chromaffin cells. Various modes of stimulating catecholamine release were used including nicotinic ACh receptor activation, membrane depolarization with elevated K+ and Na+ channel activation with veratridine. In addition, because ibogaine has been reported to interact with kappa opioid receptors, we tested whether kappa receptor antagonists could reverse ibogaine's effects on catecholamine release. Ibogaine, at low concentration (&lt;10 microM) was found to selectively inhibit nicotinic receptor-mediated catecholamine release, while having no significant effect on release evoked by either veratridine or membrane depolarization with elevated K+. The inhibitory actions of ibogaine and the kappa agonists were not reversed by preincubation with the opioid antagonists nor-binaltorphimine or naltrexone, suggesting that these inhibitory effects are not mediated by the kappa opioid receptor. The effects of low dose (10 microM) ibogaine were rapidly reversible, while the inhibitory effects of higher ibogaine doses persisted for at least 19 h following ibogaine washout. The results provide evidence for a mechanism of action ibogaine at the nicotinic ACh receptor. The results are consistent with a model in which the initial high transient brain concentrations (100 microM) of ibogaine act at multiple cellular sites and then have a selective action at the nicotinic ACh receptor cation channel following its metabolism to lower brain concentrations. The present findings are relevant to potential anti-addictive actions of ibogaine and to the development of drugs to combat nicotine addiction.
Pre-incubation of synaptic membranes with phosphatase inhibitors significantly reduces the extent of calpain-mediated truncation of both GluR1 and NR2 subunits of AMPA and NMDA receptors, respectively. The same treatment did not modify calpain-mediated truncation of spectrin. These results might have important implications for mechanisms of synaptic plasticity as the balance of kinase/phosphatase activity and calpain has been proposed to regulate synaptic efficacy at glutamatergic synapses.
Epibatidine (exo-2-(6-chloro-3-pyridyl)-7-azabicyclo-[2.2.1]heptane), an extract of frog skin, is a novel and highly potent agonist for the nicotinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptor. The present study was undertaken to examine the expression of Fos protein in several rat brain regions following an acute administration of epibatidine. Furthermore, we also studied the role of the dopamine D1 and D2 receptors and the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, and nicotinic ACh receptor in the expression of Fos protein by epibatidine. A single administration of epibatidine (5, 10, 50 microgram/kg) caused a marked induction of Fos-immunoreactivity in the prefrontal cortex, medial striatum, nucleus accumbens, amygdala and superior colliculus of rat brain. In these regions, pretreatment with SCH 23390 (1.0 mg/kg), a dopamine D1 receptor antagonist, MK-801 (1.0 mg/kg), a NMDA receptor antagonist, and mecamylamine (5. 0 mg/kg), a nicotinic Ach receptor antagonist, inhibited the induction of Fos protein by epibatidine (10 microgram/kg). Pretreatment with sulpiride, a dopamine D2 receptor antagonist, blocked the induction of Fos protein in the prefrontal cortex and the core region of accumbens nucleus, but not in the medial striatum and the shell division of nucleus accumbens of rat brain. These results suggest that epibatidine induced the expression of Fos protein in several regions of rat brain, and that dopamine D1 receptor, NMDA receptor, and nicotinic ACh receptor may play a role in the expression of Fos protein by epibatidine in rat brain. Furthermore, dopamine D2 receptor may, in part, play a role in epibatidine induced expression of Fos protein in the prefrontal cortex and the core region of nucleus accumbens, but not in the medial striatum and the shell division of nucleus accumbens of rat brain.
The pineal organ of fish contains photoreceptor cells. In some species (e.g., pike) each photoreceptor is a cellular circadian system which contains a photoreceptive unit, the clock and an output unit. In others (e.g., trout) the clock is lacking. The main rhythmic output of the pineal photoreceptor is melatonin, an internal 'zeitgeber' of the organisms. The nocturnal rise in melatonin secretion results from an increase in the activity of the arylalkylamine-N-acetyltransferase (AA-NAT) which converts serotonin to N-acetylserotonin. In the present study we investigated the effects of transcription and translation inhibitors on AA-NAT activity in pike and trout pineal organs in culture. Cycloheximide, anisomycin, and puromycin inhibited the rise in AA-NAT activity observed during the first 2, 4 or 6 h of the dark phase, in both species. Actinomycin D was active only in the pike. Six hours of treatment during the first half of the night induced inhibition of AA-NAT activity, providing that forskolin (an adenylyl cyclase stimulator) was present in the culture medium. When the treatment was run for 3, 6 or 12 h, starting at midday of a 12L/12D cycle, basal and forskolin-stimulated AA-NAT activity (measured at midnight) were dramatically reduced. Such a treatment had no effect on trout AA-NAT activity. It is concluded that: (1) the dark-induced rise in AA-NAT activity and melatonin secretion are dependent on newly synthesized protein in both pike and trout pineal; (2) AA-NAT regulation takes place at the translational and post-translational levels in both species; (3) AA-NAT regulation occurs also at the transcriptional level in the pike, but not in the trout; and (4) the cAMP-dependent activation of AA-NAT requires transcription in the pike, not in the trout. The presence of a cell population acting as a circadian clock in the pike pineal, but not in the trout pineal, can explain the difference between these two species. Thus, we suggest that the clock mechanism operates at the genetic level in these cells. Further comparative studies between clock-controlled and non-clock-controlled pineals might prove interesting to demonstrate the difference between these two regulatory pathways.
In the rat, neurochemical, behavioral, and anatomical investigations suggest that medial prefrontal cortical input modulates the activity of the basal ganglia. To understand how prefrontal dysfunction might alter striatal-accumbens function, in situ hybridization histochemistry with S35-labeled oligonucleotide probes was used to assess changes in striatal-accumbens gene expression following bilateral excitotoxic ibotenic acid (IA) lesions of the rat medial prefrontal cortex. Quantitative densitometry was used to measure changes in mRNA levels for preproenkephalin A (ENK), D1 dopamine receptor, protachykinin (SubP), glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD65), and D2 dopamine receptor. No differences were found between sham and lesion groups for ENK, D1, SubP, or GAD65 mRNA levels in the striatum or nucleus accumbens (NAC). D2 receptor mRNA levels were, however, significantly higher in the dorsomedial striatum and in the core area of the NAC of the lesioned rats. Although the functional significance of increased D2 mRNA is unclear, these findings demonstrate that glutamate mPFC projections modulate gene expression in relatively regionally-localized subcortical neuronal populations.
The consequences of aging on dopamine (DA) regulation within the nigrostriatal and mesolimbic systems were investigated with a combination of behavioral, in vivo electrochemical, and high-performance liquid chromatography measurements using 6-, 12-, 18- and 24-month old male Fischer 344 (F344) rats. Spontaneous locomotor testing demonstrated that aged (18- and 24-month) rats moved significantly less and at a slower speed than younger (6- and 12-month) animals. Additionally, systemic injection (intraperitoneal) of the DA uptake inhibitor, nomifensine, was significantly less efficacious in augmenting the locomotor activity of aged rats compared to the younger animals. Age-dependent alterations in the release capacity of DA neurons within the regions involved in movement were investigated using in vivo electrochemistry. These recordings indicated that both the magnitude and temporal dynamics of potassium (70 mM)-evoked DA overflow were affected by the aging process. Signal amplitudes recorded in the 24-month rats were 30-60% reduced in both the striatum and nucleus accumbens as compared to the young adult groups. In addition, the duration of the electrochemical DA signals recorded within the striatum of 24-month old rats was twice that in the younger animals (6- and 12-month). Whole tissue measurements of DA and DA metabolites suggest age-related deficits in locomotion and DA release were not related to decreases in the storage or synthesis of DA within the striatum, nucleus accumbens, substantia nigra, ventral tegmental area or medial prefrontal cortex. Taken together, these results indicate age-dependent deficits in movement are related to the dynamic properties of DA release and not static measures of DA content.
Intermittent administration of cocaine produced a progressive increase in the stereotypy response of rats to a challenge dose of cocaine (7.5 mg/kg, i.p.). Continuous infusion of cocaine (80 mg/kg per day) via osmotic pumps for 7 days into the sensitized rats produced tolerance to the behavioral responses to the challenge dose of cocaine 1 day after the removal of the pumps. Therefore, tolerance can mask the expression of behavioral sensitization in rats. However, by 10 days after the removal of the pumps, the behavioral tolerance was reversed and the rats again displayed a sensitized response to cocaine. Therefore, the tolerance to cocaine was temporary while the underlying sensitization persisted. The development of tolerance did not alter the underlying sensitization demonstrating that these represent independent phenomena. The relationship between sensitization and tolerance observed in these studies may provide a model relevant to the progress in humans of addiction to psychomotor stimulants.
A double-stranded DNA end-binding factor with high levels of expression in brain and testis of adult mice was identified as the Ku protein, earlier described as an autoantigen in connective tissue diseases and found to be essential for recombination of the immunoglobulin genes and DNA repair. High Ku levels were found in the cerebellum and pituitary gland, lower levels in the hippocampus, hypothalamus and white matter structures. Ku levels were much higher in embryonic rat brain than in the adult brain, suggesting a role of the Ku protein in brain development. In embryonic rat brain, Ku was associated with cell nuclei, but was predominantly located in the cytosol in the adult rat cerebellum and hippocampus. The abundant expression of Ku in the brain suggests the involvement of Ku autoantibodies in the pathogenesis of neuropsychiatric complications in connective tissue diseases.
Brain metabolites were measured by proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy in five young (4-10 years of age) and six old (24-30 years of age) adult rhesus monkeys. The two age groups had similar levels of N-acetylaspartate and of choline relative to creatine, but the ratio of myo-inositol/creatine was higher in each old monkey than in any of the young animals. There was no significant relationship between the metabolite ratios and cognitive performance. The findings indicate that a consistent pattern of non-invasively detectable biochemical changes occurs in the brain with ageing. Whether these changes have functional significance in age-related pathologies, or are simply markers of brain ageing will be the subject of future studies.
Since the characterization of orphanin FQ (OFQ), the endogenous ligand of ORL1 receptor, much work has focused on its physiological functions. OFQ was reported to antagonize the effect of opioid-induced antinociception, although its mechanism remains obscure. In the present study, whole-cell patch clamp recording technique was used to observe if OFQ can reverse the inhibition of calcium current produced by the kappa-opioid agonist U50,488H (U50) in acutely dissociated rat DRG neurons. The concentrations of OFQ and U50 were 50 nM and 10 microM, respectively. Among 49 cells recorded, the calcium channel currents of 37 (75.5%) cells were inhibited by U50, of which 30 (81.1%) cells could be reversed by OFQ. It was interesting to note the similarity between OFQ and the well characterized anti-opioid peptide CCK-8 in that it reversed kappa-opioid receptor agonist induced suppression on calcium channel current, while by itself showed a calcium channel suppressive effect. Thus OFQ may be regarded as another anti-opioid peptide.
The anterior superior temporal polysensory area (STPa) has been hypothesized to be an integration site for signals coming from the dorsal and ventral visual pathways. To determine whether neurons in STPa were selective for simple two-dimensional geometrical shapes and whether this area might integrate different visual cues, cells were tested with motion- and luminance-defined shapes. Many neurons were activated by the shape stimuli under at least one condition; however, very few showed selectivity for a particular shape under either condition. Only one neuron responded selectively to shapes defined by both cues. Thus selectivity for simple shapes is not a prevalent property of STPa neurons and the integration of luminance and motion signals does not appear to occur at the single neuron level in STPa.
Co-localization of CCK(B) and D2 receptor mRNAs was analysed in adjacent sections of nucleus caudate putamen of the rat by means of in situ hybridization. A distinct subpopulation of D2 mRNA containing striatal nerve cells (in the order of 10%) was shown to co-express CCK(B) and D2 receptor mRNAs. All the CCK(B) receptor mRNA-positive nerve cells were co-localized with D2 receptor mRNA. These results give one morphological substrate to the previously demonstrated CCK(B)/D2 receptor interactions in the striatum.
The effect of long-term adrenalectomy on NMDA receptors in the rat hippocampus was studied. Hippocampal sections of control and adrenalectomized rats were incubated with [3H]MK-801, a radiolabeled non-competitive inhibitor of the NMDA receptor. Analysis by in vitro autoradiography showed a significant decrease in [3H]MK-801 binding in the dentate gyrus, CA1 and CA4 areas, as well as the temporal cortex. Results of this study suggest that glucocorticoids are vital for the regulation of the NMDA receptors.
Voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSCs) are concentrated in the postsynaptic membrane at the adult rat neuromuscular junction (NMJ). We have used immunolabelling to determine the pattern of initial VGSC accumulation during development. At birth, but not 3 days before, VGSC labelling is detectable at the NMJ and in the perijunctional (periJ) membrane but not elsewhere. A much higher density cluster of VGSCs forms at the NMJ itself 1-2 weeks later. If the nerve is cut 2 days after birth, VGSC labelling persists in the periJ region for at least 4 weeks but the clustering of VGSCs at the NMJ fails to develop. Thus an early, stable accumulation of VGSCs develops near the NMJ at least a week before high density postsynaptic VGSC clusters form.
Activity in the human supplementary motor area (SMA), primary motor cortex (M1), and the draining vein of the motor cortex during a visually triggered finger opposition task was measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging with a repetition time of 1 s. Sequential hemodynamic activation in these areas was revealed by cross-correlating a signal sequence in M1 directly with signal sequences from SMA and the draining vein, and applying polynomial fitting with the aid of Akaike's information criterion. We succeeded in detecting a time delay of approximately 0.5 s between the activations of SMA and M1, and a delay of nearly 1.3 s between the activations of M1 and its draining vein. The new combination of fMRI and data analysis techniques has attained a time resolution comparable to those in preceding studies that used shorter fMRI repetition times of 100-200 ms.

To characterize the effects of cocaine on developing brain we have developed a mouse model of gestational cocaine exposure. We studied pregnant dams injected twice daily with cocaine HCl at 40, 20, or 10 mg/kg/day sc from embryonic days (E)8 to E17 (COC 40, COC20, and COC10, respectively), vehicle-injected dams allowed access to food ad libitum (SAL) or pair-fed with the COC 40 dams (SPF 40), animals pretreated with the short-acting alpha-adrenergic antagonist phentolamine prior to each cocaine injection (P COC 40), and animals administered phentolamine prior to saline (PHENT). COC 40, P COC 40, and SPF 40 dams demonstrated the lowest percentage weight gain during gestation. The surrogate-fostered offspring of COC 40, P COC 40, and SPF 40 dams demonstrated transient brain and body growth retardation on postnatal days (P)1 and P9 when compared to pups born to SAL dams. We conducted behavioral tests which allowed us to dissociate the indirect effect of cocaine-induced malnutrition from a direct effect of prenatal cocaine administration in altering postnatal behavior. Pups from all groups were tested for first-order Pavlovian conditioning on P9 or P12 or for the ability to ignore redundant information in a blocking paradigm on P50. Unlike the SPF 40, PHENT, and SAL controls, COC 40 and P COC 40 mice were unable to acquire an aversion to an odor previously paired with shock on P9, a learning deficit that resolved by P12. However, on P50, COC 40 mice and, to a lesser extent, P COC 40 and SPF 40 mice demonstrated a persistent behavioral deficit in our blocking paradigm, which may reflect alterations in selective attention. We discuss how these findings in our rodent model have developmental implications for human infants exposed to cocaine in utero.
One of the most profound events in the life of a neuron in the mammalian CNS is the development of a characteristic dendritic tree, yet little is understood about events controlling this process. Pyramidal neurons of the cerebral cortex are known to undergo a single explosive burst of dendritic sprouting immediately after completing migration to the cortical mantle, and following maturation there is no evidence that new, primary dendrites are initiated. Yet in one group of rare genetic diseases--Tay-Sachs disease and related neuronal storage disorders--cortical pyramidal neurons undergo a second period of dendritogenesis. New dendritic membrane is generated principally at the axon hillock and in time is covered with normal-appearing spines and synapses. In our studies of normal brain development and storage diseases we consistently find one feature in common in cortical pyramidal neurons undergoing active dendritogenesis: They exhibit dramatically increased expression of GM2 ganglioside localized to cytoplasmic vacuoles within neuronal perikarya and proximal dendrites. There is also evidence that the increase in GM2 precedes dendritic spouting, and that after dendritic maturation is complete (in normal brain) the GM2 levels in neurons become substantially reduced. These findings are consistent with GM2 ganglioside playing a pivotal role in the regulation of dendritogenesis in cortical pyramidal neurons.
The pronounced increases in gangliosides belonging to the gangliotetraose family during the neurite outgrowth phase of neuronal differentiation have suggested a functional requirement for these substances related to process extension, arborization, and possibly synaptogenesis. Support for this hypothesis has come from a variety of experimental paradigms utilizing neuroblastoma cell lines, primary neuronal cultures, and observations on the developing nervous system. We have recently observed that differentiation of both primary neurons and neuroblastoma cells by Ca(2+)-elevating stimulants is characterized by upregulation of GM1 in the nuclear membrane. Immunostaining revealed these Ca(2+)-induced neurites to have axonal characteristics. Recent work has indicated that nuclear GM1 facilitates efflux of nuclear Ca2+, thereby contributing to the reduced level of nuclear Ca2+ that characterizes the differentiated neuron. Thus, while GM1 is generally recognized as a pluripotent molecule with several modulatory roles in the plasma membrane of developing and mature neurons, regulation of Ca2+ flux across the nuclear membrane is proposed as another critical function of this ganglioside in neuronal development, with special relevance to axonogenesis.
Our studies with cultured cells have provided new insight into the particular role of GM1 in regulating excitatory opioid responses. GM1 is significantly elevated in chronic opioid-treated cells via Gs/adenylyl cyclase activation. Such GM1 elevation promotes coupling of opioid receptor with Gs, resulting in attenuation of inhibitory opioid effects and induction of a sustained excitatory response. Application of exogenous GM1, but not other gangliosides, induces excitatory opioid responses not only in neurons and neuroblastoma cells that bear intrinsic opioid receptors but also in nonneuronal cells that are transfected with delta-opioid receptor. The latter system provides evidence that allosteric binding of GM1 changes receptor conformation from a Gi-coupled to a Gs-coupled mode. This is supported by preliminary experiments with a mutated delta-opioid receptor.
Electrophysiologic studies of dorsal-root ganglion (DRG) neurons in culture have demonstrated both excitatory (Gs-coupled) as well as inhibitory (Gi/Go-coupled) opioid receptor-mediated actions. Brief treatment of DRG neurons with cholera toxin-beta which binds specifically to GM1 sites on neuronal membranes, selectively blocks opioid excitatory but not inhibitory effects. Conversely, after brief treatment of DRG neurons with GM1, but not with GM2, GM3, or other related gangliosides, the threshold concentration of opioid agonists for eliciting excitatory effects is markedly decreased from nM to pM-fM levels and opioid antagonists, for example, naloxone (NLX), at low concentrations paradoxically elicit excitatory effects. These studies suggest that the excitatory opioid supersensitivity of GM1-treated DRG neurons is due primarily to increased efficacy of excitatory opioid-receptor activation of Gs. Recent studies of cloned delta opioid receptors transfected into CHO cells suggest that this supersensitivity of GM1-treated DRG neurons may be further augmented by rapid conversion of many opioid receptors from a Gi/Go-coupled inhibitory mode to a Gs-coupled excitatory mode. The opioid excitatory supersensitivity elicited in DRG neurons by acute elevation of exogenous GM1 provides novel insights into mechanisms underlying opioid tolerance and dependence, since remarkably similar supersensitivity occurs in DRG and other neurons after chronic treatment with morphine or other opioid agonists that upregulate endogenous GM1.
Chick collapsin-1, the first identified vertebrate member of the semaphorin family of axon guidance proteins, repels specific growth cones. Like all family members, collapsin-1 contains within its sequence a semaphorin domain that is necessary for specifying activity. Two additional structural domains of collapsin-1, the immunoglobulin (Ig) domain and the basic tail, each potentiate collapsin-1 activity. We identify in this study another structural feature of collapsin-1 that is necessary for its function. Collapsin-1 covalently dimerizes, and dimerization is necessary for collapse activity. This dimerization is mediated through a cysteine at residue 723, between the Ig domain and basic tail. The semaphorin domain alone is not active since it cannot dimerize. The collapsing activity of the semaphorin domain can be reconstituted when made as a chimeric construct with an immunoglobin Fc domain, which promotes dimerization.
Minimized proteins have long been used to elicit an immune response to particular regions of a protein antigen. Most efforts to derive minimized proteins have employed synthetic peptide fragments. This approach works well for linear epitopes but poorly for conformational epitopes. Here we describe a homodimeric human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) analog that retains the conformation of related parts of hCG and elicits high affinity specific antibodies. This novel immunogen displays the tertiary structure of selected loops of the protein but lacks structures that could elicit potentially undesirable antibodies.
The rapid effects of glucocorticoids(GCs) on the Na+dependent, high affinity uptake of 3[H]-L-glutamate(Glu) in rat cerebral cortex synaptosomes(4 min incubation) and human neuroblastoma clone SK-N-SH (10min preincubation and 5 min incubation) were investigated. GCs, including corticosterone, corticosterone-sulfate, hydrocortisone-hemisuccinate and dexamethasone 21-phosphate(DEX) were found stimulating Glu uptake. The uptakes in synaptosomes and SK-N-SH cells were increased to 117-126% and 121-137% respectively of the control by 10(-6)mol/L GCs. The stimulation of GCs was dose-dependent. The maximal effect of DEX in SK-N-SH cells appeared at10(-7)mol/L, and the least effective dose of DEX was at 10(-9)mol/L. Guanosine 5-O-(2-thiodiphosphate), an inhibitor of G-protein activation, could block the stimulation of GCs. The results indicated that GCs rapidly enhance the Na+-dependent high affinity Glu uptake in nerve endings and SK-N-SH cells, even at the concentration of physiological conditions, and the G-protein on synaptic membranes or SK-N-SH cell membranes might be involved in the effect of GCs.


We have used single strand conformation polymorphism analysis to study the 27 exons of the RB1 gene in individuals from a family showing 'mild' expression of the retinoblastoma phenotype. In this family affected individuals developed unilateral tumors and, as a result of linkage analysis, unaffected mutation carriers were also identified within the pedigree. A single band shift using SSCP was identified in exon 21 which resulted in a missense mutation converting a cys--&gt;arg at nucleotide position 28 in the exon. The mutation destroyed an NdeI restriction enzyme site. Analysis of all family members demonstrated that the missense mutation co-segregated with patients with tumors or who, as a result of linkage analysis had been predicted to carry the predisposing mutation. These observations point to another region of the RB1 gene where mutations only modify the function of the gene and raise important questions for genetic counseling in families with these distinctive phenotypes.
The P50 component of the auditory evoked response has been utilized in studies of sensory gating in schizophrenia for over 15 years. As P50 gating studies have had a greater impact in neuroscience research, investigators have refined several key variables (e.g., filtering) to enhance signal-to-noise ratios. A comprehensive review of P50 reports suggests P50 amplitude has been steadily decreasing over the years. Certain methodological &quot;advances&quot; are suggested as key reasons for this apparent reduction in P50 amplitude. Gating studies continue to yield interesting findings in neuropsychiatric research, especially when ratio vs. absolute difference scores are used.

Left unilateral spatial neglect (USN) and spatial agraphia are both caused by right hemisphere damage. However, effects of USN on spatial agraphia have not been fully investigated. This study examined performances of patients with or without neglect and normals on single letter writing, using Japanese unique writing systems, kana (phonogram) and kanji (ideogram). Our patients exhibited agraphia of kanji, but not of kana. However, accuracy of writing was not associated to neglect severity, and errors for writing to dictation occurred either on the left or right side of kanji. Right frontal damage seemed to be related to the genesis of duplication or omission errors of repeated elements. Effect of USN was limited to spatial arrangement of letters and copying performance.

General anesthetics are thought to depress the central nervous system (CNS) by acting at synapses; however, only a few studies have compared effects on axonal conduction with effects on synaptic responses using mammalian CNS preparations. The present study used glutamate receptor antagonists (CNQX/APV) or low calcium to block synaptic transmission, allowing Schaffer-collateral axon fiber volleys to be recorded from rat hippocampal brain slices. Since fiber volleys are compound action potentials, they provide a measure of axonal conduction in Schaffer-collateral fibers. Clinical concentrations of the inhalational anesthetic, halothane (1 rat MAC, 1.2 vol.%), produced an 18 +/- 2.3% depression of fiber volley amplitudes (mean +/- S.D.; p &lt; 0.001 ANOVA, n = 10). Depression of action potential conduction accounted for approximately 30% of the overall depression of synaptic transmission produced by halothane at this concentration. Halothane-induced fiber volley depression occurred with little change in conduction velocity, similar to the effect seen with decreased stimulus intensity, but significantly different from the decreased velocity produced by tetrodotoxin (100 nM, p &lt; 0.005). The results indicate that halothane can depress axonal conduction at clinically relevant concentrations and that this depression could contribute to the CNS depression that is associated with anesthesia.
Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3), inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate (IP4) and protein kinase C (PKC) play important roles in the phosphoinositide hydrolysis signal transducing pathway. Several studies have shown severe deficits in both IP3 receptor levels and PKC levels and activity in Alzheimer's disease brain, although the relationship of these changes to disease pathology is poorly understood. In the present study, we determined the autoradiographic localization of [3H]IP3 and [3H]IP4 binding to their calcium mobilizing receptor sites and [3H]phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate ([3H]PDBu) binding to PKC in sections of entorhinal cortex/hippocampal formation and cerebellum from 24 cases that had been staged for Alzheimer's disease-related neurofibrillary changes and amyloid deposition according to Braak and Braak [Acta Neuropathol. Berl., 82 (1991) 239-259]. Results indicated that [3H]IP3 binding showed a trend towards a decline with staging for neurofibrillary changes in the entorhinal region (0.05 &lt; P &lt; 0.10, ANOVA) and subiculum (0.05 &lt; P &lt; 0.10). In the former region, [3H]IP3 binding showed a significant decline with staging for amyloid deposition (P &lt; 0.05). [3H]IP3 binding in the CA1 region showed statistically significant declines with respect to both neurofibrillary changes and amyloid staging (P &lt; 0.05). [3H]IP3 binding levels in the other hippocampal subregions were too low to quantify accurately. The binding of [3H]IP4 showed no significant changes with either neurofibrillary changes or amyloid staging in any of the regions investigated. In contrast, [3H]PDBu binding showed significant declines with neurofibrillary staging in the entorhinal region (P &lt; 0.01), subiculum (P &lt; 0.001), CA1 (P &lt; 0.001), CA2 (P &lt; 0.001), CA3 (P &lt; 0.001) and CA4 (P &lt; 0.0001) regions and the dentate gyrus (P &lt; 0.0001). Of these regions, only the subiculum showed a significant decline of [3H]PDBu binding with amyloid staging. There were no significant neurofibrillary or amyloid stage-related changes in either [3H]IP3, [3H]IP4 or [3H]PDBu binding in the molecular layer of the cerebellum. These findings suggest that reduced IP3 receptor and PKC levels in the entorhinal cortex/hippocampal formation reflect and may be important for the progression of Alzheimer's disease neurofibrillary pathology. The data also suggests that hippocampal IP3 receptor loss is related to the extent of amyloid deposition.
beta-amyloid peptide (A beta) and complement-derived membrane attack complex (MAC) are co-localized in senile plaques of brains from Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. But the relationship between A beta and complement activation is unclear. We have used human neurotypic cells, differentiated SH-SY5Y, as a model system to examine regulation of neuronal MAC expression and cell death by A beta. We demonstrated that mRNAs (C1q, C2, C3, C4, C5, C6, C7, C8 and C9) and proteins (C1q, C3 and C9) for the major components of the classical complement cascade are present in the SH-SY5Y neurotypic cells, indicating that neuronal cells can synthesize the necessary proteins required for MAC formation. Furthermore, immunocytochemical studies showed the A beta-induced neuronal MAC expression on the SH-SY5Y cells after CD59 was removed by PIPLC or blocked by anti-CD59 antibody. Meanwhile, increased A beta-induced neuronal cell death was observed following treatment with anti-CD59. Taken together, these results suggest that A beta activates neuronal complement cascade to induce MAC, and a deficiency of endogenous complement regulatory proteins, e.g., CD59, may increase the vulnerability of neurons to complement-mediated cytotoxicity.
Helium pressure of more than 2 MPa is a well known factor underlying pressure-dependent central neuroexcitatory disorders, referred to as the high-pressure neurological syndrome. This includes an increase in both serotonin (5-HT) and dopamine (DA) release. The relationship between the increase in 5-HT transmission produced by helium pressure and its effect on DA release has been clarified in a recent study, which have first demonstrated that the helium pressure-induced increase in DA release was dependent on some 5-HT receptor activation. In the present study, we examined in freely moving rats the role of 5-HT2A and 5-HT2C receptors in the increase in DA release induced by 8 MPa helium pressure. We used the 5-HT2A receptor antagonist ketanserin and the 5-HT2C receptor agonist m-CPP which have been demonstrated to reduce DA function. Because neither ketanserin is an ideal 5-HT2A receptor antagonist nor m-CPP an ideal 5-HT2C receptor agonist, additional experiments were made at normal pressure to check up on the selectivity of ketanserin and m-CPP for 5-HT2A and 5-HT2C receptors, respectively. Administration of m-CPP reduced both DA basal level and the helium pressure-induced increase in DA release, whereas administration of ketanserin only showed a little effect on the increase in DA release produced by high helium pressure. These results suggest that the 5-HT2C receptor, but not the 5-HT2A receptor, would play a crucial role in the helium pressure-induced increase in DA release. This further suggests that helium pressure may simultaneously induce an increase in 5-HT transmission at the level of 5-HT2A receptors and a decrease in 5-HT transmission at the level of 5-HT2C receptors.
The mechanism by which (-) deprenyl enhances cognitive function in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is not yet understood. (-) Deprenyl (0.2 mg/kg/day) was administered intramuscularly to adult male monkeys (n = 6) for 25 days. Control monkeys (n = 6) received physiological saline by the same route. The activity of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) in different brain regions and the dendritic arborization in CA3 pyramidal neurons of hippocampus were analysed. (-) Deprenyl-treated monkeys showed a significant increase in the AChE activity by 43% (p &lt; 0.001) in the frontal cortex, by 39% (p &lt; 0.025) in the motor cortex, by 66% (p &lt; 0.001) in the hippocampus and by 26% (p &lt; 0.05) in the striatum compared to controls. The branching points and the intersections of both apical and basal dendrites of CA3 hippocampal pyramidal neurons were also significantly increased in (-) deprenyl-treated monkeys. Enhanced AChE activity may increase dendritic arborization in the hippocampus and it may also play a role in improving cognitive functions observed in AD, following (-) deprenyl treatment.
Defensive rage behavior is mediated over a descending pathway from the medial hypothalamus to the dorsolateral midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG) where further integration of this response takes place. The present study sought to determine the roles of CCK-A and CCK-B receptor activation in the PAG in modulating defensive rage behavior. The 'hissing' component of the defensive rage response was used throughout the experiment as the measure of defensive rage behavior. The basic design of the experiment involved placement of monopolar electrodes into the medial hypothalamus from which defensive rage could be elicited and cannula electrodes into the dorsal PAG for purposes of identifying defensive rage sites in this region and for microinjections of CCK compounds into these sites at a later time. Microinjections of the selective CCK-B receptor antagonist, LY288513 (1.05, 4.2, 17.0 nmol/0.25 microliter), into the PAG suppressed the hissing response in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Microinjections of the CCK-B agonist, pentagastrin, (0.5 and 1.0 nmol/0.25 microliter) facilitated the occurrence of defensive rage behavior. Moreover, administration of LY288513 (17 nmol/0.25 microliter) 55 min prior to pentagastrin (1.0 nmol/0.25 microliter) delivery blocked the facilitatory effects of pentagastrin. Administration of the CCK-A antagonist, PD140548 (34 nmol/0.25 microliter), into the PAG failed to alter response latencies for defensive rage behavior. In contrast, microinjections of the CCK-B antagonist, LY288513 (4.2, 17.0 nmol/0.25 microliter), facilitated the occurrence of predatory attack behavior elicited from the lateral hypothalamus. This finding demonstrates the specificity of the effects of CCK-B receptor blockade upon hissing. A combination of immunocytochemical and retrograde tracing procedures using microinjections of Fluoro-Gold (8%, 6 microliters) into the PAG were employed to identify the possible loci of CCK neurons that project to the PAG. The data revealed that neurons labeled for both CCK and Fluoro-Gold were located in the dorsolateral aspect of the midbrain tegmentum, identifying this region as a source of CCK inputs to the PAG. Overall, the findings demonstrate that CCK-B receptors in the PAG potentiate defensive rage behavior and likely suppress predatory attack.
Programmed cell death has been implicated in the loss of neurons that occurs in many neurodegenerative diseases. This has led to an increased interest in the types of stimuli that can initiate neurons to undergo programmed cell death. Previously, we have shown that cross-linking of membrane receptors with the lectin concanavalin A can trigger programmed cell death in neurons [D.H. Cribbs, V.M. Kreng, A.J. Anderson, C.W. Cotman, Cross-linking of Concanavalin A receptors on cortical neurons induces programmed cell death, Neuroscience 75 (1996) 173-185]. Concanavalin A, however, binds to many surface glycoproteins and therefore, it is important to determine whether certain specific receptors can initiate the program. We found that surface immobilized anti-neural cell adhesion molecules (NCAM) monoclonal antibodies provide a good substrate for adhesion and neurite outgrowth for cortical neurons. However, neurons treated directly with soluble anti-NCAM monoclonal antibodies show significant cell death after 24 h and exhibit the morphological and biochemical features indicative of apoptosis, including membrane blebbing, cell shrinkage, condensation of nuclear chromatin and internucleosomal DNA cleavage.
Messenger RNA (mRNA) for cytochrome oxidase subunit II (COX II) was localized by in situ hybridization in the entorhinal cortex and hippocampal formation of postmortem brain tissue from normal human subjects and from patients with Alzheimer disease (AD). In the control entorhinal cortex, COX II mRNA was detected mainly in neuronal cell bodies of layers II and IV. In control hippocampal formation, highest levels were localized in neuronal cell bodies of the dentate gyrus and the CA3 and CA1 regions, neurons that are involved in the major input and output pathways of the hippocampal formation. In AD brain, COX II mRNA was markedly reduced in the entorhinal cortex and the hippocampal formation compared with control brain. In the AD hippocampal formation, reductions were in regions severely affected by AD pathology as well as in regions that were relatively spared. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that reduced mitochondrial energy metabolism reflects loss of neuronal connections in AD.
The neuroepithelium (NE) of the cerebrum of the developing brain has been reported to 'regenerate' within a certain period after being injured. To clarify the process of repair of the NE during neurogenesis, we chronologically examined the number of cells in the neocortex, and the rate of DNA-replicating cells and the mitotic figure ratio in the NE of rats after injury. The injury was induced by transplacental administration of ethylnitrosourea (ENU), which is cytotoxic immediately after administration, to the pregnant rats on embryonic day 16. The number of living and pyknotic cells in a 220-micron width of the neocortex was evaluated in each of three groups, such as NE, subventricular zone (SVZ) + intermediate zone (IMZ) + subplate (SP), and cortical plate (CP). The 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU)-labeling index and the mitotic index were examined 4, 8, 16, 24, 36, and 48 h after ENU administration. Up to 16 h after ENU administration, the number of living cells per 220 microns width in the NE and SVZ + IMZ + SP decreased, but increased in CP. From 16 to 24 h, the living cell number per 220 microns width in the NE and CP was unchanged, but increased in the SVZ + IMZ + SP. From 24 to 36 h, the living cell number per 220 microns width increased in all the groups, NE, SVZ + IMZ + SP and CP. From 36 to 48 h, the living cell number per 220 microns width in the NE was unchanged, but increased in the SVZ + IMZ + SP and CP. The BrdU-labeling index reached its nadir at 8 h, but markedly increased by 16 h, and then decreased to the control level by 36 h. No mitotic figures were observed at 16 h after administration, but a significant increase in mitotic index was noted at 24 h, and after which it decreased to almost the control value by 36 h. These findings indicate: (i) that temporary arrest of neuroepithelial cell cycle occurs in the G1-phase from 4 to 8 h after ENU administration, (ii) that the cell synchronizes in the S-phase at 16 h, (iii) that a proportion of neuroepithelial cells of rat fetal neocortex at the neurogenesis stage return to neuroepithelial cell proliferation stage, to repair the NE, and (iv) that regulation of the cell kinetics of neuroepithelial cells depends on the number of cells in a certain width of NE during regeneration.
Development of the retina, like that of other tissues, occurs via an orderly sequence of cell division and differentiation, producing the functional retina. In teleost fish, however, cell division and differentiation in the retina continue throughout the life of the animal in two distinct ways. Stem cells in a circumferential germinal zone at the periphery of the retina give rise to all retinal cell types and progenitor cells located throughout the retina in the outer nuclear layer (ONL) produce new rod photoreceptors. These processes in adult retina recapitulate in space the embryonic events responsible for forming the retina. Analysis of these events in an African cichlid fish, Haplochromis burtoni, confirmed that cone photoreceptors differentiate first, followed by rod photoreceptors. Correspondingly, at the margin of the eye, cone photoreceptors differentiate nearer to the margin than do rods. Control of photoreceptor production is not understood. Here we present the time of appearance and distribution pattern of GABA and vimentin which are candidates for the control of retinal cell division and differentiation. Antibody staining reveals that both GABA and vimentin exhibit unique patterns of expression during embryonic retinal development. Vimentin immunoreactivity is evident throughout the retina in a spoke-like pattern between developmental Days 4 and 7, as both cone and rod photoreceptors are being formed. GABA is expressed in horizontal cells between Days 5 and 7, corresponding to the onset of rod differentiation in time and in position within the retina. Moreover, the wave of GABAergic staining in the horizontal cells parallels the wave of rod differentiation across the embryonic retina of H. burtoni. Thus, GABA may play a role in the development of rod photoreceptors.
Electric activity is known to have profound effects on growth cone morphology and neurite outgrowth, but the nature of the response varies strongly between neurons derived from different species or brain areas. To establish the role of electric activity in neurite outgrowth and neuronal morphogenesis of rat cerebral cortex neurons, cultured neurons were depolarized for up to 72 h and quantitatively analyzed for changes in axonal and dendritic morphology. Depolarization with 25 mM potassium chloride induced a rapid increase in lamellipodia in almost all growth cones and along both axons and dendrites. Lamellipodia formation was dependent on an influx of extracellular calcium through L-type voltage-sensitive calcium channels. Prolonged depolarization for 24 h induced an increase in total axonal length, mainly due to an increase in branching. After three days of depolarization axonal outgrowth was largely the same as in control neurons, suggesting accommodation of the growth cones to chronic depolarization. Dendrites showed very little change during the first three days in culture, and dendritic length or branching were not affected by depolarization. Thus, in early cerebral cortex neurons depolarization specifically stimulates axonal outgrowth through increased branching. This increase in branching may be a consequence of the earlier increase in lamellipodia formation. In contrast, early dendrites seem to be unable to translate the increase in lamellipodia into changes in outgrowth or branching. This difference between axons and dendrites could be due to differences in the stabilization of the tubulin cytoskeleton.
The development of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in brains from human fetuses of 4-12 weeks gestational age was studied. The expression of nAChR subunit mRNAs was analyzed using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Expression of alpha 3, alpha 4, alpha 5, alpha 7, beta 2, beta 3 and beta 4 mRNA were all detected in the prenatal spinal cord, medulla oblongata, pons, cerebellum, mesencephalon, subcortical forebrain and cortex during first trimester development. Relative quantification of mRNA showed that the highest levels for alpha 3, alpha 4 and alpha 7 were expressed in the spinal cord, alpha 5 was most abundant in the cortex and beta 3 was highest in the cerebellum. beta 4 seemed to be equally distributed in all regions whereas beta 2 was high in the cortex and cerebellum. A comparison of expression of nAChR subunit mRNAs in the cortex and cerebellum of prenatal and aged (54-81 years) brain showed that mRNA levels for alpha 4, alpha 5, alpha 7, beta 2 and beta 4 were significantly higher in the prenatal cortex and cerebellum than in aged brain, whereas the level of alpha 3 transcript was similar, and beta 3 significantly higher in aged cortex. Specific binding of [3H]-epibatidine to prenatal brain membranes was detected as early as 4-5 weeks of gestation in the spinal cord, medulla oblongata, pons and subcortical forebrain. A positive correlation between gestational age and [3H]-epibatidine and [3H]-cytisine binding was found in several brain regions. The highest specific binding of [3H]-epibatidine and [3H]-cytisine was detected in the spinal cord, pons and medulla oblongata and the lowest in the cortex. Saturation analysis of [3H]-cytisine binding in both prenatal and aged brain were best fit by a model for a single site, whereas binding data for [3H]-epibatidine revealed two classes of binding sites. The early presence of nAChR proteins and gene transcripts shown in the present study suggests an important role for nAChRs in modulating dendritic outgrowth, establishment of neuronal connections and synaptogenesis during development.
CNS neurons exhibit a profound, maturation-dependent increase in the vulnerability to injury. Little is, however, known about the cellular mechanisms involved. This study investigated the developmental influence on the ability to recover the resting concentration of free cytoplasmic Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) following stimulation with 100 microM glutamate in hippocampal and cerebellar granule cells in culture. Primary neurons were exposed to glutamate for either 1 min or 10 min. Hippocampal neurons were evaluated at 7, 12-14, and 17-19 days in vitro (DIV), and cerebellar granule cells were tested at 8-9 or 15-16 DIV. In hippocampal neurons, either an increased age in culture or longer drug exposure were both associated with less efficient [Ca2+]i recovery. Additionally, for both 1-min and 10-min drug exposure, increased age in culture was the primary determinant of the development of secondary [Ca2+]i destabilization followed by a very variable recovery patterns. Similar to hippocampal neurons, older cerebellar granule cells also recovered less efficiently from glutamate-mediated [Ca2+]i rise. The difference in the extent of recovery was not directly influenced by the magnitude of the [Ca2+]i rise, since cerebellar granule cells recovered from both high or low [Ca2+]i rise with similar kinetic profiles. Overall, the results presented in this study implicate the age in culture as an important influencing factor of both the less efficient recovery from glutamate-induced Ca2+ load and the development of secondary [Ca2+]i destabilizations. The progressive, maturation-dependent, decrease in the ability to recover from Ca2+ load might represent a potentially important mechanism contributing to the increased vulnerability of fully developed neurons to injury.
The isolated spinal cord of the neonatal mouse spontaneously generates two different motor patterns of continuous rhythmic bursting: one in lumbar ventral roots in earliest postnatal preparations (P0-2) and another at the sacral level at later postnatal times (P3-5). Lumbar rhythmic motor discharges clearly alternate on contralateral roots and are in a frequency range (approximately 1 Hz) usually described for locomotor-like activity, while sacral motor sequences include mixed synchrony and irregular bilateral alternation that differ from typical locomotor-like activity. A significant decrease in the frequency and increase in the duration of spontaneous rhythmic bursts occur between lumbar and sacral motor patterns. In quiescent preparations from both postnatal periods, perfusion with Mg(2+)-free medium systematically induces a rhythmic activity at both lumbar and sacral level. Temporal characteristics of motor patterns under Mg(2+)-free medium are similar to spontaneous rhythms. Activating NMDA receptor channels by diminishing their Mg2+ block appears to be an efficient way of decreasing the threshold for genesis of the spinal rhythm in mouse. Bath application of NMDA and non-NMDA receptor antagonists blocks Mg(2+)-free-induced rhythmic activities in an irreversible or reversible manner, respectively. The effects of Mg(2+)-free medium and of glutamate antagonists provide evidence for the excitatory amino acid (EAA) dependence of both rhythmic motor patterns. Finally, the possibility that the recording of two different motor patterns may reflect a rostrocaudal developmental process is discussed.
JP05 (originally referred to as glucocorticoid-induced receptor gene or cDNA clone 4.2) designates a gene originally isolated from murine thymoma WEHI-7TG cells after being treated with glucocorticoids and forskolin. This gene is also induced by dexamethasone (a potent glucocorticoid receptor agonist) in isolated normal murine thymocytes. The predicted amino acid sequence was found to share significant similarity to the family of G-protein-coupled receptors, in particular to the tachykinin receptors NK-1, NK-2 and NK-3, with which it has an overall identity of 32%, 31% and 33%, respectively. The results of the present in situ hybridization analysis reveal that JP05 mRNA containing cells are extensively distributed throughout the rostrocaudal extension of the brain and spinal cord. However, the vast majority of the areas with high to moderate levels of JP05 mRNA were localized in the forebrain, primarily within limbic system structures, the dorsal and ventral striatum and in some hypothalamic nuclei. These results are discussed in relation to the central nervous system distribution of glucocorticoid receptor-containing cells and to the tachykinin system.
Platinum compounds induce apoptosis in malignant cells and are used extensively in the treatment of cancer. Total dose is limited by development of a sensory neuropathy. We now demonstrate that when rats are administered cisplatin (2 mg/kg i.p. for 5 d), primary sensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglion die by apoptosis. This was reproduced by exposure of dorsal root ganglion neurons and PC12 cells to cisplatin (3 microg/ml) in vitro. Apoptosis was confirmed by electron microscopy, DNA laddering, and inhibition by the caspase inhibitor z-VAD.fmk (100 microM). Cell death in vitro was preceded by upregulation of cyclin D1, cdk4, and increased phosphorylation of retinoblastoma protein; all are indicators of cell cycle advancement. The level of p16(INK4a), an endogenous inhibitor of the cyclin D1/cdk4 complex decreased. Exposure of PC12 cells and dorsal root ganglion neurons to increased levels of nerve growth factor (100 ng/ ml) prevented both apoptosis and upregulation of the cell cycle markers. Cancer cells without nerve growth factor receptors (gp140TrkA) were not protected by the neurotrophin. This indicated that cisplatin may kill cancer cells and neurons by a similar mechanism. In postmitotic neurons, this involves an attempt to re-enter the cell cycle resulting in apoptosis which is specifically prevented by nerve growth factor.
Leptin, secreted by white adipocytes, has profound feeding, metabolic, and neuroendocrine effects. Leptin acts on the brain, but the specific anatomic sites and pathways responsible for mediating these effects are still unclear. We have systematically examined distributions of mRNA of leptin receptor isoforms in the rat brain by using a probe specific for the long form and a probe recognizing all known forms of the leptin receptor. The mRNA for the long form of the receptor (OB-Rb) localized to selected nuclear groups in the rat brain. Within the hypothalamus, dense hybridization was observed in the arcuate, dorsomedial, ventromedial, and ventral premamillary nuclei. Within the dorsomedial nucleus, particularly intense hybridization was observed in the caudal regions of the nucleus ventral to the compact formation. Receptors were preferentially localized to the dorsomedial division of the ventromedial nucleus. Hybridization accumulated throughout the arcuate nucleus, extending from the retrochiasmatic region to the posterior periventricular region. Moderate hybridization was observed in the periventricular hypothalamic nucleus, lateral hypothalamic area, medial mammillary nucleus, posterior hypothalamic nucleus, nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract, and within substantia nigra pars compacta. Several thalamic nuclei were also found to contain dense hybridization. These groups included the mediodorsal, ventral anterior, ventral medial, submedial, ventral posterior, and lateral dorsal thalamic nuclei. Hybridization was also observed in the medial and lateral geniculate nuclei. Intense hybridization was observed in the Purkinje and granular cell layers of the cerebellum. A probe recognizing all known forms of the leptin receptor hybridized to all of these sites within the brain. In addition, intense hybridization was observed in the choroid plexus, meninges, and also surrounding blood vessels. These findings indicate that circulating leptin may act through hypothalamic nuclear groups involved in regulating feeding, body weight, and neuroendocrine function. The localization of leptin receptor mRNA in extrahypothalamic sites in the thalamus and cerebellum suggests that leptin may act on specific sensory and motor systems. Leptin receptors localized in nonneuronal cells in the meninges, choroid plexus, and blood vessels may be involved in transport of leptin into the brain and in the clearance of leptin from the cerebrospinal fluid.
