In this issue of Neuron, Mahon et al. show that the ventral visual cortex of congenitally blind individuals, who have never experienced the visual world, has an object-category organization similar to that found in sighted individuals. Here, we discuss the implications of this finding for our understanding of the &quot;visual&quot; cortex.

Both the retrosplenial cortex (RSC) and the hippocampus are important for spatial learning across species. Although hippocampal acetylcholine (ACh) release has been associated with learning on a number of spatial tasks, relatively little is understood about the functional role of ACh release in the RSC. In the present study, spatial exploration was assessed in rats using a plus maze spontaneous alternation task. ACh efflux was assessed simultaneously in the hippocampus and two sub-regions of the RSC (areas 29ab and 30) before, during and after maze exploration. Results demonstrated that there was a significant rise in ACh efflux in RSC area 29ab and the hippocampus during maze traversal. The rise in ACh efflux across these two regions was correlated. There were no significant behaviorally driven changes in ACh efflux in RSC area 30. While both the hippocampal sectors and area 29ab displayed increases in ACh efflux during maze exploration, the percent ACh rise in area 29ab was higher than that observed in the hippocampus and persisted into the post-baseline period. Joint efflux analyses demonstrated a key functional role for ACh release in area 29ab during spatial processing.
Learned helplessness represents a failure to escape after exposure to inescapable stress and may model human psychiatric disorders related to stress. Previous work has demonstrated individual differences in susceptibility to learned helplessness. In this study, we assessed different factors associated with this susceptibility, including strain, sex, and open-field behavior. Testing of three rat strains (Holtzman, Long-Evans, and Sprague-Dawley) revealed that Holtzman rats were the most susceptible to helplessness. Holtzman rats not only had the longest escape latencies following inescapable shock, but also showed spontaneous escape deficits in the absence of prior shock when tested with a fixed-ratio 2 (FR2) running response. Moreover, when tested with fixed-ratio 1 (FR1) running - an easy response normally unaffected by helplessness training in rats - inescapable shock significantly increased the escape latencies of Holtzman rats. Within the Holtzman strain, we confirmed recent findings that females showed superior escape performance and therefore appeared more resistant to helplessness than males. However, regression and covariance analyses suggest that this sex difference may be explained by more baseline ambulatory activity among females. In addition, some indices of novelty reactivity (greater exploration of novel vs. familiar open-field) predicted subsequent helpless behavior. In conclusion, Holtzman rats, and especially male Holtzman rats, have a strong predisposition to become immobile when stressed which interferes with their ability to learn active escape responses. The Holtzman strain therefore appears to be a commercially available model for studying susceptibility to helplessness in males, and novelty-seeking may be a marker of this susceptibility.
The neural basis of motor response inhibition has drawn considerable attention in recent imaging literature. Many studies have used the go/no-go or stop signal task to examine the neural processes underlying motor response inhibition. In particular, showing greater activity during no-go (stop) compared with go trials and during stop success compared with stop error trials, the right inferior prefrontal cortex (IFC) has been suggested by numerous studies as the cortical area mediating response inhibition. Many of these same studies as well as others have also implicated the presupplementary motor area (preSMA) in this process, in accord with a function of the medial prefrontal cortex in goal-directed action. Here we used connectivity analyses to delineate the roles of IFC and preSMA during stop signal inhibition. Specifically, we hypothesized that, as an integral part of the ventral attention system, the IFC responds to a stop signal and expedites the stop process in the preSMA, the primary site of motor response inhibition. This hypothesis predicted that preSMA and primary motor cortex would show functional interconnectivity via the basal ganglia circuitry to mediate response execution or inhibition, whereas the IFC would influence the basal ganglia circuitry via connectivity with preSMA. The results of Granger causality analyses in 57 participants confirmed this hypothesis. Furthermore, psychophysiological interaction showed that, compared with stop errors, stop successes evoked greater effective connectivity between the IFC and preSMA, providing additional support for this hypothesis. These new findings provided evidence critically differentiating the roles of IFC and preSMA during stop signal inhibition and have important implications for our understanding of the component processes of inhibitory control.
In the postnatal brain, oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) arise from the subventricular zone (SVZ) and migrate into the developing white matter, where they differentiate into oligodendrocytes and myelinate axons. The mechanisms regulating OPC migration and differentiation are not fully defined. The present study demonstrates that endothelin-1 (ET-1) is an astrocyte-derived signal that regulates OPC migration and differentiation. OPCs in vivo and in culture express functional ET(A) and ET(B) receptors, which mediate ET-1-induced ERK (extracellular signal-regulated kinase) and CREB (cAMP response element-binding protein) phosphorylation. ET-1 exerts both chemotactic and chemokinetic effects on OPCs to enhance cell migration; it also prevents lineage progression from the O4(+) to the O1(+) stage without affecting cell proliferation. Astrocyte-conditioned medium stimulates OPC migration in culture through ET receptor activation, whereas multiphoton time-lapse imaging shows that selective ET receptor antagonists or anti-ET-1 antibodies inhibit OPC migration from the SVZ. Inhibition of ET receptor activity also derepresses OPC differentiation in the corpus callosum in slice cultures. Our findings indicate that ET-1 is a soluble astrocyte-derived signal that regulates OPC migration and differentiation during development.
To look for membrane potential oscillations that may contribute to sensory coding or amplification in the ear, we made whole-cell and perforated-patch recordings from hair cells and postsynaptic afferent neurites in the explanted frog sacculus, with mechanoelectrical transduction (MET) blocked. Small depolarizing holding currents, which may serve to replace the in vivo resting MET current, evoked all-or-none calcium spikes (39-75 mV amplitude) in 37% of hair cells tested, and continuous membrane potential oscillations (14-28 mV; 15-130 Hz) in an additional 14% of cells. Spiking hair cells were on average taller and thinner than nonspiking hair cells, and had smaller outward currents through delayed rectifier channels (I(KV)) and noninactivating calcium-activated potassium channels (I(BK,steady)), and larger inward rectifier currents (I(K1)). Some spiking hair cells fired only a brief train at the onset of a current step, but others could sustain repetitive firing (3-70 Hz). Partial blockade of I(BK) changed the amplitude and frequency of oscillations and spikes, and converted some nonspiking cells into spiking cells. Oscillatory hair cells preferentially amplified sinusoidal stimuli at frequencies near their natural oscillation frequency. Postsynaptic recordings revealed regularly timed bursts of EPSPs in some afferent neurites. EPSP bursts were able to trigger afferent spikes, which may be initiated at the sodium channel cluster located adjacent to the afferent axon's most peripheral myelin segment. These results show that some frog saccular hair cells can generate spontaneous rhythmic activity that may drive periodic background activity in afferent axons.
Trauma to the adult CNS initiates multiple processes including primary and secondary axotomy, inflammation, and glial scar formation that have devastating effects on neuronal regeneration. After spinal cord injury, the infiltration of phagocytic macrophages coincides with long-distance axonal retraction from the initial site of injury, a deleterious phenomenon known as axonal dieback. We have previously shown that activated macrophages directly induce long-distance retraction of dystrophic axons in an in vitro model of the glial scar. We hypothesized that treatments that are primarily thought to increase neuronal regeneration following spinal cord injury may in fact derive a portion of their beneficial effects from inhibition of macrophage-mediated axonal retraction. We analyzed the effects of protease inhibition, substrate modification, and neuronal preconditioning on macrophage-axon interactions using our established in vitro model. General inhibition of matrix metalloproteinases and specific inhibition of MMP-9 prevented macrophage-induced axonal retraction despite significant physical interactions between the two cell types, whereas inhibition of MMP-2 had no effect. Chondroitinase ABC-mediated digestion of the aggrecan substrate also prevented macrophage-induced axonal retraction in the presence of extensive macrophage-axon interactions. The use of a conditioning lesion to stimulate intrinsic neuronal growth potential in the absence of substrate modification likewise prevented macrophage-induced axonal retraction in vitro and in vivo following spinal cord injury. These data provide valuable insight into the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying macrophage-mediated axonal retraction and demonstrate modifications that can alleviate the detrimental effects of this unfavorable phenomenon on the postlesion CNS.
Histone deacetylase 4 (HDAC4) has been associated with muscle &amp; bone development [1]-[6]. N-terminal MEF2 and RUNX2 binding domains of HDAC4 have been shown to mediate these effects in vitro. A complete gene knockout has been reported to result in premature ossification and associated defects resulting in postnatal lethality [6]. We report a viral insertion mutation that deletes the putative deacetylase domain, while preserving the N-terminal portion of the protein. Western blot and immuno-precipitation analysis confirm expression of truncated HDAC4 containing N-terminal amino acids 1-747. These mutant mice are viable, living to at least one year of age with no gross defects in muscle or bone. At 2-4 months of age no behavioral or physiological abnormalities were detected except for an increased latency to respond to a thermal nociceptive stimulus. As the mutant mice aged past 5 months, convulsions appeared, often elicited by handling. Our findings confirm the sufficiency of the N-terminal domain for muscle and bone development, while revealing other roles of HDAC4.
We investigated the neurochemical characteristics of olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) in adult cats and in adult guinea pigs. Three conventional biomarkers for OECs, p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR), S100, and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), as well as two recently identified biomarkers, smooth muscle alpha-actin (SMA) and calponin, were used. We found that 1) antibodies against SMA and S100 yielded positive immunostaining of mucosal and bulbar OECs in cats and guinea pigs; 2) antibodies against GFAP gave positive immunostaining of mucosal and bulbar OECs in cats; and 3) antibodies against calponin yielded positive immunostaining of bulbar OECs in adult cats. Unexpectedly, antibodies against p75NTR failed to positively stain mucosal and bulbar OECs in cats and guinea pigs, and antibodies against GFAP and calponin failed to positively stain mucosal and bulbar OECs in guinea pigs. These findings show the importance for empirical testing of all biomarkers for OECs among different mammalian species when attempting to identify these cells in vivo, in vitro, and following intraspinal implantation.
Hemispheric contributions to lexical-semantic processing were investigated using event-related potentials and a divided visual field semantic priming paradigm. Hemispheric activation for pairs related via semantic category membership and association (CA) or via semantic category membership only (CO) was examined over two stimulus onset asynchronies (SOAs). Experiment 1 employed a SOA of 250 ms, and Experiment 2 employed a SOA of 750 ms. Controlled semantic priming was targeted in both experiments via a high relatedness proportion. Behavioral accuracy data revealed significant bilateral priming for both CA and CO conditions at 250 ms SOA. At 750 ms SOA hemispheric differences were observed within the behavioral data, with significant priming of the CO condition and priming for the CA condition approaching significance in the left hemisphere, and significant priming of the CA condition only in the right hemisphere. At 250 ms SOA, ERP analysis revealed bilateral CA activation in the N400 and LPC time windows. The second experiment (750 ms SOA) revealed bilateral CA priming during the N400 time window, with no significant LPC effects. The CO condition did not elicit significant ERP priming within either time window at either SOA. The results indicate no hemispheric differences for the ERP measures, with bilateral hemispheric N400 priming observed for associated category members irrespective of SOA, and a bilateral LPC effect at 250 ms SOA only, under controlled semantic priming conditions.
The neural responses that distinguish novel from familiar items in recognition memory tasks are remarkably fast in both humans and nonhuman primates. In humans, the earliest onsets of neural novelty effects emerge at about approximately 150-200 ms after stimulus onset. However, in recognition memory studies with nonhuman primates, novelty effects can arise at as early as 70-80 ms. Here, we address the possibility that this large species difference in onset latencies is caused experimentally by the necessity of using reward reinforcement to motivate the detection of novel or familiar items in nonhuman primates but not in humans. Via magnetoencephalography in humans, we show in two experiments that the onset of neural novelty signals is accelerated from approximately 200 ms to approximately 85 ms if correct recognition memory for either novel or familiar items is rewarded. Importantly, this acceleration is independent of whether the detection of the novel or the familiar scenes is rewarded. Furthermore, this early novelty effect contributed to memory retrieval because neural reward responses, which were contingent upon novelty detection, followed approximately 100 ms later. Thus, under the contextual influence of reward motivation, behaviorally relevant novelty signals emerge much faster than previously held possible in humans.
Although many animal species sense gravity for spatial orientation, the molecular bases remain uncertain. Therefore, we studied Drosophila melanogaster, which possess an inherent upward movement against gravity-negative geotaxis. Negative geotaxis requires Johnston's organ, a mechanosensory structure located in the antenna that also detects near-field sound. Because channels of the transient receptor potential (TRP) superfamily can contribute to mechanosensory signaling, we asked whether they are important for negative geotaxis. We identified distinct expression patterns for 5 TRP genes; the TRPV genes nanchung and inactive were present in most Johnston's organ neurons, the TRPN gene nompC and the TRPA gene painless were localized to 2 subpopulations of neurons, and the TRPA gene pyrexia was expressed in cap cells that may interact with the neurons. Likewise, mutating specific TRP genes produced distinct phenotypes, disrupting negative geotaxis (painless and pyrexia), hearing (nompC), or both (nanchung and inactive). Our genetic, physiological and behavioral data indicate that the sensory component of negative geotaxis involves multiple TRP genes. The results also distinguish between different mechanosensory modalities and set the stage for understanding how TRP channels contribute to mechanosensation.
Organotypic cultures from the ventral mesencephalon (VM) are widely used to model Parkinson's disease (PD). In this method, neurotoxic compounds have traditionally been applied to the media to induce a uniform dopaminergic (DAergic) cell death in the tissue slices, regardless of the variation existing among slices. This study demonstrates a refinement of the toxic induction technique. We show that unilateral application of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) at the tissue surface by means of a microelectrode causes a precisely localized cell death that closely resembles an in vivo stereotactic model. This technique introduces an internal control that accounts for variation between slices and enables a precise quantification of the cell loss due to the toxin in use. We characterized organotypic VM cultures in terms of effects of 6-OHDA toxicity and number of DAergic neurons as judged by immunofluorescence and Western blots. Our findings illustrate that this new application technique greatly improves the representativeness of organotypic cultures as a model for PD.We characterized organotypic VM cultures in terms of effects of 6-OHDA toxicity and number of DAergic neurons as judged by immunofluorescence and Western blots. Our findings illustrate that this new application technique greatly improves the representativeness of organotypic cultures as a model for PD.

Most studies on toxic inhalation focus on solvent effects and few have dealt with gases on olfactory functioning. Among gases, the effects of carbon dioxide on general physiology have been well investigated contrary to the impact on olfactory neuroepithelium. Thus, this work was designed to evaluate in mice the possible effects of 3% CO(2) in two exposure periods: a 5h/day and a 12h/day conditions. Behavioral, histological and immunohistochemical observations were conducted every 2 weeks, i.e. before (W0), during (W2, W4) and after exposure (W6, W8). Firstly, behavioral evaluations of odor sensitivity showed differences in relation to the odor tested, i.e. no effect with congener urine odor and a reinforcement of 2,4,5-trimethythiazoline (TMT) (predator odor) repulsion. Secondly, histological evaluations showed a similar evolution of the epithelium thickness, i.e. a decrease along the exposure as well as during the post-exposure period and an increase of cell number (whatever the phenotype) although the kinetic appeared different in both experimental conditions. Thirdly, immunohistochemical quantification of olfactory marker protein (OMP)- and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA)-positive cells revealed that the number of mature olfactory neurons increased at the early beginning of exposure period in both conditions. While a decrease was observed in the following weeks (W4-W8) for the 12h/day condition, a stable amount of OMP-positive cells was maintained in the 5h/day condition. In contrast, the number of PCNA-positive cells followed a similar evolution, i.e. a constant decrease along the experiment. These findings indicate that the effects of CO(2) inhalation exposure are selectively dose-dependent.
We introduced a novel X-ray microscope system based on scanning electron microscopy using thin film, which enables the measurement of unstained biological samples without damage. An unstained yeast sample was adsorbed under a titanium (Ti)-coated silicon nitride (Si3N4) film 90 nm thick. The X-ray signal from the film was detected by an X-ray photodiode (PD) placed below the sample. With an electron beam at 2.6 kV acceleration and 6.75 nA current, the yeast image is obtained using the X-ray PD. The image is created by soft X-rays from the Ti layer. The Ti layer is effective in generating the characteristic 2.7-nm wavelength X-rays by the irradiation of electrons. Furthermore, we investigated the electron trajectory and the generation of the characteristic X-rays within the Ti-coated Si3N4 film by Monte Carlo simulation. Our system can be easily utilized to observe various unstained biological samples of cells, bacteria, and viruses.
Myosin VI is the only known molecular motor that moves toward the minus ends of actin filaments; thus, it plays unique roles in diverse cellular processes. The processive walking of myosin VI on actin filaments requires dimerization of the motor, but the protein can also function as a nonprocessive monomer. The molecular mechanism governing the monomer-dimer conversion is not clear. We report the high-resolution NMR structure of the cargo-free myosin VI cargo-binding domain (CBD) and show that it is a stable monomer in solution. The myosin VI CBD binds to a fragment of the clathrin-coated vesicle adaptor Dab2 with a high affinity, and the X-ray structure of the myosin VI CBD in complex with Dab2 reveals that the motor undergoes a cargo-binding-mediated dimerization. The cargo-binding-induced dimerization may represent a general paradigm for the regulation of processivity for myosin VI as well as other myosins, including myosin VII and myosin X.
Activation of the 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2B (5-HT(2B)), a G(q/11) protein-coupled receptor, results in proliferation of various cell types. The 5-HT(2B) receptor is also expressed on the pacemaker cells of the gastrointestinal tract, the interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC), where activation triggers ICC proliferation. The goal of this study was to characterize the mitogenic signal transduction cascade activated by the 5-HT(2B) receptor. All of the experiments were performed on mouse small intestine primary cell cultures. Activation of the 5-HT(2B) receptor by its agonist BW723C86 induced proliferation of ICC. Inhibition of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase by LY294002 decreased base-line proliferation but had no effect on 5-HT(2B) receptor-mediated proliferation. Proliferation of ICC through the 5-HT(2B) receptor was inhibited by the phospholipase C inhibitor U73122 and by the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor inhibitor Xestospongin C. Calphostin C, the alpha, beta, gamma, and micro protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor G6976, and the alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and zeta PKC inhibitor G6983 inhibited 5-HT(2B) receptor-mediated proliferation, indicating the involvement of PKC alpha, beta, or gamma. Of all the PKC isoforms blocked by G6976, PKCgamma and micro mRNAs were found by single-cell PCR to be expressed in ICC. 5-HT(2B) receptor activation in primary cell cultures obtained from PKCgamma(-/-) mice did not result in a proliferative response, further indicating the requirement for PKCgamma in the proliferative response to 5-HT(2B) receptor activation. The data demonstrate that the 5-HT(2B) receptor-induced proliferative response of ICC is through phospholipase C, [Ca(2+)](i), and PKCgamma, implicating this PKC isoform in the regulation of cellular proliferation.
The clearance of debris after injuries to the nervous system is a critical step for restoration of the injured neural network. Microglia are thought to be involved in elimination of degenerating neurons and axons in the central nervous system (CNS), presumably restoring a favorable environment after CNS injuries. However, the mechanism underlying debris clearance remains elusive. Here, we establish an in vitro assay system to estimate phagocytosis of axon debris. We employed a Wallerian degeneration model by cutting axons of the cortical explants. The cortical explants were co-cultured with primary microglia or the MG5 microglial cell line. The cortical neurites were then transected. MG5 cells efficiently phagocytosed the debris, whereas primary microglia showed phagocytic activity only when they were activated by lipopolysaccharide or interferon-beta. When MG5 cells or primary microglia were co-cultured with degenerated axons, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) was activated in these cells. Engulfment of axon debris was blocked by the p38 MAPK inhibitor SB203580, indicating that p38 MAPK is required for phagocytic activity. Receptors that recognize dying cells appeared not to be involved in the process of phagocytosis of the axon debris. In addition, the axons undergoing Wallerian degeneration did not release lactate dehydrogenase, suggesting that degeneration of the severed axons and apoptosis may represent two distinct self-destruction programs. We observed regrowth of the severed neurites after axon debris was removed. This finding suggests that axon debris, in addition to myelin debris, is an inhibitory factor for axon regeneration.
We compared the performance of Bayesian learning strategies and approximations to such strategies, which are far less computationally demanding, in a setting requiring individuals to make binary decisions based on experience. Extending Bayesian updating schemes, we compared the different strategies while allowing for various implementations of memory and knowledge about the environment. The dynamics of the observable variables was modeled through basic probability distributions and convolution. This theoretical framework was applied to the problem of male fruit flies who have to decide which females they should court. Computer simulations indicated that, for most parameter values, approximations to the Bayesian strategy performed as well as the full Bayesian one. The linear approximation, reminiscent of the linear operator, was notably successful, and, without innate knowledge, the only successful learning strategy. Besides being less demanding in computation and thus realistic for small brains, the linear approximation was also successful at limited memory, which would translate into robustness in rapidly changing environments. Knowledge about the environment boosted the performance of the various learning strategies with maximal performance at large utilization of memory. Only for limited memory capacities, intermediate knowledge was most successful. We conclude that many animals may rely on algorithms that involve approximations rather than full Bayesian calculations because such approximations achieve high levels of performance with only a fraction of the computational requirements, in particular for extensions of Bayesian updating schemes, which can represent universal and realistic environments.

Interferons (IFNs) are potent extracellular protein mediators of host defense and homeostasis. Type I IFNs have well-established direct antiviral, antiproliferative, and immunomodulatory properties. The worldwide, increasing and long-term use of INFalpha, particularly for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus infection, has drawn attention to the development or exacerbation of numerous autoimmune phenomena, including a spectrum of myopathies. Management entailed withdrawal of INFalpha with supportive, immunomodulatory, and symptomatic treatment as deemed clinically indicated. However, IFNbeta therapy for relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis rarely triggered clinically manifest autoimmunity. The mechanisms through which type I IFNs induce autoimmunity are incompletely understood, and they likely vary depending on the inherent differences in the pathogenesis of the immune disorder on a background of patient genetic susceptibility. INFalpha therapy had unpredictable effects on hepatitis C-associated myopathies. The immunomodulating effects of IFNbeta therapy showed no clinically significant benefit during prospective controlled treatment trials of inclusion body myositis. Type I IFNs have the theoretical potential to either cause or treat autoimmune muscular disorders by altering the complicated and delicate balances within immune system networks. Muscle Nerve, 2009.
42 individuals ranging from 47 to 73 years of age underwent an auditory three-stimulus oddball task while their event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded. Half were APOE epsilon3 homozygotes and the remaining participants were either epsilon3/epsilon4 heterozygotes (n=13), or epsilon4 homozygotes (n=8). Analyses of variance showed that the heterozygotes had lower N1 amplitudes than the epsilon3 homozygotes, consistent with a previous study of participants with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) [I. Reinvang, T. Espeseth, L. Gjerstad, Cognitive ERPs are related to ApoE allelic variation in mildly cognitively impaired patients, Neuroscience Letters 382 (3) (2005) 346-351]. APOE genotype also significantly modulated N2 latency. epsilon4 homozygotes had longer N2 latencies, and importantly, longer N2 latencies predicted decline in verbal learning after 3.5 years follow up. These findings indicate a potential clinical significance of individual differences in ERP components N1 and N2.
The function of the stomach and the gut hormonal responses to food ingestion constitute highly integrated homeostatic responses that maintain euglycemia and normal digestion. This intrinsic feedback involves vagal and hormonal mechanisms. Important signals such as GLP-1 and PYY that arise peripherally induce satiation and also delay gastric emptying or increase insulin secretion. Novel therapies are being developed to mimic or enhance these feedback mechanisms and to control appetite as a means to treat obesity.

We proposed to investigate the gray matter reduction in the superior temporal gyrus seen in schizophrenia patients, by interrogating gene expression profiles of pyramidal neurons in layer III. It is well known that the cerebral cortex is an exceptionally heterogeneous structure comprising diverse regions, layers and cell types, each of which is characterized by distinct cellular and molecular compositions and therefore differential gene expression profiles. To circumvent the confounding effects of tissue heterogeneity, we used laser-capture microdissection (LCM) in order to isolate our specific cell-type i.e pyramidal neurons. Approximately 500 pyramidal neurons stained with the Histogene staining solution were captured using the Arcturus XT LCM system. RNA was then isolated from captured cells and underwent two rounds of T7-based linear amplification using Arcturus/Molecular Devices kits. The Experion LabChip (Bio-Rad) gel and electropherogram indicated good quality a(m)RNA, with a transcript length extending past 600nt required for microarrays. The amount of mRNA obtained averaged 51 microg, with acceptable mean sample purity as indicated by the A260/280 ratio, of 2.5. Gene expression was profiled using the Human X3P GeneChip probe array from Affymetrix.
Migration is a dynamic process in which a cell searches the environment and translates acquired information into somal advancement. In particular, interneuron migration during development is accomplished by two distinct processes: the extension of neurites tipped with growth cones; and nucleus translocation, termed nucleokinesis. The primary purpose of our study is to investigate neurite branching and nucleokinesis using high-resolution time-lapse confocal microscopy and computational modeling. We demonstrate that nucleokinesis is accurately modeled by a spring-dashpot system and that neurite branching is independent of the nucleokinesis event, and displays the dynamics of a stochastic birth-death process. This is in contrast to traditional biological descriptions, which suggest a closer relationship between the two migratory mechanisms. Our models are validated on independent data sets acquired using two different imaging protocols, and are shown to be robust to alterations in guidance cues and cellular migratory mechanisms, through treatment with brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-4, and blebbistatin. We postulate that the stochastic branch dynamics exhibited by interneurons undergoing guidance-directed migration permit efficient exploration of the environment.

The dentate gyrus (DG) is modified throughout life by integration of new adult-born neurons. Similarities in neuronal maturation during DG development and adult hippocampal neurogenesis suggest that genetically encoded intrinsic regulatory mechanisms underlying these temporally distinct processes are conserved and reused. Here, we identify a novel transcriptional regulator of dentate granule neuron maturation, Krppel-like factor 9 (Klf-9). We show that Klf-9 expression is induced by neuronal activity and as dentate granule neurons functionally integrate in the developing and adult DG. During development, dentate granule neurons lacking Klf-9 show delayed maturation as reflected by altered expression of early-phase markers, dendritic spine formation, and electrophysiological properties. Adult Klf-9-null mice exhibit normal stem cell proliferation and cell fate specification in the DG but show impaired differentiation of adult-born neurons and decreased neurogenesis-dependent synaptic plasticity. Behavioral analysis of Klf-9-null mice revealed a subtle increase in anxiety-like behavior and an impairment in contextual fear discrimination learning. Thus, Klf-9 is necessary for late-phase maturation of dentate granule neurons both in DG development and during adult hippocampal neurogenesis. Klf-9-dependent neuronal maturation may therefore represent a candidate regulatory mechanism underlying these temporally distinct processes.
In neurons of the cerebellar nuclei, long-term potentiation of EPSCs is induced by high-frequency synaptic excitation by mossy fibers followed by synaptic inhibition by Purkinje cells. Induction requires activation of synaptic receptors as well as voltage-gated Ca channels. To examine how Purkinje-mediated inhibition of nuclear neurons affects Ca levels during plasticity-inducing stimuli, we have combined electrophysiology, Ca imaging, and pharmacology of cerebellar nuclear neurons in mouse cerebellar slices. We find that spontaneous firing generates tonic Ca signals in both somata and dendrites, which drop during 500 ms, 100 Hz trains of Purkinje IPSPs or hyperpolarizing steps. Although the presence of low-voltage-activated (T-type) Ca channels in nuclear neurons has fostered the inference that disinhibition activates these channels, synaptic inhibition with a physiological chloride equilibrium potential (E(Cl)) (-75 mV) fails to hyperpolarize neurons sufficiently for T-type channels to recover substantially. Consequently, after IPSPs, Ca signals return to baseline, although firing is accelerated by approximately 20 Hz for approximately 300 ms. Only after hyperpolarizations beyond E(Cl) does Ca rise gradually beyond baseline, as firing further exceeds spontaneous rates. Cd(2+) (100 microm), which nearly eliminates L-type, N-type, P/Q-type, and R-type Ca currents while sparing approximately one-half the T-type current, prevents Ca changes during and after hyperpolarizations to E(Cl). Thus, high-frequency IPSPs in cerebellar nuclear neurons evoke little postinhibitory current through T-type channels. Instead, inhibition regulates Ca levels simply by preventing action potentials, which usually permit Ca influx through high-voltage-activated channels. The decreases and restoration of Ca levels associated with Purkinje-mediated inhibition are likely to contribute to synaptic plasticity.
Activity and protein synthesis act cooperatively to generate persistent changes in synaptic responses. This forms the basis for enduring memory in adults. Activity also shapes neural circuits developmentally, but whether protein synthesis plays a congruent function in this process is poorly understood. Here, we show that brief periods of global or local protein synthesis inhibition decrease the synaptic vesicles available for fusion and increase synapse elimination. Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is a critical target; its levels are controlled by rapid turnover, and blocking its activity or knocking it down recapitulates the effects of protein synthesis inhibition. Mature presynaptic terminals show decreased sensitivity to protein synthesis inhibition, and resistance coincides with a developmental switch in regulation from CaMKII to PKA (protein kinase A). These findings demonstrate a novel mechanism regulating presynaptic activity and synapse elimination during development, and suggest that protein translation acts coordinately with activity to selectively stabilize appropriate synaptic interactions.
&quot;Boundary vector cells&quot; were predicted to exist by computational models of the environmental inputs underlying the spatial firing patterns of hippocampal place cells (O'Keefe and Burgess, 1996; Burgess et al., 2000; Hartley et al., 2000). Here, we report the existence of cells fulfilling this description in recordings from the subiculum of freely moving rats. These cells may contribute environmental information to place cell firing, complementing path integrative information. Their relationship to other cell types, including medial entorhinal &quot;border cells,&quot; is discussed.
Gap junctions mediate metabolic and electrical interactions between some cells of the CNS. For many types of neurons, gap junction-mediated electrical coupling is most prevalent during early development, then decreases sharply with maturation. However, neurons in the thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN), which exert powerful inhibitory control over thalamic relay cells, are electrically coupled in relatively mature animals. It is not known whether TRN cells or any neurons that are electrically coupled when mature are also coupled during early development. We used dual whole-cell recordings in mouse brain slices to study the postnatal development of electrical and chemical synapses that interconnect TRN neurons. Inhibitory chemical synapses were seen as early as postnatal day 4 but were infrequent at all ages, whereas TRN cells were extensively connected by electrical synapses from birth onward. Surprisingly, the functional strength of electrical coupling, assayed under steady-state conditions or during spiking, remained relatively constant as the brain matured despite dramatic concurrent changes of intrinsic membrane properties. Most notably, neuronal input resistances declined almost eightfold during the first two postnatal weeks, but there were offsetting increases in gap junctional conductances. This suggests that the size or number of gap junctions increase homeostatically to compensate for leakier nonjunctional membranes. Additionally, we found that the ability of electrical synapses to synchronize high frequency subthreshold signals improved as TRN cells matured. Our results demonstrate that certain central neurons may maintain or even increase their gap junctional communication as they mature.
Dystonia is a brain disorder characterized by sustained involuntary muscle contractions. It is typically inherited as an autosomal dominant trait with incomplete penetrance. While lacking clear degenerative neuropathology, primary dystonia is thought to involve microstructural and functional changes in neuronal circuitry. In the current study, we used magnetic resonance diffusion tensor imaging and probabilistic tractography to identify the specific circuit abnormalities that underlie clinical penetrance in carriers of genetic mutations for this disorder. This approach revealed reduced integrity of cerebellothalamocortical fiber tracts, likely developmental in origin, in both manifesting and clinically nonmanifesting dystonia mutation carriers. In these subjects, reductions in cerebellothalamic connectivity correlated with increased motor activation responses, consistent with loss of inhibition at the cortical level. Nonmanifesting mutation carriers were distinguished by an additional area of fiber tract disruption situated distally along the thalamocortical segment of the pathway, in tandem with the proximal cerebellar outflow abnormality. In individual gene carriers, clinical penetrance was determined by the difference in connectivity measured at these two sites. Overall, these findings point to a novel mechanism to explain differences in clinical expression in carriers of genes for brain disease.
A central question in Alzheimer's disease research is what role synaptic activity plays in the disease process. Synaptic activity has been shown to induce beta-amyloid peptide release into the extracellular space, and extracellular beta-amyloid has been shown to be toxic to synapses. We now provide evidence that the well established synaptotoxicity of extracellular beta-amyloid requires gamma-secretase processing of amyloid precursor protein. Recent evidence supports an important role for intraneuronal beta-amyloid in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. We show that synaptic activity reduces intraneuronal beta-amyloid and protects against beta-amyloid-related synaptic alterations. We demonstrate that synaptic activity promotes the transport of the amyloid precursor protein to synapses using live cell imaging, and that the protease neprilysin is involved in reduction of intraneuronal beta-amyloid with synaptic activity.


Event knowledge is organized on the basis of goals that enable the selection of specific event sequences to organize everyday life activities. Although the medial prefrontal cortex represents event knowledge, little is known about its role in mediating event knowledge complexity. We used functional MRI to investigate the patterns of brain activation while healthy volunteers were engaged in the task of evaluating the complexity (i.e. numbers of events) of daily life activities selected on the basis of normative data. Within a left frontoparietal network, we isolated the medial frontopolar cortex as the only region that showed a linear relationship between changes in the blood oxygen level-dependent signal and changes in event knowledge complexity. Our results specify the importance of the medial frontopolar cortex in subserving event knowledge that is required to build and execute complex behavior.


A decline in the ability of synapses to express plasticity and long-term potentiation (LTP) during postnatal maturation has been characterized in primary visual and somatosensory cortices. The present study is the first to document changes in the magnitude of LTP in the primary auditory cortex (A1) of rats at different stages of postnatal life. In urethane-anesthetized rats, field postsynaptic potentials (fPSPs) in A1 were elicited by stimulation of the medial geniculate nucleus, and LTP of cortical fPSPs was induced by application of repeated episodes of theta burst stimulation. Rats tested between postnatal day (PD) 30-35 showed the greatest level of LTP, with fPSP amplitude reaching approximately 165% of baseline after delivery of TBS. Levels of LTP decreased with increasing age, with approximately 140% and approximately 120% potentiation in rats aged PD 40-45 and 100-110, respectively. In rats older than 200 days, LTP could no longer be reliably induced ( approximately 105-110% potentiation). Application of an antagonist of NMDA receptor NR2B subunits (Ro 25-6981, 10 mM) in A1 reduced LTP in PD 30-35 rats to levels similar to those in adults without affecting LTP in adults (PD 100-110). Additional pharmacological experiments demonstrated a critical role of AMPA, but not NMDA, receptors in eliciting baseline, non-potentiated fPSPs in A1, an effect not significantly influenced by age. Together, these experiments demonstrate a pronounced, age-related decline in plasticity of synapses in the rodent A1, with elevated levels of plasticity in juvenile animals requiring activation of NR2B subunits, known to facilitate plasticity in other cortical and subcortical circuits.
The present experiments examined how semantic vs. perceptual encoding and perceptual match affect the processes involved in recognition memory. Experiment 1 examined the effects of encoding task and perceptual match between study and test fonts on recognition discrimination for words. Font fan was used to determine the effect of distinctiveness on perceptual match. The semantic encoding task and perceptual match for distinctive items led to better recognition memory. Event-related brain potentials (ERPs) recorded from the human scalp during recognition memory experiments have revealed differences between old (studied) and new (not studied) items that are thought to reflect the activity of memory-related brain processes. In Experiment 2, the semantic encoding task and perceptual match for distinctive words led to better recognition memory by acting on both familiarity and recollection processes, as purportedly indexed by the FN400 and parietal old/new effects. Combined these results suggest that the semantic encoding task and perceptual match for distinctive items aid recognition memory by acting on both familiarity and recollection processes.
The lateral hypothalamus (LH) is a site of integration for control mechanisms of feeding behavior as it has extensive reciprocal connections with multiple intrahypothalamic and extrahypothalamic brain areas. Evidence suggests that blockade of ionotropric gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors in the LH elicits eating in satiated rats. To determine whether this GABA(A) receptor antagonist effect is specific to the LH, the antagonist picrotoxin was injected into one of six nearby sites and food intake was measured. Picrotoxin at 133 pmol elicited eating in the LH, but not in surrounding sites (thalamus, lateral preoptic area, ventral tegmental area, dorsomedial hypothalamus, and entopeduncular nucleus). More specifically, picrotoxin injected into the tuberal LH (tLH) elicited eating, but was ineffective when injected into the anterior or posterior LH. We also investigated whether GABA(B) receptors in the LH participated in the control of food intake and found that neither blockade nor activation of these receptors under multiple conditions changed food intake. Collectively, our findings suggest that GABA(A) but not GABA(B) receptors in the tLH act to suppress feeding behavior.
Synaptic cargo trafficking is essential for synapse formation, function and plasticity. In order to transport synaptic cargo, such as synaptic vesicle precursors, mitochondria, neurotransmitter receptors and signaling proteins to their site of action, neurons make use of molecular motor proteins. These motors operate on the microtubule and actin cytoskeleton and are highly regulated so that different cargos can be transported to distinct synaptic specializations at both pre- and post-synaptic sites. How synaptic cargos achieve specificity, directionality and timing of transport is a developing area of investigation. Recent studies demonstrate that the docking of motors to their cargos is a key control point. Moreover, precise spatial and temporal regulation of motor-cargo interactions is important for transport specificity and cargo recruitment. Local signaling pathways Ca2+ influx, CaMKII signaling and Rab GTPase activity regulate motor activity and cargo release at synaptic locations. We discuss here how different motors recognize their synaptic cargo and how motor-cargo interactions are regulated by neuronal activity.

Recent evidence shows that the primary motor cortex continues to send motor commands when amputees execute phantom movements. These commands are retargeted toward the remaining stump muscles as a result of motor system reorganization. As amputation-induced reorganization in the primary motor cortex has been associated with phantom limb pain we hypothesized that the motor control of the phantom limb would differ between amputees with and without phantom limb pain. Eight above-elbow amputees with or without pain were included in the study. They were asked to produce cyclic movements with their phantom limb (hand, wrist, and elbow movements) while simultaneously reproducing the same movement with the intact limb. The time needed to complete a movement cycle and its amplitude were derived from the kinematics of the intact limb. Electromyographic (EMG) activity from different stump muscles and from the homologous muscles on the intact side was recorded. Different EMG patterns were recorded in the stump muscles depending on the movement produced, showing that different phantom movements are associated with distinct motor commands. Phantom limb pain was associated with some aspects of phantom limb motor control. The time needed to complete a full cycle of a phantom movement was systematically shorter in subjects without phantom limb pain. Also, the amount of EMG modulation recorded in a stump muscle during a phantom hand movement was positively correlated with the intensity of phantom limb pain. Since phantom hand movement-related EMG patterns in above-elbow stump muscles can be considered as a marker of motor system reorganization, this result indirectly supports the hypothesis that amputation-induced plasticity is associated with phantom limb pain severity. The discordance between the (amputated) hand motor command and the feedback from above-elbow muscles might partially explain why subjects exhibiting large EMG modulation during phantom hand movement have more phantom limb pain.
In the retina, rod signal pathways process scotopic visual information. Light decrements are mediated by two distinct groups of rod pathways in the dark-adapted retina that can be differentiated on the basis of their sensitivity to the glutamate agonist dl-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (APB). We have found that the APB sensitive and insensitive rod Off-pathways signal different light decrement information: the APB sensitive rod Off-pathway conveys slow and low frequency light signals, whereas the APB insensitive rod Off-pathways mediate fast and high frequency light signals [Wang GY (2006) Unique functional properties of the APB sensitive and insensitive rod pathways signaling light decrements in mouse retinal ganglion cells. Vis Neurosci 23:127-135]. However, the mechanisms which limit the frequency following through the APB sensitive and insensitive rod Off-pathways remain unknown. In the current study, whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were made from ganglion cells in dark and light adapted mouse retina to identify the mechanisms that limit the frequency following through the APB sensitive and insensitive rod Off-pathways. The results showed that the sites from AII amacrine cells to Off cone bipolar cells are the major mechanisms that limit the frequency following through the APB sensitive rod Off-pathway. In the APB insensitive rod Off-pathways, rods themselves limited the frequency following through these pathways. Moreover, ganglion cells were able to follow higher frequencies under photopic conditions than under scotopic conditions. The Off responses followed lower frequencies than On responses under photopic conditions. This finding was observed in cells that yielded On or Off responses only as well as in On-Off cells.
The neuroligin (NL) gene family codes for brain specific cell adhesion molecules that play an important role in synaptic connectivity. Recent studies have identified NL mutations linked to patients with autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Cognitive deficits seen in autistic patients are hypothesized to arise from altered synchronicity both within and between brain regions. Here we show how the expression of autism-associated neuroligin mutation R471C-NL3 affects synchrony in dissociated cultures of rat hippocampal neurons. Spontaneous network activity patterns of cultures expressing wild type and mutant NL3 were measured by optical techniques. Firing events were quantified and compared by cross-correlation analysis. Our results suggest that NL3 overexpression enhances synchrony of spontaneous activity patterns, however, this ability is reduced with the R471C-NL3 mutation. We investigated the structural basis of this phenomenon using fractal dimension analysis to characterize the arrangement of axon trajectories. R471C-NL3 cultures were associated with lower fractal dimensions and higher lacunarity values, indicating a decrease in the complexity of axonal architecture. Transfection of R471C-NL3 into a subpopulation of cells in a network resulted in neuronal degeneration. This degeneration likely affected the inhibitory population of neurons, as there were half as many (P&lt;0.01, n=12) glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) 65 expressing cells in R471C-NL3 cultures compared to wild type NL3 and control cultures. Electrophysiological recordings showed a reduction of inhibitory activity in networks carrying the mutation in comparison to networks overexpressing wild-type NL3. Together, these data support the hypothesis that the autism-associated NL3 mutation affects information processing in neuronal networks by altering network architecture and synchrony.
Due to its lipophobic properties, dopamine is unable to cross the blood-brain barrier following systemic application. However, recently it has been demonstrated that, when applied directly via the nasal passages in the rat, dopamine exerts neurochemical and behavioural action, including increases of dopamine in striatal subregions, antidepressive-like action, and increased behavioral activity. These effects could potentially be mediated by exogenous dopamine acting as a direct agonist at postsynaptic dopamine receptors. However, it is also possible that intranasally applied dopamine acts indirectly via the modulation of the activity of dopaminergic cell bodies. To approach this question, the present study used rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions of the nigrostriatal tract, as these lesions lead to pharmacologically stimulated behavioural asymmetries which are specific for direct and indirect dopamine agonists. We found that 7 days of repeated treatment with intranasal dopamine induced a sensitization of the turning response to amphetamine, but not to apomorphine. Furthermore, intranasal dopamine dose-dependently increased the use of the forepaw ipsilateral to the 6-OHDA-lesioned side of the brain. These results suggest that intranasally administered dopamine acts via an indirect mechanism of action, putatively by increasing the release of endogenous dopamine in the brain.
A growing body of work has documented sex differences in many behavioral, neurochemical, and morphological responses to stress. Chronic stress alters morphology of dendrites in medial prefrontal cortex in male rats. However, potential sex differences in stress-induced morphological changes in medial prefrontal cortex have not been examined. Thus, in Experiment 1 we assessed dendritic morphology in medial prefrontal cortex in male and female rats after chronic stress. Male and female rats underwent either 3 hours of restraint daily for 1 week or were left unhandled except for weighing. On the final day of restraint, all rats were euthanized and brains were stained using a Golgi-Cox procedure. Pyramidal neurons in layer II-III of medial prefrontal cortex were drawn in three dimensions, and morphology of apical and basilar arbors was quantified. In males, stress decreased apical dendritic branch number and length, whereas in females, stress increased apical dendritic length. In Experiment 2, we assessed whether estradiol mediates this stress-induced dendritic hypertrophy in females by assessing the effects of restraint stress on female rats that had received either ovariectomy with or without 17-beta-estradiol replacement or sham ovariectomy. Brains were processed and neurons reconstructed as described in Experiment 1. Both sham-operated and ovariectomized rats with estradiol implants showed stress-induced increases in apical dendritic material, whereas ovariectomy without estradiol replacement prevented the stress-induced increase. Thus, the stress-induced increase in apical dendritic material in females is estradiol-dependent.
Reversal learning has been shown to require intact serotonergic innervation of the forebrain neocortex. Whether dopamine acting through D2 receptors plays a complementary role in this anatomic area is still unclear. Here we show that mice lacking dopamine D2 receptors exhibited significantly impaired performance in the reversal learning phase of an attention-set-shifting task (ASST) and that wild type mice treated chronically with the D2-like receptor antagonist haloperidol exhibited the same cognitive deficit. The test-phase-specific deficits of D2 mutants and haloperidol-treated mice were also accompanied by deficits in the induction of expression of early growth response gene 2 (egr-2), a regulatory transcription factor previously shown to be selectively induced in the ventrolateral orbital frontal cortex and the pre- and infralimbic medial prefrontal cortex of ASST-tested mice. D2-receptor knockout mice and haloperidol-treated wild type, however, exhibited lower egr-2 expression in these anatomic regions after completion of an ASST-test phase that required reversal learning but not after completion of set-shifting phases without rule reversals. In contrast, mice treated chronically with clozapine, an atypical neuroleptic drug with lower D2-receptor affinity and broader pharmacological effects, had deficits in compound discrimination phases of the ASST, but also these deficits were accompanied by lower egr-2 expression in the same anatomic subregions. Thus, the findings indicate that egr-2 expression is a sensitive indicator of test-phase-specific performance in the ASST and that normal function of D2 receptors in subregions of the orbital frontal and the medial prefrontal cortex is required for cognitive flexibility in tests involving rule reversals.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the basal ganglia motor circuitry is a highly effective treatment for the debilitating motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, recent findings have indicated promising potential for PD therapy with DBS in brain structures outside the basal ganglia. For example, high frequency stimulation of the posterior hypothalamic nucleus (PH) can reverse haloperidol-induced akinesia in rats [Jackson J, Young CK, Hu B, Bland BH (2008) High frequency stimulation of the posterior hypothalamic nucleus restores movement and reinstates hippocampal-striatal theta coherence following haloperidol-induced catalepsy. Exp Neurol 213:210-219]. In the current study, we used the bilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion model of Parkinsonian akinesia in male Long-Evans rats to further explore the efficacy of PH DBS. The application of PH DBS in lesioned animals reversed akinesia in an active avoidance paradigm with increased latency compared to pre-lesion performance. The dramatic reversal of akinesia in two models of rodent Parkinsonism by PH DBS warrants further exploration of its therapeutic potential.
Parathyroid hormone receptor 2 (PTH2R) and its ligand, tuberoinfundibular peptide of 39 residues (TIP39) constitute a neuromodulator system implicated in endocrine and nociceptive regulation. We now describe the presence and distribution of the PTH2R and TIP39 in the brain of primates using a range of tissues and ages from macaque and human brain. In situ hybridization histochemistry of TIP39 mRNA, studied in young macaque brain, due to its possible decline beyond late postnatal ages, was present only in the thalamic subparafascicular area and the pontine medial paralemniscal nucleus. In contrast, in situ hybridization histochemistry in macaque identified high levels of PTH2R expression in the central amygdaloid nucleus, medial preoptic area, hypothalamic paraventricular and periventricular nuclei, medial geniculate, and the pontine tegmentum. PTH2R mRNA was also detected in several human brain areas by RT-PCR. The distribution of PTH2R-immunoreactive fibers in human, determined by immunocytochemistry, was similar to that in rodents, including dense fiber networks in the medial preoptic area, hypothalamic paraventricular, periventricular and infundibular (arcuate) nuclei, lateral hypothalamic area, median eminence, thalamic paraventricular nucleus, periaqueductal gray, lateral parabrachial nucleus, nucleus of the solitary tract, sensory trigeminal nuclei, medullary dorsal reticular nucleus, and dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Co-localization suggested that PTH2R fibers are glutamatergic, and that TIP39 may directly influence hypophysiotropic somatostatin containing and indirectly influence corticotropin releasing-hormone containing neurons. The results demonstrate that TIP39 and the PTH2R are expressed in the brain of primates in locations that suggest involvement in regulation of fear, anxiety, reproductive behaviors, release of pituitary hormones, and nociception.
Neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) is a membrane-bound cell recognition molecule that exerts important functions in normal neurodevelopment including cell migration, neurite outgrowth, axon fasciculation, and synaptic plasticity. Alternative splicing of NCAM mRNA generates three main protein isoforms: NCAM-180, -140, and -120. Ectodomain shedding of NCAM isoforms can produce an extracellular 105-115 kilodalton soluble neural cell adhesion molecule fragment (NCAM-EC) and a smaller intracellular cytoplasmic fragment (NCAM-IC). NCAM also undergoes a unique post-translational modification in brain by the addition of polysialic acid (PSA)-NCAM. Interestingly, both PSA-NCAM and NCAM-EC have been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. The developmental expression patterns of the main NCAM isoforms and PSA-NCAM have been described in rodent brain, but no studies have examined NCAM expression across human cortical development. Western blotting was used to quantify NCAM in human postmortem prefrontal cortex in 42 individuals ranging in age from mid-gestation to early adulthood. Each NCAM isoform (NCAM-180, -140, and -120), post-translational modification (PSA-NCAM) and cleavage fragment (NCAM-EC and NCAM-IC) demonstrated developmental regulation in frontal cortex. NCAM-180, -140, and -120, as well as PSA-NCAM, and NCAM-IC all showed strong developmental regulation during fetal and early postnatal ages, consistent with their identified roles in axon growth and plasticity. NCAM-EC demonstrated a more gradual increase from the early postnatal period to reach a plateau by early adolescence, potentially implicating involvement in later developmental processes. In summary, this study implicates the major NCAM isoforms, PSA-NCAM and proteolytically cleaved NCAM in pre- and postnatal development of the human prefrontal cortex. These data provide new insights on human cortical development and also provide a basis for how altered NCAM signaling during specific developmental intervals could affect synaptic connectivity and circuit formation, and thereby contribute to neurodevelopmental disorders.
Ependymal cells form the walls of the ventricles, and take part in the production of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Aquaporin-4 (AQP4), a predominant water channel of the brain, is restricted to basolateral plasma membranes of ependymal cells. The highly polarized expression of AQP4 suggests it may be involved in maintaining the structural and functional integrity of the ependyma. This hypothesis was validated by using adult AQP4 knockout mice generated by our laboratory [Fan Y, Zhang J, Sun XL, Gao L, Zeng XN, Ding JH, Cao C, Niu L, Hu G (2005) Sex- and region-specific alterations of basal amino acid and monoamine metabolism in the brain of aquaporin-4 knockout mice. J Neurosci Res 82:458-464]. Histological analysis showed disorganized ependymal layer of the lateral ventricle and aqueduct in AQP4-deficiency mice. A majority (92.7%) of null mice displayed reduced lateral ventricular volume, while a small fraction (7.3%) had enlarged or normal ventricular size with a narrow aqueduct. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated that AQP4 deletion resulted in decreased expression of gap junction protein connexin43 in the ependymal cells. Electron microscopy confirmed junctional complex absence at basolateral membranes of ependymocytes. Moreover, AQP4 knockout mice showed decreased CSF production and increased brain water content compared with wild-type mice. These results highlight a key role of AQP4 in maintaining the structure and function of the ependyma. In addition, variable profiles of ventricle system in adult AQP4 null mice indicate functional AQP4 polymorphisms.
Risk-taking behavior is a vital aspect mediating the formation of social structure in animals. Here, we utilized the visible burrow system (VBS), a model in which rats form dominance hierarchies, to test the hypothesis that dominant rats in the VBS are natural risk takers and display an increased motivational state after VBS exposure. In particular, we predicted that dominant rats would have attenuated anxiety-like behavior and augmented acquisition of operant responding for food reward relative to subordinate and controls. We further hypothesized that these behaviors would correlate with elevated mesocortical orexin signaling. Prior to burrow exposure, male Long-Evans rats were tested on the elevated plus maze (EPM), and subsequently exposed to the VBS for seven consecutive days. At the conclusion of burrow exposure body weight and plasma corticosterone were used to confirm social rank within each colony. Interestingly, rats that went on to become dominant in the VBS spent significantly more time in the open arms of the EPM prior to burrow exposure and displayed increased operant responding for food reward. This effect was present over a range of reinforcement schedules and also persisted for up to 1 month following VBS exposure. Moreover, dominant rats displayed increased orexin receptor mRNA in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) relative to subordinate and control rats. These data support previous findings from our group and are consistent with the hypothesis that risk-taking behavior may precede dominance formation in social hierarchies.
Neuronal survival has been shown to be enhanced by alpha-tocopherol and modulated by cyclic AMP (cAMP). Somatostatin (SST) receptors couple negatively to adenylyl cyclase (AC), thus leading to decreased cAMP levels. Whether alpha-tocopherol can stimulate neuronal survival via regulation of the somatostatinergic system, however, is unknown. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of alpha-tocopherol on the SST signaling pathway in the rat dentate gyrus. To that end, 15-week-old male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated daily for 1 week with (+)-alpha-tocopherol or vehicle and sacrificed on the day following the last administration. No changes in either SST-like immunoreactivity (SST-LI) content or SST mRNA levels were detected in the dentate gyrus as a result of alpha-tocopherol treatment. A significant decrease in the density of the SST binding sites and an increase in the dissociation constant, however, were detected. The lower SST receptor density in the alpha-tocopherol-treated rats correlated with a significant decrease in the protein levels of the SST receptor subtypes SSTR1-SSTR4, whereas the corresponding mRNA levels were unaltered. G-protein-coupled-receptor kinase 2 expression was decreased by alpha-tocopherol treatment. This vitamin induced a significant increase in both basal and forskolin-stimulated AC activity, as well as a decrease in the inhibitory effect of SST on AC. Whereas the protein levels of AC type V/VI were not modified by alpha-tocopherol administration, ACVIII expression was significantly enhanced, suggesting it might account for the increase in AC activity. In addition, this treatment led to a reduction in Gialpha1-3 protein levels and in Gi functionality. alpha-Tocopherol did not affect the expression of the regulator of G-protein signaling 6/7 (RGS6/7). Finally, alpha-tocopherol induced an increase in the levels of phosphorylated cAMP response element binding protein (p-CREB) and total CREB in the dentate gyrus. Since CREB synthesis and phosphorylation promote the survival of many cells, including neurons, whereas SST inhibits the cAMP-PKA pathway, which is known to be involved in CREB phosphorylation, the alpha-tocopherol-induced reduction of SSTR observed here might possibly contribute, via increased cAMP levels and CREB activity, to the mechanism by which this vitamin promotes the survival of newborn neurons in the dentate gyrus.
The lateral parafascicular nucleus (lPf) is a member of the intralaminar thalamic nuclei, a collection of nuclei that characteristically provides widespread projections to the neocortex and basal ganglia and is associated with arousal, sensory, and motor functions. Recently, lPf neurons have been shown to possess different characteristics than other cortical-projecting thalamic relay neurons. We performed whole cell recordings from lPf neurons using an in vitro rat slice preparation and found two distinct neuronal subtypes that were differentiated by distinct morphological and physiological characteristics: diffuse and bushy. Diffuse neurons, which had been previously described, were the predominant neuronal subtype (66%). These neurons had few, poorly-branching, extended dendrites, and rarely displayed burst-like action potential discharge, a ubiquitous feature of thalamocortical relay neurons. Interestingly, we discovered a smaller population of bushy neurons (34%) that shared similar morphological and physiological characteristics with thalamocortical relay neurons of primary sensory thalamic nuclei. In contrast to other thalamocortical relay neurons, activation of muscarinic cholinergic receptors produced a membrane hyperpolarization via activation of M(2) receptors in most lPf neurons (60%). In a minority of lPf neurons (33%), muscarinic agonists produced a membrane depolarization via activation of predominantly M(3) receptors. The muscarinic receptor-mediated actions were independent of lPf neuronal subtype (i.e. diffuse or bushy neurons); however the cholinergic actions were correlated with lPf neurons with different efferent targets. Retrogradely-labeled lPf neurons from frontal cortical fluorescent bead injections primarily consisted of bushy type lPf neurons (78%), but more importantly, all of these neurons were depolarized by muscarinic agonists. On the other hand, lPf neurons labeled by striatal injections were predominantly hyperpolarized by muscarinic agonists (63%). Our results indicate two distinct subpopulations of lPf projection neurons, and interestingly lPf neurons respond differentially to muscarinic receptor activation based on their axonal target.
Several types of brain injuries have been associated with alterations in the striatal expression of neurotrophic factors, including glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). However, contradictory results on the striatal expression of GDNF have been reported in different animal models of Parkinson's disease. For this reason, we examined the effect of nigrostriatal damage on the mRNA and protein expression levels of GDNF in the striatum as a function of time following a striatal or medial forebrain bundle 6-hydroxydopamine lesion. At different time points after the administration of 6-hydroxydopamine, striatal expression levels of GDNF were analyzed with semi-quantitative Western blotting. No significant changes in GDNF expression levels were observed within the 35-day observation period, either between the denervated and the intact striatum of medial forebrain bundle and striatally lesioned rats or between the striata of lesioned animals and those of control animals. In order to reinforce these results, striata of lesioned rats, sacrificed 18 days after lesioning, were analyzed with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and real-time polymerase chain reaction. At this time point, both techniques confirmed the results of the Western blot analysis, detecting no changes in striatal expression of GDNF, either at the protein level, or at the mRNA level. These data show that nigrostriatal damage induced by 6-hydroxydopamine has no effect on the striatal expression of GDNF.
Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) regulate synaptic activities and play important roles in neurodegenerative diseases. They are highly expressed in the striatum, where medium spiny neurons (MSNs) are a major population. Given that the properties of ASICs in MSNs are unknown, in this study, we characterized ASICs in MSNs of the mouse striatum. A rapid drop in extracellular pH induced transient inward currents in all MSNs. The pH value for half-maximal activation was 6.25, close to that obtained in homomeric ASIC1a channels. Based on psalmotoxin 1 and zinc sensitivity, ASIC1a (70.5% of neurons) and heteromeric ASIC1a-2 channels (29.5% of neurons) appeared responsible for the acid-induced currents in MSNs. ASIC currents were diminished in MSNs from ASIC1, but not ASIC2, null mice. Furthermore, a drop in pH induced calcium influx by activating homomeric ASIC1a channels. Activation of ASICs increased the membrane excitability of MSNs and lowering extracellular Ca2+ potentiated ASIC currents. Our data suggest that the homomeric ASIC1a channel represents a majority of the ASIC isoform in MSNs. The potential function of ASICs in the striatum requires further investigation.
Previous brain imaging studies have shown the left hemispheric dominance for processing of lexical tone in native speakers. However, the low temporal resolution related to neuroimaging techniques might not explicitly detect the brain activities that occur at a relatively small or a determined time frame. We used the mismatch negativity (MMN) and a source estimation technique (low-resolution electromagnetic tomography [LORETA]) to probe the brain activities underlying the early pre-attentive processing of Mandarin lexical tone and intonation. A passive oddball paradigm was applied to present tone and intonation contrast in a speech and nonspeech context. The results showed that no difference of the MMN amplitudes existed between speech and nonspeech conditions, although a larger MMN was found for tone than intonation condition. Source localization of the MMNs for all of the conditions showed the right hemispheric dominance, regardless of their linguistic functions (tone vs. intonation) or speech context (speech vs. nonspeech). Interestingly, the MMN generator for normal tone and hummed tone originated from the same cortical area (right parietal lobe, BA 19). These findings suggest that the pre-attentive cortical processing can be modulated not only by speech stimuli, but also by their nonspeech hums. Our data are compatible with the acoustic hypothesis of speech processing.
We have previously reported that repeated central administration of sub-anxiogenic doses of the corticotropin releasing factor 1 (CRF(1)) agonist Cortagine, termed &quot;priming,&quot; elicits a phenotype of increased anxiety-like behaviors in the elevated plus maze (EPM) and open-field test, and enhanced retention of contextual conditioned fear in C57BL/6J mice. Observed behavioral changes were functionally coupled to CRF(1)-mediated elevated central cholecystokinin (CCK) tone in discrete brain regions. However, the changes in gene expression that mediated &quot;priming&quot;-induced behavioral and concurrent molecular changes in specific brain regions remained unknown. In the present study, a complementary DNA microarray analysis was used to investigate gene expression profiles in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex (PFC) of C57BL/6J mice following the &quot;priming&quot; procedure. Here, we report that chronic stimulation of CRF(1), by i.c.v. administration of 10 ng Cortagine for five days, brought about alterations in the expression of a wide range of hippocampal (31 genes) and PFC (18 genes) genes, implicated in anxiety and aversive memory formation. These expression changes involved genes associated with signal transduction, neurotransmitter secretion, synaptic transmission, myelination, and others involved in the transport, biosynthesis, and binding of proteins. In particular, several genes of the protein kinase A (PKA) and protein kinase C (PKC) signaling cascades, known to be involved in synaptic plasticity, such as neurogranin, calmodulin 3, and the PKA regulatory subunit 1 b were found to be upregulated in the PFC and hippocampus of CRF(1) agonist &quot;primed&quot; mice. Moreover, we show pharmacologically that one of the newly implicated memory regulatory elements, diazepam-binding inhibitor (DBI) is functionally involved in hippocampus-dependent enhancement of contextual fear, a cardinal phenotypic feature of the &quot;primed&quot; mice. Finally, an interaction network mapping of the altered genes and their known interacting partners identified additional molecular candidates responsible for CRF(1)-mediated hypersensitive fear circuitry.
Defeat is a social stressor involving subordination by a threatening conspecific. Type 2 corticotropin-releasing factor receptors (CRF(2)) are abundant in brain regions implicated in defeat responses and are putative stress-related molecules. The present study sought to determine whether neuroactivation and CRF(2) expression co-occurred at brain region or cellular levels following acute defeat. Male &quot;intruder&quot; Wistar rats were placed into the cage of an aggressive &quot;resident&quot; Long-Evans rat (n=6). Upon defeat, intruders (n=6) were placed in a wire-mesh chamber and were returned to the resident's cage for an additional 75 min. Controls (n=6) were handled and returned to their home cage for the same duration. Coronal brain sections were stained for an immediate early gene product, Fos, as a neuronal activation marker. Combined immunohistochemistry with in situ hybridization was performed on a subset of brain sections from defeated intruders to visualize Fos immunoreactivity and CRF(2) mRNA jointly. Defeated rats had fivefold, sevenfold, and 10-fold more Fos-positive cells than controls in the arcuate, ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, and medial amygdala post-defeat. Significant colocalization of CRF(2) mRNA and Fos-positive cells was observed in the posterior medial amygdala but not in the arcuate nucleus or ventromedial hypothalamus. The results indicate CRF(2) receptor-positive neurons in the posterior medial amygdala are involved in the neural response to social defeat.
Neuronal loss and interruption of axonal pathways are occurring after spinal cord injury. This is initiated by the mechanical damage and propagated by secondary events that include the fast rise of glutamate concentration and the subsequent over-activation of glutamate receptors, triggering noxious processes to the cell. Excitotoxic processes are also observed in degenerative diseases that involve motoneuron loss. Sigma-1 receptors (Sig-1Rs) are expressed in the CNS and their ligands have been shown to prevent neuronal death associated to glutamate toxicity. In the present study, we used organotypic cultures of spinal cord slices and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) explants from 7-8 days old postnatal rats to assess whether the agonist of the Sig-1R, 2-(4-morpholinethyl)1-phenylcyclohexanecarboxylate (PRE084), protects the spinal cord against glutamate excitotoxicity and promotes neurite elongation. The results showed that PRE084 exerted a bell-shape dose-dependent protective response of the motoneurons, with a significant neuroprotection obtained with 10 microM PRE084. PRE084 also caused an increase in the length of neurites in both motoneurons and neurons in DRG explants. Both effects were abrogated with the addition of BD 1063, an antagonist of Sig-1R, and the use of chelerythrine, a protein kinase C (PKC) pan-inhibitor indicating that PKC is implicated in the observed effects. These results suggest the use of PRE084 as a neuroprotective agent for spinal cord damage.
The capacity of neural stem cells (NSC) to generate different types of neurons and glia depends on the action of intrinsic determinants and extracellular signals. Here, we isolated adult olfactory bulb stem cells (aOBSC) that express nestin, RC2 and Sox2, and that have the capacity to generate neurons possessing mature features in culture and in vivo. The differentiation of aOBSC into neurons and glia, as well as their genetic profile, was compared to that of embryonic OBSC (eOBSC) and ganglionic eminence stem cells (GESC). While these eOBSC express neurogenin (Ngn) 1 and 2, two telencephalic dorsal markers, GESC only express Ngn2. Adult OBSC express either little or no detectable Ngn1 and 2, and they produced significantly fewer neurons in culture than eOBSC. By contrast, Dlx2 transcripts (a telencephalic ventral marker) were only clearly detected in GESC. When transplanted into the early postnatal P5-P7 OB, each of the three populations gave rise to cells with a distinct pattern of neuronal migration and/or dendritic arborization. Overall, these findings suggest that cultured NSC partially maintain their regional and temporal specification. Notably, significant neuronal migration and differentiation were only observed in vivo when the NSC were briefly exposed to fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) before grafting, a treatment that enhanced the neurogenin expression. Hence, the migration and maturation of neurons derived from transplanted NSC can be promoted by upregulating neurogenic gene expression with FGF-2.
Vasopressin facilitates aggression in adult hamsters. Whether this neuropeptide has a similar role in play fighting remains unknown. The goal of the present study was to identify whether vasopressin controls play fighting in juvenile golden hamsters as well. Juvenile male golden hamsters were tested for play fighting after microinjections of a vasopressin V1A-receptor antagonist, Manning compound, either 0, 9, or 90 microM, into the anterior hypothalamus. The treatment selectively inhibited offensive aspects of play fighting in experimental animals. Attack frequencies were significantly decreased by both doses of Manning compound. In addition, the high dose of the receptor antagonist increased attack latencies, decreased bite frequencies, and decreased the averaged number of attacks per contact bout. Together, these results show that vasopressin controls offensive behaviors throughout development from play fighting in juveniles to aggression in adults.
Pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) in the brain modulate sickness behavior in rodents, in which animals show complex changes in behavior such as the reduction of general activity, reduced social motivation, and fever response. The present studies examined the impact of lipopolysacharide (LPS) and stressor (footshock) exposure on the later expression of social behavior in Sprague-Dawley rats using two separate behavioral paradigms. In Experiment 1, a traditional test for social interaction in which animals were allowed to investigate a juvenile rat in their home cages was conducted at 4 different time points following LPS or footshock treatment. In Experiment 2, social investigation task which allowed the animals to sniff the hole connected to the other chamber where a stimulus animal was placed, but prevented physical contact, was used to measure social investigation at several time points following LPS or footshock treatment. Both systemic infusion of LPS (100 microg/kg) and 2 h footshock exposure (80 shocks, 1 mA, 5 s duration) elicited a time-dependent reduction of social interaction (Experiment 1) and investigation (Experiment 2); LPS-treated rats displayed a more profound reduction of social investigation from 2 h to 6 h after treatment, while rats exposed to footshock showed a reduction 6 h after the footshock exposure. In Experiment 3, the footshock-induced reduction of social investigation was blocked by pretreatment with IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra; 100 microg icv) infusion. Together, these findings support a growing body of literature showing that stress-dependent changes in brain cytokines play a key role in mediating behavioral consequences of stressor exposure.
Stress exposure activates the autonomic nervous system and leads to a body temperature increase (stress-induced hyperthermia, SIH). On the other hand, an activation of the immune system in response to an infection leads to fever. Both processes increase body temperature, and the relation between SIH and infection-induced fever has been subject to debate. It is not clear whether SIH is a form of fever, or whether both processes are more or less distinct. We therefore examined the relation between SIH and infection-induced fever by looking at the effects of a GABA(A) receptor agonist (diazepam) and a prostaglandin-synthesis blocking drug (acetylsalicylic acid, aspirin) on both the SIH response and fever in rats and mice. The present study shows that the benzodiazepine diazepam but not the prostaglandin-synthesis blocking drug aspirin dose-dependently attenuated the SIH response in both rats and mice. In contrast, aspirin reduced both LPS- and IL-1beta induced fever, whereas diazepam had little effect on these fever states. Altogether, our findings support the hypothesis that stress-induced hyperthermia and infection-induced fever are two distinct processes mediated largely by different neurobiological mechanisms.
Functional connectivity of in vitro neuronal networks was estimated by applying different statistical algorithms on data collected by Micro-Electrode Arrays (MEAs). First we tested these &quot;connectivity methods&quot; on neuronal network models at an increasing level of complexity and evaluated the performance in terms of ROC (Receiver Operating Characteristic) and PPC (Positive Precision Curve), a new defined complementary method specifically developed for functional links identification. Then, the algorithms better estimated the actual connectivity of the network models, were used to extract functional connectivity from cultured cortical networks coupled to MEAs. Among the proposed approaches, Transfer Entropy and Joint-Entropy showed the best results suggesting those methods as good candidates to extract functional links in actual neuronal networks from multi-site recordings.
Human ether  go-go related gene (hERG) potassium channels play a central role in cardiac repolarization where channel closing (deactivation) regulates current density during action potentials. Consequently, mutations in hERG that perturb deactivation are linked to long QT syndrome (LQTS), a catastrophic cardiac arrhythmia. Interactions between an N-terminal domain and the pore-forming &quot;core&quot; of the channel were proposed to regulate deactivation, however, despite its central importance the mechanistic basis for deactivation is unclear. Here, to more directly examine the mechanism for regulation of deactivation, we genetically fused N-terminal domains to fluorescent proteins and tested channel function with electrophysiology and protein interactions with Frster resonance energy transfer (FRET) spectroscopy. Truncation of hERG N-terminal regions markedly sped deactivation, and here we report that reapplication of gene fragments encoding N-terminal residues 1-135 (the &quot;eag domain&quot;) was sufficient to restore regulation of deactivation. We show that fluorophore-tagged eag domains and N-truncated channels were in close proximity at the plasma membrane as determined with FRET. The eag domains with Y43A or R56Q (a LQTS locus) mutations showed less regulation of deactivation and less FRET, whereas eag domains restored regulation of deactivation gating to full-length Y43A or R56Q channels and showed FRET. This study demonstrates that direct, noncovalent interactions between the eag domain and the channel core were sufficient to regulate deactivation gating, that an LQTS mutation perturbed physical interactions between the eag domain and the channel, and that small molecules such as the eag domain represent a novel method for restoring function to channels with disease-causing mutations.
Neuronal accumulation of alpha-synuclein and Lewy body formation are characteristic to many neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's disease (PD). This Lewy pathology appears to spread throughout the brain as the disease progresses. Furthermore, recent studies showed the occurrence of Lewy pathology in neurons grafted into the brains of PD patients, suggesting the spread of pathology from the host tissues to the grafts. The mechanism underlying this propagation is unknown. Here, we show that alpha-synuclein is transmitted via endocytosis to neighboring neurons and neuronal precursor cells, forming Lewy-like inclusions. Moreover, alpha-synuclein was transmitted from the affected neurons to engrafted neuronal precursor cells in a transgenic model of PD-like pathology. Failure of the protein quality control systems, especially lysosomes, promoted the accumulation of transmitted alpha-synuclein and inclusion formation. Cells exposed to neuron-derived alpha-synuclein showed signs of apoptosis, such as nuclear fragmentation and caspase 3 activation, both in vitro and in vivo. These findings demonstrate the cell-to-cell transmission of alpha-synuclein aggregates and provide critical insights into the mechanism of pathological progression in PD and other proteinopathies.
We demonstrate how optical coherence imaging techniques can detect intrinsic scattering changes that occur during action potentials in single neurons. Using optical coherence tomography (OCT), an increase in scattering intensity from neurons in the abdominal ganglion of Aplysia californica is observed following electrical stimulation of the connective nerve. In addition, optical coherence microscopy (OCM), with its superior transverse spatial resolution, is used to demonstrate a direct correlation between scattering intensity changes and membrane voltage in single cultured Aplysia bag cell neurons during evoked action potentials. While intrinsic scattering changes are small, OCT and OCM have potential use as tools in neuroscience research for non-invasive and non-contact measurement of neural activity without electrodes or fluorescent dyes. These techniques have many attractive features such as high sensitivity and deep imaging penetration depth, as well as high temporal and spatial resolution. This study demonstrates the first use of OCT and OCM to detect functionally-correlated optical scattering changes in single neurons.
Learning difficulties commonly comprise a heterogeneous group of disorders manifested by unexpected problems in some children's experiences in the academic performance arena. These problems especially comprise of a variety of disorders, which one of the most well-recognized learning difficulties is reading disability or dyslexia. The aim of this review is to explain the postmortem, structural or functional neuroimaging, and electrophysiological studies of human brains in children. The findings about these neuropathological and neurofunctional characteristics of developmental dyslexia, prospective studies beginning early in the life span and studies targeting remedial intervention will help to set the research agendas for future studies to follow.
The authors report the unique occurrence of an isolated post-ictal contralateral oculomotor nerve (OCN) palsy following excision of a medial frontal oligoastrocytoma. A 45-year-old male presented with a history of generalized tonic clonic seizures (GTCS) for 8 years. His neurological examination was unremarkable. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain revealed a left frontopolar low grade glioma. Nine hours after an uneventful near total microsurgical excision, the patient had a GTCS, following which he was noted to have an isolated right-sided OCN palsy. The immediate post-ictal computed tomographic scan and magnetic resonance images acquired 2 weeks after surgery failed to reveal any abnormality. The palsy had recovered completely by the 9-month follow-up.
Visual disturbance in hydrocephalus is typically due to raised intracranial pressure. We describe a patient who presented with marked loss of peripheral visual fields, but without features suggestive of raised intracranial pressure. MR scan showed an enlarged third ventricle and a downward displacement of the optic chiasm, Chiari II malformation. These radiological changes and the visual field deficits reversed after endoscopic third ventriculostomy and foramen magnum decompression. These observations support the view that the treatment of the hydrocephalus in such patients can help to reverse the change in the position of the optic chiasm and the visual field deficits.
We report the case of a Menire's disease patient affected by normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) who presented a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pressure-dependent hearing impairment after shunting. This side-effect was not only reversible and reproducible but occurred at a high opening pressure when the valve setting was lowered by only 0.7 mmHg (10 mmH(2)O). This observation suggests that hearing in Menire's disease might be very sensitive to small reductions of intracranial pressure (ICP) and that these patients should be informed of this potential risk, which can compromise the efficacy of the shunt.

Activation of viral promoter transcription is a crucial event in the life cycle of several viruses. Hypoxia inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF-1alpha) is an inducible transcription factor whose activity is dependent on environmental conditions, most notably oxygen levels and cellular stress. HIF-1alpha has been implicated in the pathogenesis of several viruses, including HIV-1, HHV-8 and RSV. Under hypoxic conditions or oxidative stress, HIF-1alpha becomes stable and translocates to the nucleus, where it modulates gene transcription. The objective of the present study was to investigate a possible role for HIF-1alpha in the activation of JCV. Glial cell cultures infected with JCV demonstrated a significant increase in the levels of HIF-1alpha, in where it is located to the nucleus. Immunohistochemical studies corroborated upregulation of HIF-1alpha in JCV infected oligodendrocytes and astrocytes in clinical samples of PML compared with normal glial cells from the same samples in which HIF-1alpha expression is weak. CAT assays performed in co-transfected glial cells demonstrated activation of the JCV early promoter in the presence of HIF-1alpha. This activation was potentiated in the presence of Smad3 and Smad4. Finally, chromatin immunoprecipitation assays demonstrated the binding of HIF-1alpha to the JCV control region. These results suggest a role for HIF-1alpha in the activation of JCV; understanding of this pathway may lead to the development of more effective therapies for PML, thus far an incurable disease.




Neonatal alcohol exposure produces long-term changes in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) that are presumably responsible for disturbances in the light-dark regulation of circadian behavior in adult rats, including the pattern of photoentrainment, rate of re-entrainment to shifted light-dark cycles, and phase-shifting responses to light. Because SCN neurons containing vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) receive direct photic input via the retinohypothalamic tract and thus play an important role in the circadian regulation of the SCN clock mechanism by light, the present study examined the long-term effects of neonatal alcohol exposure on VIP neuronal populations within the SCN of adult rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rat pups were exposed to alcohol (EtOH; 3.0, 4.5, or 6.0 g/kg/day) or isocaloric milk formula (gastrostomy control; GC) on postnatal days 4-9 using artificial-rearing methods. At 2-3 months of age, animals from the suckle control (SC), GC, and EtOH groups were exposed to constant darkness (DD) and SCN tissue was harvested for subsequent analysis of either VIP mRNA expression by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and in situ hybridization or of VIP-immunoreactive (ir) neurons using stereological methods. Neonatal alcohol exposure had no impact on VIP mRNA expression but dramatically altered immunostaining of neurons containing this peptide within the SCN of adult rats. The relative abundance of VIP mRNA and anatomical distribution of neurons expressing this transcript were similar among all control- and EtOH-treated groups. However, the total number and density of VIP-ir neurons within the SCN were significantly decreased by about 35% in rats exposed to alcohol at a dose of 6.0 g/kg/day relative to that observed in both control groups. These results demonstrate that VIP neuronal populations in the SCN are vulnerable to EtOH-induced insult during brain development. The observed alterations in SCN neurons containing VIP may have an impact upon clock responses to light input and thus contribute to the long-term effects of neonatal alcohol exposure on the photic regulation of circadian behavior.
Work from our laboratory has shown that orexin (ORX; or hypocretin) neurons in the lateral hypothalamus are involved in preference for morphine, cocaine, and food. Other groups have demonstrated a connection between the ORX system and ethanol-related behaviors. Here, we extended those results to investigate, in outbred Sprague-Dawley rats, the relationship between ethanol preference and the ORX system. In Experiment 1, rats were trained to drink 10% ethanol using the intermittent access (IA) technique. In Experiment 2, different groups of rats were trained to drink 10% ethanol using either IA or the sucrose-fade (SF) technique. Following ethanol-drinking acquisition, ethanol preference was assessed using two-bottle-choice tests. The rats were then tested for changes in preference with additional two-bottle-choice tests following administration of the orexin-1 receptor antagonist SB-334867 (SB; 30 mg/kg, intraperitoneally). Differences in ethanol preference were observed across individuals, with a significantly higher ethanol preference observed in rats trained to drink using IA compared with SF. In both Experiments 1 and 2, SB reduced ethanol preference selectively in rats with high ethanol preference. These results demonstrate a strong, causal relationship between the ORX system and ethanol preference in outbred rats. These findings provide additional evidence that the ORX system provides opportunities to develop novel treatments for alcohol abuse.
Recent findings suggest that the ability of ethanol (EtOH) to increase the levels of neurosteroids with potent gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic properties can influence measures of EtOH sensitivity. Earlier studies determined that removal of the adrenals and gonads diminished the steroidogenic effect of EtOH and significantly increased acute EtOH withdrawal severity in two inbred mouse strains that differed in withdrawal severity, suggesting the contribution of anticonvulsant GABAergic steroids to acute withdrawal in intact animals. Thus, the goal of the present study was to investigate the consequence of steroid removal on acute EtOH withdrawal through excision of the adrenals and gonads, in another genetic animal model of EtOH withdrawal differences, the Withdrawal Seizure-Prone (WSP) and Withdrawal Seizure-Resistant (WSR) selected lines. Male and female WSP and WSR mice underwent surgical removal of the adrenals and gonads or no organ removal (SHAM). One to 2 weeks later, baseline handling-induced convulsions (HICs) were assessed, mice were given a 4 g/kg dose of EtOH, and HICs were measured hourly for 12 h and then at 24 h. The combination surgery significantly increased EtOH withdrawal in WSP and WSR female mice, as measured by area under the curve (AUC) and peak HIC scores. The AUC was significantly positively correlated with plasma corticosterone levels and significantly negatively correlated with progesterone levels. In contrast, surgical status did not alter withdrawal severity in male WSP and WSR mice. Overall, the increase in acute EtOH withdrawal severity in female WSP and WSR mice after adrenalectomy and gonadectomy corroborate our recent evidence that withdrawal from a high dose of EtOH can be modulated by anticonvulsant steroids produced in the periphery.
It has been difficult to find conditioned preference for tactile cues paired with ethanol intoxication in rats. Toward understanding the ontogeny of ethanol reinforcement, we aimed at establishing a simple and reliable procedure for (1) assessing primary appetitive conditioning to ethanol in infant rats and (2) discerning the role the opioid system plays in ethanol-mediated conditioning at this age. Experiment 1 determined the parameters (i.e., dose, interval of conditioning) for assessing ethanol-mediated conditioning. Pups were then trained with differential Pavlovian conditioning (Experiments 2 and 3) in which ethanol intoxication (1.0-2.0 g/kg, intragastrically or intraperitoneally delivered) was paired with a tactile stimulus (sandpaper) while an alternative texture signaled the absence of ethanol's effects. Unpaired control conditions were also used. Tactile preferences were assessed after two conditioning sessions. Paired rats spent significantly more time on sandpaper than unpaired controls, an effect that was greater after intragastric administration of 1.0 than 2.0 g/kg ethanol. This effect was replicated in Experiments 4a and 4c and found to be inhibited by pretreatment with general (naloxone [NAL]) or specific (d-Pen-Cys-Tyr-d-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2 [CTOP] and naltrindole) opioid antagonists. Blood ethanol levels at conditioning were not altered by NAL (Experiment 4b). The study outlines a procedure that reveals appetitive conditioning to ethanol by infant rats. The results are discussed in terms of a potential ethanol-induced activation of the endogenous opioid system during the onset of the intoxication process.
We report the case of a young patient with meningovascular syphilis who suffered fatal vertebrobasilar occlusion despite thrombolytic treatment and endovascular interventions. A 35-year-old man without any known medical history presented with an acute ischemic stroke and was initially treated with intravenous tissue plasminogen activator. He was then transferred to the stroke center, where he underwent endovascular recanalization of his occluded vertebrobasilar system. Despite initial successful recanalization, he suffered recurrent vertebrobasilar occlusion, and a second endovascular treatment attempt was unsuccessful. He subsequently developed a pontine hemorrhage and acute hydrocephalus and died secondary to transtentorial herniation. Laboratory findings were suggestive of prior spirochetal infection, and autopsy revealed necrotizing vasculitis and extensive adventitial inflammation involving the basilar and vertebral arteries, supporting the diagnosis of meningovascular syphilis.
The immunological synapse between T cells and tumor cells is believed to be important for effective tumor clearance. However, the immunological synapse has never been imaged or analyzed in detail in human tissue. In this work, intercellular interactions between T cells and tumor cells were analyzed in detail in human glioblastoma. After characterization of the population of infiltrating T cells by multiple immunofluorescence staining and stereological quantification, the microanatomy of T cell-tumor cell intercellular communication was analyzed in detail using confocal microscopy and three-dimensional rendering. Cytotoxic T lymphocytes that infiltrated human glioblastoma underwent rearrangement when in contact with tumor cells, to form a three-dimensional structure in the intercellular contact area; this was characterized by microclusters of the CD3/TCR complex, re-arrangement of the cytoskeleton, and granzyme B polarization. In addition, such T cell-targeted cells show fragmentation of the microtubular system and increased expression levels of cleaved caspase 3, which suggests that cytotoxic T lymphocytes likely provoke changes in tumor cells and subsequently induce cell death. These results show that the formation of the cytotoxic T lymphocyte immunological synapse occurs in human tissue and may be relevant for the effective immune-mediated clearance of tumorigenic cells, therefore opening up new avenues for glioblastoma immunotherapy.

Characteristics of voltage-dependent sodium current recorded from adult rat muscle fibers in loose patch mode were rapidly altered following nearby impalement with a microelectrode. Hyperpolarized shifts in the voltage dependence of activation and fast inactivation occurred within minutes. In addition, the amplitude of the maximal sodium current decreased within 30 min of impalement. Impalement triggered a sustained elevation of intracellular Ca(2+). However, buffering Ca(2+) by loading fibers with AM-BAPTA did not affect the hyperpolarized shifts in activation and inactivation, although it did prevent the reduction in current amplitude. Surprisingly, the rise in intracellular Ca(2+) occurred even in the absence of extracellular Ca(2+). This result indicated that the injury-induced Ca(2+) increase came from an intracellular source, but it was not blocked by an inhibitor of release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum, which suggested involvement of mitochondria. Ca(2+) release from mitochondria triggered by carbonyl cyanide 3-chlorophenylhydrazone was sufficient to cause a reduction in sodium current amplitude but had little effect of the voltage dependence of activation and fast inactivation. Our data suggest the effects of muscle injury can be separated into a Ca(2+)-dependent reduction in amplitude and a largely Ca(2+)-independent shift in activation and fast inactivation. Together, the impalement-induced changes in sodium current reduce the number of sodium channels available to open at the resting potential and may limit further depolarization and thus promote survival of muscle fibers following injury.
Adrenergic activation of electrogenic K+ secretion in isolated mucosa from guinea pig distal colon was desensitized by peptide-YY (PYY). Addition of PYY or neuropeptide-Y (NPY) to the bathing solution of mucosae in Ussing chambers suppressed the short-circuit current (Isc) corresponding to electrogenic Cl- secretion, whether stimulated by epinephrine (epi), prostaglandin-E2 (PGE2), or carbachol (CCh). Neither peptide markedly inhibited the large transient component of synergistic secretion (PGE2 + CCh). Sustained Cl- secretory Isc was inhibited approximately 65% by PYY or NPY, with IC50s of 4.1 +/- 0.9 nM and 9.4 +/- 3.8 nM, respectively. This inhibition was eliminated by BIIE0246, an antagonist of the Y2-neuropeptide receptor (Y2-NpR), but not by Y1-NpR antagonist BVD10. Adrenergic sensitivity for activation of K+ secretion in the presence of Y2-NpR blockade by BIIE0246 was (EC50s) 2.9 +/- 1.2 nM for epi and 13.3 +/- 1.0 nM for norepinephrine, approximately fourfold greater than in the presence of PYY. Expression of mRNA for both Y1-NpR and Y2-NpR was indicated by RT-PCR of RNA from colonic mucosa, and protein expression was indicated by immunoblot. Immunoreactivity (ir) for Y1-NpR and Y2-NpR was distinct in basolateral membranes of columnar epithelial cells in the crypts of Lieberkhn as well as intercrypt surface epithelium. Adrenergic nerves in proximity with crypts were detected by ir for dopamine-beta-hydroxylase, and a portion of these nerves also contained NPY(ir). BIIE0246 addition increased secretagog-activated Isc, consistent with in vitro release of either PYY or NPY. Thus PYY and NPY were able to suppress Cl- secretory capacity and desensitize the adrenergic K+ secretory response, providing a direct inhibitory counterbalance against secretory activation.
Adrenergic stimulation of electrogenic K+ secretion in isolated mucosa from guinea pig distal colon required activation of two beta-adrenergic receptor subtypes (beta-AdrR). Addition of epinephrine (epi) or norepinephrine (norepi) to the bathing solution of mucosae in Ussing chambers increased short-circuit current (Isc) and transepithelial conductance (Gt), consistent with this cation secretion. A beta-adrenergic classification was supported by propranolol antagonism of this secretory response and the lack of effect by the alpha-AdrR antagonists BE2254 (alpha1-AdrR) and yohimbine (alpha2-AdrR). Subtype-selective antagonists CGP20712A (beta1-AdrR), ICI-118551 (beta2-AdrR), and SR59320A (beta3-AdrR) were relatively ineffective at inhibiting the epi-stimulated Isc response. In combination, CGP20712A and ICI-118551 inhibited the response, which supported a synergistic action by beta1-AdrR and beta2-AdrR. Expression of mRNA for both beta1-AdrR and beta2-AdrR was indicated by RT-PCR of RNA from colonic epithelial cells. Protein expression was indicated by immunoblot showing bands at molecular weights consistent with monomers and oligomers. Immunoreactivity (ir) for beta1-AdrR and beta2-AdrR was prominent in basolateral membranes of columnar epithelial cells in the crypts of Lieberkhn as well as intercrypt surface epithelium. Cells in the pericryptal sheath also had beta1-AdrR(ir) but did not have discernable beta2-AdrR(ir). The adrenergic sensitivity of K+ secretion measured by Isc and Gt was relatively low as indicated by EC(50)s of 41 +/- 7 nM for epi and 50 +/- 14 nM for norepi. Adrenergic activation of electrogenic K+ secretion required the involvement of both beta1-AdrR and beta2-AdrR, occurring with an agonist sensitivity reduced compared with reported values for either receptor subtype.
We have recently shown that polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is associated with high muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA). Animal studies support the concept that low-frequency electroacupuncture (EA) and physical exercise, via stimulation of ergoreceptors and somatic afferents in the muscles, may modulate the activity of the sympathetic nervous system. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of these interventions on sympathetic nerve activity in women with PCOS. In a randomized controlled trial, 20 women with PCOS were randomly allocated to one of three groups: low-frequency EA (n = 9), physical exercise (n = 5), or untreated control (n = 6) during 16 wk. Direct recordings of multiunit efferent postganglionic MSNA in a muscle fascicle of the peroneal nerve before and following 16 wk of treatment. Biometric, hemodynamic, endocrine, and metabolic parameters were measured. Low-frequency EA (P = 0.036) and physical exercise (P = 0.030) decreased MSNA burst frequency compared with the untreated control group. The low-frequency EA group reduced sagittal diameter (P = 0.001), while the physical exercise group reduced body weight (P = 0.004) and body mass index (P = 0.004) compared with the untreated control group. Sagittal diameter was related to MSNA burst frequency (Rs = 0.58, P &lt; 0.005) in the EA group. No correlation was found for body mass index and MSNA in the exercise group. There were no differences between the groups in hemodynamic, endocrine, and metabolic variables. For the first time we demonstrate that low-frequency EA and physical exercise lowers high sympathetic nerve activity in women with PCOS. Thus, treatment with low-frequency EA or physical exercise with the aim to reduce MSNA may be of importance for women with PCOS.
We examined food intake in chronically maintained decerebrate rats in response to two antimetabolic drugs known to stimulate food intake, 2-mercaptoacetate (MA) and 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2DG). MA reduces fatty acid oxidation, and 2DG reduces glucose utilization. Because previous work has shown that insulin-induced hypoglycemia increases food intake in decerebrate rats, we predicted that 2DG would have this same effect. MA-induced feeding requires vagal sensory neurons that terminate in the hindbrain. Cholecystokinin-induced suppression of feeding, which likewise requires vagal sensory neurons, has been shown to suppress food intake in decerebrate rats. Therefore, we predicted that MA's effects on feeding would also persist in decerebrate rats. In our experiments, the test diet (40% milk, diluted with water) was infused intraorally through a chronic cheek fistula. We found that sham controls consumed 258% and 230% of their baseline milk intake in response to 2DG and MA, respectively. Decerebrates consumed 239% of their baseline milk intake in response to 2DG, but did not increase their intake in response to MA. Because decerebration separates the hindbrain from the forebrain, these results indicate that 2DG-induced glucoprivation is capable of acting within the hindbrain to activate fundamental reflex circuitry for consummatory feeding responses, as shown previously for hypoglycemia. In contrast, MA affects food consumption only after forebrain processing of MA-induced vagal afferent signals and in the presence of intact ascending and descending neural pathways.

It has been shown that chronic treatment with lithium carbonate (Li(2)CO(3)) in presymptomatic SOD1G93A transgenic male mice, a model of ALS, was able to remarkably increase their lifespan through the activation of autophagy and the promotion of mitochondriogenesis and neurogenesis. This prompted us to test the lithium effect also in female SOD1G93A mice with two phenotypes of different disease severity. Female SOD1G93A mice of C57BL/6J or 129S2/Sv genetic background were treated daily with Li(2)CO(3) 37 mg/kg (1 mEq/kg) i.p. starting from age 75 days until death. Grip strength, latency to fall on rotarod and body weight were monitored twice weekly. At the time of death the spinal cord was removed to assess the number of motor neurons and to measure the expression of a marker of autophagy (LCII) and the activity of mitochondrial complex IV. We observed a significant anticipation of the onset and reduced survival in 129Sv/G93A and no effect in C57/G93A mice treated with lithium compared to vehicle treated mice. Moreover, lithium neither exerted neuroprotective effects nor increased the expression of LCII and the activity of mitochondrial complex IV in the spinal cord. The present study does not identify any therapeutic or neuroprotective effect of lithium in SOD1G93A female mice.
We previously found an increased risk for ALS in Italian professional soccer players actively engaged between 1970 and 2001 (n =7325). The present study extends previous work with a prospective follow-up of the original cohort to 2006 and investigates the risk of ALS in two other cohorts of professional athletes, basketball players (n =1973) and road cyclists (n =1701). Standardized morbidity ratios (SMRs) were calculated. Among soccer players three new cases of ALS were identified, reaching a total of eight ALS cases (mean age of onset, 41.6 years). The number of expected cases was 1.24, with an SMR of 6.45 (95% CI 2.78-12.70; p&lt;0.00001). The risk of ALS was higher for careers lasting &gt;5 years, for midfielders, and for players engaged after 1980. No basketball player and no cyclist developed ALS. This prospective extension of the Italian soccer players cohort survey confirms the highly significant risk of developing ALS, the young age of onset, the dose-effect risk and a predilection for midfielders. The absence of ALS cases in professional road cyclists and basketball players indicates that ALS is not related to physical activity per se.
Motor neuron disease (MND) is a devastating neurodegenerative condition associated with considerable disability and a poor prognosis. Despite improvements in symptomatic management in recent years, few therapies are available which modify survival. However, the challenge to find successful treatments would be greatly assisted by clearer elucidation of the underlying pathoaetiology. Many potential exogenous risk factors have been proposed as part of a gene-environment interaction in the aetiology of MND. A growing interest in the role of vigorous physical activity in the development of MND has followed reports of a higher than expected incidence of the disease in professional sports people. Such an association is also supported by current hypotheses concerning the cellular and genetic mechanisms of MND. However, evidence from epidemiological research remains conflicting and inconclusive. This article reviews the existing literature regarding physical activity as a risk factor for MND and the potential biological and genetic plausibility for this association.
The pig model is increasingly used in the field of neuroscience because of the similarities of its brain with human. This review presents the peculiarities of the anatomy and functions of the pig brain with specific reference to its human counterpart. We propose an approximate mapping of the pig's cortical areas since a comprehensive description of the equivalent of Brodmann's areas is lacking. On the contrary, deep brain structures are received more consideration but a true three-dimensional (3D) atlas is still eagerly required. In the second section, we present an overview of former works describing the use of functional imaging and neuronavigation in the pig model. Recently, the pig has been increasingly used for molecular imaging studies using positron emission tomography (PET). Indeed, the large size of its brain is compatible with the limited spatial resolution of the PET scanner built to accommodate a human being. Similarly, neuronavigation is an absolute requirement to target deep brain areas in human and in pig since the surgeon cannot rely on external skull structures for zeroing the 3D reference frame. Therefore, a large body of methodological refinements has been dedicated to image guided surgery in the pig model. These refinements allow now a millimetre precision: an absolute requirement for basal nuclei targeting. In the third section, several examples of ongoing studies in our laboratory were presented to illustrate the intricacies of using the pig model. For both examples, after a brief description of the scientific context of the experiment, we present, in detail, the methodological steps required to achieve the experimental goals, which are specific to the porcine model. Finally, in the fourth section, the anatomical variations depending on the breed and age are discussed in relation with neuronavigation and brain surgery. The need for a digitized multimodality brain atlas is also highlighted.
Traditional medical systems are challenging because their theories and practices strike many conventionally trained physicians and researchers as incomprehensible. Should modern medicine dismiss them as unscientific, view them as sources of alternatives hidden in a matrix of superstition, or regard them as complementary sciences of medicine? We make the latter argument using the example of Tibetan medicine. Tibetan medicine is based on analytic models and methods that are rationally defined, internally coherent, and make testable predictions, meeting current definitions of &quot;science.&quot; A ninth century synthesis of Indian, Chinese, Himalayan, and Greco-Persian traditions, Tibetan medicine is the most comprehensive form of Eurasian healthcare and the world's first integrative medicine. Incorporating rigorous systems of meditative self-healing and ascetic self-care from India, it includes a world-class paradigm of mind/body and preventive medicine. Adapting the therapeutic philosophy and contemplative science of Indian Buddhism to the quality of secular life and death, it features the world's most effective systems of positive and palliative healthcare. Based on qualitative theories and intersubjective methods, it involves predictions and therapies shown to be more accurate and effective than those of modern medicine in fields from physiology and pharmacology to neuroscience, mind/body medicine, and positive health. The possibility of complementary sciences follows from the latest view of science as a set of tools--instruments of social activity based on learned agreement in aims and methods--rather than as a monolith of absolute truth. Implications of this pluralistic outlook for medical research and practice are discussed.
Matricaria recutita L. is a well-known medicinal plant that is suggested as being carminative, analgesic, and anticonvulsant in traditional medicine. In the present investigation the effect of hydro-methanolic percolated extract of this plant on seizure induced by picrotoxin was studied in male mice. This study was performed on animals pretreated with doses of 100, 200, and 300 mg/kg of extract or 40 mg/kg phenobarbital as the reference drug via intraperitoneal injection. After 20 min each animal received 12 mg/kg picrotoxin for induction of seizure. Latency of onset time of seizure, duration of seizure, death latency, and death rate were determined in experimental and control groups. The results showed that latency of the beginning time of seizure was increased in groups that were pretreated with different doses of extract. The most effective dose was 200 mg/kg (P &lt; 0.05). In addition, this dose delayed the time of death in mice (P &lt; 0.01). The extract had no effect on the death rate. The results indicate that the extract of M. recutita possesses suitable effects on seizure induced by picrotoxin, and more experiments are needed in this field.


Accuracy and run-time play an important role in medical diagnostics and research as well as in the field of neuroscience. In Electroencephalography (EEG) source reconstruction, a current distribution in the human brain is reconstructed noninvasively from measured potentials at the head surface (the EEG inverse problem). Numerical modeling techniques are used to simulate head surface potentials for dipolar current sources in the human cortex, the so-called EEG forward problem.In this paper, the efficiency of algebraic multigrid (AMG), incomplete Cholesky (IC) and Jacobi preconditioners for the conjugate gradient (CG) method are compared for iteratively solving the finite element (FE) method based EEG forward problem. The interplay of the three solvers with a full subtraction approach and two direct potential approaches, the Venant and the partial integration method for the treatment of the dipole singularity is examined. The examination is performed in a four-compartment sphere model with anisotropic skull layer, where quasi-analytical solutions allow for an exact quantification of computational speed versus numerical error. Specifically-tuned constrained Delaunay tetrahedralization (CDT) FE meshes lead to high accuracies for both the full subtraction and the direct potential approaches. Best accuracies are achieved by the full subtraction approach if the homogeneity condition is fulfilled. It is shown that the AMG-CG achieves an order of magnitude higher computational speed than the CG with the standard preconditioners with an increasing gain factor when decreasing mesh size. Our results should broaden the application of accurate and fast high-resolution FE volume conductor modeling in source analysis routine.


Neuronal acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) of the alpha7 subtype are ligand-gated ion channels that are widely distributed throughout the central nervous system and considered as attractive targets for the treatment of various neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative diseases. Both agonists and positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) are being developed as means to enhance the function of alpha7 nAChRs. The in vitro characterization of alpha7 ligands, including agonists and PAMs, relies on multiple technologies, but only electrophysiological measurements assess the channel activity directly. Traditional electrophysiological approaches utilizing two-electrode voltage clamp or patch clamp in isolated cells have very low throughput to significantly impact drug discovery. Abbott (Abbott Park, IL) has developed a two-electrode voltage clamp-based system, the Parallel Oocyte Electrophysiology Test Station (POETs()), that allows for the investigation of ligand-gated ion channels such as alpha7 nAChRs in a higher-throughput manner. We describe the utility of this technology in the discovery of selective alpha7 agonists and PAMs. With alpha7 agonists, POETs experiments involved both single- and multiple-point concentration-response testing revealing diverse activation profiles (zero efficacy desensitizing, partial, and full agonists). In the characterization of alpha7 PAMs, POETs testing has served as a reliable primary or secondary screen identifying compounds that fall into distinct functional types depending on the manner in which current potentiation occurred. Type I PAMs (eg, genistein, NS1738, and 5-hydroxyindole) increase predominantly the peak amplitude response, type II PAMs affect the peak current and current decay (eg, PNU-120,596 and 4-(naphthalen-1-yl)-3a,4,5,9b-tetrahydro-3H-cyclopenta[c]quinoline-8-sulfonamide), and anothertype slowing the current decay kinetics in the absence of increases in the peak current. In summary, POETs technology allows for significant impact on higher throughput in the testing of alpha7 agonists and PAMs and for identification of compounds with unique profiles that could prove valuable in identifying an optimum in vitro profile in the development of therapeutics for which the alpha7 subtype is considered.


Although widespread alterations in cortical structure have been documented in individuals with autism, the functional implications of these alterations remain to be determined. Here, we adopted a novel inter-subject correlation (inter-SC) and intra-subject correlation (intra-SC) technique to quantify the reliability of the spatio-temporal responses of functional MR activity in adults with autism during free-viewing of a popular audio-visual movie. Whereas these complex stimuli evoke highly reliable shared response time courses in typical individuals, cortical activity was more variable across individuals with autism (low inter-SC). Interestingly, when we measured the responses within an autistic individual across repeated presentations of the movie, we observed a unique, idiosyncratic response time course that was reliably replicated within each individual (high intra-SC). Encouragingly, after filtering out the idiosyncratic responses from each individual time course, we were able to uncover a more typical response profile, which resembles the shared responses seen in the typical subjects. These findings indicate that, under conditions approximating real-life situations, the neural activity of individuals with autism is characterized by individualistic responses that, although reliable within an autistic individual, are both highly variable across autistic individuals and different from the responses observed within the typical subjects. These idiosyncratic responses may underlie the atypical behaviors observed in autism. At the same time, we are encouraged by the presence of the more typical activation pattern lurking beneath these idiosyncratic fluctuations. Taken together, these findings may pave the way to future research aimed at characterizing the idiosyncratic response profiles, which, in turn, might contribute to a better understanding of the heterogeneity of the autism spectrum and its diagnosis.
Autophagy is an evolutionarily conserved intracellular mechanism for the degradation of organelles and proteins. Here we demonstrate the presence of perinuclear autophagosomes/autolysosomes containing nuclear components in nuclear envelopathies caused by mutations in the genes encoding A-type lamins (LMNA) and emerin (EMD). These autophagosomes/autolysosomes were sometimes bigger than a nucleus. The autophagic nature is further supported by upregulation of LC3-II in Lmna(H222P/H222P) fibroblasts. In addition, inhibition of autophagy led to the accumulation of nuclear abnormalities and reduced cell viability, strongly suggesting a beneficial role of autophagy, at least in these cells. Similar giant autophagosomes/autolysosomes were seen even in wild-type cells, albeit rarely, implying that this &quot;nucleophagy&quot; is not confined to the diseased condition, but may be seen even in physiologic conditions to clean up nuclear wastes produced by nuclear damage.
Gangliosides are abundantly expressed in the nervous system, and deregulated expression or activity of gangliosides is associated with the progression of various disorders, including lysosomal storage diseases, Guillain-Barre syndrome and Alzheimer disease. By contrast, previous studies show that GM1 ganglioside may act in a protective manner in the drug (e.g., MPTP and 6-OHDA)-induced Parkinsonian models, although the precise mechanisms have not been well addressed. In our recent publication, dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB)-linked neuroblastoma cells were treated with D-Threo-1-phenyl-2-decanoylamino-3-morpholino-1-propanol (PDMP), an inhibitor of glycosyl ceramide synthetase. These PDMP-treated cells develop lysosomal diseases characterized by reduced lysosomal activity, enhanced lysosomal permeability and cytotoxicity. Furthermore, PDMP-mediated inhibition of autophagy-lysosomal pathway result in both accumulation of alpha-synuclein and mutant beta-synuclein. Finally, these phenotypes are reversed by ganglioside treatment. Taken together, our results suggest that endogenous gangliosides may play a protective role against the lysosomal pathology of synucleinopathies.
The study of neuronal specialisation in different cognitive and perceptual domains is important for our understanding of the human brain, its typical and atypical development, and the evolutionary precursors of cognition. Central to this understanding is the issue of numerical representation, and the question of whether numbers are represented in an abstract fashion. Here we discuss and challenge the claim that numerical representation is abstract. We discuss the principles of cortical organisation with special reference to number and also discuss methodological and theoretical limitations that apply to numerical cognition and also to the field of cognitive neuroscience in general. We argue that numerical representation is primarily non-abstract and is supported by different neuronal populations residing in the parietal cortex.
Exposure to alcohol during adolescence is predictive of adult alcohol abuse and dependence. The present experiment was designed to measure the impact of appetitive motivational engagement with ethanol during adolescence on adult ethanol consumption. To this end, a group of adolescent male Wistar rats was allowed to traverse an operant runway to obtain access to a sweetened 10% ethanol solution (wt/vol) over 18 sessions. An additional yoked-control group was allowed access to an identical solution; however, exposure to the solution was contingent on the experimental groups entry into the goal box of the runway. Once the adolescent exposure sessions were completed, the animals were allowed to mature into adults and then tested for differences in ethanol consumption during 30-min 2-bottle limited access sessions. Following 14 ethanol consumption sessions during adulthood, a naltrexone dose-response challenge (0-0.4 mg/kg) was initiated for both groups. The results of the experiment showed that the animals allowed to traverse the runway during adolescence displayed increased ethanol consumption during adulthood when compared to the yoked-control group. In addition, both groups showed dose-dependent attenuation of ethanol consumption by naltrexone. Thus, appetitive motivational experience during adolescence can impact adult ethanol consummatory behavior, a process that appears to involve common reinforcement-related neural substrates. This model should prove useful in delineating appetitive motivation-related factors that contribute to excessive ethanol consumption.
The potential role of the prelimbic cortex of the rat in the acquisition of instrumental responding is currently uncertain. In addition, modeling the acquisition of Pavlovian and spatial conditioning tasks has suggested that the process of acquisition can, for certain forms of learning, be step like and consequently misrepresented in averaged group curves. Here, the authors report an experiment investigating the potential involvement of the prelimbic cortex in instrumental acquisition, in which the authors used the control data to model individual acquisition curves mathematically. The authors show that instrumental acquisition under fixed interval schedules was a gradual process extending over 4 instrumental sessions that is well represented in averaged group curves. Postsession infusion of a protein synthesis inhibitor into the prelimbic cortex did not affect any measure of acquisition, showing that during acquisition the prelimbic cortex does not mediate postsession consolidation of instrumental learning. However, inactivation of the prelimbic cortex increased responding, suggesting that the prelimbic cortex mediates a form of inhibitory response control.
Skilled reaching in rodents and primate is motorically similar, but success in reaching by rodents is distinctively variable. The source of this variability has not been examined previously. Long-Evans rats were videotaped as they reached for food in 2 different reaching tasks, and endpoint measures of performance were examined in relation to variables previously associated with individual differences, including testing procedures, rehabilitation, movement ability, general locomotor activity, and cortical anatomy. There were individual differences in performance, but these were not related to the dependent measures related to training, movement ability, locomotor activity, or anatomy (e.g., brain with cortical thickness, acetylcholinesterase and neuron density, pyramidal tract size). Success was negatively related to numbers of gestures (non-weight-bearing movements of the reaching limb) used on a reach, however. The results are discussed in relation to the idea that individual differences in response strategy bias some rats to use a more successful goal strategy and others to use a less successful habit strategy for skilled reaching.
J. E. Dunsmoor, P. A. Bandettini, and D. C. Knight conducted a neuroimaging study of human fear conditioning and analyzed brain activity under various pairing rates between a conditioned and an unconditioned stimulus. Computer simulations with an attentional-associative model introduced by N. A. Schmajuk, Y. W. Lam, and J. A. Gray (1996) show that activity in the amygdala and anterior cingulate cortex is well described by a variable representing the prediction of the unconditioned stimulus, whereas activity in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and insula is well captured by a variable coding the attentional-modulated representation of conditioned stimuli. In addition, the model explains how those variables control behavior and provides a clear framework in which those variables play important roles in the description of numerous classical conditioning paradigms. Also, the model offers a number of predictions related to stimulus novelty for future neuroimaging studies of associative learning.
This study investigated whether the retention interval after an aversive learning experience influences the return of fear after extinction training. After fear conditioning, participants underwent extinction training either 5 min or 1 day later and in either the same room (same context) or a different room (context shift). The next day, conditioned fear was tested in the original room. When extinction took place immediately, fear renewal was robust and prolonged for context-shift participants, and spontaneous recovery was observed in the same-context participants. Delayed extinction, by contrast, yielded a brief form of fear renewal that reextinguished within the testing session for context-shift participants, and there was no spontaneous recovery in the same-context participants. The authors conclude that the passage of time allows for memory consolidation processes to promote the formation of distinct yet flexible emotional memory traces that confer an ability to recall extinction, even in an alternate context, and minimize the return of fear. Furthermore, immediate extinction can yield spontaneous recovery and prolong fear renewal. These findings have potential implications for ameliorating fear relapse in anxiety disorders.
Rising sound intensity provides an important cue for the detection of looming objects. Studies with humans indirectly suggest that rising pitch can also signal a looming object. This link between rising intensity and rising frequency is puzzling because no physical rise in frequency occurs when a sound source approaches. Putative explanations include (a) the idea that the loudness of sound depends on its frequency, (b) the frequent co-occurrence of rising intensity with rising frequency in vocalizations generates an association between the 2 features, and (c) auditory neurons process amplitude- and frequency-modulated sounds similarly. If these hypotheses are valid, then rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta)--which share some homologies in the vocal production apparatus and auditory system--should also associate rising frequency with rising intensity, and thus should perceive rising frequency as a looming sound source. A head-turning assay and a preferential-looking paradigm revealed that monkeys show an attentional bias toward rising versus falling frequency sounds and link the former to visual looming signals. This suggests that monkeys hear a rising frequency sound as a looming sound source even though, in the real world, no such link exists.
Poor impulse control has been associated with compulsive drug seeking and an enhanced risk of relapse, suggesting that impulsivity is causally related to addiction proneness and relapse vulnerability. However, whether this association is specific to drugs of abuse or whether heightened impulsivity relates to a general increase in sensitivity to rewards and reward-associated stimuli is unknown. To address this issue, the authors selected rats on the basis of individual differences in impulsive action in the 5-choice serial reaction time task, after which they were subjected to an operant sucrose self-administration paradigm. High-impulsive rats displayed a progressive increase in responding on the active hole (including responses emitted during the time-out period) in comparison with low-impulsive rats, which reflects escalation of sucrose-seeking behavior. Once sucrose and sucrose-associated stimuli were omitted (extinction training), nose-poke responding ceased rapidly, an effect that was independent of impulsivity level. In contrast, on reintroduction of sucrose-associated stimuli, sucrose seeking was successfully reinstated in high-impulsive but not in low-impulsive rats. Collectively, the results suggest that impaired response inhibition is associated with enhanced responsiveness to reward-associated stimuli. As such, elevated impulsivity might constitute a risk factor for the initiation and maintenance of addictive behaviors.
How we divide and recombine processes that underlie integrated patterns of behavior represents one of the most fundamental problems in all behavioral science. Avenues of insight range from naturalistic observations to the most advanced technological advances in the recording and analysis of behavioral sequences. Members of the symposium on &quot;Streams and Patterns in Behavior,&quot; Maastricht Conference on Measuring Behavior, offered important complementary approaches to issues that are common in all analyses of behavioral patterns, across time scales and levels of organization. Rodent grooming was emphasized as one model system, but contributors also offered insights on a range of issues relevant to our deeper understanding of exploration, emotions, consciousness, and human neurological disorders.
The molecular composition of the postsynaptic density is modified during synaptic plasticity, which forms the molecular basis of learning and memory. Such changes in synaptic composition depends in part on the intricate regulation of phosphorylation of specific proteins via different protein kinases, including a serine/threonine kinase, cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5). However, the mechanisms underlying the involvement of Cdk5 in neural plasticity remain elusive. Recently, the identification of a number of synaptic proteins as substrates or interacting proteins with Cdk5 provides important clues on how this kinase modulates the efficacy of synaptic transmission. In this review, we summarize the recent findings to illustrate the multi-faceted roles of Cdk5 in synaptic plasticity through affecting dendritic spine formation, ion channel conductance, protein expression, and transcription in the postsynaptic neurons. Importantly, dysregulation of Cdk5 has been linked to Alzheimer's disease, which involves perturbations in synaptic functions and memory formation. Understanding the mechanisms by which Cdk5 regulates synaptic plasticity may therefore provide important insights in the design of novel therapeutic strategies for neurodegenerative diseases.
The crayfish hindgut is a morphologically differentiated tube that varies along its length in the distribution of muscles and glands, contractile properties, serotonergic innervation, patterns of 5-HT receptor expression, and sensitivity to serotonin (5-HT). Anatomical differences divide the hindgut into five distinct segments along its length. Spontaneous pulsatile contractions produced by the isolated hindgut decrease in force and increase in frequency along the anterior-posterior axis. Central input to the hindgut comes from a large cluster of 5-HT-immunoreactive neurons in the terminal abdominal ganglion that form a large nerve plexus on the hindgut. 5-HT(1alpha) and 5-HT(2beta) receptors vary in their distribution along the hindgut, and are associated with longitudinal and circular muscles and with axon collaterals of the 5-HT-immunoreactive neurons. Application of 30 nmol l(-1) to 1 mumol l(-1) 5-HT to rostral, middle, or caudal sections of hindgut produced tension changes that varied with the concentration and section. 5-HT also initiated antiperistaltic waves in the posterior hindgut. These results indicate that 5-HT is an important neuromodulator for initiating contractions and coordinating activity in the different functional compartments along the rostral-to-caudal axis of the hindgut.

To explore therapeutic potential of engineered neural tissue, we combined genetically modified neural stem cells (NSCs) and poly(lactic acid-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) polymers to generate an artificial neural network in vitro. NSCs transfected with either NT-3 or its receptor TrkC gene were seeded into PLGA scaffold. The NSCs were widely distributed and viable in the scaffold after culturing for 14 days. Immunoreactivity against Map2 was detected in &gt;70% of these grafted cells, suggesting a high rate of differentiation toward neurons. Immunostaining of synapsin-I and PSD95 revealed formation of synaptic structures, which was also observed under electron microscope. Furthermore, using FM1-43 dynamic imaging, synapses in these differentiated neurons were found to be excitable and capable of releasing synaptic vesicles. Taken together, our artificial PLGA construct permits NSCs to differentiate toward neurons, establish connections and exhibit synaptic activities. These findings provide a biological basis for future application or transplantation of this artificial construct in neural repair.


A novel small molecule NPY Y2 antagonist (3) identified from high throughput screening is described. A subsequent SAR study and optimisation programme based around this molecule is also described, leading to the identification of potent and soluble pyridyl analogue 36.
The lead optimization process to identify new selective dopamine D(3) receptor antagonists is reported. DMPK parameters and binding data suggest that selective D(3) receptor antagonists as potential PET ligands might have been identified.
Many years of work have been invested in the identification of potent and selective COX-2 inhibitors for the treatment of chronic inflammatory pain. One issue faced by workers is the balance between the lipophilicity required for potent enzyme inhibition and the physical properties necessary for drug absorption and distribution in vivo. Frequently approaches to reduce lipophilicity through introduction of polar functionality is hampered by highly challenging chemistry to prepare key molecules. We have complemented traditional synthetic chemistry with a biotransformations approach which efficiently provided access to an array of key target molecules.
A novel series of [4-[4-(methylsulfonyl)phenyl]-6-(trifluoromethyl)-2-pyrimidine-based cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors, which have a different arrangement of substituents compared to the more common 1,2-diarylheterocycle based molecules, have been discovered. For example, 2-(butyloxy)-4-[4-(methylsulfonyl)phenyl]-6-(trifluoromethyl)pyrimidine (47), a member of the 2-pyrimidinyl ether series, has been shown to be a potent and selective inhibitor with a favourable pharmacokinetic profile, high brain penetration and good efficacy in rat models of hypersensitivity.
Late endocytic membrane trafficking delivers target materials and newly synthesized hydrolases into lysosomes and is critical for maintaining an efficient degradation process and cellular homoeostasis. Although some features of late endosome-lysosome trafficking have been described, the mechanisms underlying regulation of this event remain to be elucidated. Our previous studies showed that Snapin, as a SNAP25 (25 kDa synaptosome-associated protein)-binding protein, plays a critical role in priming synaptic vesicles for synchronized fusion in neurons. In the present study, we report that Snapin also associates with late endocytic membranous organelles and interacts with the late endosome-targeted SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor-attachment protein receptor) complex. Using a genetic mouse model, we further discovered that Snapin is required to maintain a proper balance of the late endocytic protein LAMP-1 (lysosome-associated membrane protein-1) and late endosomal SNARE proteins syntaxin 8 and Vti1b (vesicle transport through interaction with target SNAREs homologue 1b). Deleting the snapin gene in mice selectively led to the accumulation of these proteins in late endocytic organelles. Thus our present study suggests that Snapin serves as an important regulator of the late endocytic fusion machinery, in addition to its established role in regulating synaptic vesicle fusion.


Over the past 50 years, various shunting procedures involving the peritoneum have been performed for the treatment of hydrocephalus. During placement of the peritoneal portion of the catheter, complications may arise secondary to a lack of direct visualization. We describe a reduced complication rate with laparoscopically-assisted placement of the peritoneal portion of the catheter. A retrospective chart review was performed of seventy-six (76) laparoscopically-assisted cases performed without consideration of prior abdominal surgery or obesity. Subjects ranged in age from 19 to 80 years. Mean operative time was 55.3 minutes. No visceral injuries occurred. To date, no infectious complications have occurred. In 3% of subjects, conversion to an open procedure was necessary after failure to establish pneumoperitoneum. Laparoscopic placement of peritoneal shunts is safe and efficacious. It provides visualization of the distal catheter target. Moreover, it reduces the risk of visceral complications, CSF pseudocysts, or extraperitoneal placement of the catheter. In the future, laparoscopic placement of the peritoneal portion of the catheter may become a standard treatment in those patients requiring placement of a peritoneal catheter.


Neuronal activity within and across the cortex and basal ganglia is pathologically synchronized, particularly at approximately 20 Hz in patients with Parkinson's disease. Defining how activities in spatially distributed brain regions overtly synchronize in narrow frequency bands is critical for understanding disease processes like Parkinson's disease. To address this, we studied cortical responses to electrical stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) at various frequencies between 5 and 30 Hz in two cohorts of eight patients with Parkinson's disease from two different surgical centres. We found that evoked activity consisted of a series of diminishing waves with a peak latency of 21 ms for the first wave in the series. The cortical evoked potentials (cEPs) averaged in each group were well fitted by a damped oscillator function (r &gt; or = 0.9, P &lt; 0.00001). Fits suggested that the natural frequency of the subthalamo-cortical circuit was around 20 Hz. When the system was forced at this frequency by stimulation of the STN at 20 Hz, the undamped amplitude of the modelled cortical response increased relative to that with 5 Hz stimulation in both groups (P &lt; or = 0.005), consistent with resonance. Restoration of dopaminergic input by treatment with levodopa increased the damping of oscillatory activity (as measured by the modelled damping factor) in both patient groups (P &lt; or = 0.001). The increased damping would tend to limit resonance, as confirmed in simulations. Our results show that the basal ganglia-cortical network involving the STN has a tendency to resonate at approximately 20 Hz in Parkinsonian patients. This resonance phenomenon may underlie the propagation and amplification of activities synchronized around this frequency. Crucially, dopamine acts to increase damping and thereby limit resonance in this basal ganglia-cortical network.
Epidemiological studies suggest that early life infections may contribute to the development of psychiatric disorders characterized by cognitive deficits. Here, we studied the effects of a neonatal influenza A/WSN/33 virus infection on locomotor activity, working memory and emotional behavior in adult mice. In addition to wild type mice, immunodeficient (Tap1(-/-)) mice lacking functional CD8(+) T cells, were included in the study to model the potential influence of a genetic deficit relating to virus clearance. Three to four months after the infection, infected Tap1(-/-) mice, but not wild type mice, exhibited deficits in working memory as well as increased rearing activity and anxiety. In the medial prefrontal cortices of these infected Tap1(-/-) mice reduced levels of type III Nrg1 transcripts were observed supporting a role for neuregulin 1 signaling in neuronal circuits involved in working memory. Virus replication, distribution or clearance did not differ between the two genotypes. The lack of CD8(+) T cells, however, appeared to contribute to a more pronounced glia response in Tap1(-/-) than in wild type mice. Thus, the present study suggest that the risk of developing deficits in cognitive and emotional behavior following a CNS infection during brain development is influenced by genetic variation in genes involved in the immune response.
There is growing recognition that psychological stress influences pain. Hormones that comprise the physiological response to stress (e.g., corticosterone; CORT) may interact with effectors of neuropathic pain. To test this hypothesis, mice received a spared nerve injury (SNI) after exposure to 60 min restraint stress. In stressed mice, allodynia was consistently increased. The mechanism(s) underlying the exacerbated pain response involves CORT acting via glucocorticoid receptors (GRs); RU486, a GR antagonist, prevented the stress-induced increase in allodynia whereas exogenous administration of CORT to non-stressed mice reproduced the allodynic response caused by stress. Since nerve injury-induced microglial activation has been implicated in the onset and propagation of neuropathic pain, we evaluated cellular and molecular indices of microglial activation in the context of stress. Activation of dorsal horn microglia was accelerated by stress; however, this effect was transient and was not associated with the onset or maintenance of a pro-inflammatory phenotype. Stress-enhanced allodynia was associated with increased dorsal horn extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation (pERK). ERK activation could indicate a stress-mediated increase in glutamatergic signaling, therefore mice were treated prior to SNI and stress with memantine, an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonist. Memantine prevented stress-induced enhancement of allodynia after SNI. These data suggest that the hormonal responses elicited by stress exacerbate neuropathic pain through enhanced central sensitization. Moreover, drugs that inhibit glucocorticoids (GCs) and/or NMDAR signaling could ameliorate pain syndromes caused by stress.
In this study we investigated with a priming paradigm whether uni and bimanual actions presented as primes differently affected language processing. Animals' (self-moving entities) and plants' (not self-moving entities) names were used as targets. As prime we used grasping hands, presented both as static images and videos. The results showed an interference effect with unimanual action primes (both static and moving) with plants' names. No modulation of responses for animals' names was found. We argue that in the present task plants elicit information on unimanual grasping actions they support, while the lack of effect for animals could be due to them being better characterized as active agents.

The Japanese language represents numbers in kana digit words (a syllabic notation), kanji numbers and Arabic numbers (logographic notations). Kanji and Arabic numbers have previously shown similar patterns of numerical processing, and because of their shared logographic properties may exhibit similar brain areas of numerical representation. Kana digit words require a larger phonetic component, and therefore may show different areas of numerical representation as compared to kanji or Arabic numbers. The present study investigated behavioral reaction times and brain activation with fMRI during the numerical processing of kana digit words, kanji numbers and Arabic numbers. No differences in behavioral reaction time were found between kanji and Arabic numbers. In contrast, kana digit words produced a longer reaction time as compared to the other two notations. The imaging data showed that kana activated the posterior cingulate cortex when compared to kanji and Arabic numbers. It is suggested that this posterior cingulate activation reflects an additional attentional demand in this script which may be related to the infrequent use of kana digit words, or may reflect an extra step of phonological mediation in converting the visual word form to the verbal word form. Overall, the data suggest that number reading is processed differently in these three notations.



This study conducted a follow-up of 13 early-onset slightly disabled Relapsing-Remitting Multiple Sclerosis (RRMS) patients within an year, evaluating both CC area measurements in a midsagittal Magnetic Resonance (MR) image, and Dichotic Listening (DL) testing with stop consonant vowel (C-V) syllables. Patients showed a significant progressive loss of posterior CC areas (isthmus and splenium) related to increasing EDSS scores and an enhancing right ear advantage (REA) over time. A significant correlation between posterior CC areas and DL scores emerged in both evaluations, being negative for the right and positive for the left ear. The pattern of correlations suggests that the CC can serve an inhibitory and also excitatory influence on the contralateral hemisphere when studying the phonological processing of language. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE TO THE NEUROSCIENCE OF LANGUAGE: The scope of the manuscript is language lateralization. The task used in the experiment is a verbal dichotic listening task, tapping the most basic phonological aspects of language. Finally, the available research is scarce when focusing on the interhemispheric excitation or inhibition of the corpus callosum in linguistic functioning.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic central nervous system disease in which autoimmune mechanisms are operative. Although it appears that the prognosis of MS has been significantly improved after interferon-beta and glatiramer acetate were introduced in clinic, many patients are still refractory to available medications, and the necessity to develop new treatment options is obvious. Current trend in the drug discovery is to find or make a drug whose molecular target is clearly identified. This is also the case for the development of drugs for MS. Here I review current status in the development of so-called &quot;molecular target drugs&quot; for MS. In general, effects of such drugs well fit to the expected mechanism of action. Although concerns about opportunistic infections including JC virus-mediated progressive multi-focal leukoencephalopathy (PML) have not been dissolved, better clinical and laboratory monitoring of the immune system of the patients may help minimize potential side effects of these drugs.

Rats selectively bred to be seizure-prone versus resistant naturally exhibit behaviors, neuroanatomy and physiology that are reminiscent of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and autism spectrum disorders (ASD) in humans. Evidence suggests these characteristics evolve via genetic/epigenetic mechanisms acting prior to birth that most likely involve aberrant lipid handling.
There is a substantial incidence of interictal behavioural comorbidities with epilepsy. These comorbidities can often be more difficult to treat than the seizures themselves and are a significant burden to the afflicted individuals and health care system. This article provides a brief overview of the behavioural comorbidities associated with epilepsy in humans and how the kindling of animals models these behavioural anomalies. Specific attention is paid to kindling in frontal cortex, its effects on skilled reaching behaviour and underlying mechanisms.
Kindling and long-term potentiation (LTP) are two common paradigms of synaptic plasticity. Initially proposed as a model of learning of memory, kindling is considered as a model of epilepsy, with LTP filling in its role as a model of learning and memory. This review suggests that LTP is not critical for kindling-induced epileptiform activity such as spontaneous interictal spikes. Repeated theta-frequency primed burst stimulations (PBs) and repeated ADs (kindling) of the hippocampal commissures were compared in their ability to induce potentiation and to disrupt spatial behavior. Repeated PBs and kindling both induced large potentiation of the CA1 basal dendritic synapse, but only hippocampal kindling disrupted the retention of spatial task on the radial arm maze. While there was evidence that transynaptic potentiation was more persistent after hippocampal kindling than repeated PBs, disruption of inhibition rather than enhancement of excitation may more readily explain the disruption of spatial behavior by kindling. In conclusion, there is little evidence that LTP is essential for the epileptiform activity or the disruption of spatial behavior after hippocampal kindling.
The evidence supporting the suggestion that kindling is a good model of human temporal lobe epilepsy is briefly reviewed. Parallels between the human condition, involving both partial and secondarily generalized seizures, and kindling in rats and other animals are drawn and contrasted.
&quot;Lateralized hemispheric function is guided by structural cerebral asymmetry&quot; remains an attractive hypothesis. It is plausible that genetically determined events lead to structural asymmetry that in turn guide lateralized functional development. However, hemispheric specializations are neither inevitable consequences of early local cytoarchitectural differences nor immutably fixed in structure. The human brain possesses dynamic plasticity as its primary mission and can override and transcend hemispheric differences for preservation of higher cognitive functions such as speech and language.
This is a summary of four presentations on epidemiological aspects of Epilepsy in children and adults in Canada, given at the Canadian League Against Epilepsy 30th anniversary meeting in Vancouver, British Columbia in October 2007. Dr. S. Wiebe discusses the burden of epilepsy, Dr, P. Camfield addresses the epidemiology of epilepsy in children, Dr. N. Jett provides an overview of comorbidity and epidemiological surveillance in epilepsy, and Dr. Burneo explores the area of disparities in epilepsy. The summary is intended as a brief overview of these aspects, with particular emphasis on available Canadian data.




Cancer stem cells (CSCs) have been identified in a growing number of hematopoietic and solid tissue malignancies and are typically recognized by virtue of the expression of cell surface markers. CD133, a stem cell marker, is now extensively used as a surface marker to identify and isolate brain tumor stem cells (BTSCs) in malignant brain tumors. However, CD133 as the marker to sort BTSCs suffered some controversies. In this review, we reviewed the rise of CD133, analyzed the efficiency of CD133 on identification and isolation of BTSCs, explained some controversial study results and summed up the role of CD133 and other effective CSCs markers in sorting CSCs in other tumors. We analyzed current limited reports and found that the expression of CD133 was correlated with poor clinical prognosis in brain tumors. Finally, we summarized the mechanisms of chemo- and radio- resistance of CD133+ brain tumor cell, especially emphasized that the aberrant activation of development pathways in BTSCs can be potential targets to BTSCs, and outlined current preclinical studies on killing BTSCs or sensitizing BTSCs to chemo- and radio-therapies.
The Kank family of proteins, Kank1-Kank4, are characterized by their unique structure, coiled-coil motifs in the N-terminal region, and ankyrin-repeats in the C-terminal region, with an additional motif, the KN motif, at the N-terminus. Kank1 was obtained by positional cloning of a tumor suppressor gene in renal cell carcinoma, while the other members were found by homology search. The family is involved in the regulation of actin polymerization and cell motility through signaling pathways containing PI3K/Akt and/or unidentified modulators/effectors. Their relationship to diseases such as cancer, and to neuronal and developmental disorders, will be an important subject of future study.
The family of mammalian type-I transmembrane receptors containing a Vps10p domain contains five members, Sortilin, SorCS1, SorCS2, SorCS3, and SorLA. The common characteristic of these receptors is an N-terminal Vps10p domain, which either represents the only module of the luminal/extracellular moiety or is combined with additional domains. Family members play roles in protein transport and signal transduction. The individual receptors bind and internalize a variety of ligands, such as neuropeptides and trophic factors, and Sortilin and SorLA mediate trans-Golgi network-to-endosome sorting. Their prominent neuronal expression, several of the identified ligands, and recent results support the notion that members of this receptor family have important functions in neurogenesis, plasticity-related processes, and functional maintenance of the nervous system. For instance, it has been demonstrated that Sortilin partakes in the transduction of proapoptotic effects, and there is converging biochemical and genetic evidence that implies that SorLA is an Alzheimer's disease risk factor.
The histopathological hallmarks of Alzheimer disease are the extracellular amyloid plaques, composed principally of the amyloid beta peptide, and the intracellular neurofibrillary tangles, composed of paired helical filaments of the microtubule-associated protein, tau. Other histopathological structures involving actin and the actin-binding protein, cofilin, have more recently been recognized. Here we review new findings about these cytoskeletal pathologies, and, emphasize how plaques, tangles, the actin-containing inclusions and their respective building blocks may contribute to Alzheimer pathogenesis and the primary behavioral symptoms of the disease. Cell Motil. Cytoskeleton, 2009. (c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Heterotrimeric G proteins regulate diverse physiological processes by modulating the activities of intracellular effectors. Members of the Galpha(q) family link G protein-coupled receptor activation to phospholipase Cbeta (PLCbeta) activity and intracellular calcium signaling cascades. However, they differ markedly in biochemical properties as well as tissue distribution. Recent findings have shown that some of the cellular activities of Galpha(q) family members are independent of PLCbeta activation. A guanine nucleotide exchange factor, p63RhoGEF, has been shown to interact with Galpha(q) proteins and thus provides linkage to RhoA activation. However, it is not known if p63RhoGEF can associate with other Galpha(q) family members such as Galpha(16). In the present study, we employed co-immunoprecipitation studies in HEK293 cells to demonstrate that p63RhoGEF can form a stable complex with the constitutively active mutant of Galpha(16) (Galpha(16)QL). Interestingly, overexpression of p63RhoGEF inhibited Galpha(16)QL-induced IP(3) production in a concentration-dependent manner. The binding of PLCbeta(2) to Galpha(16)QL could be displaced by p63RhoGEF. Similarly, p63RhoGEF inhibited the binding of tetratricopeptide repeat 1 to Galpha(16)QL, leading to a suppression of Galpha(16)QL-induced Ras activation. In the presence of p63RhoGEF, Galpha(16)QL-induced STAT3 phosphorylation was significantly reduced and Galpha(16)QL-mediated SRE transcriptional activation was attenuated. Taken together, these results suggest that p63RhoGEF binds to activated Galpha(16) and inhibits its signaling pathways.
There are conflicting data concerning the association between migraine and C677T polymorphism of the MTHFR gene. The C677T polymorphism reduces enzymatic capability by 50% and causes hyperhomocysteinaemia. We performed a meta-analysis of all published studies investigating the association between the MTHFR gene and migraine. Pooled odds ratios (OR) were estimated using random (RE) and fixed effects (FE) models. Among the overall 2961 migraineurs there was no significant difference compared with controls. Only in migraine with aura was the TT genotype associated with a higher risk of disease compared with the CC genotype [FE OR 1.30, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.06, 1.58; RE OR 1.66, 95% CI 1.06, 2.59]. In the same subgroup a significant difference was observed in the comparison between TT and CT + CC genotypes (FE OR 1.32, 95% CI 1.10, 1.59; RE OR 1.63, 95% CI 1.10, 2.43). This study provides evidence for an association of the MTHFR gene only in migraine with aura.
Transitional neuronal layers are a hallmark of the prenatal and neonatal brain yet their contribution to the development of higher functions is not clear. Evidence accumulated over the last 3 decades shows that early connectivity and functional activity start in a transitional layer called the subplate zone (SPZ). The SPZ is host to a heterogeneous population of neurons and its evolutionary complexity peaked in the human brain. In this issue of Cerebral Cortex, three reports (Hoerder-Suabedissen et al., 2008; McKellar and Shatz, 2008; Moore et al., 2008) present new data and evidence in three species (mouse, rat, human) as to the function of the SPZ, to the heterogeneity of its cellular composition, and to the genetic basis of its development.
Working memory (WM) is a core cognitive process that depends upon activation of D1 family receptors (D1R) and inhibitory interneurons in the prefrontal cortex (PFC). D1R are comprised of the D(1) and D(5) subtypes, and D(5) has a 10-fold higher affinity for dopamine. Parvalbumin (PV) and calretinin (CR) are 2 interneuron populations that are differentially affected by D1R stimulation and have discrete postsynaptic targets, such that PV interneurons provide strong inhibition to pyramidal cells, whereas CR interneurons inhibit other interneurons. The distinct properties of both the D1R and interneuron subtypes may contribute to the &quot;inverted-U&quot; relationship of D1R stimulation and WM ability. To determine the prevalence of D(1) and D(5) in PV and CR interneurons, we performed quantitative double-label immunoelectron microscopy in layer III of macaque area 9. We found that D(1) was the predominant D1R subtype in PV interneurons and was found mainly in dendrites. In contrast, D(5) was the predominant D1R subtype in CR interneurons and was found mainly in dendrites. Integrating these findings with previously published electrophysiological data, we propose a circuitry model as a framework for understanding the inverted-U relationship between dopamine stimulation of D1R and WM performance.
Progressive nonfluent aphasia (PNFA) is an early stage of frontotemporal degeneration. We identified a novel Cys521Tyr progranulin gene variant in a PNFA family that potentially disrupts disulphide bridging causing protein misfolding. To identify early neurodegeneration changes, we performed neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies in 6 family members (MRI [magnetic resonance imaging], fMRI [functional MRI], and 18f-fluorodeoxygenlucose positron emission tomography, including 4 mutation carriers, and in 9 unrelated controls. Voxel-based morphometry (VBM) of the carriers compared with controls showed significant cortical atrophy in language areas. Grey matter loss was distributed mainly in frontal lobes, being more prominent on the left. Clusters were located in the superior frontal gyri, left inferior frontal gyrus, left middle frontal gyrus, left middle temporal gyri and left posterior parietal areas, concordant with (18)FDG-PET hypometabolic areas. fMRI during semantic and phonemic covert word generation (CWGTs) and word listening tasks (WLTs) showed recruitment of attentional and working memory networks in the carriers indicative of functional reorganization. During CWGTs, activation in left prefrontal cortex and bilateral anterior insulae was present whereas WLT recruited mesial prefrontal and anterior temporal cortex. These findings suggest that Cys521Tyr could be associated with early brain impairment not limited to language areas and compensated by recruitment of bilateral auxiliary cortical areas.
Information about development of the human cerebral cortex (proliferation, migration, and differentiation of neurons) is largely based on postmortem histology. Physiological properties of developing human cortical neurons are difficult to access experimentally and therefore remain largely unexplored. Animal studies have shown that information about the arousal of electrical activity in individual cells within fundamental cortical zones (subventricular zone [SVZ], intermediate zone, subplate [SP], and cortical plate [CP]) is necessary for understanding normal brain development. Here we ask where, in what cortical zone, and when, in what gestational week (gw), human neurons acquire the ability to generate nerve impulses (action potentials [APs]). We performed electrical recordings from individual cells in acute brain slices harvested postmortem from the human fetal cerebral cortex (16-22 gw). Tetrodotoxin-sensitive Na(+) current occurs more frequently among CP cells and with significantly greater peak amplitudes than in SVZ. As early as 16 gw, a relatively small population of CP neurons (27%) was able to generate sodium APs upon direct current injection. Neurons located in the SP exhibited the highest level of cellular differentiation, as judged by their ability to fire repetitive APs. At 19 gw, a fraction of human CP and SP neurons possess beta IV spectrin-positive axon initial segments populated with voltage-gated sodium channels (PanNav). These results yield the first physiological characterization of developing human fetal cortical neurons with preserved morphologies in intact surrounding brain tissue.
How representations of visual objects are maintained across changes in viewpoint is a central issue in visual perception. Whether neural processes underlying view-invariant recognition involve distinct subregions within extrastriate visual cortex for distinct categories of visual objects remains unresolved. We used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging in 16 healthy volunteers to map visual cortical areas responding to a large set (156) of exemplars from 3 object categories (faces, houses, and chairs), each repeated once after a variable time lag (3-7 intervening stimuli). Exemplars were repeated with the same viewpoint (but different retinal size) or with different viewpoint and size. The task was kept constant across object categories (judging items as &quot;young&quot; vs. &quot;old&quot;). We identified object-selective adaptation effects by comparing neural responses to the first presentation versus repetition of each individual exemplar. We found that exemplar-specific adaptation effects partly overlapped with regions showing category-selective responses (as identified using a separate localizer scan). These included the lateral fusiform gyrus (FG) for faces, parahippocampal gyrus for houses, and lateral occipital complex (LOC) for chairs. In face-selective fusiform gyrus (FG), adaptation effects occurred only for faces repeated with the same viewpoint, but not with a different viewpoint, confirming previous studies using faces only. By contrast, a region in right medial FG, adjacent to but nonoverlapping with the more lateral and face-selective FG, showed repetition effects for faces and to a lesser extent for other objects, regardless of changes in viewpoint or in retinal image-size. Category- and viewpoint-independent repetition effects were also found in bilateral LOC. Our results reveal a common neural substrate in bilateral LOC and right medial FG underlying view-invariant and category-independent recognition for multiple object identities, with only a relative preference for faces in medial FG but no selectivity in LOC.
In 1906, the Spanish neurobiologist Santiago Ramn y Cajal was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in recognition of his work on the structure of neurons and their connections. Cajal is commonly regarded as the father of modern neuroscience. What is less well known is that Cajal also had a great interest in intracellular neuronal structures and developed the reduced silver nitrate method for the study of neurofibrils (neurofilaments) and nuclear subcompartments. It was in 1903 that Cajal discovered the &quot;accessory body&quot; (&quot;Cajal body&quot;) and seven years later, published an article on the organization of the cell nucleus in mammalian neurons that represents a masterpiece of nuclear structure at the light microscopy level. In addition to the accessory body, it includes the analysis of several nuclear components currently recognized as fibrillar centers of the nucleolus, nuclear speckles of splicing factors, transcription foci, nuclear matrix, and the double nuclear membrane. The aim of this article is to revisit Cajal's contributions to the knowledge of the neuronal nucleus in light of our current understanding of nuclear structure and function.
Freshwater crayfish have three known photoreceptive systems: the compound eyes, extraretinal brain photoreceptors, and caudal photoreceptors. The primary goal of the work described here was to explore the contribution of the brain photoreceptors to circadian locomotory activity and define some of the underlying neural pathways. Immunocytochemical studies of the brain photoreceptors in the parastacid (southern hemisphere) crayfish Cherax destructor reveal their expression of the blue light-sensitive photopigment cryptochrome and the neurotransmitter histamine. The brain photoreceptors project to two small protocerebral neuropils, the brain photoreceptor neuropils (BPNs), where they terminate among fibers expressing the neuropeptide pigment-dispersing hormone (PDH), a signaling molecule in arthropod circadian systems. Comparable pathways are also described in the astacid (northern hemisphere) crayfish Procambarus clarkii. Despite exhibiting markedly different diurnal locomotor activity rhythms, removal of the compound eyes and caudal photoreceptors in both C. destructor and P. clarkii (leaving the brain photoreceptors intact) does not abolish the normal light/dark activity cycle in either species, nor prevent the entrainment of their activity cycles to phase shifts of the light/dark period. These results suggest, therefore, that crayfish brain photoreceptors are sufficient for the entrainment of locomotor activity rhythms to photic stimuli, and that they can act in the absence of the compound eyes and caudal photoreceptors. We also demonstrate that the intensity of PDH expression in the BPNs varies in phase with the locomotor activity rhythm of both crayfish species. Together, these findings suggest that the brain photoreceptor cells can function as extraretinal circadian photoreceptors and that the BPN represents part of an entrainment pathway synchronizing locomotor activity to environmental light/dark cycles, and implicating the neuropeptide PDH in these functions.


Emerging pathophysiological findings suggest that primary dystonia originates partly though not exclusively from brain dysfunction involving the basal ganglia and cortico-striatal-thalamo-cortical motor circuits. Studies applying various neurophysiological tests, including spinal and brainstem reflexes, transcranial magnetic stimulation, somatosensory evoked potentials and magnetoencephalography, have documented numerous pathophysiological abnormalities in the various forms of primary dystonia. Owing to differences in the methodology used and in the clinical features of the patients enrolled, these studies have often provided controversial results and failed to determine whether neurophysiological findings correlate with patients' clinical features. In this paper, seeking up-to-date information for use in planning future studies we review the role of neurophysiological methods in the clinical diagnosis of primary dystonia. To improve the current neurophysiological approach to the clinical diagnosis of primary dystonia, future studies should aim to use standardized study designs and methods, enrol homogeneous and clinically well-defined populations and investigate the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of the available neurophysiological tests.

A survey of members of the British Psychological Society Division of Neuropsychology (N = 588) was conducted via email to ascertain current practice with respect to the use of symptom validity testing (SVT) in clinical and legal neuropsychological assessments. Replies were received from 130 practicing neuropsychologists. Results showed that 59% frequently use SVT in legal assessments, but a minority (15%) employ them in clinical assessments. Practice in the UK is only moderately different to that in North America with respect to frequency of use of SVT, although methods employed showed greater diversity. Favored tests, respondents' justifications for use of SVT and rationales for not using SVT are reported.
Conduct disorder (CD) represents the most common childhood psychiatric disorder found in community and mental health clinics. This paper provides a comprehensive review of the neurobiology of CD; specifically, neurological and neurochemical correlates. Converging evidence suggests that neurological profiles of individuals with CD, compared to peers, are characterized by reduced P300 brain wave amplitude, deactivation of the anterior cingulated cortex and reduced activation in the left amygdala in response to negative stimuli, and reduced right temporal lobe volume. The neurochemical profiles of individuals with CD are characterized by reduced serotonin and cortisol levels (i.e., decreased HPA axis function), as well as attenuated autonomic nervous system functioning. Popular theoretical frameworks cited within the CD literature are limited in their ability to explain and consolidate the neurological and neurochemical findings. We believe that emotion dysregulation theory, though not often used within CD research, may provide the most comprehensive and inclusive framework for understanding neurobiological aspects of this disorder. Limitations within the literature, future directions for research, and implications of the findings will be discussed.

Recent studies have established that the orexin system is a critical regulator of sleep/wake states. Deficiency of orexin signaling results in the sleep disorder narcolepsy-cataplexy in humans, dogs, and rodents. These findings have brought about the possibility of novel therapies for sleep disorders including narcolepsy-cataplexy. Furthermore, accumulating evidence has indicated that the orexin system regulates sleep and wakefulness through interactions with neuronal systems that regulate emotion, reward, and energy homeostasis. This review presents and discusses the current understanding of the integrative physiology of the orexin system.
A growing body of evidence suggests that mitochondrial abnormalities are involved in aging and in age-related neurodegenerative diseases as well as cancer, diabetes, and several other diseases known to be affected by mitochondria. Causal factors for most age-related neurodegenerative diseases-including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and Friedrich ataxia (FRDA)-are largely unknown. Genetic defects are reported to cause a small number of neurodegenerative diseases, but cellular, molecular, and pathological mechanisms of disease progression and selective neuronal cell death are not understood fully in these diseases. However, based on several cellular, molecular, and animal model studies of Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, ALS, FRDA, cancer, and diabetes, aging may play a large role in cell death in these diseases. Age-dependent, mitochondrially-generated reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been identified as important factors responsible for disease progression and cell death, particularly in late-onset diseases, in which genetic mutations are not causal factors.




Sepsis is a major disease entity with important clinical implications. It is associated with a high mortality rate in humans. Recently, several studies have demonstrated that Intensive Care Unit survivors present long-term cognitive impairment, including alterations in memory, attention, concentration and/or global loss of cognitive function. The pathogenesis of septic encephalopathy and cognitive impairment are still poorly known and further understanding of these processes is necessary for the development of effective preventive and therapeutic interventions. Here we discuss the clinical presentation and underlying pathophysiology of the encephalopathy and neurobiology of the cognitive impairment associated with sepsis.
In mammals, auditory perception is initially mediated through sensory cells located in a rigorously patterned mosaic of unique cell types located within the coiled cochlea. Identification of the factors that direct multipotent progenitor cells to develop as each of these specialized cell types has the potential to enhance our understanding of the development of the auditory system and to identify potential targets for regenerative therapies. Recent results have identified specific signaling molecules and pathways, including Notch, Hedgehog, Sox2 and Fgfs, that guide progenitor cells to develop first as a sensory precursor, referred to as a prosensory cell, and subsequently as one of the specialized cell types within the sensory mosaic.
The act of eating and drinking brings food-related chemicals into contact with taste cells. Activation of these taste cells, in turn, engages neural circuits in the central nervous system that help animals identify foods and fluids, determine what and how much to eat, and prepare the body for digestion and assimilation. Analytically speaking, these neural processes can be divided into at least three categories: stimulus identification, ingestive motivation, and digestive preparation. This review will discuss recent advances in peripheral gustatory mechanisms, primarily from rodent models, in the context of these three major categories of taste function.
A central tenet of neuroscience is that the precise patterns of connectivity among neurons in a given brain area underlie its function. However, assigning any aspect of perception or behavior to the wiring of local circuits has been challenging. Here, we review recent work in sensory neocortex that demonstrates the power of identifying specific cell types when investigating the functional organization of brain circuits. These studies indicate that knowing the identity of both the presynaptic and postsynaptic cell type is key when analyzing neocortical circuits. Furthermore, identifying the circuit organization of particular cell types in the neocortex allows the recording and manipulation of each cell type's activity and the direct testing of its functional role in perception and behavior.
Cerebellar granule cells are an attractive model system for examining synaptic transmission and temporal integration, because of their small number of excitatory synaptic inputs and electrotonic compactness. Recent in vivo whole-cell recordings have revealed how sensory stimuli are represented by synaptic activity across multiple modalities and cerebellar regions. By monitoring the activity of individual synapses, the reliability of these unitary signals has been quantified, and the complexity of a granule cell's receptive field has been explored at the highest resolution. Here we describe the emerging principles of synaptic sensory representation and their consequences for information processing in the granule cell layer.
Neural activity in cortex is correlated, an observation that has traditionally been attributed to neurons receiving input from a shared and limited presynaptic pool. Recent studies have shown that correlations are also strongly influenced by network fluctuations that operate over a range of spatial and temporal scales, extending in some cases across cortical areas. These fluctuations are sensitive to internal states and external drive, so that correlations themselves depend strongly on cognitive state and stimulus properties. Given the potential impact on population coding, this modulation of correlations may play an important role in sensory processing.
The thalamus has traditionally been thought to passively relay sensory information to the cortex. By showing that responses in visual thalamus are modulated by perceptual and cognitive tasks, recent fMRI and physiology studies have helped revise this view. The modulatory input to the visual thalamus derives from functionally distinct cortical and subcortical feedback pathways. These pathways enable the lateral geniculate nucleus and pulvinar to regulate the information transmitted to cortical areas according to cognitive requirements. Emerging evidence suggests that such regulation involves changing the degree of synchrony between neurons as well as changing the magnitude of thalamic activity. These findings support a role for the thalamus that extends as far as contributing to the control of visual attention and awareness.





Psychiatry has lagged behind other specialties in developing diagnostic laboratory tests for the purpose of confirming or ruling out a diagnosis. Biological research into the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders has, however, yielded some highly replicable abnormalities that have the potential for development into clinically useful diagnostic tests. To achieve this goal, a process for systematic translation must be developed and implemented. Building on our previous work, we review a proposed process using four clearly defined steps. We conclude that biological parameters currently face challenges in their pathways to becoming diagnostic tests because of both the premature release and premature abandonment of tests. Attention to a systematic translation process aided by these principles may help to avoid these problems.
The innexin family of gap junction proteins has 25 members in Caenorhabditis elegans. Here, we describe the first high-resolution expression map of all members through analysis of live worms transformed with green fluorescent protein under the control of entire promoter regions. Our analyses show that innexins have dynamic expression patterns throughout development and are found in virtually all cell types and tissues. Complex tissues, such as the pharynx, intestine, gonad, as well as scaffolding tissues and guidepost cells express a variety of innexins in overlapping or complementary patterns, suggesting they may form heteromeric and heterotypic channels. Innexin expression occurs in several types of cells that are not known to form gap junctions as well as in a pair of migrating cells, suggesting they may have hemichannel function. Therefore, innexins likely play roles in almost all body functions, including embryonic development, cell fate determination, oogenesis, egg laying, pharyngeal pumping, excretion, and locomotion.
Myeloid translocation gene (MTG) proteins are transcriptional repressors that are highly conserved across species. We studied the expression of three members of this gene family, MTGR1, MTG8, and MTG16 in developing mouse central nervous system by in situ hybridization. All of these genes are detected as early as embryonic day 11.5. Because these genes are known to be induced by proneural genes during neurogenesis, we analyzed the expression of MTG genes in relation to two proneural genes, Neurog2 (also known as Ngn2 or Neurogenin 2) and Ascl1 (also known as Mash1). While MTGR1 are generally expressed in regions that also express Neurog2, MTG8 and MTG16 expression is associated more tightly with that of Ascl1-expressing neural progenitor cells. These results suggest the possibility that expression of MTG genes is differentially controlled by specific proneural genes during neurogenesis.
Regenerating limbs of urodele amphibians and Xenopus tadpole are reconstructed along proximal-distal, anterior-posterior (AP), and dorsal-ventral axes. In contrast, a regenerated limb of the Xenopus froglet does not have digits, and only a simple cartilaginous structure referred to as a &quot;spike&quot; is formed. This suggests that repatterning along the AP axis is absent in the froglet blastema. Previous studies have shown that Shh and its target genes are not expressed in the froglet blastema. In this study, we activated Hedgehog signaling in the froglet blastema and found that target genes of Shh were inducible in the mesenchyme of limb blastema. Furthermore, we found that activation of the signaling had effects on blastema cell proliferation and chondrogenesis and resulted in the formation of multiple cartilaginous structures. These findings indicate that activation of signaling that is absent in the froglet blastema is effective for improvement of limb regeneration ability in the Xenopus froglet.
We have previously shown that in Dictyostelium cells a 32 kDa protein is rapidly and completely dephosphorylated in response to starvation that is essential for the initiation of differentiation (Akiyama &amp; Maeda 1992). In the present work, this phosphoprotein was identified as a homologue (Dd-RPS6) of ribosomal protein S6 (RPS6) that is an essential member for protein synthesis. As expected, Dd-RPS6 seems to be absolutely required for cell survival, because we failed to obtain antisense-RNA mediated cells as well as Dd-rps6-null cells by homologous recombination in spite of many trials. In many kinds of cell lines, RPS6 is known to be located in the nucleus and cytosol, but Dd-RPS6 is predominantly located in the cell cortex with cytoskeletons, and in the contractile ring of just-dividing cells. In this connection, the overexpression of Dd-RPS6 greatly impairs cytokinesis during axenic shake-cultures in growth medium, resulting in the formation of multinucleate cells. Much severe impairment of cytokinesis was observed when Dd-RPS6-overexpressing cells (Dd-RPS6(OE) cells) were incubated on a living Escherichia coli lawn. The initiation of differentiation triggered by starvation was also delayed in Dd-RPS6(OE) cells. In addition, Dd-RPS6(OE) cells exhibit defective differentiation into prespore cells and spores during late development. Thus, it is likely that the proper expression of Dd-RPS6 may be of importance for the normal progression of late differentiation as well as for the initiation of differentiation.
Maternal licking in rats affects the development of the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB), a sexually dimorphic motor nucleus that controls penile reflexes involved with copulation. Reduced maternal licking produces decreased motoneuron number, size, and dendritic length in the rostral portion of the adult SNB as well as deficits in adult male copulatory behavior. Previous research suggests that decreases in perineal tactile stimulation may be responsible for these effects. To determine whether the regional effects of maternal licking on SNB morphology are driven by sensory afferent innervation of the lumbosacral spinal cord, we used WGA-HRP to reconstruct the location of sensory afferent fibers from the perineal skin. We found that these fibers are caudally concentrated relative to the area of the SNB dendritic field, with the rostral dendritic arbor receiving little perineal afferent innervation. We also assessed Fos expression following perineal tactile stimulation to determine whether it increased local spinal cord activity in the SNB dendritic field. Sixty seconds of licking-like perineal stimulation produced a transient 115% increase in Fos expression in the area of the SNB dendritic field. This effect was driven by a significant increase in Fos in the caudal portion of the SNB dendritic field, matching the pattern of perineal afferent fiber labeling. Perineal tactile stimulation also produced significantly greater Fos expression in male pups than in female pups. Together, these results suggest that perineal sensory afferent activity mediates the effects of early maternal care on the masculinization of the SNB and resultant male copulatory behavior.
The development of nervous system connectivity depends upon the arborization of dendritic fields and the stabilization of dendritic spine synapses. It is well established that neuronal activity and the neurotrophin BDNF modulate these correlated processes. However, the downstream mechanisms by which these extrinsic signals regulate dendritic development and spine stabilization are less well known. Here we report that a substrate of BDNF signaling, the Ankyrin Repeat-rich Membrane Spanning (ARMS) protein or Kidins220, plays a critical role in the branching of cortical and hippocampal dendrites and in the turnover of cortical spines. In the barrel somatosensory cortex and the dentate gyrus, regions where ARMS/Kidins220 is highly expressed, no difference in the complexity of dendritic arbors was observed in 1-month-old adolescent ARMS/Kidins220(+/-) mice compared to wild-type littermates. However, at 3 months of age, young adult ARMS/Kidins220(+/-) mice exhibited decreased dendritic complexity. This suggests that ARMS/Kidins220 does not play a significant role in the initial formation of dendrites but, rather, is involved in the refinement or stabilization of the arbors later in development. In addition, at 1 month of age, the rate of spine elimination was higher in ARMS/Kidins220(+/-) mice than in wild-type mice, suggesting that ARMS/Kidins220(+/-) levels regulate spine stability. Taken together, these data suggest that ARMS/Kidins220 is important for the growth of dendritic arbors and spine stability during an activity- and BDNF-dependent period of development.
Neuroethics, in its modern form, investigates the impact of brain science in four basic dimensions: the self, social policy, practice and discourse. In this study, we analyzed a set of 461 peer-reviewed articles with neuroethics content, published by authors from 32 countries. We analyzed the data for: (1) trends in the development of international neuroethics over time, and (2) how challenges at the intersection of ethics and neuroscience are viewed in countries that are considered developed by International Monetary Fund (IMF) standards, and in those that are developing. Our results demonstrate a steady increase in global participation in neuroethics from 1989 to 2005, characterized by an increase in numbers of articles published specifically on neuroethics, journals publishing these articles, and countries contributing to the literature. The focus from all countries was on the practice of brain science and the amelioration of neurological disease. Indicators of technology creation and diffusion in developing countries were specifically correlated with increases in publications concerning policy implications of brain science. Neuroethics is an international endeavor and, as such, should be sensitive to the impact that context has on acceptance and use of technological innovation.
This paper integrates some Buddhist moral values, attitudes and self-cultivation techniques into a discussion of the ethics of cognitive enhancement technologies - in particular, pharmaceutical enhancements. Many Buddhists utilize meditation techniques that are both integral to their practice and are believed to enhance the cognitive and affective states of experienced practitioners. Additionally, Mahyna Buddhism's teaching on skillful means permits a liberal use of methods or techniques in Buddhist practice that yield insight into our selfnature or aid in alleviating or eliminating duhkha (i.e. dissatisfaction). These features of many, if not most, Buddhist traditions will inform much of the Buddhist assessment of pharmaceutical enhancements offered in this paper. Some Buddhist concerns about the effects and context of the use of pharmaceutical enhancements will be canvassed in the discussion. Also, the author will consider Buddhist views of the possible harms that may befall human and nonhuman research subjects, interference with a recipient's karma, the artificiality of pharmaceutical enhancements, and the possible motivations or intentions of healthy individuals pursuing pharmacological enhancement. Perhaps surprisingly, none of these concerns will adequately ground a reflective Buddhist opposition to the further development and continued use of pharmaceutical enhancements, either in principle or in practice. The author argues that Buddhists, from at least certain traditions - particularly Mahyna Buddhist traditions - should advocate the development or use of pharmaceutical enhancements if a consequence of their use is further insight into our self-nature or the reduction or alleviation of duhkha.
Ghrelin is a recently identified gastric hormone that displays strong growth hormone (GH) releasing activity mediated by the GH secretagogue receptor (GHS-R). While this unique endogenous peptide participates in the regulation of energy homeostasis, increases food intake, and decreases energy expenditure, its ability to modulate immune regulation is another important feature. Here we discuss the effect of ghrelin on the immune system. Ghrelin was initially reported as an immune enhancing factor. More recently, however, the immunosuppressive effects of ghrelin have been found in several animal models including bowel disease, arthritis, and sepsis and endotoxemia. We recently demonstrated that exogenous administration of ghrelin suppressed experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, an animal model of multiple sclerosis in association with the reduction of pro-inflammatory cytokines in microglia. These results shed light on the new role of ghrelin in the regulation of disorders that pro-inflammatory cytokines contribute to the pathogenesis such as neuroinflammatory and mental diseases.

Adaptive developmental plasticity has been demonstrated across a number of taxa in response to variables such as photoperiod, resource abundance, and predator presence. Demographics also vary temporally and spatially within populations, but few studies have examined the possibility that developmental plasticity in response to changes in these variables can alter phenotypic distributions. Plastic responses to variable population density and sex ratio may play an important role in explaining phenotypic variation in nature. In this study, we examine two species of spiders (Nephila plumipes and Argiope keyserlingi) to examine whether there is evidence that males alter their development in response to demographics in natural populations. We studied spiders in which developing males can use pheromones as a cue of the density of conspecific males and females. We used published information about the mating systems and life history of each species to make predictions about expected patterns of plasticity in development time and correlated changes in adult body size in response to demographic variation. Within each species, male size and mass were positively correlated with the density of males but negatively correlated with the density of females, and as predicted, this was true only when calculated at spatial scales relevant to selection in each species. In contrast, seasonal variation in photoperiod could not explain measured variance in male size. Our results support the idea that developmental plasticity in response to demographics has a significant effect on phenotypic distributions in natural populations. Our results suggest that a proportion of variation in male phenotypes could be explained as a plasticity-mediated evolutionary response to variation in population demographics rather than as a physiological response to resource abundance and/or photoperiod.

Whereas the adolescent brain is a major target for gonadal hormones, our understanding of hormonal influences on adolescent neural and behavioral development remains limited. These experiments investigated how variations in the timing of testosterone (T) exposure, relative to adolescence, alters the strength of steroid-sensitive neural circuits underlying social behavior in male Syrian hamsters. Experiment 1 simulated early, on-time, and late pubertal development by gonadectomizing males on postnatal d 10 and treating with SILASTIC brand T implants for 19 d before, during, or after adolescence. T treatment before or during, but not after, adolescence facilitated mating behavior in adulthood. In addition, preadolescent T treatments most effectively increased mating behavior overall, indicating that the timing of exposure to pubertal hormones contributes to individual differences in adult behavior. Experiment 2 examined the effects of preadolescent T treatment on behavior and brain regional volumes within the mating neural circuit of juvenile males (i.e. still preadolescent). Although preadolescent T treatment did not induce reproductive behavior in juvenile males, it did increase volumes of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, sexually dimorphic nucleus, posterodorsal medial amygdala, and posteroventral medial amygdala to adult-typical size. In contrast, juvenile anterodorsal medial amygdala and ventromedial hypothalamus volumes were not changed by preadolescent T treatment yet differed significantly in volume from adult controls, suggesting that further maturation of these brain regions during adolescence is required for the expression of male reproductive behavior. Thus, adolescent maturation of social behavior may involve both steroid-independent and -dependent processes, and adolescence marks the end of a postnatal period of sensitivity to steroid-dependent organization of the brain.
The insulin receptor (IR) isoforms and the IGF type 1 receptor (IGF-1R) share a high degree of structural homology but differ in ligand binding kinetics and functions. We developed a highly specific quantitative PCR assay to quantify and compare IR-A, IR-B, and IGF-1R expression within an RNA population. We determined receptor expression in primary murine mammary epithelial cells (MECs) during postnatal development. Both IR isoform mRNAs were 3- to 16-fold higher than IGF-1R expression at all developmental times. IR protein was also 3- to 10-fold higher than IGF-1R protein; however, significantly less IGF-1R was found in hybrid receptors at early (49%) vs. late (79%) pregnancy, indicating that the amount of hybrid receptor is developmentally regulated. Despite high IR expression, IGF ligands were more effective than insulin in stimulating the insulin receptor substrate-1/phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt pathway in acutely isolated MECs from virgin glands. Although approximately 40% of IR transcripts were the IGF-II-sensitive IR-A isoform, IGF-II failed to stimulate IR phosphorylation, and an IGF-1R-specific blocking antibody completely abrogated IGF-II-mediated Akt phosphorylation in the virgin MECs. Taken together, these data suggest that the IGF-1R is more active in signaling than the IR and is the predominant mediator of IGF actions in virgin MECs.
Exposure to stressors during particular stages of development leads to acute and long-term physiological and behavioral changes. We have reported that shipping mice during the peripubertal/adolescent period results in decreased induction of feminine sexual behavior by estradiol and progesterone in adult female mice. To study further the factors involved in this decreased behavioral response, female mice were exposed to a variety of experimental stressors when 6 wk old. Effects of peripubertal/adolescent exposure to these stressors on acute plasma corticosterone levels and changes in body weight and adult behavioral response to estradiol and progesterone were assessed. Although restraint for three daily 3-h periods, 36-h food deprivation, or a multiple stressor regimen acutely increased plasma corticosterone levels and reduced body weight, only exposure to particular doses of the bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 1-1.5 mg/kg body weight, doses that induced moderate levels of sickness behavior in these studies) resulted in reduced behavioral response to estradiol and progesterone in adulthood. Like the effects of shipping, the effects of LPS on adult feminine sexual behavior appear most robust when injected at 6 wk old and are limited to exposure during a vulnerable period at approximately 4-6 wk of age. Therefore, an immune stressor during the peripubertal/adolescent period, but not restraint, food restriction, or a combined stressor, has an enduring influence on behavioral response to estradiol and progesterone. This demonstrates that the decreased response to estradiol and progesterone is not a general response to all stressors during this developmental stage.
In Landau-Kleffner syndrome (LKS), the prominent and often first symptom is auditory verbal agnosia, which may affect nonverbal sounds. It was early suggested that the subsequent decline of speech expression might result from defective auditory analysis of the patient's own speech. Indeed, despite normal hearing levels, the children behave as if they were deaf, and very rapidly speech expression deteriorates and leads to the receptive aphasia typical of LKS. The association of auditory agnosia more or less restricted to speech with severe language decay prompted numerous studies aimed at specifying the defect in auditory processing and its pathophysiology. Long-term follow-up studies have addressed the issue of the outcome of verbal auditory processing and the development of verbal working memory capacities following the deprivation of phonologic input during the critical period of language development. Based on a review of neurophysiologic and neuropsychological studies of auditory and phonologic disorders published these last 20 years, we discuss the association of verbal agnosia and speech production decay, and try to explain the phonologic working memory deficit in the late outcome of LKS within the Hickok and Poeppel dual-stream model of speech processing.




Epileptogenesis is common following brain insults such as trauma, ischemia and infection. However, the mechanisms underlying injury-related epileptogenesis remain unknown. Recent studies demonstrated impaired integrity of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) during epileptogenesis. Here we review accumulating experimental evidence supporting the potential involvement of primary BBB lesion in epileptogenesis. Data from animal experiments demonstrate that primary breakdown of the BBB prone animals to develop focal neocortical epilepsy that is followed by neuronal loss and impaired functions. The extravasation of albumin from the circulation into the brain neuropil was found to be sufficient for the induction of epileptogenesis. Albumin binds to transforming growth factor beta receptor 2 (TGFbetaR2) in astrocytes and induces rapid transcriptional modifications, astrocytic transformation and dysfunction. We highlight a novel cascade of events which is initiated by increased BBB permeability, eventually leading to neuronal dysfunction, epilepsy and cell loss. We review potential mechanisms and existing experimental evidence for the important role of astrocytes and the TGFbeta pathway in epileptogenesis. Finally, we review evidence from human clinical data supporting the involvement of BBB lesion in epilepsy. We propose that primary vascular injury, and specifically BBB breakdown and repair, are key elements in altered interactions within the neurovascular unit and thus may serve as new therapeutic targets.
Maternal smoking during pregnancy is a risk factor for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), but data on its adverse effects on cognitive functioning are sparse and inconsistent. Since the effect of maternal smoking during pregnancy may be due to correlated genetic risk factors rather than being a pure environmental effect, we examined the effect of prenatal exposure to smoking on attentional control, taking into account the effects of both maternal and paternal smoking, and examined whether these effects were genetically mediated by parental genotypes. We further examined whether the effect of prenatal exposure to smoking on attentional control interacted with genotypes of the child. Participants were 79 children with ADHD, ascertained for the International Multi-centre ADHD Gene project (IMAGE), and 105 normal controls. Attentional control was assessed by a visual continuous performance task. Three genetic risk factors for ADHD (DRD4 7-repeat allele of the exon 3 variable number of tandem repeats (VNTR), DAT1 10/10 genotype of the VNTR located in the 3' untranslated region, and the DAT1 6/6 genotype of the intron 8 VNTR) were included in the analyses. Paternal smoking had a negative effect on attentional control in children with ADHD and this effect appeared to be mediated by genetic risk factors. The prenatal smoking effect did not interact with genotypes of the child. Maternal smoking had no main effect on attentional control, which may be due to lower smoking rates. This study suggests that the effects of paternal smoking on attentional control in children with ADHD should be considered a proxy for ADHD and/or smoking risk genes. Future studies should examine if the results can be generalized to other cognitive domains.
This study investigated whether there is a relationship between heart rate variability (HRV) versus lifestyle and risk factors for cardiovascular disease in a population of healthy adolescents. HRV is as an index of tonic autonomic activity and in adults HRV is related to lifestyle and risk factors for cardiovascular disease, but it is not known if this is the case in adolescents. HRV was registered for 4 min in sitting position in 99 healthy adolescents (age range 15 years 11 months-17 years 7 months) and repeated after 6 months. On both occasions there were significant correlations (P &lt; 0.05) between physical activity and HRV, with respective r values: high frequency (HF) 0.26, 0.30; low frequency power (LF) 0.35, 0.29 and the standard deviation of inter-beat intervals (SDNN) 0.28, 0.37. There was no significant interaction between first and second measurements. In contrast, there were no correlations to sleeping patterns, eating habits and smoking. Risk factors for cardiovascular disease [body mass index (BMI = weight (kg)/length in m(2)), systolic blood pressure and p-glucose] did not show any repeatable significant correlations to HRV. Multiple regression models showed that physical activity was a predictor for HF, LF and SDNN in both measurements. In conclusion HF, LF and SDNN were reproducible after 6 months and were related to physical activity on both occasions.
Metallothionein (MT) is a metal-binding protein capable of preventing oxidative stress and apoptotic cell death in the central nervous system of mammals, and hence is of putative therapeutic value in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders. Recently, we demonstrated that a peptide modeled after the beta-domain of MT, EmtinB, induced neurite outgrowth and increased neuronal survival through binding to receptors of the low-density lipoprotein receptor family (LDLR). The present study identified two MT alpha-domain-derived peptide sequences termed EmtinAn and EmtinAc, each consisting of 14 amino acids, as potent stimulators of neuronal differentiation and survival of primary neurons. In addition, we show that a peptide derived from the N-terminus of the MT beta-domain, EmtinBn, promotes neuronal survival. The neuritogenic and survival promoting effects of EmtinAc, similar to MT and EmtinB but not EmtinAn, were dependent on the functional integrity of LDLR. Moreover, EmtinAn and EmtinAc induced activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and protein kinase B (PKB/Akt). We suggest that multiple functional sites of MT serve to cross-link MT receptor(s), thereby transducing signals leading to an increase in neurite outgrowth and survival.
Interactions between CD40 and its ligand CD154 are involved in the progression of both cell mediated and innate immunity. These interactions are brought about by the transient expression of CD154 on activated CD4(+) T cells, which is regulated, in part, at the level of mRNA turnover. Here we have focused on analyzing the pattern of post-transcriptional regulation in mouse CD4(+) T cells in response to activation. Initial experiments identify a region of the murine CD154 mRNA that binds a polypyrimidine tract-binding protein-containing complex (mComplex I), which is activation-dependent and binds to a single CU-rich site within the 3' uTR Subsequent findings demonstrate that in vivo polyclonal activation of T cells leads to a pattern of differential CD154 mRNA stability that is directly dependent on extent of activation. Furthermore, in vitro activation of antigen-primed T cells shows that the CD154 mRNA half-life increases relative to that of unprimed cells. Importantly, this is the first report demonstrating that the regulation of CD154 in vivo is connected to an activation-induced program of mRNA decay and thus provides strong evidence for post-transcriptional mechanisms having a physiological role in regulating CD154 expression during an ongoing immune response.
A convenient synthesis and the biological properties of new amides, esters and other derivatives of trans-stilbene are described. The key synthetic strategies involve the Wittig-Horner reaction of a phosphonium salt 9 and an aldehyde 10 to generate (E)- or (Z)-olefins and a coupling reaction of an acid 12 and various amines 13a-n to give trans-stilbene derivatives 15a-n in high yields. A amide derivative 15g showed three times more in vitro free radical-scavenging activity than resveratrol, while another 15d exhibited strong inhibitory activity against lipopolysaccharide (LPS)(a)-induced NO generation. Allylamide analogue 15a showed the most potent neuroprotective activity in glutamate-induced primary cortical neuron cells.




The aim of this study was to assess the effects of selective blockade of the delta (DOP) or mu (MOP) opioid receptors on alcohol-seeking induced by discrete cues and context. In Experiment 1, rats were trained to self-administer alcohol in an environment with distinct sensory properties. After extinction in a different context with separate sensory properties, rats were tested for context-induced renewal in the original context following treatment with the DOP receptor antagonist naltrindole (0-15 mg/kg, i.p.) or the MOP receptor antagonist D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH(2) (CTOP) (0-3 microg/4 microL, i.c.v.). In Experiment 2, reinstatement was tested with the presentation of a discrete light + tone cue previously associated with alcohol delivery, following extinction without the cue. The effects of naltrindole (0-5 mg/kg, i.p.) or CTOP (0-3 microg/4 microL, i.c.v.) were assessed. For context-induced renewal, 7.5 mg/kg naltrindole reduced responding without affecting locomotor activity. Both doses of CTOP attenuated responding in the first 15 min of the renewal test session; however, total responses did not differ at the end of the session. For discrete-cue-induced reinstatement, 1 and 5 mg/kg naltrindole attenuated responding but CTOP had no effect. We conclude that whereas DOP receptors mediate alcohol-seeking induced by discrete cues and context, MOP receptors may play a modest role only in context-induced renewal. These findings point to a differential involvement of opioid receptor subtypes in the effects of different kinds of conditioned stimuli on alcohol-seeking and support a more prominent role for DOP receptors.

Synaptic scaling has been proposed as a form of plasticity that may contribute to drug addiction but it has not been previously demonstrated in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), a critical region for addiction. Here we demonstrate bidirectional synaptic scaling in postnatal rat NAc neurons that were co-cultured with prefrontal cortical neurons to restore excitatory input. Prolonged activity blockade (1-3 days) with an AMPA receptor antagonist increased cell surface (synaptic and extrasynaptic) glutamate receptor 1 (GluR1) and GluR2 but not GluR3, as well as GluR1/2 co-localization on the cell surface and total GluR1 and GluR2 protein levels. A prolonged increase in activity (bicuculline, 48 h) produced opposite effects. These results suggest that GluR1/2-containing AMPA receptors undergo synaptic scaling in NAc neurons. GluR1 and GluR2 surface expression was also increased by tetrodotoxin alone or in combination with an N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor or AMPA receptor antagonist but not by the l-type Ca(2+) channel antagonist nifedipine. A cobalt-quenching assay confirmed the immunocytochemical results indicating that synaptic scaling after activity blockade did not involve a change in abundance of GluR2-lacking AMPA receptors. Increased AMPA receptor surface expression after activity blockade required protein synthesis and was occluded by inhibition of the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Repeated dopamine (DA) treatment, which leads to upregulation of surface GluR1 and GluR2, occluded activity blockade-induced synaptic scaling. These latter results indicate an interaction between cellular mechanisms involved in synaptic scaling and adaptive mechanisms triggered by repeated DA receptor stimulation, suggesting that synaptic scaling may not function normally after exposure to DA-releasing drugs such as cocaine.
The composition of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunits influences the degree of synaptic plasticity expressed during development and into adulthood. Here, we show that theta-burst stimulation of the medial geniculate nucleus reliably induced NMDA receptor-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) of field postsynaptic potentials recorded in the primary auditory cortex (A1) of urethane-anesthetized rats. Furthermore, substantially greater levels of LTP were elicited in juvenile animals (30-37 days old; approximately 55% maximal potentiation) than in adult animals (approximately 30% potentiation). Masking patterned sound via continuous white noise exposure during early postnatal life (from postnatal day 5 to postnatal day 50-60) resulted in enhanced, juvenile-like levels of LTP (approximately 70% maximal potentiation) relative to age-matched controls reared in unaltered acoustic environments (approximately 30%). Rats reared in white noise and then placed in unaltered acoustic environments for 40-50 days showed levels of LTP comparable to those of adult controls, indicating that white noise rearing results in a form of developmental arrest that can be overcome by subsequent patterned sound exposure. We explored the mechanisms mediating white noise-induced plasticity enhancements by local NR2B subunit antagonist application in A1. NR2B subunit antagonists (Ro 25-6981 or ifenprodil) completely reversed white noise-induced LTP enhancement at concentrations that did not affect LTP in adult or age-matched controls. We conclude that white noise exposure during early postnatal life results in the maintenance of juvenile-like, higher levels of plasticity in A1, an effect that appears to be critically dependent on NR2B subunit activation.
In vivo structural MRI studies in schizophrenia auditory cerebral cortex have reported smaller volumes and, less consistently, have reported altered hemispheric asymmetry of volumes. We used autopsy brains from 19 schizophrenia and 18 nonpsychiatric male subjects to measure the volume asymmetry of the planum temporal (PT). We then used the most recently autopsied 11 schizophrenia and 10 nonpsychiatric brains to measure the widths and fractional volumes of the upper (I-III) and lower (IV-VI) layers. Measurements of whole PT gray matter volumes did not show significant changes in schizophrenia. Nevertheless, laminar volume measurements revealed that the upper layers of the PT comprise a smaller fraction of the total cortex in schizophrenia than in nonpsychiatric brains. Subdivision of the PT showed that this change was especially prominent caudally, beyond Heschl's gyrus, whereas similar but less pronounced changes were found in the rostral PT and Heschl's gyrus. Complementary measures of laminar widths showed that the altered fractional volume in the caudal left PT was due mainly to approximately 8% thinner upper layers. However, the caudal right PT had a different profile, with thicker lower layers and comparatively unchanged upper layers. Thus, in the present study, laminar measurements provided a more sensitive method for detecting changes than measurement of whole PT volumes. Besides findings in schizophrenia, our cortical width measurements revealed normal hemispheric asymmetries consistent with previous reports. In schizophrenia, the thinner upper layers of the caudal PT suggest disrupted corticocortical processing, possibly affecting the multisensory integration and phonetic processing of this region.
While high-level adaptation to faces has been extensively investigated, research on behavioural and neural correlates of auditory adaptation to paralinguistic social information in voices has been largely neglected. Here we replicate novel findings that adaptation to voice gender causes systematic contrastive aftereffects such that repeated exposure to female voice adaptors causes a subsequent test voice to be perceived as more male (and vice versa), even minutes after adaptation [S.R. Schweinberger et al., (2008), Current Biology, 18, 684-688). In addition, we recorded event-related potentials to test-voices morphed along a gender continuum. An attenuation in frontocentral N1-P2 amplitudes was seen when a test voice was preceded by gender-congruent voice adaptors. Additionally, similar amplitude attenuations were seen in a late parietal positive component (P3, 300-700 ms). These findings suggest that contrastive coding of voice gender takes place within the first few hundred milliseconds from voice onset, and is implemented by neurons in auditory areas that are specialised for detecting male and female voice quality.
The orexin/hypocretin system has recently been implicated in reward-processing and addiction. We examined the involvement of the orexin system in cue-induced reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking by administering the orexin 1 receptor antagonist SB-334867 (SB) or the orexin 2 receptor antagonist 4-pyridylmethyl (S)-tert-leucyl 6,7-dimethoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (4PT) prior to reinstatement testing. Male Sprague Dawley rats self-administered cocaine in 2-h sessions for 10 days, followed by extinction training. Reinstatement of cocaine-seeking was elicited by presentation of tone + light cues previously paired with cocaine infusions. SB (10, 20 and 30 mg/kg) dose-dependently decreased cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking without significantly affecting responding during late extinction. 4PT (10 and 30 mg/kg) did not significantly alter cue-induced reinstatement. In separate experiments, the highest doses of SB and 4PT had no significant effect on established cocaine self-administration, and 4PT reduced spontaneous activity in a locomotor test to a greater extent than SB. Finally, SB (30 mg/kg) had no effect on the acquisition of cocaine-paired cues during a Pavlovian cocaine-stimulus conditioning session in the operant chamber. Pretreatment with SB prior to the Pavlovian acquisition session had no effect on subsequent cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking elicited by those cues. However, pretreatment with SB prior to a second reinstatement session in the same animals significantly attenuated the expression of cue-induced reinstatement. These results show that orexin transmission at the orexin 1 receptor, but not the orexin 2 receptor, is necessary for the reinstatement of cocaine-seeking elicited by drug-paired cues and that orexin signaling is not critical for cocaine reinforcement or cocaine-stimulus conditioning.
There are receptors on denervated Schwann cells that may respond to the neurotransmitters that are released from growth cones of regenerating motor axons. In order to ascertain whether the interaction of the transmitters and their receptors plays a role during axon regeneration, we investigated whether pharmacological block of the interaction would reduce the number of motoneurons that regenerate their axons after nerve section and surgical repair. Peripheral nerves in the hindlimbs of rats and mice were cut and repaired, and various drugs were applied to the peripheral nerve stump either directly or via mini-osmotic pumps over a 2-4-week period to block the binding of acetylcholine to nicotinic and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs: alpha-bungarotoxin, tubocurarine, atropine and, gallamine) and binding of ATP to P2Y receptors (suramin). In rats, the nicotinic AChR antagonistic drugs and suramin reduced the number of motoneurons that regenerated their axons through the distal nerve stump. In mice, suramin significantly reduced the upregulation of the carbohydrate HNK-1 on the Schwann cells in the distal nerve stump that normally occurs during motor axon regeneration. These data indicate that chemical communication between regenerating axons and Schwann cells during axon regeneration via released neurotransmitters and their receptors may play an important role in axon regeneration.
Interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) may play a central role in the inflammatory response following traumatic brain injury (TBI). We subjected 91 mice to controlled cortical impact (CCI) brain injury or sham injury. Beginning 5 min post-injury, the IL-1beta neutralizing antibody IgG2a/k (1.5 microg/mL) or control antibody was infused at a rate of 0.25 microL/h into the contralateral ventricle for up to 14 days using osmotic minipumps. Neutrophil and T-cell infiltration and microglial activation was evaluated at days 1-7 post-injury. Cognition was assessed using Morris water maze, and motor function using rotarod and cylinder tests. Lesion volume and hemispheric tissue loss were evaluated at 18 days post-injury. Using this treatment strategy, cortical and hippocampal tissue levels of IgG2a/k reached 50 ng/mL, sufficient to effectively inhibit IL-1betain vitro. IL-1beta neutralization attenuated the CCI-induced cortical and hippocampal microglial activation (P &lt; 0.05 at post-injury days 3 and 7), and cortical infiltration of neutrophils (P &lt; 0.05 at post-injury day 7). There was only a minimal cortical infiltration of activated T-cells, attenuated by IL-1beta neutralization (P &lt; 0.05 at post-injury day 7). CCI induced a significant deficit in neurological motor and cognitive function, and caused a loss of hemispheric tissue (P &lt; 0.05). In brain-injured animals, IL-1beta neutralizing treatment resulted in reduced lesion volume, hemispheric tissue loss and attenuated cognitive deficits (P &lt; 0.05) without influencing neurological motor function. Our results indicate that IL-1beta is a central component in the post-injury inflammatory response that, in view of the observed positive neuroprotective and cognitive effects, may be a suitable pharmacological target for the treatment of TBI.
Attention is a rich psychological and neurobiological construct that influences almost all aspects of cognitive behaviour. It enables enhanced processing of behaviourally relevant stimuli at the expense of irrelevant stimuli. At the cellular level, rhythmic synchronization at local and long-range spatial scales complements the attention-induced firing rate changes of neurons. The former is hypothesized to enable efficient communication between neuronal ensembles tuned to spatial and featural aspects of the attended stimulus. Recent modelling studies suggest that the rhythmic synchronization in the gamma range may be mediated by a fine balance between N-methyl-D-aspartate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate postsynaptic currents, whereas other studies have highlighted the possible contribution of the neuromodulator acetylcholine. This review summarizes some recent modelling and experimental studies investigating mechanisms of attention in sensory areas and discusses possibilities of how glutamatergic and cholinergic systems could contribute to increased processing abilities at the cellular and network level during states of top-down attention.
Lesion studies show that goal-directed actions mediated by action-outcome (A-O) associations and habits mediated by stimulus-response (S-R) associations can be dissociated during instrumental training, with the prelimbic region of the medial prefrontal cortex being involved in the former and the infralimbic region in the latter. The present work further investigates the role of the prelimbic region in acquisition vs. expression of goal-directed instrumental behaviour, using reversible neuronal inactivation and outcome devaluation procedures. In a first experiment, inactivating the prelimbic cortex at the time of testing did not alter the sensitivity to devaluation, indicating that this region was not essential for the expression of A-O associations. In a second experiment, the prelimbic cortex was inactivated throughout the training phase. At the time of testing the performance was insensitive to devaluation, indicating that the acquired response was not goal-directed but mediated by an S-R association. These data challenge the view that the habit system replaces the goal-directed system as training progresses. They show that the prelimbic cortex plays a transient but crucial role in the acquisition of goal-directed responding and that the A-O and S-R systems can operate in a competitive fashion early in training.

Nicotine modulation of learning may contribute to its abuse liability. The role of hippocampal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in the effects of acute, chronic and withdrawal from chronic nicotine on learning was assessed via intrahippocampal drug infusion in mice. Acute dorsal hippocampal nicotine infusion enhanced contextual fear conditioning. Conversely, chronic intrahippocampal infusion of a matched dose had no effect, and withdrawal from chronic infusion impaired learning. Thus, hippocampal functional adaptation, evidenced by learning deficits during abstinence, occurs with the transition from acute to chronic nicotine exposure. To investigate which hippocampal nAChRs mediate these adaptations, C57BL/6, beta2 nAChR subunit knockout (KO), and wildtype (WT) mice treated chronically with systemic nicotine received intrahippocampal dihydro-beta-erythroidine (a high affinity nAChR antagonist). Intrahippocampal dihydro-beta-erythroidine precipitated learning deficits in all but the KO mice. Therefore, the action of nicotine at hippocampal beta2 nAChRs mediates adaptations in hippocampal function that underlie withdrawal deficits in contextual fear conditioning.
To examine why court mandated offenders dropout of drug treatment and to compare their characteristics, treatment experiences, perceptions, and outcomes with treatment completers, we analyzed self-reported and administrative data on 542 dropouts (59%) and 384 completers (41%) assessed for Proposition 36 treatment by thirty sites in five California counties during 2004. At intake, dropouts had lengthier criminal histories, lower treatment motivation, more severe employment and psychiatric problems, and more were using drugs, especially heroin. Relatively fewer dropouts received residential treatment and their retention was much shorter. A similar proportion of dropouts received services as completers and the mean number of services received per day by dropouts was generally more, especially to address psychiatric problems, during the first three months of treatment. The most commonly offender-reported reasons for dropout included low treatment motivation (46.2%) and the difficulty of the Proposition 36 program (20.0%). Consequences for dropout included incarceration (25.3%) and permission to try treatment again (24.0%). Several factors predicting drug treatment dropout were identified. Both groups demonstrated improved functioning at one-year follow-up, but fewer dropouts had a successful outcome (34.5% vs. 59.1%) and their recidivism rate was significantly higher (62.9% vs. 28.9%) even after controlling for baseline differences. Understanding factors associated with drug treatment dropout can aid efforts to improve completion rates, outcomes, and overall effectiveness of California's Proposition 36 program. Findings may also aid a broader audience of researchers and policy analysts who are charged with designing and evaluating criminal-justice diversion programs for treating drug-addicted offenders.
Passiflora edulis has been used in traditional medicine as a sedative and to treat or prevent central disorders such as anxiety and insomnia. In this study, the central effects of the aqueous extract (AE), the butanolic fraction (BF), and the aqueous residual fraction (ARF) obtained from the pericarp of P. edulis flavicarpa were investigated in mice and the possible compounds involved in these putative neuropharmacologic effects were determined. AE, BF, and ARF increased the total time spent in the light compartment of the light:dark box, an anxiolytic-like effect, and AE also potentiated the hypnotic effects of ethyl ether, a sedative effect. The thin layer chromatography and high-performance liquid chromatography analysis indicated the predominance of C-glycosylflavonoids in these extracts and fractions, which were identified as isoorientin, vicenin-2, spinosin, and 6,8-di-C-glycosylchrysin.
Saccadic reaction times (SRT) are composed of the sum of multiple processes, including bottom-up sensory processing, top-down goal oriented processing, and afferent and efferent conduction delays. In order to determine the timing dependencies and potential interactions between bottom-up and top-down processes on SRTs, we trained monkeys to perform several variants of visually guided saccade tasks. Bottom-up components of SRT were manipulated by varying target luminance from near detection threshold to supra-threshold ranges (i.e., 0.001-42.5 cd/m(2)). There was a significant reduction of mean SRT with increases in target luminance up to 3.5-17.5 cd/m(2). Luminance increases above these ranges produced significant increases in SRT when the target was within 6 degrees from the fovea. Top-down components were assessed by manipulating spatial target predictability across blocks of trials using either 1, 2, 4 or 8 possible target locations. Decreasing spatial target predictability increased SRT across target luminances from 1 to 4 targets in the gap task, but then paradoxically decreased SRT again when there were 8 possible targets in both the gap and step tasks. Finally, a gap task (200 ms gap) was used to determine the dependence of target luminance on the magnitude of the gap effect. Decreasing target luminance significantly reduced the magnitude of the gap effect indicating that the gap effect is strongly influenced by bottom-up factors.
Class III myosins are important for the function and survival of photoreceptors and ciliary hair cells. Although vertebrates possess two class III myosin genes, myo3A and myo3B, recent studies have focused on Myo3A because mutations in the human gene are implicated in progressive hearing loss. Myo3B may compensate for defects in Myo3A, yet little is known about its distribution and function. This study focuses on Myo3B expression in the mouse retina. We cloned two variants of myo3B from mouse retina and determined that they are expressed early in retinal development. In this study we show for the first time in a mammal that both Myo3B and Myo3A proteins are present in inner segments of all photoreceptors. Myo3B is also present in outer segments of S opsin-immunoreactive cones but not M opsin dominant cones. Myo3B is also detected in rare cells of the inner nuclear layer and some ganglion cells. Myo3B may have diverse roles in retinal neurons. In photoreceptor inner segments Myo3B is positioned appropriately to prevent photoreceptor loss of function caused by Myo3A defects.
Following severe traumatic brain injury (TBI), a complex interplay of pathomechanism, such as exitotoxicity, oxidative stress, inflammatory events, and mitochondrial dysfunction occurs. This leads to a cascade of neuronal and axonal pathologies, which ultimately lead to axonal failure, neuronal energy metabolic failure, and neuronal death, which in turn determine patient outcome. For mild and moderate TBI, the pathomechanism is similar but much less frequent and ischemic cell death is unusual, except with mass lesions. Involvement of mitochondria in acute post-traumatic neurodegeneration has been extensively studied during the last decade, and there are a number of investigations implicating the activation of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP) as a &quot;critical switch&quot; which determines cell survival after TBI. Opening of the mPTP is modulated by several factors occurring after a severe brain injury. Modern neuroprotective strategies for prevention of the neuropathological squeal of traumatic brain injury have now begun to address the issue of mitochondrial dysfunction, and drugs that protect mitochondrial viability and prevent apoptotic cascade induced by mPTP opening are about to begin phase II and III clinical trials. Cyclosporin A, which has been reported to block the opening of mPTP, showed a significant decrease in mitochondrial damage and intra-axonal cytoskeletal destruction thereby protecting the axonal shaft and blunting axotomy. This review addresses an important issue of mPT activation after severe head injury, its role in acute post-traumatic neurodegeneration, and the rationale for targeting the mPTP in experimental and clinical TBI studies.
Mitochondrial impairments have been associated with many neurological disorders, from inborn errors of metabolism or genetic disorders to age and environmentally linked diseases of aging (DiMauro S., Schon E.A. 2008. Mitochondrial disorders in the nervous system. Annu. Rev., Neurosci. 31, 91-123.). In these disorders, specific nervous system components or brain regions appear to be initially more susceptible to the triggering event or pathological process. Such regional variation in susceptibility to multiple types of stressors raises the possibility that inherent differences in mitochondrial function may mediate some aspect of pathogenesis. Regional differences in the distribution or number of mitochondria, mitochondrial enzyme activities, enzyme expression levels, mitochondrial genes or availability of necessary metabolites become attractive explanations for selective vulnerability of a nervous system structure. While regionally selective mitochondrial vulnerability has been documented, regional variations in other cellular and tissue characteristics may also contribute to metabolic impairment. Such environmental variables include high tonic firing rates, neurotransmitter phenotype, location of mitochondria within a neuron, or the varied tissue perfusion pressure of different cerebral arterial branches. These contextual variables exert regionally distinct regulatory influences on mitochondria to tune their energy production to local demands. Thus to understand variations in mitochondrial functioning and consequent selective vulnerability to injury, the organelle must be placed within the context of its cellular, functional, developmental and neuroanatomical environment.
Proper transport and distribution of mitochondria in axons and at synapses are critical for the normal physiology of neurons. Mitochondria in axons display distinct motility patterns and undergo saltatory and bidirectional movement, where mitochondria frequently stop, start moving again, and change direction. While approximately one-third of axonal mitochondria are mobile in mature neurons, a large proportion remains stationary. Their net movement is significantly influenced by recruitment to stationary or motile states. In response to the diverse physiological states of axons and synapses, the mitochondrial balance between motile and stationary phases is a possible target of regulation by intracellular signals and synaptic activity. Efficient control of mitochondrial retention (docking) at particular stations, where energy production and calcium homeostasis capacity are highly demanded, is likely essential for neuronal development and function. In this review, we introduce the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying the complex mobility patterns of axonal mitochondria and discuss how motor adaptor complexes and docking machinery contribute to mitochondrial transport and distribution in axons and at synapses. In addition, we briefly discuss the physiological evidence how axonal mitochondrial mobility impacts synaptic function.
Neuroprotective therapy has been proposed for age-related neurodegenerative disorders, including Parkinson's disease. Inhibitors of type B monoamine oxidase (MAOB-Is), rasagiline and (-)deprenyl, are the most promising candidate neuroprotective drugs. Clinical trials of rasagiline in patients with Parkinson's disease suggest that rasagiline may have some disease-modifying effects. Results using animal and cellular models have proved that the MAOB-Is protect neurons by the intervention of 'intrinsic' mitochondrial apoptotic cascade and the induction of prosurvival antiapoptotic Bcl-2 and neurotrophic factors. Rasagiline-related MAOB-Is prevent mitochondrial permeability transition induced by various insults and activation of subsequent apoptotic cascades: cytochrome c release, casapase activation, and condensation and fragmentation of nuclear DNA. MAOB-Is increase transcription of prosurvival genes through activating the nuclear transcription factor-(NF) system. Rasagiline increases the protein and mRNA levels of GDNF in dopaminergic SH-SY5Y cells, whereas (-)deprenyl increases those of BDNF. Systemic administration of (-)deprenyl and rasagiline increases these neurotrophic factors in the cerebrospinal fluid from patients with Parkinson's disease and nonhuman primates. This review presents recent advances in our understanding of the neuroprotection offered by MAOB-Is and possible evaluation of neuroprotective efficacy in clinical samples is discussed.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a heritable and debilitating neuropsychiatric condition. Attempts to delineate genetic contributions have met with limited success, and there is an ongoing search for intermediate trait or vulnerability markers rooted in the neurosciences. Such markers would be valuable for detecting people at risk of developing the condition, clarifying etiological factors and targeting novel treatments. This review begins with brief coverage of the epidemiology of OCD, and presents a hierarchical model of the condition. The advantages of neuropsychological assessment and neuroimaging as objective measures of brain integrity and function are discussed. We describe the concept of endophenotypes and examples of their successful use in medicine and psychiatry. Key areas of focus in the search for OCD endophenotypes are identified, such as measures of inhibitory control and probes of the integrity of orbitofrontal and posterior parietal cortices. Finally, we discuss exciting findings in unaffected first-degree relatives of patients with OCD that have led to the identification of several candidate endophenotypes of the disorder, with important implications for neurobiological understanding and treatment of this and related conditions.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD), oxidative stress is present early and contributes to disease pathogenesis. We previously reported that in Tg19959 transgenic AD mice, partial deficiency of the mitochondrial antioxidant enzyme manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) exacerbated amyloid pathology. We therefore asked whether MnSOD overexpression would prove beneficial against AD pathogenesis, by studying the offspring of Tg19959 mice crossed with MnSOD-overexpressing mice. At 4 mo of age, there was a 2- to 3-fold increase in MnSOD protein levels in Tg19959-MnSOD mice compared to Tg19959 littermates. Tg19959-MnSOD mice also had a 50% increase in catalase protein levels, a 50% decrease in levels of oxidized protein, and a 33% reduction in cortical plaque burden compared to Tg19959 littermates. Spatial memory was impaired and synaptophysin levels were decreased in Tg19959 mice compared to wild-type littermates, but memory and synaptophysin levels were restored to wild-type levels in Tg19959-MnSOD littermates. These benefits occurred without changes in sodium dodecyl sulfate-soluble or formic acid-soluble Abeta pools or Abeta oligomers in Tg19959-MnSOD mice compared to Tg19959 littermates. These data demonstrate that facilitation of the mitochondrial antioxidant response improves resistance to Abeta, slows plaque formation or increases plaque degradation, and markedly attenuates the phenotype in a transgenic AD mouse model.
Increased expression of the astrocytic intermediate filament protein glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) is a characteristic of astrogliosis. This process occurs in the brain during aging and neurodegeneration and coincides with impairment of the ubiquitin proteasome system. Inhibition of the proteasome impairs protein degradation; therefore, we hypothesized that the increase in GFAP may be the result of impaired proteasomal activity in astrocytes. We investigated the effect of proteasome inhibitors on GFAP expression and other intermediate filament proteins in human astrocytoma cells and in a rat brain model for astrogliosis. Extensive quantitative RT-PCR, immunocytochemistry, and Western blot analysis resulted unexpectedly in a strong decrease of GFAP mRNA to &lt;4% of control levels [Control (DMSO) 100+/-19.2%; proteasome inhibitor (epoxomicin) 3.5+/-1.3%, n=8; P &lt; or = 0.001] and a loss of GFAP protein in astrocytes in vitro. We show that the proteasome alters GFAP promoter activity, possibly mediated by transcription factors as demonstrated by a GFAP promoter-luciferase assay and RT(2) Profiler PCR array for human transcription factors. Most important, we demonstrate that proteasome inhibitors also reduce GFAP and vimentin expression in a rat model for induced astrogliosis in vivo. Therefore, proteasome inhibitors could serve as a potential therapy to modulate astrogliosis associated with CNS injuries and disease.
Alzheimer's disease and other tauopathies are characterized by the presence of intracellular neurofibrillary tangles composed of hyperphosphorylated, insoluble tau. General anesthesia has been shown to be associated with increased risk of Alzheimer's disease, and we have previously demonstrated that anesthesia induces hypothermia, which leads to overt tau hyperphosphorylation in the brain of mice regardless of the anesthetic used. To investigate whether anesthesia enhances the long-term risk of developing pathological forms of tau, we exposed a mouse model with tauopathy to anesthesia and monitored the outcome at two time points-during anesthesia, or 1 wk after exposure. We found that exposure to isoflurane at clinically relevant doses led to increased levels of phospho-tau, increased insoluble, aggregated forms of tau, and detachment of tau from microtubules. Furthermore, levels of phospho-tau distributed in the neuropil, as well as in cell bodies increased. Interestingly, the level of insoluble tau was increased 1 wk following anesthesia, suggesting that anesthesia precipitates changes in the brain that provoke the later development of tauopathy. Overall, our results suggest that anesthesia-induced hypothermia could lead to an acceleration of tau pathology in vivo that could have significant clinical implications for patients with early stage, or overt neurofibrillary tangle pathology.
Neuronavigation is a kind of image-guided surgery used during neurosurgical procedures. Based on specific equipment which is compatible with the software calculating and processing the patient's data; this method allows the determination of the location of anatomical structures and visualisation of surgical instruments in the operative field. Although standard brain dissection is still the best method of neuroanatomical training, some limitations occur. The most important of these is the inability of conversion from three-dimensional (3D) view to flat pictures of the brain structures, as viewed on computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), being essential in neuroanatomical training nowadays. The aim of the study was the implementation of a neuronavigating system for brain anatomy training purposes. The study was performed on 10 human brain hemispheres, dissected due to classical methods (standard brain anatomical sections, stepwise ventricular system opening and partial dissection of white matter tracts using Klingler's dissection technique). The material was scanned in a 1.5 T magnetic resonance scanner using a modified neuronavigation protocol. The brains were prepared before dissection as proposed by Klingler. The subsequent steps of the dissection were documented with a digital camera. The progress of the dissection was visualised using the neuronavigation system (Medtronic Stealth Station Treon) with cranial application software. In the course of the study, numerous 3D and 2D images were obtained. The images were related to each other and linked anatomical structures in the specimen with their appearance on CT and MRI scans. The implementation of a neuronavigation system for brain structures dissection facilitates visualization and understanding of their proper location. This new method offers a constant and precise orientation and simplifies understanding of the relation of the 3D view of a specimen to that of the 2D image.
No investigation has yet been accomplished to screen the detrimental effects of cigarette smoke condensate (CSC) and total particular matter solution (TPMS) on embryonic development of extraocular and intraocular structures. In this report, chicken embryo assay was utilized to undermine diverse ocular pathologies produced by exposure of CSC and TPM. Extraocular anomalies triggered after exposure of CSC and TPMS include degeneration of optic chiasma, medial rectus muscle, and inflammatory lesions in forebrain. Histological investigations of CSC and TPMS-treated embryos also exposed delayed differentiation of photoreceptor layer, degeneration of retinal ganglion and nerve cell layer. In addition, corneal thickness, deterioration and complete loss of hyaloid vasculature were observed. Extraocular and intraocular regions of TPMS-treated embryos also revealed widespread hemorrhages in the entire cephalic, optic disc, ganglion cell layer and vitreous humor area. The findings of our experiment demonstrate, for the first time, that exposure to CSC and TPMS is hazardous for developing embryos and it has potential detrimental effects on several underlying events of ocular development. Moreover, it was also intriguing that toxicity profile of TMP was much more higher than CSC with more profound detrimental effects on ocular development.
The ability of the human hand to perform complex sensorimotor tasks such as tactile exploration and grasping is based on 1. exact encoding of somatosensory information by cutaneous mechanoreceptors, 2. elaborated processing of afferent signals in somatosensory relay stations and cortex fields, 3. rapid and effective interaction of sensory feedback with motor programs, and 4. different modes of sensory control, which can be switched over.
The role of the neurotrophins Nerve Growth Factor (NGF) and Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) has been expanding over the last years from trophic factors involved in brain growth and differentiation, to much more complex messengers, involved in psycho-neuro-endocrine adaptations. Much of this research stems from a series of studies inspired by the life-long work of the Nobel laureate Rita Levi-Montalcini. A new field of research started when NGF was found to be released in the bloodstream as a result of psychosocial stressors in male mice. Subsequent studies have shown that, in humans, highly arousing situations also result in increased blood levels of NGF, underlying the unique role of this neurotrophin, compared to other neuroendocrine effectors, and its sensitivity to environmental variables endowed by a social nature. Data are reviewed to support the hypothesis that this neurotrophic factor, together with BDNF, could be involved in the neurobiological changes underlying physiological and pathological reactions to stress that can result in increased vulnerability to disease in humans, including risk for anxiety disorders, or in the complex pathophysiology associated with mood disorders. Indeed, numerous data indicate that neurotrophins are present in brain hypothalamic areas involved in the regulation of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, circadian rhythms and metabolism. In addition, there is now evidence that, in addition to the nervous system, neurotrophins exert their effects in various tissue compartments as they are produced by a variety of non-neuronal cell types such as endocrine and immune cells, adipocytes, endothelial cells, keratinocytes, thus being in a position to coordinate brain and body reactions to external challenges. Aim of this review is to discuss the evidence suggesting a role for neurotrophins as multifunctional signaling molecules activated during allostatic responses to stressful events and their involvement in the complex pathophysiology underlying stress-related psychopathology.
Steroid hormones act in brain and throughout the body to regulate a variety of functions, including development, reproduction, stress and behavior. Many of these effects of steroid hormones are mediated by their respective receptors, which are members of the steroid/nuclear receptor superfamily of transcriptional activators. A variety of studies in cell lines reveal that nuclear receptor coregulators are critical in modulating steroid receptor-dependent transcription. Thus, in addition to the availability of the hormone and the expression of its receptor, nuclear receptor coregulators are essential for efficient steroid-dependent transactivation of genes. This review will highlight the importance of nuclear receptor coregulators in modulating steroid-dependent gene expression in brain and the regulation of behavior.
This study assessed the effects of dim light and four experimentally induced changes in vision on gait speed and footfall and trunk parameters in older persons walking on level ground. Using a quasi-experimental design, gait characteristics were assessed in full light, dim light, and in dim light combined with manipulations resulting in reduced depth vision, double vision, blurred vision, and tunnel vision, respectively. A convenience sample of 24 home-dwelling older women and men (mean age 78.5 years, SD 3.4) with normal vision for their age and able to walk at least 10 m without assistance participated. Outcome measures were gait speed and spatial and temporal parameters of footfall and trunk acceleration, derived from an electronic gait mat and accelerometers. Dim light alone had no effect. Vision manipulations combined with dim light had effect on most footfall parameters but few trunk parameters. The largest effects were found regarding double and tunnel vision. Men increased and women decreased gait speed following manipulations (p=0.017), with gender differences also in stride velocity variability (p=0.017) and inter-stride medio-lateral trunk acceleration variability (p=0.014). Gender effects were related to differences in body height and physical functioning. Results indicate that visual problems lead to a more cautious and unstable gait pattern even under relatively simple conditions. This points to the importance of assessing vision in older persons and correcting visual impairments where possible.
Irritable bowel syndrome is not only a digestive motor disorder. It is a multifactorial disease for which many data have highlighted the pathophysiological importance of visceral hypersensitivity in the onset of symptoms, particularly abdominal pain. Hypersensitivity is due either to an afferent neurons disfunction at the enteric nervous system level, either to an abnormal brain-gut axis processing of sensory or nociceptive inputs arising from the gut, at the spinal or supraspinal level. Disturbances of the autonomic nervous system occur in IBS as a consequence of this brain-gut axis dysfunction. Neurological abnormalities may be triggered by inflammation, mast cell dysfunction or increased intestinal permeability while the neuro-immune consequences of stress (mainly chronic) play a major role in the genesis and the maintenance of irritable bowel syndrome. The role of emotions and mood disturbances cannot be omitted in the interpretation the central processing of digestive sensory inputs. Neurosciences, in particular brain imaging techniques, have contributed to this better understanding of irritable bowel syndrome pathophysiology. It is likely to play a major role in the future to improve our knowledge of the brain-gut axis function (mechanisms, neurotransmitters and receptors involved both in normal and pathological conditions). This knowledge is crucial because of the need for updated treatment strategies and new pharmacological and/or cognitive or behavioral therapies.

Caenorhabditis elegans senses multiple environmental stimuli through sensory systems and rapidly changes its behaviors for survival. With a simple and well-characterized nervous system, C. elegans is a suitable animal model for studying behavioral plasticity. Previous studies have shown acute neurodepressive effects of ethanol on multiple behaviors of C. elegans similar to the effect of ethanol on other organisms. Caenorhabditis elegans also develops ethanol tolerance during continuous exposure to ethanol. In mammals, chronic ethanol exposure leads to ethanol tolerance as well as increased ethanol consumption. Ethanol preference is associated with the development of tolerance and may lead to the development of ethanol dependence. In this study, we show that C. elegans is a useful model organism for studying chronic effects of ethanol, including the development of ethanol preference. We designed a behavioral assay for testing ethanol preference after prolonged ethanol exposure. Despite baseline aversive responses to ethanol, animals show ethanol preference after 4 h of pre-exposure to ethanol and exhibit significantly enhanced preference for ethanol after a lifetime of ethanol exposure. The cat-2 and tph-1 mutant animals have defects in the synthetic enzymes for dopamine and serotonin, respectively. These mutants are deficient in the development of ethanol preference, indicating that dopamine and serotonin are required for this form of behavioral plasticity.
Alcohol and nicotine are coabused, and preclinical and clinical data suggest that common genes may influence responses to both drugs. A gene in a region of mouse chromosome 9 that includes a cluster of three nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunit genes influences the locomotor stimulant response to ethanol. The current studies first used congenic mice to confirm the influential gene on chromosome 9. Congenic F(2) mice were then used to more finely map the location. Gene expression of the three subunit genes was quantified in strains of mice that differ in response to ethanol. Finally, the locomotor response to ethanol was examined in mice heterozygous for a null mutation of the alpha 3 nAChR subunit gene (Chrna3). Congenic data indicate that a gene on chromosome 9, within a 46 cM region that contains the cluster of nAChR subunit genes, accounts for 41% of the genetic variation in the stimulant response to ethanol. Greater expression of Chrna3 was found in whole brain and dissected brain regions relevant to locomotor behavior in mice that were less sensitive to ethanol-induced stimulation compared to mice that were robustly stimulated; the other two nAChR subunit genes in the gene cluster (alpha 5 and beta 4) were not differentially expressed. Locomotor stimulation was not expressed on the genetic background of Chrna3 heterozygous (+/-) and wild-type (+/+) mice; +/- mice were more sensitive than +/+ mice to the locomotor depressant effects of ethanol. Chrna3 is a candidate gene for the acute locomotor stimulant response to ethanol that deserves further examination.
Mechanisms of neuronal mRNA localization and translation are of considerable biological interest. Spatially regulated mRNA translation contributes to cell-fate decisions and axon guidance during development, as well as to long-term synaptic plasticity in adulthood. The Fragile-X Mental Retardation protein (FMRP/dFMR1) is one of the best-studied neuronal translational control molecules and here we describe the identification and early characterization of proteins likely to function in the dFMR1 pathway. Induction of the dFMR1 in sevenless-expressing cells of the Drosophila eye causes a disorganized (rough) eye through a mechanism that requires residues necessary for dFMR1/FMRP's translational repressor function. Several mutations in dco, orb2, pAbp, rm62, and smD3 genes dominantly suppress the sev-dfmr1 rough-eye phenotype, suggesting that they are required for dFMR1-mediated processes. The encoded proteins localize to dFMR1-containing neuronal mRNPs in neurites of cultured neurons, and/or have an effect on dendritic branching predicted for bona fide neuronal translational repressors. Genetic mosaic analyses indicate that dco, orb2, rm62, smD3, and dfmr1 are dispensable for translational repression of hid, a microRNA target gene, known to be repressed in wing discs by the bantam miRNA. Thus, the encoded proteins may function as miRNA- and/or mRNA-specific translational regulators in vivo.
Microglia provide surveillance in the central nervous system and become activated following tissue insult. Detailed mechanisms by which microglia detect and respond to their environment are not fully understood, but it is known that microglia express a number of surface receptors and ion channels, including voltage-gated sodium channels, that participate in transduction of external stimuli to intra-cellular responses. To determine whether activated microglia are affected by the activity of sodium channels, we examined the expression of sodium channel isoforms in cultured microglia and the action of sodium channel blockade on multiple functions of activated microglia. Rat microglia in vitro express tetrodotoxin (TTX)-sensitive sodium channels Nav1.1 and Nav1.6 and the TTX-resistant channel Nav1.5, but not detectable levels of Nav1.2, Nav1.3, Nav1.7, Nav1.8, and Nav1.9. Sodium channel blockade with phenytoin (40 microM) and TTX (0.3 microM) significantly reduced by 50-60% the phagocytic activity of microglia activated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS); blockade with 10 microM TTX did not further reduce phagocytic activity. Phenytoin attenuated by approximately 50% the release of IL-1 alpha, IL-1 beta, and TNF-alpha from LPS-stimulated microglia, but had minimal effects on the release of IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-10, MCP-1, and TGF-alpha. TTX (0.3 microM) reduced, but to a smaller extent, the release of IL-1 alpha, IL-1 beta, and TNF-alpha from activated microglia. Phenytoin and TTX also significantly decreased by approximately 50% adenosine triphosphate-induced migration by microglia; studies with microglia cultured from med mice (which lack Nav1.6) indicate that Nav1.6 plays a role in microglial migration. The results demonstrate that the activity of sodium channels contributes to effector roles of activated microglia.
New neurons are continuously generated in the hippocampus of the adult mammalian brain, and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDA-R) antagonists have been found to increase the number of newly generated neurons in the dentate gyrus (DG) of the adult hippocampus. In this study, we examined the effect of memantine, an NMDA-R antagonist that is clinically used for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, on primary progenitor cells exhibiting a radial glia-like (RGL) morphology in the DG. We injected 3-month-old mice with memantine (50 mg/kg body weight, intraperitoneally [i.p.]); 3 days later, we injected the mice with 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU; 75 mg/kg body weight, i.p.). We then counted the number of BrdU-labeled RGL progenitor cells in the DG 1 or 7 days after the BrdU-injection. The number of BrdU-labeled RGL progenitor cells had increased significantly by 5.1-fold on day 1 and by 13.7-fold on day 7 after BrdU-injection. Immunohistochemical staining revealed that the BrdU-labeled RGL progenitor cells expressed two primary progenitor cell marker proteins, nestin and Sox2. These results clearly demonstrated that memantine promotes the proliferation of RGL progenitor cells. We also found that memantine increased the ratio of horizontally aligned RGL progenitor cells, which are probably produced by symmetric division. These findings suggest that memantine increases the proliferation of primary progenitor cells and expands the primary progenitor cell pool in the adult hippocampus by stimulating symmetric division.
Cochlear implant users' spectral resolution is limited by both the number of implanted electrodes and channel interactions between electrodes. Current steering (virtual channels) between two adjacent monopolar electrodes has been used to increase the number of spectral channels across the electrode array. However, monopolar stimulation is associated with large current spread and increased channel interaction. Current focusing across three adjacent electrodes (tripolar stimulation) has been used to reduce electrode current spread and improve channel selectivity. In the present study, current steering and current focusing were combined within a four-electrode stimulation pattern (quadrupolar virtual channels), thereby addressing the need for both increased channels and reduced current spread. Virtual channel discrimination was measured in 7 users of the Advanced Bionics Clarion II or HiRes 90K implants; virtual channel discrimination was compared between monopolar and quadrupolar virtual channels at three stimulation sites. The results showed that quadrupolar virtual channels provided better spectral resolution than monopolar virtual channels. The results suggested that quadrupolar virtual channels might provide the &quot;best of both worlds&quot; improving the number of spectral channels while reducing channel interactions.
RGS2 is a member of the regulator of G-protein signaling (RGS) family and has been implicated in cellular mechanisms associated with neuronal plasticity. Long-term potentiation (LTP) of RGS2 knockout and wild-type mice was examined at the Schaffer collaterals to CA1 pathway in urethane-anesthetized mice in vivo to examine RGS2's possible role in the regulation of potentiation. As compared to wild-type mice, RGS2 knockouts demonstrated much stronger LTP of the extracellular population spikes at the somatic and dendritic layers in CA1 region and more pronounced LTP of the population excitatory postsynaptic current sink. Under baseline conditions, RGS2 knockouts showed lower paired-pulse facilitation of the excitatory postsynaptic potentials and associated current sinks in vivo as compared with wild-type mice. The data show for the first time that RGS2 deficient mice in vivo differ from wild-type mice in both short-term and long-term synaptic plasticity suggesting that RGS2 serves as a negative regulator of long-term synaptic plasticity.
Incidental retrieval of autobiographical knowledge can provide rich contextual support for episodic recollection of a recent event. We examined the neural bases of these two processes by performing fMRI scanning during a recognition memory test for faces that were unfamiliar, famous, or personally known. The presence of pre-experimental knowledge of a face was incidental to the task, but nonetheless resulted in improved performance. Two distinct networks of activation were associated with correct recollection of a face's prior presentation (recollection hits vs. correct rejections) on one hand, and with pre-experimental knowledge about it (famous or personally known vs. unfamiliar faces) on the other. The former included mid/posterior cingulate cortex, precuneus, and ventral striatum. The latter included bilateral hippocampus, retrosplenial, and ventromedial prefrontal cortices. Anterior and medial thalamic activations showed an interaction between both effects, driven by increased activation for recollection of unfamiliar faces. When recollecting the presentation of a famous or personally known face, hippocampal activation increased with participants' ratings of how well they felt they knew the person shown. Ventromedial prefrontal cortex showed significantly greater activation for personally known than famous faces. Our results indicate a dissociation between the involvement of retrosplenial vs. mid/posterior cingulate and precuneus in memory tasks. They also indicate that, during recognition memory experiments, the hippocampus supports incidental retrieval of pre-experimental knowledge about the stimuli presented. This type of knowledge likely underlies the additional recollection found for prior presentation of well known stimuli compared with novel ones and may link hippocampal activation at encoding to subsequent memory performance more generally.
Marijuana and hashish are the illicit drugs most frequently used by human adolescents. Given the continued neurodevelopment throughout adolescence, adolescents may be more vulnerable than adults to certain neural consequences of heavy marijuana use. This study aimed to assess whether an experimental model of adolescent chronic exposure to Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), may induce lasting effects on learning and memory. Adolescent rats have been treated with THC or its vehicle from 35 to 45 postnatal days (PND) and left undisturbed until their adulthood (75 PND) when aversive and spatial memory was assessed using the passive avoidance and radial maze tasks. No alteration was found in aversive memory, but in the radial maze THC pretreated animals exhibited a worse performance than vehicles, suggesting a deficit in spatial working memory. To correlate memory impairment to altered neuroplasticity, level of marker proteins was investigated in the hippocampus, the most relevant area mediating spatial memory. A significant decrease in the astroglial marker glial fibrillar acid protein was found as well as in pre- and postsynaptic protein expression (VAMP2, PSD95) and NMDA receptor levels in pretreated rats. To parallel these changes to alteration in dendritic morphology, Golgi-Cox staining was performed in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. Pretreated rats had a significantly lower total dendritic length and number than vehicles, as well as reduced spine density. Our data suggest that THC pretreated rats may establish less synaptic contacts and/or less efficient synaptic connections throughout the hippocampus and this could represent the molecular underpinning of the cognitive deficit induced by adolescent THC treatment.
Changes in hippocampal synaptic networks during aging may contribute to age-dependent compromise of cognitive functions such as learning and memory. Previous studies have demonstrated that GABAergic synaptic transmission exhibits age-dependent changes. To better understand such age-dependent changes of GABAergic synaptic inhibition, we performed whole-cell recordings from pyramidal cells in the CA1 area of acute hippocampal slices on aged (24-26 months old) and young (2-4 months old) Brown-Norway rats. We found that the frequency and amplitude of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic current (IPSCs) were significantly increased in aged rats, but the frequency and amplitude of mIPSCs were decreased. Furthermore, the regulation of GABAergic synaptic transmission by GluR5 containing kainate receptors was enhanced in aged rats, which was revealed by using LY382884 (a GluR5 kainate receptor antagonist) and ATPA (a GluR5 kainate receptor agonist). Moreover, we demonstrated that vesicular glutamate transporters are involved in the kainate receptor dependent regulation of sIPSCs. Taken together, these results suggest that GABAergic synaptic transmission is potentiated in aged rats, and GluR5 containing kainate receptors regulate the inhibitory synaptic transmission through endogenous glutamate. These alterations of GABAergic input with aging could contribute to age-dependent cognitive decline.
Male reproductive behavior is highly dependent upon gonadal steroids. However, between individuals and across species, the role of gonadal steroids in male reproductive behavior is highly variable. In male B6D2F1 hybrid mice, a large proportion (about 30%) of animals demonstrate the persistence of the ejaculatory reflex long after castration. This provides a model to investigate the basis of gonadal steroid-independent male sexual behavior. Here we assessed whether non-gonadal steroids promote mating behavior in castrated mice. Castrated B6D2F1 hybrids that persisted in copulating (persistent copulators) were treated with the androgen receptor blocker, flutamide, and the aromatase enzyme inhibitor, letrozole, for 8 weeks. Other animals were treated with the estrogen receptor blocker, ICI 182,780, via continual intraventricular infusion for 2 weeks. None of these treatments eliminated persistent copulation. A motivational aspect of male sexual behavior, the preference for a receptive female over another male, was also assessed. This preference persisted after long-term castration in persistent copulators, and administration of ICI 182,780 did not influence partner preference. To assess the possibility of elevated sensitivity to sex steroids in brains of persistent copulators, we measured mRNA levels for genes that code for the estrogen receptor-alpha, androgen receptor, and aromatase enzyme in the medial preoptic area and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. No differences in mRNA of these genes were noted in brains of persistent versus non-persistent copulators. Taken together our results suggest that non-gonadal androgens and estrogens do not maintain copulatory behavior in B6D2F1 mice which display copulatory behavior after castration.
Past findings suggest links between orgasms and testosterone (T), as well as sexuality and estradiol (E), and we examined hormone-orgasm links in this study via two hypotheses (below). Participants were 86 women and 91 men who provided a saliva sample and completed a demographics questionnaire, the Orgasm Checklist (Mah and Binik, 2002), the Hurlbert (1991) Index of Sexual Assertiveness, and the Sexual Desire Inventory (Spector and Fremeth, 1996). Results supported the first hypothesis of correlations between T and positive orgasm experience in women, specifically with the relaxation, soothing, and peaceful items in both partnered and solitary orgasm contexts. Results also indicated correlations between E and flooding and spreading items in a solitary orgasm context. There were no associations between hormones and men's perceptions of their orgasm experiences. There was no support for the second hypothesis of associations between higher T and more sexual assertiveness. Post hoc analyses showed associations between E and women's sexual desire, and T and men's sexual desire. We discuss implications of these findings including that solitary vs. partnered orgasm experiences may differ, and suggest that T might be associated with perceptions of psychological experiences of orgasms, and E might be associated with perceptions of physical experiences of orgasms.
Numerical and spatial magnitude processing have long been intimately associated, leading to the suggestion that they share a common system of magnitude representation. Although separate investigations on the cerebral areas involved in numerosity and spatial estimation point toward the parietal cortex, the precise anatomical overlap, if any, has not yet been directly established. Here, functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to localize the cerebral network involved in processing both numerosity and length. Blood oxygenation level-dependent signal changes were measured while healthy volunteers were making numerosity comparisons on linear arrays of dots, and length comparisons on discrete linear arrays of dots and continuous rectangles. The results show the bilateral involvement of parietal regions around the intraparietal sulci in explicit and implicit processing of numerosity, and a right lateralized occipitoparietal network activation in length processing; numerosity and length processing both activate the right IPS and the precentral gyrus. By excluding the mandatory intrinsic spatial processing of arrays, we demonstrate that the left IPS is involved in numerosity processing only, whereas the right IPS underlies a common processing mechanism or representation of spatial and numerical magnitude.
The structural and functional organization of the human cingulate cortex is an ongoing focus; however, human imaging studies continue to use the century-old Brodmann concept of a two region cingulate cortex. Recently, a four-region neurobiological model was proposed based on structural, circuitry, and functional imaging observations. It encompasses the anterior cingulate, midcingulate, posterior cingulate, and retrosplenial cortices (ACC, MCC, PCC, and RSC, respectively). For the first time, this study performs multireceptor autoradiography of 15 neurotransmitter receptor ligands and multivariate statistics on human whole brain postmortem samples covering the entire cingulate cortex. We evaluated the validity of Brodmann's duality concept and of the four-region model using a hierarchical clustering analysis of receptor binding according to the degree of similarity of each area's receptor architecture. We could not find support for Brodmann's dual cingulate concept, because the anterior part of his area 24 has significantly higher AMPA, kainate, GABA(B), benzodiazepine, and M(3) but lower NMDA and GABA(A) binding site densities than the posterior part. The hierarchical clustering analysis distinguished ACC, MCC, PCC, and RSC as independent regions. The ACC has highest AMPA, kainate, alpha(2), 5-HT(1A), and D(1) but lowest GABA(A) densities. The MCC has lowest AMPA, kainate, alpha(2), and D(1) densities. Area 25 in ACC is similar in receptor-architecture to MCC, particularly the NMDA, GABA(A), GABA(B), and M(2) receptors. The PCC and RSC differ in the higher M(1) and alpha(1) but lower M(3) densities of PCC. Thus, multireceptor autoradiography supports the four-region neurobiological model of the cingulate cortex.

Mutation in the LRRK2 gene is a known genetic cause of Parkinson disease (PD). However, due to the high frequency in which the most frequent LRRK2 mutation is present and the large size of LRRK2 gene, a complete sequence-based screening of the entire coding region has only been performed by a few researchers. In addition, normal variability in the LRRK2 gene has only been fully assessed in the North American population. Although a complete examination of the entire gene is required to assess the exact contribution of LRRK2 to the etiology of PD, more than 50 variants have been reported to date within the LRRK2 locus. Gene multiplications or deletions have not been reported so far. Here, all LRRK2 variants reported are interpreted and their contribution to the disease is examined.

Almost all studies of sleepy driving are carried out in driving simulators and with monotonous road conditions (no interaction with other cars). The present study investigated indicators of sleepy driving in a more challenging scenario after a night awake. 17 participants drove a high fidelity moving base driving simulator experiment while sleepiness was monitored physiologically and behaviourally. Short periods of situations of free driving (no other vehicles) alternated with short periods of following another vehicle (car following) with and without the possibility to overtake. The result showed that a night of prior sleep loss increased sleepiness levels at the wheel (eye closure duration and lateral variability) compared to after a night of normal sleep. Blink duration while overtaking was significantly lower compared to the other situations, it was at the same level as after night sleep. Speed when passing a stopped school bus was not significantly affected by sleepiness. However the warning caused a more rapid reduction of speed. In conclusion, a moderately challenging driving contest did not affect sleepiness indicators, but a very challenging one did so (overtaking). This suggests that it is important to monitor the driving situation in field operational tests of sleepy driving.

Different brain mechanisms seem to mediate wanting and liking for the same reward. This may have implications for the modular nature of mental processes, and for understanding addictions, compulsions, free will and other aspects of desire. A few wanting and liking phenomena are presented here, together with discussion of some of these implications.
Neurones that lose their presynaptic partners because of injury usually retract or die. However, when the auditory interneurones of the cricket Gryllus bimaculatus are denervated, dendrites respond by growing across the midline and forming novel synapses with the opposite auditory afferents. Suppression subtractive hybridization was used to detect transcriptional changes 3 days after denervation. This is a stage at which we demonstrate robust compensatory dendritic sprouting. Whereas 49 unique candidates were down-regulated, no sufficiently up-regulated candidates were identified at this time point. Several candidates identified in this study are known to influence the translation and degradation of proteins in other systems. The potential role of these factors in the compensatory sprouting of cricket auditory interneurones in response to denervation is discussed.
This paper describes low-frequency auditory steady-state responses (ASSRs) to speech-weighted noise stimuli. The effect of modulation frequency was evaluated within the frequency range below 40 Hz. Furthermore, objective ASSR measures were related to speech understanding performance in normal-hearing and hearing-impaired listeners. The variability in ASSR recordings over independent test sessions was larger between subjects than within. Trends of increased responses around 10 and/or 20 Hz were found in all subjects. Obtained latency estimates of the responses pointed to primarily cortical sources involved in ASSR generation at low frequencies. Furthermore, significant differences between normal-hearing and hearing-impaired adults were found for ASSRs to stimuli related to the temporal envelope of speech. Comparing these responses with phoneme identification scores over different stimulus levels showed both measures increased with stimulus level in a similar way (rho=0.82). At a fixed stimulus level, ASSRs were significantly correlated with speech reception thresholds for phonemes and sentences in noise (rho from -0.45 to -0.53). These results indicate that objective low-frequency ASSRs are related to behavioral speech understanding, independently of level.
Although mood disorders are frequently genetically determined and to some degree gender-dependent, the concept of early life 'programming', implying a relation between perinatal environmental events and adult mood disorders, has recently gained considerable attention. In particular, maternal separation (MS) markedly affects various stress-sensitive brain centers. Therefore, MS is considered as a suitable experimental paradigm to study how early life events affect brain plasticity and, hence, cause psychopathologies like major depression. In adult mammals, the classical hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA-) axis and the urocortin 1 (Ucn1)-containing non-preganglionic Edinger-Westphal nucleus (npEW) respond in opposite ways to chronic stressors. This raises the hypothesis that MS, which is known to increase vulnerability for adult mood disorders via the dysregulation of the HPA-axis, will affect npEW dynamics as well. We have tested this hypothesis and, moreover, studied a possible role of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in such npEW plasticity. By triple immunocytochemistry we show that BDNF and Ucn1 coexist in rat npEW-neurons that are c-Fos-positive upon acute stress. Quantitative immunocytochemistry revealed that MS increases the contents of Ucn1 and BDNF in these cells. Furthermore, in males and females, the c-Fos response of npEW-Ucn1 neurons upon restraint stress was blunted in animals with MS history, a phenomenon that was concomitant with dampening of the HPA corticosterone response in females but not in males. Based on these data we suggest that the BDNF-containing npEW-Ucn1 system might be affected by MS in a sex-specific manner. This supports the idea that the npEW would play a role in the appearance of sex differences in the pathogenesis of stress-induced mood disorders.
We studied the spatial and temporal expression of the homeobox genes PAX6, OTX2, and OTX1 using a developmental series of human fetal eyes aged from 6 to 10 weeks post-conception. Previous animal studies have shown that PAX6 may regulate progenitor cell proliferation, timing of differentiation and neural retina cell fate determination. OTX2 may play a role in development of the retinal pigment epithelium and photoreceptor differentiation, whereas OTX1 may be important in ciliary body development. In this study, we demonstrate the presence of the mRNAs and proteins for these genes within human fetal retinas of different stages. By in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, we show that PAX6 was primarily localized to nuclei of the neural retina, OTX2 was localized to the nuclei of retinal pigment epithelium and OTX1 expression was confined to anterior retina. Expression peaks for PAX6 occur at days 51-60 and for OTX2 occur around fetal days 48-54. We conclude that the human expression patterns correspond spatially with the patterns observed in the rat retina. Further, the expressions occur during similar fetal stages as described in the developing rat retina.


Aripiprazole has been used effectively to treat schizophrenia in the clinic; however, its mechanisms of action are not clear. This study examined how short- and long-term aripiprazole treatment affects dopaminergic transmission in mesolimbic and nigrostriatal pathways. For comparison, the effects of haloperidol and olanzapine treatment were also examined. Aripiprazole significantly increased D2 receptor mRNA expression and decreased tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA expression in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) after 1- and 12-wk treatment, but had no effect in substantia nigra (SN) and nucleus accumbens (NAc). Aripiprazole also decreased dopamine transporter (DAT) binding density in NAc (for 1- and 12-wk treatment) and VTA (1-wk treatment). In contrast, haloperidol significantly increased D2 receptor binding density and decreased DAT binding density in NAc and caudate putamen (CPu) after 1- and 12-wk treatment, and it also decreases DAT binding in VTA after 12-wk treatment. Olanzapine had less widespread effects, namely an increase in D2 receptor mRNA in VTA after 12-wk treatment and decreased DAT binding in NAc after 1-wk treatment. These results suggest that aripiprazole has selective effects on the mesolimbic dopaminergic pathway. Selectively reducing dopamine synthesis in VTA is a possible therapeutic mechanism for the long-term efficacy of aripiprazole in controlling schizophrenia symptoms with reduced extrapyramidal side-effects.


In the last few decades, several works on cognitive processing during sleep have emerged. The study of cognitive processing with event related potentials (ERPs) during sleep is a topic of great interest, since ERPs allow the study of stimulation with passive paradigms (without conscious response or behavioural response), opening multiple research possibilities during different sleep phases. We review ERPs modulated by cognitive processes during sleep: N1, Mismatch Negativity (MMN), P2, P3, N400-like, N300-N550, among others. The review shows that there are different cognitive discriminations during sleep related to the frequency, intensity, duration, saliency, novelty, proportion of appearance, meaning, and even sentential integration of stimuli. The fascinating results of cognitive processing during sleep imply serious challenges for cognitive models. The studies of ERPs, together with techniques of neuroimaging, have demonstrated the existence of cognitive processing during sleep. A fundamental question to be considered is if these cognitive phenomena are similar to processing that occurs during wakefulness. Based on this question we discussed the existence of possible mechanisms associated with sleep, as well as the specific cognitive and neurophysiologic differences of wakefulness and sleep. Much knowledge is still required to even understand the conjunction of dramatic changes in cerebral dynamics and the occurrence of cognitive processes. We propose some insights based on ERPs research for further construction of theoretical models for integrating both cognitive processing and specific brain sleep dynamics.
The main developments emphasizing the birth and ascent of Neuroscientific Psychophysiology are highlighted. More than a century ago, monumental contributions laid the grounds for our understanding of the human brain-body-behavior-environment interrelationships with theoretical, methodological, empirical and applied underpinnings. Thousands of Psychophysiologists worldwide have contributed to enrich humanity's knowledge and will continue to enhance Neuroscientific Psychophysiology by enlarging its horizons and important ramifications. The excellence of Neuroscientific Psychophysiology is reflected in the world renowned and highly acclaimed International Journal of Psychophysiology which this year, celebrated its 25th Anniversary. The International Organization of Psychophysiology, associated with the United Nations (New York) unites professional Neuroscientists from around the world and integrates interdisciplinary Psychophysiology as a leading neuroscience.
Cortical brain areas and dynamics evolved to organize motor behavior in our three-dimensional environment also support more general human cognitive processes. Yet traditional brain imaging paradigms typically allow and record only minimal participant behavior, then reduce the recorded data to single map features of averaged responses. To more fully investigate the complex links between distributed brain dynamics and motivated natural behavior, we propose the development of wearable mobile brain/body imaging (MoBI) systems that continuously capture the wearer's high-density electrical brain and muscle signals, three-dimensional body movements, audiovisual scene and point of regard, plus new data-driven analysis methods to model their interrelationships. The new imaging modality should allow new insights into how spatially distributed brain dynamics support natural human cognition and agency.

Hyperthermia frequently occurs in stroke patients. Hyperthermia negatively correlates with clinical outcome and adversely effects treatment regiments otherwise successful under normothermic conditions. Preclinical studies also demonstrate that hyperthermia converts salvageable penumbra to ischaemic infarct. The present article reviews the knowledge accumulated from both clinical and preclinical studies about hyperthermia and ischaemic brain injury, examines current treatment strategies and discusses future research directions.





Gender identification of human voices was studied in a juvenile population of cochlear implant (CI) users exposed to naturalistic speech stimuli from 20 male and 20 female speakers using two different voice gender perception tasks. Stimulus output patterns were recorded from each individual CI for each stimulus, and features related to voice fundamental frequency and spectral envelope were extracted from these electrical output signals to evaluate the relationship between implant output and behavioral performance. In spite of the fact that temporal and place cues of similar quality were produced by all CI devices, only about half of the subjects were able to label male and female voices correctly. Participants showed evidence of using available temporal cues, but showed no evidence of using place cues. The implants produced a consistent and novel cue to voice gender that participants did not appear to utilize. A subgroup of participants could discriminate male and female voices when two contrasting voices were presented in succession, but were unable to identify gender when voices were singly presented. It is suggested that the nature of long-term auditory categorical memories needs to be studied in more detail in these individuals.


We examined the shapes and sizes of dermal bones of the palate of selected Palaeozoic tetrapods in order to identify the ancestral states of palatal bone morphologies in the earliest tetrapods, to learn how the composition of the palate varies within and among early tetrapod radiations, and to recognize evolutionary correlations among the size and shapes of skeletal elements in this important group of animals. We find that whereas the palatal bones themselves and their arrangements are usually conserved, considerable correlated evolutionary change occurs in the shapes and sizes of the bones. Some of the changes in the bones are allometrically linked to overall palate size, which varies more than 100-fold among the taxa in our sample. Often, these allometries were only hinted at in traditional independent contrasts-based regressions of log transformed data, particularly because many allometries are subtle, their slopes may vary among subclades, and the scatter around some trendlines is high. Rather, the allometries showed up in analyses of size-standardized palatal bone dimensions investigated using independent contrasts, bivariate phylomorphospace plots, and mirrored character reconstructions on the phylogenetic tree. We find negative allometry for parasphenoid lengths and widths essentially across the entire tree of Palaeozoic tetrapods, but with different trajectories characterizing the two largest clades, the temnospondyls and the lepospondyls. The lengths of several other elements may show positive allometries, either across the entire tree or in just a subclade. One possible positive allometry exists for the ectopterygoid, which appears to shorten allometrically in temnospondyls that evolve small body and palate size, and, as in Doleserpeton can be lost altogether. Both shortening and loss could be by the same developmental change, paedomorphosis, a form of heterochrony. Paedomorphosis might also account for evolution of relatively large parasphenoids in both lepospondyls and diminutive temnospondyls, but does not seem to explain evolution of ectopterygoid loss in lepospondyls. A regularity observed across nearly all taxa in our study set is an inverse correlation between the lengths of the vomer and pterygoid, bones that lie adjacent to one another along the long palatal axis. Further work is needed to learn whether such correlated evolution might be due to adaptation and/or to developmental bias, and particularly to learn how correlations and allometries themselves evolve.
It is presently unknown whether oxidative stress increases in disused skeletal muscle in humans. Markers of oxidative stress were investigated in biopsies from the vastus lateralis muscle, collected from healthy subjects before [time 0 (T0)], after 1 wk (T8), and after 5 wk (T35) of bed rest. An 18% decrease in fiber cross-sectional area was detected in T35 biopsies (P&lt;0.05). Carbonylation of muscle proteins significantly increased about twofold at T35 (P&lt;0.02) and correlated positively with the decrease in fiber cross-sectional area (P=0.04). Conversely, T8 biopsies showed a significant increase in protein levels of heme oxygenase-1 and glucose-regulated protein-75 (Grp75)/mitochondrial heat shock protein-70, two stress proteins involved in the antioxidant defense (P&lt;0.05). Heme oxygenase-1 increase, which involved a larger proportion of slow fibers compared with T0, appeared blunted in T35 biopsies. Grp75 protein level increased threefold in T8 biopsies and localized especially in slow fibers (P&lt;0.025), to decrease significantly in T35 biopsies (P&lt;0.05). Percent change in Grp75 levels positively correlated with fiber cross-sectional area (P=0.01). Parallel investigations on rat soleus muscles, performed after 1-15 days of hindlimb suspension, showed that Grp75 protein levels significantly increased after 24 h of unloading (P = 0.02), i.e., before statistically significant evidence of muscle atrophy, to decrease thereafter in relation to the degree of muscle atrophy (P=0.03). Therefore, in humans as in rodents, disuse muscle atrophy is characterized by increased protein carbonylation and by the blunting of the antioxidant stress response evoked by disuse.
Little is known about how adolescents with autism spectrum conditions (ASC) experience the initial impact of ostracism. This study investigated whether a mild, short-term episode of experimentally induced ostracism (Cyberball) would affect self-reported anxiety, mood, and the extent to which four social needs (self-esteem, belonging, control and meaningful existence) were threatened in adolescents with ASC and matched controls. Anxiety and the four needs were negatively affected by ostracism in both groups. However, ostracism did not modulate mood in the ASC group, and a number of possible interpretations of this group difference are discussed. In general, the results of this study suggest that normative models of ostracism are applicable to ASC.
What differentiates the living from the nonliving? What is life? These are perennial questions that have occupied minds since the beginning of cultures. The search for a clear demarcation between animate and inanimate is a reflection of the human tendency to create borders, not only physical but also conceptual. It is obvious that what we call a living creature, either bacteria or organism, has distinct properties from those of the normally called nonliving. However, searching beyond dichotomies and from a global, more abstract, perspective on natural laws, a clear partition of matter into animate and inanimate becomes fuzzy. Based on concepts from a variety of fields of research, the emerging notion is that common principles of biological and nonbiological organization indicate that natural phenomena arise and evolve from a central theme captured by the process of information exchange. Thus, a relatively simple universal logic that rules the evolution of natural phenomena can be unveiled from the apparent complexity of the natural world.
Probiotics are live non-pathogenic commensal organisms that exert therapeutic effects in travellers' diarrhea, irritable bowel syndrome and inflammatory bowel disease. Little is known about mechanisms of action of commensal bacteria on intestinal motility and motility-induced pain. It has been proposed that probiotics affect intestinal nerve function, but direct evidence for this has thus far been lacking. We hypothesized that probiotic effects might be mediated by actions on colonic intrinsic sensory neurons. We first determined whether sensory neurons were present in rat colon by their responses to chemical mucosal stimulation and identified them in terms of physiological phenotype and soma morphotype. Enteric neuron excitability and ion channel activity were measured using patch clamp recordings. We fed 10(9)Lactobacillus reuteri (LR) or vehicle control to rats for 9 days. LR ingestion increased excitability (threshold for evoking action potentials) and number of action potentials per depolarizing pulse, decreased calcium-dependent potassium channel (IK(Ca)) opening and decreased the slow afterhyperpolarization (sAHP) in sensory AH neurons, similar to the IK(Ca) antagonists Tram-34 and clotrimazole. LR did not affect threshold for action potential generation in S neurons. Our results demonstrate that LR targets an ion channel in enteric sensory nerves through which LR may affect gut motility and pain perception.
Pax-6 is a regulatory gene with a major role during visual system development, but its association with corneal epithelial differentiation is not clearly established. Using the RCE1-(5T5) cell line, which mimics corneal epithelial differentiation, we analyzed Pax-6 biological role. Immunostaining of proliferating colonies and confluent sheets showed that Pax-6-positive cells were also K3 keratin-positive, suggesting that Pax-6 is expressed in differentiating cells. Pax-6 mRNA was barely expressed in early cell cultures; but after confluence, its levels raised up to fivefold as demonstrated by Northern blot and RT-qPCR. The raise in Pax-6 expression preceded for 9 h the increase in LDH-H and LDH-M mRNAs, previously shown as early markers of corneal epithelial cell differentiation. The full-length mRNAs encoding for the two major Pax-6 isoforms were found at very low levels in proliferating cells, and abundantly expressed in the confluent stratified epithelia; Pax-6 mRNA was 2- to 2.5-fold more abundant than Pax-6(5a) mRNA. The ectopic expression of Pax-6 or Pax-6(5a) decreased proliferative ability leading to the formation of abortive, non-proliferative colonies. In contrast, culture conditions that delay or block corneal epithelial cell differentiation reduced or inhibited the expression of Pax-6. Collectively, results show that Pax-6 is the earlier differentiation marker expressed by corneal epithelial cells, and open the possibility for a major role of Pax-6 as the main driver of the differentiation of corneal epithelial cells.
Intravenous antiepileptic drugs are required in patients needing urgent treatment or unable to take oral medication. The safety of intravenous levetiracetam has been established in prospective studies of adult epilepsy and healthy participants. The authors performed a prospective, single-center study to evaluate the safety of a rapid loading dose of intravenous levetiracetam. Patients were divided into 3 equal dosing groups (N = 15 each): 20, 40, and 60 mg/kg (corresponding to maximum doses of 1, 2, and 3 g). Electrocardiogram and safety assessment were performed during the infusion. Ages were 4 to 32 years. Postinfusion serum levetiracetam concentrations were 14 to 189 microg/mL. There were no significant changes in blood pressure, no local infusion site reactions, and no electrocardiogram abnormalities. The authors concluded that high serum levels of parenteral levetiracetam can be achieved rapidly and safely, in a small infusion volume. This finding has important implications for the treatment of status epilepticus.
Matrix effects, which represent an important issue in liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry or tandem mass spectrometry detection, should be closely assessed during method development. In the case of quantitative analysis, the use of stable isotope-labelled internal standard with physico-chemical properties and ionization behaviour similar to the analyte is recommended. In this paper, an example of the choice of a co-eluting deuterated internal standard to compensate for short-term and long-term matrix effect in the case of chiral (R,S)-methadone plasma quantification is reported. The method was fully validated over a concentration range of 5-800 ng/mL for each methadone enantiomer with satisfactory relative bias (-1.0 to 1.0%), repeatability (0.9-4.9%) and intermediate precision (1.4-12.0%). From the results obtained during validation, a control chart process during 52 series of routine analysis was established using both intermediate precision standard deviation and FDA acceptance criteria. The results of routine quality control samples were generally included in the +/-15% variability around the target value and mainly in the two standard deviation interval illustrating the long-term stability of the method. The intermediate precision variability estimated in method validation was found to be coherent with the routine use of the method. During this period, 257 trough concentration and 54 peak concentration plasma samples of patients undergoing (R,S)-methadone treatment were successfully analysed for routine therapeutic drug monitoring.
This study was intended to investigate the neural signals related to oculomotor and visual activity during horizontal saccades in humans and to explore the potential of using such signals as a functional marker for localizing the periventricular and periaqueductal gray. We recorded the local field potentials (LFPs) via implanted electrodes in the rostrolateral part of the periventricular and periaqueductal gray in four patients (six electrodes) who underwent deep brain stimulation for treatment of neuropathic pain. The functional composition of the saccade-related LFPs under different visual conditions was characterized using time-frequency analysis, and it was correlated with the anatomic placement of the electrodes on the postoperative magnetic resonance images. The magnitude of oculomotor signals varied predictably with the proximity of the recording electrode to the superior colliculus; the oculomotor activity was represented specifically in the alpha (8-13 Hz) and theta (4-8 Hz) bands for saccades and in the alpha band for fixation, whereas the visual activity was represented in the delta band (1-3 Hz) of the LFPs. The compound LFP signals of the superior colliculus embrace the synchronized population activity of multimodalities, which can be differentiated in the frequency domain. This is the first time LFP signals of the human superior colliculus have been characterized. Such signals may be used as a functional marker for electrode placement in the periventricular and periaqueductal gray for modulation of pain.
Continuous electroencephalogram in the intensive care unit is increasingly recognized as an important diagnostic and prognostic tool in critically ill patients. Metal disc electrodes or subdermal needle electrodes are neither computed tomography nor magnetic resonance imaging compatible. Their frequent replacement required for imaging purposes is time consuming and contributes to scalp breakdown. We have developed and report on two new types of imaging compatible electrodes. The subdermal wire electrode and the silver-epoxy-coated conductive plastic electrode are magnetic resonance imaging, computed tomography, and angiogram compatible. Moreover, the subdermal wire electrode does not require any daily maintenance. The electrodes were used on a total of 24 intensive care unit patients (subdermal wire electrode = 20, conductive plastic electrodes = 4) who required continuous electroencephalogram. During an average of 62.2 +/- 44 hours of electroencephalogram recording, 54% of the patients underwent imaging procedures (nine magnetic resonance imagings, five computed tomographic scans, and two angiograms) of good quality without the need to remove/replace the electrodes. The continuous electroencephalogram revealed epileptogenic activity that was not detected on standard 20-minute recordings in 28% of patients screened, with electrographic seizures in 11%. These two types of imaging compatible electrodes offer definite advantages in clinical practice. The combined diagnostic information of continuous electroencephalogram and easy-to-plan imaging yields important results and improves the clinical management and treatment of intensive care unit patients.
Various clinical signs have been used for assessing difficult intubation in patients with acromegaly. These signs include the modified Mallampati classification, measurement of thyromental distance and head and neck movements. Some authors have also tried to establish a relationship between growth hormone levels and difficult intubation. We hypothesized that duration of symptoms in patients with acromegaly may have an association with difficult airway and difficult laryngoscopy. In this prospective study we evaluated tests of airway assessment such as: (i) the Mallampati grade; (ii) the thyromental distance; and (iii) the laryngoscopic grade (Cormack-Lehane). The growth hormone levels and the duration of disease symptoms were also examined. Significant correlation was observed between the Cormack-Lehane and Mallampati gradings (p = 0.05; rho = 19.3%), and between the thyromental distance and the duration of the symptoms (p = 0.03; rho = 26.9%). The incidence of Mallampati III and IV grades was higher in patients with acromegaly. Increased thyromental distance was noted in patients with a long duration of disease. However, increased thyromental distance was not associated with difficult laryngoscopy.
The pathogenetic mechanism of hearing loss in patients with vestibular schwannomas (VS) remains unclear. Our aim was to determine the radiological and clinical parameters that might be related to hearing. The radiological images and charts of 99 patients were reviewed. Image processing software was used to analyse the maximal tumor diameter in three planes; its volume; its extension cranially, caudally, anteriorly and posteriorly; the width and length of the intrameatal tumor portion, its shape and consistency; and the tumor-fundus distance. These parameters were correlated with the patient's pre-operative hearing range. The degree of hearing correlated significantly with the tumor size, volume and coronal diameter, the degree of intrameatal tumor growth, and the distance between the lateral tumor end and the fundus (p &lt; 0.05). No correlation was found regarding tumor extension, shape and consistency, the presence of hydrocephalus, or the extent of erosion of the internal auditory canal. Loss of hearing in the VS appears to be multifactorial. Determining the radiological parameters related to the hearing level can help to clarify the pathophysiological mechanisms involved.


Several patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) who are refractory to adequate treatment with first-line treatments are considered treatment-resistant. Further surveys were to be implemented to explore the outcome predictors of the antiobsessional response. Such study was aimed at building a model suitable to predict the final outcome of a mixed OCD pharmacologic and nonpharmacologic treatment approaches. We studied 130 subjects with OCD who underwent pharmacologic (with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors alone or with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and risperidone at low dosage) and/or behavioral therapy (using exposure and response prevention techniques). The following variables were used as predictors: symptoms dimension, as resulting from the Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale items factor analysis; neuropsychologic performances; and epidemiologic variables. The treatment response arising from 3 to 6 months of therapy was used as dependent variable. A conventional logistic regression was used to define a previsional model of treatment response and multilayer perceptrons and to supervise an artificial neural network technique. The 46.9% of the sample resulted to be refractory to treatment. Results obtained with the logistic regression model showed that the only predictors of treatment outcome are hoarding symptoms, repeating rituals, and counting compulsions. Furthermore, using all the variables considered in the models, multilayer perceptrons showed highly better predictive performance as compared with the logistic regression models (93.3% vs 61.5%, respectively, of correct classification of cases). Complex interactions between different clinical and neuropsychologic variables are involved in defining OCD treatment response profile, and nonlinear and interactive modeling strategies, that is, supervised artificial neural networks, seem to be more suitable to investigate this complexity than linear techniques.
Judging people on the basis of cultural stereotypes is a ubiquitous facet of daily life, yet little is known about how this fundamental inferential strategy is implemented in the brain. Using fMRI, we measured neural activity while participants made judgments about the likely actor (i.e., person-focus) and location (i.e., place-focus) of a series of activities, some of which were associated with prevailing gender stereotypes. Results revealed that stereotyping was underpinned by activity in areas associated with evaluative processing (e.g., ventral medial prefrontal cortex, amygdala) and the representation of action knowledge (e.g., supramarginal gyrus, middle temporal gyrus). In addition, activity accompanying stereotypic judgments was correlated with the strength of participants' explicit and implicit gender stereotypes. These findings elucidate how stereotyping fits within the neuroscience of person understanding.
The authors examined the ability of Japanese monkeys (Macaca fuscata) to discriminate between sexes based on facial features. The shape and position of facial features (facial morphology) were measured to quantify the differences between sexes. The distance between the chin and nose was longer in males than females, and the outline of the face around the upper jaw and upper face differed between sexes. Using operant conditioning, 2 monkeys succeeded in discriminating sex based on facial pictures. Furthermore, they successfully generalized the discrimination to novel pictures of faces. Tests with morphed pictures of faces revealed that the monkeys used facial morphology to discriminate between males and females. Our results suggest that Japanese monkeys have sexual dimorphism in facial shape and they can use the morphological differences to discriminate conspecific sex.
The neuroendocrine gender dimorphism that begins during perinatal development is completed during puberty. We have previously described how the perinatal gonadal steroids programme hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activity in adulthood and we now assess the role of peripubertal ovarian hormones. Prepubertal females were treated subcutaneously with either cholesterol or 17beta-oestradiol and their pituitary-adrenal activity was assessed 5 days later. Oestradiol suppressed the ACTH and corticosterone responses to restraint stress in the prepubertal female. Furthermore, groups of female rats were ovariectomised (OVX) either before or after puberty and adult animals were subsequently treated with subcutaneous implants containing either 17beta-oestradiol or cholesterol. Corticosterone pulsatility was assessed using an automated blood sampling system to collect blood from freely moving animals at 10 min intervals over 24 h. Oestradiol administered to adults that had been OVX either pre- or post-pubertally displayed a significantly higher mean corticosterone level as well as increased pulse frequency and pulse amplitude compared with cholesterol treated controls. These data demonstrate a reversal in the effect of oestrogens on HPA axis activity over the time of puberty with inhibitory effects prepubertally and stimulatory actions after puberty and imply an ovarian steroid-independent mechanism of pubertal maturation of HPA sensitivity to oestrogens.
Decapod crustaceans, like many other animals, engage in agonistic behaviors that enhance their ability to compete for resources with conspecifics. These agonistic behaviors include the release of chemical signals as well as physical aggressive and submissive behaviors. In this study, we report that Caribbean spiny lobsters, Panulirus argus, use both urine-borne chemical signaling and physical aggressive behaviors during interactions with conspecifics, and that these agonistic behaviors can influence the behavior and eventual social status of the interactants. Spiny lobsters that engaged primarily in physical aggressive behaviors became dominant, whereas spiny lobsters that received these physical aggressive behaviors responded with avoidance behaviors and became subordinates. Dominant animals frequently released urine during social interactions, more than when they were not in contact with subordinates and more than when they were not paired with another animal. Subordinates released urine significantly less often than dominants, and no more than when not paired. Preventing release of urine by catheterizing the animals resulted in an increase in the number and duration of physical interactions, and this increase was primarily driven by dominants initiating interactions through physical aggressive behaviors. Introducing urine from one of the catheterized animals into an aquarium reduced physical aggressive behavior by dominant animals to normal levels. Urine-borne signals alone were capable of inducing avoidance behaviors from solitary spiny lobsters in both laboratory and field conditions. We conclude that urine serves as a chemical signal that communicates social status to the interactants. Ablation experiments showed that that these urine signals are detected primarily by aesthetasc sensilla of the olfactory pathway.
People tend to perceive immediate emotions as more intense than previous emotions. This immediacy bias in emotion perception occurred for exposure to emotional but not neutral stimuli (Study 1), when emotional stimuli were separated by both shorter (2 s; Studies 1 and 2) and longer (20 min; Studies 3, 4, and 5) delays, and for emotional reactions to pictures (Studies 1 and 2), films (Studies 3 and 4), and descriptions of terrorist threats (Study 5). The immediacy bias may be partly caused by immediate emotion's salience, and by the greater availability of information about immediate compared with previous emotion. Consistent with emotional salience, when people experienced new emotions, they perceived previous emotions as less intense than they did initially (Studies 3 and 5)-a change in perception that did not occur when people did not experience a new immediate emotion (Study 2). Consistent with emotional availability, reminding people that information about emotions naturally decays from memory reduced the immediacy bias by making previous emotions seem more intense (Study 4). Discussed are implications for psychological theory and other judgments and behaviors.
Theories about the functional relevance of consciousness commonly posit that higher order cognitive control functions, such as response inhibition, require consciousness. To test this assertion, the authors designed a masked stop-signal paradigm to examine whether response inhibition could be triggered and initiated by masked stop signals, which inform participants to stop an action they have begun. In 2 experiments, masked stop signals were observed to occasionally result in full response inhibition as well as to yield a slow down in the speed of responses that were not inhibited. The magnitude of this subliminally triggered response time slowing effect correlated with the efficiency measure (stop signal reaction time) of response inhibition across participants. Thus, response inhibition can be triggered unconsciously-more so in individuals who are good inhibitors and under conditions that are associated with efficient response inhibition. These results indicate that in contradiction to common theorizing, inhibitory control processes can operate outside awareness.

A slight predominance of cluster pain on the right side has been reported in several studies. The aim of this large retrospective Nordic multicenter study was to estimate the prevalence of right- and left-sided pain in cluster headache (CH) patients with side-locked pain, the prevalence of side shifts in episodic and chronic CH patients, and the occurrence of cranial autonomic symptoms related to pain side. Among 383 cluster patients, 55 (14%) had experienced pain side shift. Of the remaining 328 individuals without side shift, there was no significant difference between the occurrence of right-sided and left-sided pain (54 vs. 46%). The prevalence of side shift was similar for episodic and chronic CH and the occurrence of cranial autonomic symptoms was not influenced by the pain side. In conclusion, previous reports of a side difference in location of cluster pain could not be confirmed in this large Nordic sample.
We describe the case of a patient with atypical hemiplegic migraine and associated basilar symptoms, where a large patent foramen ovale (PFO) and hypoplasia of basilar artery were found. The longer period of 4-year remission of the headache attacks was coincident with the percutaneous PFO closure. When 5 years after, hemiplegic migraine attacks relapsed, with more relevant basilar symptoms, a mild re-opening of PFO was found. The atypical presentation of attacks with basilar symptoms and prolonged hemiplegia does not strictly fit the diagnostic criteria of ICHD-II.
We describe a case of 36-year-old man who presented with a subacute headache preceded by a 1-month history of posterior neck pain without trauma history. Head and neck magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies disclosed bilateral supratentorial subdural and retroclival extradural hematomas associated with marked cervical epidural venous engorgement. Cerebral and spinal angiography disclosed no abnormalities except dilated cervical epidural veins. We performed serial follow-up MRI studied to monitor his condition. Patient's symptoms improved gradually. Serial radiologic studies revealed gradual resolution of pathologic findings. A 3-month follow-up MRI study of the brain and cervical spine revealed complete resolution of the retroclival extradural hematoma, disappearance of the cervical epidural venous engorgement, and partial resolution of the bilateral supratentorial subdural hematoma. Complete resolution of the bilateral supratentorial subdural hematoma was confirmed on a 5-month follow-up brain MRI. The diagnosis and possible mechanisms of this rare association are discussed.
The generalized magic asymmetric gradient stimulated echo (generalized MAGSTE) sequence compensates background gradient cross-terms and can be adjusted to asymmetric timing boundary conditions which for instance are present in echo-planar MR imaging. However, its efficiency is not optimal because one of the two diffusion-weighting gradients applied in each interval usually must have a reduced amplitude to ensure the desired cross-term compensation. In this work, a modification of generalized MAGSTE is investigated where this gradient pulse is replaced by two gradient pulses with full amplitude but opposite polarities. It is shown that with these bipolar gradients (i) the sequence retains the cross-term compensation capability for an appropriate choice of the gradient pulse durations and (ii) the diffusion-weighting efficiency is improved, i.e. higher k and b values can be achieved without prolonging the echo time. These results are confirmed in MR imaging experiments on phantoms and in vivo in the human brain at 3T using spin-echo and echo-planar MR imaging. In the examples shown, the b value could be increased between about 30% and 200% when using the bipolar gradient pulses. Thus, bipolar gradients may help to improve the applicability of the generalized MAGSTE sequence.
Single point imaging methods such as SPRITE are often the technique of choice for imaging fast-relaxing nuclei in solids. Single point imaging sequences based on SPRITE in their conventional form are ill-suited for in vivo applications since the acquisition time is long and the SAR is high. A new sequence design is presented employing variable repetition times and variable flip angles in order to improve the characteristics of SPRITE for in vivo applications. The achievable acquisition time savings as well as SAR reductions and/or SNR increases afforded by this approach were investigated using a resolution phantom as well as PSF simulations. Imaging results in phantoms indicate that acquisition times may be reduced by up to 70% and the SAR may be reduced by 40% without an appreciable loss of image quality.
Residual magnetisation is one of the major sources of artefacts in single point imaging sequences with short repetition times. The unwanted signal is caused by non-dephased transverse magnetisation excited in preceding acquisition cycles. Therefore, the problem emerges mainly around the centre of k-space and has been solved in the past by additional spoiling gradients. In this work, unwanted residual magnetisation acquired with the SPRITE sequence was investigated and a new method for the suppression of residual magnetisation is presented. It is shown that residual magnetisation experiences a different phase encoding leading to residual images with a different FOV. A phase cycling filter is able to eliminate the unwanted signal. Furthermore, a description of all signal components that occur is presented using an operator notation. The notation is new in this field with respect to its completeness. That is, the signal description is based on an understanding of single point imaging sequences, such as SPRITE, by the use of an extended phase encode graph. A prominent in vivo example is that of sodium imaging in biological tissue where transverse relaxation times are such that unwanted coherences can occur and therefore residual magnetisation becomes a significant problem. For instance, sodium in biological tissue has two transverse relaxation times of approximately 3ms and 15ms at 4T and this can result in significant artefacts if the encoding time is short and TR&lt;3ms.

A recent discussion on cognitive enhancers has caused some controversy in the ethics and neuroscience fields by coming out in favour of making neuropharmaceuticals with enhancing properties available for general consumption. We highlight in this brief commentary why concerns regarding efficacy and safety, demands on resources, and public health are substantive enough to warrant serious reconsideration before pharmaceutical performance enhancement can be widely supported.
We used an off-line story continuation task and an online ERP reading task to investigate coreferential processing following sentences that portrayed transfer-of-possession events as either ongoing or completed, using imperfective and perfective verb aspect (e.g., Amanda was shifting/shifted some poker chips to Scott). The story continuation task demonstrated that people were more likely to begin continuations with references to the Goal than to the Source, but that perfective aspect strengthened this bias. In the ERP task we probed expectations for Source and Goal referents by employing pronouns that matched one of the referents in gender. The ERP results were consistent with the biases revealed in the story continuation task and demonstrate that the difference in Goal bias for the two forms of aspect was manifested differently in the brain. These results provide novel behavioral and neurocognitive evidence that verb aspect influences the construction of situation models during language comprehension.
The use of antibody and peptide functionalized semiconductor quantum dots holds considerable potential for specific labeling of target antigens and high resolution optical imaging of biological preparations. Despite this potential, their use in neuroscience is not yet widespread; a number of technical and methodological challenges must still be overcome in order to produce reliable and reproducible labeling protocols. We have optimized and used anti-GFAP functionalized quantum dots for specific labeling of intermediate filaments in astrocyte and Mller glial cells in sections of intact rat neural sensory retina and dissociated primary spinal cord astrocytes. These techniques produced stable and robust imaging of retinal astrocytes and Mller cells with minimal non-specific background labeling and intense fluorescence resulting in a high signal to noise ratio. This resulted in clear and efficient labeling of normal levels of GFAP in the retina and the ability to differentiate it from pathologically high levels of GFAP associated with reactive gliosis in a laser induced injury model. Labeling and imaging of dissociated astrocytes demonstrated the presence of what appeared to be highly complex organizations of fine intermediate filaments that spanned between cells to form intricate networks of filamentous intercellular bridges. The presence of these structures in situ and in vivo as well as any potential functions remain to be determined, but their identification should be greatly facilitated by quantum dot labeling protocols.
Adrenocorticotropic hormone and angiotensin II stimulate cortisol secretion from bovine adrenal zona fasciculata cells by the activation of adenylate cyclase and phospholipase C-coupled receptors. Curcumin (1- 20 muM), a compound found in the spice turmeric, inhibited cortisol secretion stimulated by ACTH, AngII, and 8CPT-cAMP. Curcumin also suppressed ACTH-stimulated increases in mRNAs coding for steroid acute regulatory protein and CYP11a1 steroid hydroxylase. In whole cell patch clamp recordings from AZF cells, curcumin at slightly higher concentrations also inhibited Ca(v)3.2 current. These results identify curcumin as an effective inhibitor of ACTH- and AngII-stimulated cortisol secretion. The inhibition of Ca(v)3.2 current by curcumin may contribute to its suppression of secretion.
Receptor-receptor interactions within receptor heterodimers and receptor mosaics formed by different types of GPCRs represent an important integrative mechanism for signaling in brain networks at the level of the plasma membrane. The malfunction of special heterodimers and receptor mosaics in the ventral striatum containing D(2) receptors and 5-HT(2A) receptors in cortical networks may contribute to disturbances of key pathways involving ventral striato-pallidal GABA neurons and mediodorsal thalamic prefrontal glutamate neurons that may lead to the development of schizophrenia. The ventral striatum transmits emotional information to the cerebral cortex through a D(2) regulated accumbal-ventral pallidal-mediodorsal-prefrontal circuit which is of special interest to schizophrenia in view of the reduced number of glutamate mediodorsal-prefrontal projections associated with this disease. This circuit is especially vulnerable to D(2) receptor activity in the nucleus accumbens, since it produces a reduction in the prefrontal glutamate drive from the mediodorsal nucleus. The following D(2) receptor containing heterodimers/receptor mosaics are of special interest to schizophrenia: A(2A)-D(2), mGluR5-D(2), CB(1)-D(2), NTS(1)-D(2) and D(2)-D(3) and are discussed in this review. They may have a differential distribution pattern in the local circuits of the ventral striato-pallidal GABA pathway, predominantly located extrasynaptically. Specifically, trimeric receptor mosaics consisting of A(2A)-D(2)-mGluR5 and CB(1)-D(2)-A(2A) may also exist in these local circuits and are discussed. The integration of receptor signaling within assembled heterodimers/receptor mosaics is brought about by agonists and allosteric modulators. These cause the intramembrane receptor-receptor interactions, via allosteric mechanisms, to produce conformational changes that pass over the receptor interfaces. Exogenous and endogenous cooperativity is discussed as well as the role of the cortical mGluR2-5-HT(2A) heterodimer/receptor mosaic in schizophrenia (Gonzalez-Maeso et al. 2008). Receptor-receptor interactions within receptor heterodimer/receptor mosaics of different receptors in the ventral striatum and cerebral cortex give novel strategies for treatment of schizophrenia involving, e.g., monotherapy with either A(2A), mGluR5, CB(1) or NTS(1) agonists or combined therapies with some of these agonists combined with D(2)-like antagonists that specifically target the ventral striatum. In addition, a combined targeting of receptor mosaics in the ventral striatum and in the cerebral cortex should also be considered.
Dimerization between G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) is a clearly established phenomenon. However, limited information is currently available on the interface essential for this process. Based on structural comparisons and sequence homology between rhodopsin and A(1) adenosine receptor (A(1)R), we initially hypothesized that four residues in transmembrane (TM) 4 and TM5 are involved in A(1)R homodimerization. Accordingly, these residues were substituted with Ala by site-directed mutagenesis. Interestingly, the mutant protein displayed no significant decrease in homodimer formation compared with wild-type A(1)R, as evident from coimmunoprecipitation and BRET(2) analyses (improved bioluminescence resonance energy transfer system offered by Perkin-Elmer Life Sciences), but lost ligand binding activity almost completely. Further studies disclosed that this effect was derived from the mutation of one particular residue, Trp132, which is highly conserved among many GPCRs. Confocal immunofluorescence and cell-surface biotinylation studies revealed that the mutant receptors localized normally at transfected cell membranes, signifying that loss of ligand binding was not because of defective cellular trafficking. Molecular modeling of the A(1)R-ligand complex disclosed that Trp132 interacted with several residues located in TM3 and TM5 that stabilized agonist binding. Thus, loss of interactions of Trp with these residues may, in turn, disrupt binding to agonists. Our study provides strong evidence of the essential role of the highly conserved Trp132 in TM4 of adenosine receptors.
Cellular interactions between activated microglia and degenerating neurons in in vivo models of Parkinson's disease are not well defined. This time course study assesses the dynamics of morphological and immunophenotypic properties of activated microglia in a 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) model of Parkinson's disease. Neurodegeneration in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) was induced by unilateral injection of 6-OHDA into the medial forebrain bundle. Activated microglia, identified using monoclonal antibodies: clone of antibody that detects major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II antigens (OX6) for MHC class II, clone of antibody that detects cell surface antigen-cluster of differentiation 11b - anti-complement receptor 3, a marker for complement receptor 3 and CD 68 for phagocytic activity. Activation of microglia in the lesioned SNc was rapid with cells possessing amoeboid or ramified morphology appeared on day 1, whilst antibody clone that detects macrophage-myeloid associated antigen immunoreactivity was observed at day 3 post-lesion when there was no apparent loss of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)+ve dopaminergic (DA) SNc neurons. Thereafter, OX6 and antibody clone that detects macrophage-myeloid associated antigen activated microglia selectively adhered to degenerating axons, dendrites and apoptotic (caspase 3+ve) DA neurons in the SNc were observed at day 7. This was followed by progressive loss of TH+ve SNc neurons, with the peak of TH+ve cell loss (51%) being observed at day 9. This study suggests that activation of microglia precedes DA neuronal cell loss and neurons undergoing degeneration may be phagocytosed prematurely by phagocytic microglia.
Alpha synuclein can be phosphorylated at serine129 (P-S129), and the presence of highly phosphorylated alpha-synuclein in Lewy bodies suggests changes to its phosphorylation status has an important pathological role. We demonstrate that the kinase(s) responsible for alpha-synuclein S129 phosphorylation is constitutively active in SH-SY5Y cells and involves casein kinase 2 activity. Increased oxidative stress or proteasomal inhibition caused significant elevation of P-S129 alpha-synuclein levels. Under these conditions, similar increases in P-S129 alpha-synuclein were found in both sodium dodecyl sulphate lysates and Triton extracts indicating the phosphorylated protein was soluble and did not lead to aggregation. The rate of S129 phosphorylation was increased in response to proteasomal inhibition indicating a higher activity of the relevant kinase. Cells expressing the phosphorylation mimic, S129D alpha-synuclein increased cell death and enhanced sensitivity to epoxomycin exposure. Proteasomal inhibition markedly decreased S129D alpha-synuclein turnover suggesting proteasomal inhibition leads to the accumulation of P-S129 alpha-synuclein through an increase in the kinase activity and a decrease in protein turnover resulting in increased cell death. We conclude that S129 phosphorylation is toxic to dopaminergic cells and both the levels of S129 phosphorylated protein and its toxicity are increased with proteasomal inhibition emphasising the interdependence of these pathways in Parkinson's disease pathogenesis.
The amyloid hypothesis has been the basis for most work on the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Recent clinical trials based on this hypothesis have been inconclusive. In this article I review the current status of the hypothesis and suggest that a major scientific need is to understand the normal function of amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP) and think how this may relate to the cell death in the disease process.
Androgens affect cognitive processes in both humans and animals. The effects of androgens may be limited to certain cognitive domains, specifically spatial memory, but this hypothesis remains elusive. Here, we tested castrated and sham-operated mice in various behavioral tasks to ask whether androgens affect multiple or specific cognitive domains in male mice. Castration impaired spatial working memory performance in the delayed matching to place water maze task following a 1-h, but not a 1-min, retention interval, as has been reported for rats. In contrast, castration had no effect on novel object recognition memory, spatial reference memory in the water maze, motor coordination, or passive avoidance memory. Castration increased anxiety-like behavior in the open field test, but not the elevated zero maze. Finally, we assessed the effects of androgen replacement with non-aromatizable dihydrotestosterone on spatial working memory following various retention intervals. Dihydrotestosterone recovered spatial memory performance following a 24-h, but not a 1-h retention interval, and had no effect at other retention intervals. These data support that in male mice androgens specifically affect spatial working memory performance, and that the neurobiological processes underlying spatial memory formation may be differentially affected by androgens.
The mammalian circadian pacemaker, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), contains receptors to the adipose tissue hormone leptin. In the present study, the effects of leptin on the electrophysiological activity of the SCN cells were characterised in vitro in rat brain slices. During extracellular recording, application of 20 nm leptin (n = 36) decreased mean spike frequency (Wilcoxon signed rank test, z = -3.390, P &lt; 0.001) and increased the irregularity of firing measured by the entropy of the log interspike interval distribution (Student's paired t-test, t = 2.377, P = 0.023), but had no consistent effect on spike patterning as measured by the mutual information between adjacent log interspike intervals (z = 0.745, P = 0.456). Intracellular current-clamp recordings (n = 25) revealed a hyperpolarising effect of 20 nm leptin on SCN neurones (z = -2.290, P = 0.022). The hyperpolarisation largely resulted from the effect of leptin on the subgroup of cells (n = 13) that generated 'rebound' spikes upon termination of a hyperpolarising current pulse (z = -2.697, P = 0.007). Leptin application also increased the group mean duration of the afterhyperpolarisation (n = 25, t = 2.512, P = 0.023). The effects of leptin on extracellularly recorded spike activity were consistent with the changes in membrane potential and spike shape. They suggest that leptin can directly modulate the electrical properties of SCN neurones and, in this way, contribute to the mechanism by which metabolic processes influence the circadian clock.
Arginine vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OXT), produced in the hypothalamic paraventricular (PVN) and supraoptic nucleus (SON), are considered to be involved in the pathophysiology of major depressive disorder (MDD). The objective of this study was to determine, for the first time, the relationship between AVP and OXT gene expression and depressive state in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Post-mortem brain tissue was obtained from six control subjects, and from a prospectively studied cohort of 23 AD patients, using the DSM-IIIR and the Cornell Scale for Depression in Dementia to determine depression diagnosis and severity. The amount of AVP and OXT mRNA was determined by in situ hybridisation. AD patients did not differ from controls with respect to the amount of AVP or OXT mRNA in the PVN or SON. Also, no differences were found between depressed and nondepressed AD patients and no relationship was found between the depression severity and AVP or OXT mRNA expression. The results indicate that AVP and OXT gene expression in the PVN and SON is unchanged in depressed AD patients compared to nondepressed AD patients. This is in contrast with the enhanced AVP gene expression in MDD, suggesting a difference in pathophysiology between MDD and depression in AD.
Many groups have generated alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) transgenic (tg) mice as a rodent model for human synucleinopathies, including Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Indeed, some of the lines displayed limited evidence of neurodegeneration, such as alpha-syn deposits, compromised function of dopaminergic neurons, fibrillization of alpha-syn, and astrogliosis. However, none of them fully replicate the pathological features of synucleinopathies. To better understand the pathogenesis of the synucleinopathies and to develop new therapeutic strategies, improvement of the current version of alpha-syn tg mice may be required. We predict that beta-synuclein (beta-syn), the homologue of alpha-syn, might be a key molecule for this purpose. Although beta-syn is a neuroprotective molecule counteracting the alpha-syn pathology in tg mice, it was previously shown that both beta-syn and gamma-synuclein were associated with axonal pathology in the hippocampus of sporadic cases of Parkinson's disease and DLB. Furthermore, two missense mutations (P123H and V70M) of beta-syn were recently identified in DLB. These mutants of beta-syn were prone to aggregate in vitro and overexpression of these mutant beta-syn proteins in neuroblastoma cells resulted in enhanced lysosomal pathology. Taken together, these results suggest that a toxic gain of function of beta-syn might be involved in the pathogenesis of synucleinopathies. In this context, it is of considerable interest to determine if mutant beta-syn-overexpressing tg mice could exhibit neuropathological features distinct from those in conventional alpha-syn tg mice. Furthermore, it is expected that a bigenic mouse model for mutant beta-syn/alpha-syn might be characterized by a more accelerated phenotype of synucleinopathies.

Acute stroke patients can be transferred directly to a Comprehensive Stroke Center (CSC), where acute stroke expertise is provided 24 h a day, seven days a week, and thrombolytic treatment is administered; or they may initially receive attention at an unspecialized community hospital with secondary transfer to the CSC. Our aim is to analyze the influence of previous attention at unspecialized community hospitals on the outcome of ischemic stroke patients treated with thrombolysis. We studied 153 consecutive ischemic stroke patients treated with t-PA over a 30-month period. The primary outcome variable was functional independence at 90 days (Rankin scale, mRS &lt;/= 2). Secondary outcomes were neurologic improvement at 24 h, rate of arterial recanalization and symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage. Forty-five patients (29.5%) received initial attention at community hospitals with secondary transfer to the CSC. Median time from onset to t-PA administration was shorter in patients with direct access to the CSC (135 vs. 165 min; p &lt; 0.001) and stroke severity was higher (NIHSS 12 vs. 9; p = 0.017). Patients who received initial attention at the CSC had a higher frequency of neurologic improvement (59.3% vs. 37.2%; p = 0.014) and a lower rate of symptomatic hemorrhage (4.7% vs. 14%; p = 0.04). Compared to initial attention at an unspecialized hospital, direct admission to the CSC was associated with an odds ratio of 2.48 (95% CI, 1.04-5.88; p = 0.039) for good outcome after adjustment for stroke severity at baseline and other potential confounders. Direct access to a CSC is associated with shorter onset-to-treatment time and better outcome for ischemic stroke patients treated with thrombolysis in comparison with initial attention at an unspecialized hospital with secondary transfer.

Not all Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM, grade IV WHO) manifest the same clinical course. Different prognostic classes may arise from different morphologic and genetic profiles. The observation of oligodendroglial foci within GBM samples and their correlation with genetic alterations may predict a better prognosis. 450 patients affected by histologically proven supratentorial cerebral GBM were treated at our institutions from January 2000 to December 2006: all patients received at least subtotal surgical removal, followed by the same standard radio-chemotherapy adjuvant treatment. In a subgroup of 36 patients (8.0%) an oligodendroglial component was observed. Molecular assessment of these cases was performed and LOH for 1p, 19q and 10q, EGFR amplification and TP53 gene expression was determined. Median age of this subgroup was 52.1 years (range: 29-78 years) vs 62.4 years in the entire GBM population. Chromosome analysis resulted as follows: LOH 1p and/or 19q in 27 cases (75.0%), LOH of 10q in 21 cases (58.1%), EGFR amplification in 14 cases (39%) and TP53 mutation in eight patients (22.2%). OS was of 20.9 months while it was 13.6 months in the entire GBM population. Progression free survival (PFS) was 10.3 months and 7.6 months the entire group. Two-year survival was of 55%. The presence of an oligodendroglial component in GBM appears to be an important prognostic factor to which better prognosis can be related. LOH 1p and 19q was significantly associated with GBM with oligodendroglial component.
Cerebral tumor and multiple sclerosis (MS) relapses can show overlapping clinical and magnetic resonance imaging features. In a previous study we observed in relapsing MS patients increased T-bet, pSTAT1, and pSTAT3 expressions in circulating mononuclear cells. During the data analysis we observed that T-bet, pSTAT1, and pSTAT3 expression was not increased in circulating mononuclear cells from a relapsing-remitting (RR)MS patient with recent onset of new neurological signs due to glioblastoma multiforme. In conclusion, our patient represents an exemplary case which suggests that T-bet, pSTAT1, and pSTAT3 expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) might be useful to differentiate MS relapses from other noninflammatory diseases.
Whether aggregates of prion protein (PrP) reflect neurotoxicity or are neuroprotective in prion diseases is unclear. To address this question, we performed a clinicopathologic study of cerebellar granular neurons in 100 patients affected with sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD). There was significant loss of these neurons in the subset of cases with Val/Val genotype at PRNP Codon 129 and Molecular Isotype 2 of abnormal PrP (sporadic CJD-VV2) (n=32) compared with both the other CJD subtypes and to controls. Pathological PrP deposits of the punctate-type (synaptic-type) in this subgroup correlated with neuronal loss and proliferation of astrocytes and microglia. By contrast, the numbers of large deposits (5- to 50-microm-diameter) and numbers of amyloid plaques did not correlate with neuronal loss. These findings are consistent with the view that large aggregates may protect neurons by sequestering neurotoxic PrP oligomers, whereas punctate deposits may indicate the location of neuronal death processes in CJD.
Dopamine depletion in cortical-basal ganglia circuits in Parkinson's disease (PD) grossly disturbs movement and cognition. Classic models relate Parkinsonian dysfunction to changes in firing rates of basal ganglia neurons. However, disturbances in other dynamics of neural activity are also common. Taking both inappropriate firing rates and other dynamics into account and determining how changes in the properties of these neural circuits that occur during PD impact on information coding are thus imperative. Here, we examined in vivo network dynamics in the external globus pallidus (GPe) of rats before and after chronic dopamine depletion. Dopamine depletion led to decreases in the firing rates of GPe neurons and increases in synchronized network oscillations in the beta frequency (13-30 Hz) band. Using logistic regression models, we determined the combined and separate impacts of these factors on network entropy, a measure of the upper bound of information coding capacity. Importantly, changes in these features in dopamine-depleted rats led to a significant decrease in GPe network entropy. Changes in firing rates had the largest impact on entropy, with changes in synchrony also decreasing entropy at the network level. Changes in autocorrelations tended to offset these effects because autocorrelations decreased entropy more in the control animals. Thus it is possible that reduced information coding capacity within basal ganglia networks may contribute to the behavioral deficits accompanying PD.
The use of chronic intracortical multielectrode arrays has become increasingly prevalent in neurophysiological experiments. However, it is not obvious whether neuronal signals obtained over multiple recording sessions come from the same or different neurons. Here, we develop a criterion to assess single-unit stability by measuring the similarity of 1) average spike waveforms and 2) interspike interval histograms (ISIHs). Neuronal activity was recorded from four Utah arrays implanted in primary motor and premotor cortices in three rhesus macaque monkeys during 10 recording sessions over a 15- to 17-day period. A unit was defined as stable through a given day if the stability criterion was satisfied on all recordings leading up to that day. We found that 57% of the original units were stable through 7 days, 43% were stable through 10 days, and 39% were stable through 15 days. Moreover, stable units were more likely to remain stable in subsequent recording sessions (i.e., 89% of the neurons that were stable through four sessions remained stable on the fifth). Using both waveform and ISIH data instead of just waveforms improved performance by reducing the number of false positives. We also demonstrate that this method can be used to track neurons across days, even during adaptation to a visuomotor rotation. Identifying a stable subset of neurons should allow the study of long-term learning effects across days and has practical implications for pooling of behavioral data across days and for increasing the effectiveness of brain-machine interfaces.
Epilepsy and brain malformation are commonly associated with excessive synaptic excitation and decreased synaptic inhibition of principal neurons. However, few studies have examined the state of synaptic inhibition of interneurons in an epileptic, malformed brain. We analyzed inhibitory inputs, mediated by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), to hippocampal interneurons in a mouse model of type 1 lissencephaly, a neurological disorder linked with severe seizures and brain malformation. In the disorganized hippocampal area CA1 of Lis1(+/-) mice, we initially observed a selective displacement of fast-spiking, parvalbumin-positive basket-type interneurons from stratum oriens (SO) locations to s. radiatum and s. lacunosum-moleculare (R/LM). Next, we recorded spontaneous and miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs and mIPSCs) onto visually identified interneurons located in SO or R/LM of Lis1(+/-) mice and age-matched littermate controls. We observed significant, layer-specific reorganizations in GABAergic inhibition of interneurons in Lis1 mutant mice. Spontaneous IPSC frequency onto SO interneurons was significantly increased in hippocampal slices from Lis1(+/-) mice, whereas mIPSC mean amplitude onto these interneurons was significantly decreased. In addition, the weighted decay times of sIPSCs and mIPSCs were significantly increased in R/LM interneurons. Taken together, these findings illustrate the extensive redistribution and reorganization of inhibitory connections between interneurons that can take place in a malformed brain.
Previous functional MRI studies reported neural correlates of risk and ambiguity based on behavioral economic theories. A recent study controlled for uncertainty by adding noise to information of an impending aversive event and demonstrated brain areas that did not track the degree of uncertainty: the activation peaked when the degraded information could be restored by cognitive efforts. In this review, we discuss how the variables defined in economics and cognitive psychology frameworks can be dissociated.
Within the second synaptic layer of the retina, bipolar cell (BC) output to ganglion cells is regulated by inhibitory input to BC axon terminals. GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs) mediate rapid synaptic currents in BC terminals, whereas GABA(C) receptors (GABA(C)Rs) mediate slow evoked currents and a tonic current, which is strongly regulated by GAT-1 GABA transporters. We have used voltage-clamp recordings from BC terminals in goldfish retinal slices to determine the source of GABA for activation of these currents. Inhibition of vesicular release with concanamycin A or tetanus toxin significantly inhibited GABA(A)R inhibitory postsynaptic currents and glutamate-evoked GABA(A)R and GABA(C)R currents but did not reduce the tonic GABA(C)R current, which was also not dependent on extracellular Ca(2+). The tonic current was strongly potentiated by inhibition of GABA transaminase, under both normal and Ca(2+)-free conditions, and was activated by exogenous taurine; however inhibition of taurine transport had little effect. The tonic current was unaffected by GAT-2/3 inhibition and was potentiated by GAT-1 inhibition even in the absence of vesicular release, indicating that it is unlikely to be evoked by reversal of GABA transporters or by ambient GABA. In addition, GABA release does not appear to occur via hemichannels or P2X(7) receptors. BC terminals therefore exhibit two forms of GABA(C)R-mediated inhibition, activated by vesicular and by nonvesicular GABA release, which are likely to have distinct functions in visual signal processing. The tonic GABA(C)R current in BC terminals exhibits similar properties to tonic GABA(A)R and glutamate receptor currents in the brain.
It has been proposed, but not directly tested, that persistent inflammatory nociception enhances excitatory glutamatergic inputs to neurons in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM), altering the activity and function of these neurons. This study used whole cell patch-clamp methods to record evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (eEPSCs) in spinally projecting RVM neurons from rats injected with saline or complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) 3-4 days earlier and to examine the role of substance P (SP) in modulating excitatory synaptic transmission. Input-output relationships demonstrated that CFA treatment facilitated fast excitatory glutamatergic inputs to type 1 and type 2 nonserotonergic spinally projecting RVM neurons, but not to type 3 neurons. The facilitation in type 1 and 2 neurons was dependent on neurokinin-1 (NK1) and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and prevented by the PKC inhibitor GF109203X. In a subset of neurons from nave rats, SP mimicked the effects of CFA and increased the potency and efficacy of glutamatergic synaptic transmission. The facilitation was prevented by 10 microM GF109203X, but not by 10 microM KN93, a CaMKII inhibitor. SP (0.3-3 microM) by itself produced concentration-dependent inward currents in most nonserotonergic, but not serotonergic neurons. The present study is the first demonstration, at the cellular level, that persistent inflammatory nociception leads to a sustained facilitation of fast excitatory glutamatergic inputs to RVM neurons by an NK1 and NMDA receptor-dependent mechanism that involves PKC. Further, it demonstrates that the facilitation is restricted to specific populations of RVM neurons that by inference may be pain facilitatory neurons.
Drosophila melanogaster exhibits a robust escape response to objects approaching on a collision course. Although a pair of large command interneurons called the giant fibers (GFs) have been postulated to trigger such behaviors, their role has not been directly demonstrated. Here, we show that escape from visual stimuli like those generated by approaching predators does not rely on the activation of the GFs and consists of a more complex and less stereotyped motor sequence than that evoked by the GFs. Instead, the timing of escape is tightly correlated with the activity of previously undescribed descending interneurons that signal a threshold angular size of the approaching object. The activity pattern of these interneurons shares features with those of visual escape circuits of several species, including pigeons, frogs, and locusts, and may therefore have evolved under similar constraints. These results show that visually evoked escapes in Drosophila can rely on at least two descending neuronal pathways: the GFs and the novel pathway we characterize electrophysiologically. These pathways exhibit very different patterns of sensory activity and are associated with two distinct motor programs.
Slow finger movements in man are not smooth, but are characterized by 8- to 12-Hz discontinuities in finger acceleration thought to have a central source. We trained two macaque monkeys to track a moving target by performing index finger flexion/extension movements and recorded local field potentials (LFPs) and spike activity from the primary motor cortex (M1); some cells were identified as pyramidal tract neurons by antidromic activation or as corticomotoneuronal cells by spike-triggered averaging. There was significant coherence between finger acceleration in the approximately 10-Hz range and both LFPs and spikes. LFP-acceleration coherence was similar for flexion and extension movements (0.094 at 9.8 Hz and 0.11 at 6.8 Hz, respectively), but substantially smaller during steady holding (0.0067 at 9.35 Hz). The coherence phase showed a significant linear relationship with frequency over the 6- to 13-Hz range, as expected for a constant conduction delay, but the slope indicated that LFP lagged acceleration by 18 +/- 14 or 36 +/- 8 ms for flexion and extension movements, respectively. Directed coherence analysis supported the conclusion that the dominant interaction was in the acceleration to LFP (i.e., sensory) direction. The phase relationships between finger acceleration and both LFPs and spikes shifted by about pi radians in flexion compared with extension trials. However, for a given trial type the phase relationship with acceleration was similar for cells that increased their firing during flexion or during extension trials. We conclude that movement discontinuities during slow finger movements arise from a reciprocally coupled network, which includes M1 and the periphery.
Parafascicular (Pf) neurons receive cholinergic input from the pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN), which is active during waking and REM sleep. There is a developmental decrease in REM sleep in humans between birth and puberty and 10-30 days in rat. Previous studies have established an increase in muscarinic and 5-HT1 serotonergic receptor-mediated inhibition and a transition from excitatory to inhibitory GABA(A) responses in the PPN during the developmental decrease in REM sleep. However, no studies have been conducted on the responses of Pf cells to the cholinergic input from the PPN during development, which is a major target of ascending cholinergic projections and may be an important mechanism for the generation of rhythmic oscillations in the cortex. Whole cell patch-clamp recordings were performed in 9- to 20-day-old rat Pf neurons in parasagittal slices, and responses to the cholinergic agonist carbachol (CAR) were determined. Three types of responses were identified: inhibitory (55.3%), excitatory (31.1%), and biphasic (fast inhibitory followed by slow excitatory, 6.8%), whereas 6.8% of cells showed no response. The proportion of CAR-inhibited Pf neurons increased with development. Experiments using cholinergic antagonists showed that M2 receptors mediated the inhibitory response, whereas excitatory modulation involved M1, nicotinic, and probably M3 or M5 receptors, and the biphasic response was caused by the activation of multiple types of muscarinic receptors. Compared with CAR-inhibited cells, CAR-excited Pf cells showed 1) a decreased membrane time constant, 2) higher density of hyperpolarization-activated channels (I(h)), 3) lower input resistance (R(in)), 4) lower action potential threshold, and 5) shorter half-width duration of action potentials. Some Pf cells exhibited spikelets, and all were excited by CAR. During development, we observed decreases in I(h) density, R(in), time constant, and action potential half-width. These results suggest that cholinergic modulation of Pf differentially affects separate populations, perhaps including electrically coupled cells. Pf cells tend to show decreased excitability and cholinergic activation during the developmental decrease in REM sleep.
It is an important task in neuroscience to find general principles that relate neural codes to the structure of the signals they encode. The structure of sensory signals can be described in many ways, but one important categorization distinguishes continuous from transient signals. We used the communication signals of the weakly electric fish to reveal how transient signals (chirps) can be easily distinguished from the continuous signal they disrupt. These communication signals-low-frequency sinusoids interrupted by high-frequency transients-were presented to pyramidal cells of the electrosensory lateral line lobe (ELL) during in vivo recordings. We show that a specific population of electrosensory neurons encodes the occurrence of the transient signal by synchronously producing a burst of spikes, whereas bursting was neither common nor synchronous in response to the continuous signal. We also confirmed that burst can be triggered by low-frequency modulations typical of prey signals. However, these bursts are more common in a different segment of the ELL and during spatially localized stimulation. These localized stimuli will elicit synchronized bursting only in a restricted number of cells the receptive fields of which overlap the spatial extent of the stimulus. Therefore the number of cells simultaneously producing a burst and the ELL segment responding most strongly may carry the information required to disambiguate chirps from prey signals. Finally we show that the burst response to chirps is due to a biophysical mechanism previously characterized by in vitro studies of electrosensory neurons. We conclude that bursting and synchrony across cells are important mechanisms used by sensory neurons to carry the information about behaviorally relevant but transient signals.
Human contrast sensitivity in low scotopic conditions is regulated according to the deVries-Rose law. Previous cat behavioral data, as well as cat and mice electrophysiological data, have not confirmed this relationship. To resolve this discrepancy at the behavioral level, we compared sensitivity in dim light for cats and humans in parallel experiments using the same visual stimuli and similar behavioral paradigms. Both species had to detect Gabor functions (SD = 1.5 degrees, spatial frequencies from 0 to 4 cpd, temporal frequency 4 Hz) presented 8 degrees to the right or left of a central fixation point over an 8 log-unit range of adaptation levels spanning scotopic vision and extending well into the mesopic range. Cats had 0.74 log unit greater absolute sensitivity than that of humans for spatial frequencies &lt;or=1/8 cpd. Cats had better contrast sensitivity overall for spatial frequencies &lt;1/2 cpd, whereas humans were more sensitive for spatial frequencies above this. However, most of the cat's sensitivity advantage for low spatial frequencies could be accounted for by the greater light-concentrating abilities of its optics. Contrast sensitivity to 4 cpd was poor or absent in the scotopic range for both species. For both, scotopic increment thresholds were proportional to the square root of retinal illuminance, in accordance with the deVries-Rose law. Overall, cat and human visual systems appear to operate under very similar constraints for rod vision, including the regulation of contrast sensitivity across adaptation levels. A companion paper compares sensitivity of neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus to these behavioral data.
Contrast thresholds of cells in the dorsal lateral geniculate (LGNd) and medial interlaminar (MIN) nuclei of awake cats were measured for scotopic and mesopic vision with drifting sine gratings (1/8, 2, and 4 cycles/deg [cpd]; 4-Hz temporal frequency). Thresholds for mean firing rate (F0) and temporally modulated responses (F1) were derived with receiver-operating-characteristic analyses and compared with behavioral measures recently reported by Kang and colleagues. Behavioral sensitivity was predicted by the neural responses of the most sensitive combinations of cell class and response mode: Y-cell F1 responses for 1/8 cpd, X-cell F1 responses for 2 cpd, and Y-cell F0 responses for 4 cpd. All previous estimates of neural scotopic increment thresholds in animal models fell between Weber's law (proportional to retinal illuminance) and the deVries-Rose law (proportional to the square root of illuminance). However, psychophysical experiments suggest that under appropriate conditions human scotopic vision follows the deVries-Rose law. If behavioral sensitivity is assumed to be determined by the most sensitive class of cells, this discrepancy is resolved. Under scotopic conditions, off-center Y cells were the most sensitive and these followed the deVries-Rose law fairly closely. MIN Y cells were, on average, 0.25 log units more sensitive than LGNd Y cells under scotopic conditions, supporting a previous proposal that the MIN is a specialization of the carnivore for dim-light vision. We conclude that both physiologically and behaviorally, cat and human scotopic vision are fundamentally similar, including adherence to the deVries-Rose law for detection of Gabor functions.
The earliest neural response to a mechanical perturbation, the short-latency stretch response (R1: 20-45 ms), is known to exhibit &quot;automatic gain-scaling&quot; whereby its magnitude is proportional to preperturbation muscle activity. Because gain-scaling likely reflects an intrinsic property of the motoneuron pool (via the size-recruitment principle), counteracting this property poses a fundamental challenge for the nervous system, which must ultimately counter the absolute change in load regardless of the initial muscle activity (i.e., show no gain-scaling). Here we explore the temporal evolution of gain-scaling in a simple behavioral task where subjects stabilize their arm against different background loads and randomly occurring torque perturbations. We quantified gain-scaling in four elbow muscles (brachioradialis, biceps long, triceps lateral, triceps long) over the entire sequence of muscle activity following perturbation onset-the short-latency response, long-latency response (R2: 50-75 ms; R3: 75-105 ms), early voluntary corrections (120-180 ms), and steady-state activity (750-1250 ms). In agreement with previous observations, we found that the short-latency response demonstrated substantial gain-scaling with a threefold increase in background load resulting in an approximately twofold increase in muscle activity for the same perturbation. Following the short-latency response, we found a rapid decrease in gain-scaling starting in the long-latency epoch ( approximately 75-ms postperturbation) such that no significant gain-scaling was observed for the early voluntary corrections or steady-state activity. The rapid decrease in gain-scaling supports our recent suggestion that long-latency responses and voluntary control are inherently linked as part of an evolving sensorimotor control process through similar neural circuitry.
Previous studies show that chronic ethanol treatment induces prominent changes in brain neuropeptide Y (NPY). The purpose of the present study was to explore ethanol effects at a deeper NPY-system level, measuring expression of NPY and its receptors (Y1, Y2, Y5) as well as NPY receptor binding and NPY-stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS functional binding. Rats received intragastric ethanol repeatedly for 4 days, and the NPY system was studied in the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG), CA3, CA1, and piriform cortex (PirCx) and neocortex (NeoCx) during intoxication, peak withdrawal (16 hr), late withdrawal (3 days), and 1 week after last ethanol administration. NPY mRNA levels decreased during intoxication and at 16 hr in hippocampal regions but increased in the PirCx and NeoCx at 16 hr. NPY mRNA levels were increased at 3 days and returned to control levels in most regions at 1 week. Substantial changes also occurred at the receptor level. Thus Y1, Y2, and Y5 mRNA labelling decreased at 16 hr in most regions, returning to control levels at 3 days, except for PirCx Y2 mRNA, which increased at 3 days and 1 week. Conversely, increases in NPY receptor binding occurred in hippocampal regions during intoxication and in functional binding in the DG and NeoCx during intoxication and at 16 hr and in PirCx during intoxication and at 1 week. Thus this study shows that ethanol intoxication and withdrawal induce complex plastic changes in the NPY system, with decreased/increased gene expression or binding occurring in a time- and region-specific manner. These changes may play an important role in mediating ethanol-induced changes in neuronal excitability.
Fibroblast growth factor-9 (FGF9) is expressed in the CNS and is reported to be a mitogen for glial cells, to promote neuronal survival, and to retard oligodendrocyte differentiation. Here we examined the effects of FGF9 on the differentiation, survival, and proliferation of adult neural progenitor cells derived from the adult mouse subventricular zone. FGF9 by itself induced neurosphere proliferation, but its effects were modest compared with those of epidermal growth factor and FGF2. When neurospheres were dissociated and plated for differentiation, FGF9 increased total cell number over time in a dose-dependent manner. Ki67 immunostaining and bromodeoxyuridine incorporation indicated that this was at least partially due to the continued presence of proliferative nestin-positive neural progenitor cells and betaIII tubulin-positive neuronal precursors. FGF9 also promoted cell survival as indicated by a decreased number of TUNEL-positive cells over time. Assessment of differentiation showed that FGF9 increased neuron generation that reflected the increase in total cell number; however, the percentage of progenitor cells differentiating into neurons was slightly decreased. FGF9 had a modest effect on oligodendrocyte generation, although it appeared to slow the maturation of oligodenrocytes at higher concentrations. The most marked effect on differentiation was an almost total lack of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive astrocytes up to 7 days following FGF9 addition, indicating that astrocyte differentiation was strongly inhibited. Total inhibition required prolonged treatment, although a 1-hr pulse was sufficient for partial inhibition, and bone morphogenic protein-4 could partially overcome the FGF9 inhibition of astrocyte differentiation. FGF9 therefore has multiple effects on adult neural precursor cell function, enhancing neuronal precursor proliferation and specifically inhibiting GFAP expression.


Environmental cues are critical determinants of the fate of neural progenitors (NPs) upon transplantation into the central nervous system. In the present study, we assessed the differentiation potential of NPs implanted in a cholinergic environment of the adult mouse brain. Neurospheres containing NPs issued from fetal ganglionic eminences of transgenic mice expressing the green fluorescent protein (GFP) were transplanted either inside or outside the mouse cholinergic facial motor nucleus. In some mice, a pre-degenerated nerve releasing trophic factors was grafted into this nucleus to favor NP survival and improve axonal growth into the graft. The fate of NPs was analyzed 6 to 9 days or 2 months post-transplantation by immunofluorescence under confocal microscopy. Transplanted NPs were observed both inside and outside the facial nucleus after 6 to 9 days, but almost exclusively inside after 2 months regardless of the presence of a pre-degenerated nerve. NPs expressed markers of undifferentiated cells, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, neurons, or cholinergic cells. The cholinergic phenotype of NPs engrafted inside the facial nucleus increased with time and the presence of a pre-degenerated nerve. Large GFP cholinergic somata and abundant long cholinergic GFP axons projecting into the nerve graft were also observed. Our results show that NPs, isolated from fetal mouse brain and transplanted into the non-neurogenic environment of the adult mouse facial nucleus, differentiate into cholinergic cells capable to project axons. This environment and the nerve graft favored NP differentiation into cholinergic neurons.
Traumatic brain injury is a major socioeconomic burden, and the use of statistical models to predict outcomes after head injury can help to allocate limited health resources. Earlier prediction models analyzing admission data have been used to achieve prediction accuracies of up to 80%. Our aim was to design statistical models utilizing a combination of both physiological and biochemical variables obtained from multimodal monitoring in the neurocritical care setting as a complement to earlier models. We used decision tree and logistic regression analysis on variables including intracranial pressure (ICP), mean arterial pressure (MAP), cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP), and pressure reactivity index (PRx), as well as multimodal monitoring parameters to assess brain tissue oxygenation (PbtO(2)), and microdialysis parameters to predict outcomes based on a dichotomized Glasgow Outcome Score. Further analysis was carried out on various subgroup combinations of physiological and biochemical parameters. The reliability of the head injury models was assessed using a 10-fold cross-validation technique. In addition, the confusion matrix was also used to assess the sensitivity, specificity, and the F-ratio. In all, 2,413 time series records were extracted from 26 patients treated at our neurocritical care unit over a 1-year period. Decision tree analysis was found to be superior to logistic regression analysis in predictive accuracy of outcome. The combined use of microdialysis variables and PbtO(2), in addition to ICP, MAP, and CPP was found have the best predictive accuracy. The use of physiological and biochemical variables based on a decision tree analysis model has shown to provide an improvement in predictive accuracy compared with other previous models. The potential application is for outcome prediction in the multivariate setting of advanced multimodality monitoring, and validates the use of multimodal monitoring in the neurocritical care setting to have a potential benefit in predicting outcomes of patients with severe head injury.
In spinal cord injury (SCI), neuronal and oligodendroglial loss occurs as a result of the initial trauma and the secondary damage that is triggered by excitotoxicity, free radicals, and inflammation. There is evidence that SCI ellicits increased cytosolic phospholipase A(2) (cPLA(2)) activity. The cleavage of phospholipids by cPLA(2) leads to release of fatty acids, and in particular arachidonic acid (AA), the metabolites of which have been associated with increased inflammation and oxidative stress. The aim of our study was to investigate whether the inhibition of cPLA(2) following SCI leads to tissue protection and an improved functional outcome. Adult rats received compression SCI and 30 min after injury they were treated intravenously with either saline or the cPLA(2) inhibitor arachidonyl trifluoromethyl ketone (AACOCF3) (7.13 mg/kg). The animals were sacrificed at 7 days post-injury and the lesioned tissue was labeled using markers for neurons, oligodendrocytes, and macrophages/activated microglia. We also assessed locomotor recovery using the Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan (BBB) score. The number of surviving neurons and oligodendrocytes was significantly increased in animals treated with the cPLA(2) inhibitor compared to saline controls. The behavioral analysis mirrored the neuroprotective effects and showed that the inhibitor-treated group had better locomotor recovery compared to saline controls. Our results show that AACOCF3 has neuroprotective potential, and support the idea that cPLA(2) is critically involved in acute spinal injury.
Following experimental and clinical traumatic brain injury (TBI), the local cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (lCMR(Glc)) is commonly estimated using the 2-[(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) method. The adequate estimation of lCMR(Glc) using FDG requires a correction factor, the lumped constant (LC), to convert FDG net uptake into lCMR(Glc). The LC, and thus lCMR(Glc) calculations, require a steady-state that may be disrupted following TBI. In the present report, we hypothesized that [1-(14)C]glucose uptake would accurately reflect glucose dynamics early post-injury, and was compared to the regional uptake of FDG in 44 rats subjected to moderate (2.4-2.6 atm) lateral fluid percussion brain injury (FPI) or sham injury. Cortical energy state and adenylate (ATP, ADP, and AMP) levels were also measured. Early (7-42 min) after FPI, FDG uptake was increased in the ipsilateral cortex and hippocampus (p &lt; 0.05). In contrast, no change in [1-(14)C]glucose uptake (7 and 17 min post-injury) or cortical adenylate content (42 min post-injury) was observed. At 12 h following FPI, the ipsilateral FDG and [1-(14)C]glucose uptake were decreased in the cortex and hippocampus, and the ipsilateral cortical ATP concentration was decreased in comparison to sham-injured controls (p &lt; 0.05). Under the present experimental conditions, the rate of cerebral uptake of FDG and of [1-(14)C]glucose differed, and indicated that following TBI, regional changes in the LC may occur in the immediate, but not in the late, post-injury phase. These results should be considered when interpreting results obtained using FDG for the estimation of lCMR(Glc) early following experimental TBI.
Cerebral gene expression changes in response to traumatic brain injury will provide useful information in the search for future trauma treatment. In order to characterize the outcome of mild brain injury, we studied C57BL/6J mice in a weight-drop, closed head injury model. At various times post-injury, mRNA was isolated from neocortex and hippocampus and transcriptional alterations were studied using quantitative reverse transcriptase PCR and gene array analysis. At three days post-injury, the results showed unilateral injury responses, both in neocortex and hippocampus, with the main effect seen on the side of the skull hit by the dropping weight. Upregulated transcripts encoded products characterizing reactive astrocytes, phagocytes, microglia, and immune-reactive cells. Markers for oligodendrocytes and T-cells were not altered. Notably, strong differences in the responses among individual mice were seen (e.g., for the Gfap transcript expressed by reactive astrocytes and the chemokine Ccl3 transcript expressed by activated microglial cells). In conclusion, mild TBI chiefly activates transcripts leading to tissue signaling, inflammatory processes, and chemokine signaling, as in focal brain injury, suggesting putative targets for drug development.

Individuals with borderline personality disorder (BPD) often exhibit impulsive and aggressive behavior. The hippocampus and amygdala form part of the limbic system, which plays a central role in controlling such expressions of emotional reactivity. There are mixed results in the literature regarding whether patients with BPD have smaller hippocampal and amygdalar volume relative to healthy controls. To clarify the precise nature of these mixed results, we performed a meta-analysis to aggregate data on the size of the hippocampus and amygdala in patients with BPD. Seven publications involving six studies and a total of 104 patients with BPD and 122 healthy controls were included. A significantly smaller volume was found in both the right and left hippocampi and amygdala of patients with BPD compared to healthy controls. These findings raise the possibility that reduced hippocampal and amygdalar volumes are biological substrates of some symptoms of BPD.
The circadian clock links our daily cycles of sleep and activity to the external environment. Deregulation of the clock is implicated in a number of human disorders, including depression, seasonal affective disorder, and metabolic disorders. Casein kinase 1 epsilon (CK1epsilon) and casein kinase 1 delta (CK1delta) are closely related Ser-Thr protein kinases that serve as key clock regulators as demonstrated by mammalian mutations in each that dramatically alter the circadian period. Therefore, inhibitors of CK1delta/epsilon may have utility in treating circadian disorders. Although we previously demonstrated that a pan-CK1delta/epsilon inhibitor, 4-[3-cyclohexyl-5-(4-fluoro-phenyl)-3H-imidazol-4-yl]-pyrimidin-2-ylamine (PF-670462), causes a significant phase delay in animal models of circadian rhythm, it remains unclear whether one of the kinases has a predominant role in regulating the circadian clock. To test this, we have characterized 3-(3-chloro-phenoxymethyl)-1-(tetrahydro-pyran-4-yl)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin-4-ylamine (PF-4800567), a novel and potent inhibitor of CK1epsilon (IC(50) = 32 nM) with greater than 20-fold selectivity over CK1delta. PF-4800567 completely blocks CK1epsilon-mediated PER3 nuclear localization and PER2 degradation. In cycling Rat1 fibroblasts and a mouse model of circadian rhythm, however, PF-4800567 has only a minimal effect on the circadian clock at concentrations substantially over its CK1epsilon IC(50). This is in contrast to the pan-CK1delta/epsilon inhibitor PF-670462 that robustly alters the circadian clock under similar conditions. These data indicate that CK1epsilon is not the predominant mediator of circadian timing relative to CK1delta. PF-4800567 should prove useful in probing unique roles between these two kinases in multiple signaling pathways.
We have previously reported that activation of protein kinase C (PKC) by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) results in potentiation of N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced currents (I(NMDA))of receptors contained in primary cultured cerebellar granule cells (CGCs). The purpose of this study was to identify which PKC isoform(s) was responsible for this effect by using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Experiments were conducted on CGCs that expressed both the NR2A and NR2B NMDA receptor subunits as well as the PMA-sensitive PKC isoforms alpha, betaI, betaII, delta, epsilon, gamma, and . As observed previously, N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced peak currents (I(Pk)) were enhanced by a 12.5-min, 100 nM PMA exposure at 37 degrees C under normal recording conditions. Potentiation of receptor function was not observed when extracellular Ca(2+) was removed and 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid was present inside the cell. PMA-induced potentiation of I(Pk) did not occur when PKCalpha-specific antibody was introduced into the cell via the recording electrode. However, in similar experiments with antibodies specific for PKCbetaII, delta, epsilon, gamma, and , PMA potentiation of I(Pk) was observed. Down-regulation of PMA-sensitive PKC isoforms by an overnight exposure of 100 nM PMA resulted in lack of potentiation by PMA that was rescued when catalytically active PKCalpha was introduced into the cell via the patch electrode. PMA potentiation of I(Pk) was not recovered when catalytically active PKCbetaI, PKCbetaII, or PKCgamma was introduced into the cell via the patch electrode. Collectively, our data provide strong evidence that PMA-enhanced function of native NMDA receptors expressed in primary cultured CGCs is mediated by activation of PKCalpha.
Reduction in endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF)-mediated dilatory function in large, elastic arteries during hypertension is reversed after blood pressure normalization. We investigated whether similar mechanisms occurred in smaller mesenteric resistance arteries from aged Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats, spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs), and SHRs treated with the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, enalapril, using immunohistochemistry, serial-section electron microscopy, electrophysiology and wire myography. Unlike the superior mesenteric artery, EDHF relaxations in muscular mesenteric arteries were not reduced in SHRs, although morphological differences were found in the endothelium and smooth muscle. In WKY rats, SHRs and enalapril-treated SHRs, relaxations were mediated by small-, large-, and intermediate-conductance calcium-activated potassium channels, which were distributed in the endothelium, smooth muscle, and both layers, respectively. However, only WKY hyperpolarizations and relaxations were sensitive to gap junction blockers, and these arteries expressed more endothelial and myoendothelial gap junctions than arteries from SHRs. Responses in WKY rats, but not SHRs, were also reduced by inhibitors of epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs), 14,15-epoxyeicosa-5(Z)-enoic acid (14,15-EEZE) and miconazole, although sensitivity to EET regioisomers was endothelium-independent in all rats. Enalapril treatment of SHRs reduced blood pressure and restored sensitivity to 14,15-EEZE, but not to gap junction blockers, and failed to reverse the morphological changes. In conclusion, the mechanisms underlying EDHF in muscular mesenteric arteries differ between WKY rats and SHRs, with gap junctions and EETs involved only in WKY rats. However, reduction of blood pressure in SHRs with enalapril restored a role for EETs, but not gap junctions, without reversing morphological changes, suggesting a differential control of chemical and structural alterations.
Repeated administration of many addictive drugs leads to a progressive increase in their locomotor effects. This increase in locomotor activity often develops concomitantly with increases in their positive-reinforcing effects, which are believed to contribute to the etiology of substance use disorders. The purpose of this study was to examine changes in sensitivity to the locomotor effects of opioids after their repeated administration and to determine the role of mu and kappa receptors in mediating these effects. Separate groups of rats were treated with opioid receptor agonists and antagonists every other day for 10 days, and changes in locomotor activity were measured. Repeated administration of the mu agonists, morphine and buprenorphine, produced a progressive increase in locomotor activity during the treatment period, and this effect was blocked by coadministration of the opioid antagonist naltrexone. The kappa agonist spiradoline decreased locomotor activity when administered alone and blocked the progressive increase in locomotor activity produced by morphine. The ability of spiradoline to block morphine-induced increases in locomotor activity was itself blocked by pretreatment with the kappa antagonist nor-binaltorphimine. Repeated administration of high doses, but not low or moderate doses, of the mixed mu/kappa agonists butorphanol, nalbuphine, and nalorphine produced a progressive increase in locomotor activity during the treatment period. Doses of butorphanol, nalbuphine, and nalorphine that failed to produce a progressive increase in locomotor activity when administered alone did so when subjects were pretreated with nor-binaltorphimine. These findings suggest that mu and kappa receptors have functionally opposing effects on opioid-mediated locomotor activity and sensitization-related processes.

Placebo administration to Parkinson patients is known to induce dopamine release in the striatum and to affect the activity of subthalamic nucleus (STN) neurons. By using intraoperative single-neuron recording techniques in awake patients, here we extend our previous study on STN recording, and characterize part of the neuronal circuit which is affected by placebos. In those patients who showed a clinical placebo response, there was a decrease in firing rate in STN neurons that was associated with a decrease in the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) and an increase in the ventral anterior (VA) and anterior ventral lateral (VLa) thalamus. These data show that placebo decreases STN and SNr activity whereas it increases VA/VLa activity. By contrast, placebo non-responders showed either a lack of changes in this circuit or partial changes in the STN only. Thus, changes in activity in the whole basal ganglia-VA/VLa circuit appear to be important in order to observe a clinical placebo improvement, although the involvement of other circuits, such as the direct pathway bypassing the STN, cannot be ruled out. The circuit we describe in the present study is likely to be a part of a more complex circuitry, including the striatum and the internal globus pallidus (GPi), that is modified by placebo administration. These findings indicate that a placebo treatment, which is basically characterized by verbal suggestions of benefit, can reverse the malfunction of a complex neuronal circuit, although these placebo-associated neuronal changes are short-lasting and occur only in some patients but not in others.
To keep balance when standing or walking on a surface inclined in the roll plane, the cat modifies its body configuration so that the functional length of its right and left limbs becomes different. The aim of the present study was to assess the motor cortex participation in the generation of this left/right asymmetry. We recorded the activity of fore- and hindlimb-related pyramidal tract neurons (PTNs) during standing and walking on a treadmill. A difference in PTN activity at two tilted positions of the treadmill (+/- 15 deg) was considered a positional response to surface inclination. During standing, 47% of PTNs exhibited a positional response, increasing their activity with either the contra-tilt (20%) or the ipsi-tilt (27%). During walking, PTNs were modulated in the rhythm of stepping, and tilts of the supporting surface evoked positional responses in the form of changes to the magnitude of modulation in 58% of PTNs. The contra-tilt increased activity in 28% of PTNs, and ipsi-tilt increased activity in 30% of PTNs. We suggest that PTNs with positional responses contribute to the modifications of limb configuration that are necessary for adaptation to the inclined surface. By comparing the responses to tilts in individual PTNs during standing and walking, four groups of PTNs were revealed: responding in both tasks (30%); responding only during standing (16%); responding only during walking (30%); responding in none of the tasks (24%). This diversity suggests that common and separate cortical mechanisms are used for postural adaptation to tilts during standing and walking.
Cancer cell membrane proteins are released into the plasma/serum by exterior protein cleavage, membrane sloughing, cellular secretion or cell lysis, and represent promising candidates for interrogation. Because many known disease biomarkers are both glycoproteins and membrane bound, we chose the hydrazide method to specifically target, enrich, and identify glycosylated proteins from breast cancer cell membrane fractions using the LTQ Orbitrap mass spectrometer. Our initial goal was to select membrane proteins from breast cancer cell lines and then to use the hydrazide method to identify the N-linked proteome as a prelude to evaluation of plasma/serum proteins from cancer patients. A combination of steps facilitated identification of the glycopeptides and also defined the glycosylation sites. In MCF-7, MDA-MB-453 and MDA-MB-468 cell membrane fractions, use of the hydrazide method facilitated an initial enrichment and site mapping of 27 N-linked glycosylation sites in 25 different proteins. However, only three N-linked glycosylated proteins, galectin-3 binding protein, lysosome associated membrane glycoprotein 1, and oxygen regulated protein, were identified in all three breast cancer cell lines. In addition, MCF-7 cells shared an additional 3 proteins with MDA-MB-453. Interestingly, the hydrazide method isolated a number of other N-linked glycoproteins also known to be involved in breast cancer, including epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), CD44, and the breast cancer 1, and early onset isoform 1 (BRCA1) biomarker. Analyzing the N-glycoproteins from membranes of breast cancer cell lines highlights the usefulness of the procedure for generating a practical set of potential biomarkers.
Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is marked by aggression and impulsive, often self-destructive behavior. Despite the severe risks associated with BPD, relatively little is known about the disorder's etiology. Identification of genetic correlates (endophenotypes) of BPD would improve the prospects of targeted interventions for more homogeneous subsets of borderline patients characterized by specific genetic vulnerabilities. The current study evaluated behavioral measures of aggression and impulsivity as potential endophenotypes for BPD. Subjects with BPD (N=127), a non cluster B personality disorder (OPD N=122), or healthy volunteers (HV N=112) completed self report and behavioral measures of aggression, motor impulsivity and cognitive impulsivity. Results showed that BPD subjects demonstrated more aggression and motor impulsivity than HV (but not OPD) subjects on behavioral tasks. In contrast, BPD subjects self-reported more impulsivity and aggression than either comparison group. Subsequent analyses showed that among BPD subjects behavioral aggression was associated with self-reported aggression, while behavioral and self-report impulsivity measures were more modestly associated. Overall, the results provide partial support for the use of behavioral measures of aggression and motor impulsivity as endophenotypes for BPD, with stronger support for behavioral aggression measures as an endophenotype for aggression within BPD samples.
The objective of the following experiment was to induce a pathogenic hypofrontal condition by administering a dopamine-1 receptor (D(1)R) antagonist to rats. The pathophysiological effect of this manipulation upon glutamate-based long-term potentiation (LTP) in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) was examined in vivo. Subjects were surgically implanted with stimulating electrodes into the corpus callosum and recording electrodes into the mPFC. High-frequency stimulation (HFS) was combined with the administration of the selective D(1)R family agonist A68930 hydrochloride (0.4 mg/kg/mL) and the selective D(1)R family antagonist SKF 83566 (0.15 mg/kg/mL). The administration of SKF 83566 hydrobromide prevented mPFC LTP, and resulted in HFS-induced long-term depression. This indicates that D(1)R activation is necessary for the induction of mPFC glutamate-based LTP. This is supported by our finding that the administration of A68930 hydrochloride combined with HFS induced LTP comparable with saline control levels, suggesting that D(1)R activation is necessary for the induction of baseline levels of mPFC LTP. Given that the mPFC governs executive behaviours that are subserved by LTP, such as working memory, these findings are relevant for the study of psychopathological conditions in which hypodopaminergic conditions exist in the mPFC and are correlated with psychiatric symptomotology, such as drug addiction and schizophrenia.

Progranulin (PGRN) is a growth modulating factor released by a variety of cells. This molecule has gained the attention of the neuroscience community with recent discoveries of multifunctional roles of PGRN in normal brain and neurodegenerative disorders. We focus on novel roles of PGRN as a sex steroid-responsible gene in the developing and adult rodent brain. While the developing brain is feminine by default, hormone exposure, including androgen and estrogen, induces masculinization during the critical period. We have shown that PGRN is a sex steroid-responsible gene that may be involved in masculinization of the perinatal rat brain. We also found that in adult rats PGRN gene expression was up-regulated by estrogen in the hippocampus, suggesting that PGRN may mediate the mitogenic effects of estrogen in the active area of neurogenesis. Since it has been recently reported that mutations in PGRN gene are responsible for a type of frontotemporal lobar degeneration in humans, PGRN appears to be also involved in modulating neurodegeneration. Together, PGRN gene expression is induced by estrogen in both developing and adult brains, and it may play multifunctional roles in the organization of functional masculinization in the developing brain and the maintenance of adult brain function.

Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) presents an appealing option for investigating hemodynamic changes in the cerebral cortex during exercise. This review examines the physical basis of NIRS and the types of available instruments. Emphasis is placed on the physiological interpretation of NIRS signals. Theories from affective neuroscience and exercise psychobiology, including Davidson's prefrontal asymmetry hypothesis, Dietrich's transient hypofrontality hypothesis, and Ekkekakis's dual-mode model, are reviewed, highlighting the potential for designing NIRS-based tests in the context of exercise. Findings from 28 studies involving acute bouts of exercise are summarized. These studies suggest that the oxygenation of the prefrontal cortex increases during mild-to-moderate exercise and decreases during strenuous exercise, possibly proximally to the respiratory compensation threshold. Future studies designed to test hypotheses informed by psychological theories should help elucidate the significance of these changes for such important concepts as cognition, affect, exertion, and central fatigue.
100 years after their publication, Brodmann's maps of the cerebral cortex are universally used to locate neuropsychological functions. On the occasion of this jubilee the life and work of Korbinian Brodmann are reported. The core functions of each single Brodmann area are described and Brodmann's views on neuropsychological processes are depicted.
The accumulation of beta-amyloid (Abeta) aggregates is a characteristic of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Furthermore, these aggregates have neurotoxic effects on cells, and thus, molecules that inhibit Abeta aggregate formation could be valuable therapeutics for AD. It is well known that aggregation of Abeta depends on its hydrophobicity, and thus, in order to increase the hydrophilicity of Abeta, we considered using citrate, an anionic surfactant with three carboxylic acid groups. We hypothesized that citrate could reduce hydrophobicity and increase hydrophilicity of Abeta(1-40) molecules via hydrophilic/electrostatic interactions. We found that citrate significantly inhibited Abeta(1-40) aggregation and significantly protected SH-SY5Y cell line against Abeta(1-40) aggregates-induced neurotoxicity. In details, we examined the effects of citrate on Abeta(1-40) aggregation and on Abeta(1-40) aggregates-induced cytotoxicity, cell viability, and apoptosis. Th-T assays showed that citrate significantly inhibited Abeta(1-40) aggregation in a concentration-dependent manner (Th-T intensity: from 91.3% in 0.01 mM citrate to 82.1% in 1.0 mM citrate vs. 100.0% in Abeta(1-40) alone). In cytotoxicity and viability assays, citrate reduced the toxicity of Abeta(1-40) in a concentration-dependent manner, in which the cytotoxicity decreased from 107.5 to 102.3% as compared with Abeta(1-40) aggregates alone treated cells (127.3%) and the cell viability increased from 84.6 to 93.8% as compared with the Abeta(1-40) aggregates alone treated cells (65.3%). Furthermore, Hoechst 33342 staining showed that citrate (1.0 mM) suppressed Abeta(1-40) aggregates-induced apoptosis in the cells. This study suggests that citrate can inhibit Abeta(1-40) aggregation and protect neurons from the apoptotic effects of Abeta(1-40) aggregates. Accordingly, our findings suggest that citrate administration should be viewed as a novel neuroprotective strategy for AD.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder caused by a polyglutamine stretch in the huntingtin protein. Today, more than 15 years after the genetic defect underlying HD was discovered, the pathogenesis is still not well understood and there is no adequate treatment. Research into this disorder has conventionally focused on neurological symptoms and brain pathology, particularly neurodegeneration in the basal ganglia and cerebral cortex. Mutant huntingtin is, however, ubiquitously expressed throughout the body. Indeed, contrary to earlier thinking, HD is associated with abnormalities in peripheral tissues. These abnormal changes are not all secondary to brain dysfunction, but most seem to be directly caused by expression of mutant huntingtin in peripheral tissues. In this article, we highlight this emerging field of research and how it might affect our understanding of the pathogenesis of this disease, the development of novel biomarkers of disease progression, and the identification of new potential treatments.

Non-enzymatic functions of butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) include prevention of the aggregation of amyloid-beta peptide (A beta) in a concentration-dependent manner. This is mediated by the C-terminus of the protein, distal from the enzymatic site. The BuChE-K variant polymorphism lowers expression of BuChE protein and/or alters C-terminal activity. In combination with factors that increase production or reduce elimination of A beta, and/or increase susceptibility to A beta toxicity - such as the apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon 4 allele and/or hyperhomocysteinemia - BuChE-K may accelerate cholinergic synaptic and neuronal damage and cognitive decline. A beta-mediated damage to ascending cholinergic pathways may be further accentuated by Lewy body and/or cerebrovascular disease. As the disease advances and functioning cholinergic synapses disappear, both the rapid cognitive decline and response to cholinesterase inhibitor therapy in individuals with these factors may diminish. Non-enzymatic functions of the BuChE protein, APOE epsilon 4 status and hyperhomocysteinemia influence the progression of pathology, symptom expression, and response to cholinesterase inhibition in a stage-specific manner in neurodegenerative disorders associated with Alzheimer, Lewy body and vascular pathology.


The function of alpha-synuclein, a soluble protein abundant in the brain and concentrated at presynaptic terminals, is still undefined. Yet, alpha-synuclein overexpression and the expression of its A30P mutant are associated with familial Parkinson's disease. Working in cell-free conditions, in two cell lines as well as in primary neurons we demonstrate that alpha-synuclein and its A30P mutant have different effects on actin polymerization. Wild-type alpha-synuclein binds actin, slows down its polymerization and accelerates its depolymerization, probably by monomer sequestration; A30P mutant alpha-synuclein increases the rate of actin polymerization and disrupts the cytoskeleton during reassembly of actin filaments. Consequently, in cells expressing mutant alpha-synuclein, cytoskeleton-dependent processes, such as cell migration, are inhibited, while exo- and endocytic traffic is altered. In hippocampal neurons from mice carrying a deletion of the alpha-synuclein gene, electroporation of wild-type alpha-synuclein increases actin instability during remodeling, with growth of lamellipodia-like structures and apparent cell enlargement, whereas A30P alpha-synuclein induces discrete actin-rich foci during cytoskeleton reassembly. In conclusion, alpha-synuclein appears to play a major role in actin cytoskeletal dynamics and various aspects of microfilament function. Actin cytoskeletal disruption induced by the A30P mutant might alter various cellular processes and thereby play a role in the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration.
Gain- and loss-of-function studies indicate that the adherens junction protein shrew-1 acts as a novel modulator of E-cadherin internalization induced by epithelial growth factor (EGF) or E-cadherin function-blocking antibody during epithelial cell dynamics. Knocking down shrew-1 in MCF-7 carcinoma cells preserves E-cadherin surface levels upon EGF stimulation. Overexpression of shrew-1 leads to preformation of an E-cadherin/EGF receptor (EGFR) HER2/src-kinase/shrew-1 signaling complex and accelerated E-cadherin internalization. Shrew-1 is not sufficient to stimulate E-cadherin internalization, but facilitates the actions of EGFR and thus may promote malignant progression in breast cancer cells with constitutive EGFR stimulation by reducing surface E-cadherin expression.
The members of the p24 protein family have an important but unclear role in transport processes in the early secretory pathway. The p24 family consists of four subfamilies (alpha, beta, gamma, and delta), whereby the exact composition of the family varies among species. Despite more than 15 years of p24 research, the vertebrate p24 family is still surprisingly ill characterized. Here, we describe the human, mouse, Xenopus, and zebrafish orthologues of 10 p24 family members and a new member that we term p24gamma(5). Of these eleven p24 family members, nine are conserved throughout the vertebrate lineage, whereas two (p24gamma(4) and p24delta(2)) occur in some but not all vertebrates. We further show that all p24 proteins are widely expressed in mouse, except for p24alpha(1) and p24gamma(5) that display restricted expression patterns. Thus, we present for the first time a comprehensive overview of the phylogeny and expression of the vertebrate p24 protein family.
Neuroinflammation is a complex response to brain injury involving the activation of glia, release of inflammatory mediators within the brain, and recruitment of peripheral immune cells. Interestingly, memory deficits have been observed following many inflammatory states including infection, traumatic brain injury (TBI), normal aging, and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Prostaglandins (PGs), a class of lipid mediators which can have inflammatory actions, are upregulated by these inflammatory challenges and can impair memory. In this paper, we critically review the success of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, which prevent the formation of PGs, in preventing neuroinflammation-induced memory deficits following lipopolysaccharide injection, TBI, aging, and experimental models of AD in rodents and propose a mechanism by which PGs could disrupt memory formation.
Dopamine (DA) release varies within subregions and local environments of the striatum, suggesting that controls intrinsic and extrinsic to the DA fibers and terminals regulate release. While applying fast-scan cyclic voltammetry and using tonic and phasic stimulus trains, we investigated the regulation of DA release in the dorsolateral to ventral striatum. The ratio of phasic-to-tonic-evoked DA signals varied with the average ongoing firing frequency, and the ratio was generally higher in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) compared with the dorsolateral striatum. At the normal average firing frequency, burst stimulation produces a larger increase in the DA response in the NAc than the dorsolateral striatum. This finding was comparable whether the DA measurements were made using in vitro brain slices or were recorded in vivo from freely moving rodents. Blockade of the dopamine transporters and dopamine D(2) receptors particularly enhanced the tonic DA signals. Conversely, blockade of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) containing the beta(2) subunit (beta(2)(*)) predominantly suppressed tonic DA signals. The suppression of tonic DA release increased the contrast between phasic and tonic DA signals, and that made the frequency-dependent DA dynamics between the dorsolateral striatum and NAc more similar. The results indicate that intrinsic differences in the DA fibers that innervate specific regions of the striatum combine with (at least) DA transporters, DA receptors, and nAChRs to regulate the frequency dependence of DA release. A combination of mechanisms provides specific local control of DA release that underlies pathway-specific information associated with motor and reward-related functions.
Endogenous trace amines (TAs) of unknown biological function are structurally related to classic monoaminergic neurotransmitters and found at low concentrations in the mammalian brain. Their recently discovered group of G protein-coupled receptors, trace amine-associated receptors (TAARs), may represent putative targets not only for trace and other amines but also for a variety of monoaminergic compounds, including amphetamines and monoamine metabolites. The trace amine-associated receptor 1 (TAAR1), which is in part associated with the monoaminergic neuronal circuitry controlling various functions, including movement, is the best characterized of the class, although little is known about its regulation and function. Here we review the pharmacology and biochemical properties of the TAAR1 and its physiological functions as revealed in studies involving knockout mice lacking this receptor. Potential therapeutic applications of future selective TAAR1 agonists and antagonists are also discussed. Although understanding of biology and functions mediated by other TAARs is still in its infancy, it is expected that further characterization of the functional roles and biochemical properties of TAARs and identification of endogenous and exogenous ligands will eventually promote these receptors as an attractive class of targets to correct monoaminergic processes that could be dysfunctional in a host of disorders of brain and periphery.

We have suggested previously that motor units recruited reflexively contribute to torque produced during neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES), but this has not been tested directly. The current experiments were designed to quantify the contributions to twitch torque made by motor units recruited at M-wave and H-reflex latencies. The relationship between M-wave amplitude and torque was not linear. Rather, increases in M-wave amplitude caused the largest torque increases when M-waves were small. In addition, the torque contributions made by motor units recruited at M-wave and H-reflex latencies did not sum linearly, as changes in H-reflex amplitude only caused significant changes in torque when M-waves were small (&lt;18% M(max)). This nonlinear summation of torque can be explained by the different latencies of twitches evoked by M-waves and H-reflexes. Large M-waves produce strong contractions at a short latency, possibly introducing slack into adjacent muscle fibers and reducing the ability of motor units recruited reflexively to generate torque. Muscle Nerve 40: 221-230, 2009.
In this article we provide an overview of the intersection between amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and the autophagy pathway and discuss the potential protective effects of lithium through mechanisms that recruit autophagy and other effects. The autophagy pathway is recruited during motor neuron (MN) death both in vitro and in vivo. Despite a few controversial issues concerning the significance (detrimental/protective) of autophagy in ALS, recent findings indicate a protective role. Lithium in low doses is a well-known autophagy inducer that clears misfolded proteins and altered mitochondria from MNs. Moreover, lithium preserves mitochondria and sustains their genesis. This effect is replicated by rapamycin, which is an autophagy inducer but with a different mechanism from lithium. Lithium also increases the number of Renshaw cells that are affected early during the progression of experimental ALS. Again, lithium has been reported to decrease glial proliferation in the ALS spinal cord and induces sprouting in corticospinal fibers. Muscle Nerve 40: 173-194, 2009.
Would you entrust your brain to a bank? Well, many people do after they die, and such brain banks-often funded by government agencies or disease charities-are essential for neuroscience research. They collect and store the healthy and diseased brain specimens that neuroscientists need to explore neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia and autism. Each brain bank typically has a limited supply of samples and tends to operate fairly independently. This means that researchers often have to trawl through numerous brain banks to find their desired specimens. Furthermore, there is a general shortage of brain samples. To help resolve these issues in the UK, James Ironside, professor of clinical neuropathology at the University of Edinburgh, was appointed in June as the director of the new UK Brain Banks Network. An expert in human prion diseases, particularly Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), Ironside knows all about brain banks. He established the Brain and Tissue Bank at the UK's National CJD Surveillance Unit and is involved in the Sudden Death Brain and Tissue Bank at the University of Edinburgh. Jon Evans recently caught up with Ironside to discuss his new leadership position and how the brain network will benefit neuroscience research.


The distal end of the axon initial segment (AIS) is the preferred site for action potential initiation in cortical pyramidal neurons because of its high Na(+) channel density. However, it is not clear why action potentials are not initiated at the proximal AIS, which has a similarly high Na(+) channel density. We found that low-threshold Na(v)1.6 and high-threshold Na(v)1.2 channels preferentially accumulate at the distal and proximal AIS, respectively, and have distinct functions in action potential initiation and backpropagation. Patch-clamp recording from the axon cut end of pyramidal neurons in the rat prefrontal cortex revealed a high density of Na(+) current and a progressive reduction in the half-activation voltage (up to 14 mV) with increasing distance from the soma at the AIS. Further modeling studies and simultaneous somatic and axonal recordings showed that distal Na(v)1.6 promotes action potential initiation, whereas proximal Na(v)1.2 promotes its backpropagation to the soma.
Learned associations between effects of abused drugs and the drug administration environment are important in drug addiction. Histochemical and electrophysiological studies suggest that these associations are encoded in sparsely distributed nucleus accumbens neurons that are selectively activated by drugs and drug-associated cues. Although correlations have been observed between nucleus accumbens neuronal activity and responsivity to drugs and drug cues, no technique exists for selectively manipulating these activated neurons and establishing their causal role in behavioral effects of drugs and drug cues. Here we describe a new approach, which we term the 'Daun02 inactivation method', that selectively inactivates a minority of neurons previously activated by cocaine in an environment repeatedly paired with cocaine to demonstrate a causal role for these activated neurons in context-specific cocaine-induced psychomotor sensitization in rats. This method provides a new tool for studying the causal roles of selectively activated neurons in behavioral effects of drugs and drug cues and in other learned behaviors.
The sensory signals that drive movement planning arrive in a variety of 'reference frames', and integrating or comparing them requires sensory transformations. We propose a model in which the statistical properties of sensory signals and their transformations determine how these signals are used. This model incorporates the patterns of gaze-dependent errors that we found in our human psychophysics experiment when the sensory signals available for reach planning were varied. These results challenge the widely held ideas that error patterns directly reflect the reference frame of the underlying neural representation and that it is preferable to use a single common reference frame for movement planning. We found that gaze-dependent error patterns, often cited as evidence for retinotopic reach planning, can be explained by a transformation bias and are not exclusively linked to retinotopic representations. Furthermore, the presence of multiple reference frames allows for optimal use of available sensory information and explains task-dependent reweighting of sensory signals.
Addictive drugs hijack mechanisms of learning and memory that normally underlie reinforcement of natural rewards and induce synaptic plasticity of glutamatergic transmission in the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system. In the ventral tegmental area (VTA), a single exposure to cocaine efficiently triggers NMDA receptor-dependent synaptic plasticity in DA neurons, whereas plasticity in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) occurs only after repeated injections. Whether these two forms of plasticity are independent or hierarchically organized remains unknown. We combined ex vivo electrophysiology in acute brain slices with behavioral assays modeling drug relapse in mice and found that the duration of the cocaine-evoked synaptic plasticity in the VTA is gated by mGluR1. Overriding mGluR1 in vivo made the potentiation in the VTA persistent. This led to synaptic plasticity in the NAc, which contributes to cocaine-seeking behavior after protracted withdrawal. Impaired mGluR1 function in vulnerable individuals could represent a first step in the recruitment of the neuronal network that underlies drug addiction.
How does the primate visual system encode three-dimensional motion? The macaque middle temporal area (MT) and the human MT complex (MT+) have well-established sensitivity to two-dimensional frontoparallel motion and static disparity. However, evidence for sensitivity to three-dimensional motion has remained elusive. We found that human MT+ encodes two binocular cues to three-dimensional motion: changing disparities over time and interocular comparisons of retinal velocities. By varying important properties of moving dot displays, we distinguished these three-dimensional motion signals from their constituents, instantaneous binocular disparity and monocular retinal motion. An adaptation experiment confirmed direction selectivity for three-dimensional motion. Our results indicate that MT+ carries critical binocular signals for three-dimensional motion processing, revealing an important and previously overlooked role for this well-studied brain area.
Addiction is associated with neuroplasticity in the corticostriatal brain circuitry that is important for guiding adaptive behaviour. The hierarchy of corticostriatal information processing that normally permits the prefrontal cortex to regulate reinforcement-seeking behaviours is impaired by chronic drug use. A failure of the prefrontal cortex to control drug-seeking behaviours can be linked to an enduring imbalance between synaptic and non-synaptic glutamate, termed glutamate homeostasis. The imbalance in glutamate homeostasis engenders changes in neuroplasticity that impair communication between the prefrontal cortex and the nucleus accumbens. Some of these pathological changes are amenable to new glutamate- and neuroplasticity-based pharmacotherapies for treating addiction.
The German BMBF (German Ministry of Education and Research) has decided to establish an Integrated Center for Research and Treatment of Vertigo, Balance and Ocular Motor Disorders (IFB(LMU)) in Munich in 2010. After funding over a 10-year period, the long-term continuation of the IFB(LMU) by the medical faculty and the hospital is envisioned. Vertigo is one of the most common complaints in medicine. Despite its high prevalence patients with vertigo generally receive either inappropriate or inadequate treatment. This deplorable situation is internationally well known and its causes are multiple: insufficient interdisciplinary cooperation, no standardized diagnostics and therapy, the failure to translate findings of basic science into clinical applications and the scarcity of clinical multicenter studies. The IFB(LMU) will constitute a suitable tool with which these structural, clinical, and scientific deficits can be overcome. It will also make possible the establishment of an international interdisciplinary referral center. Munich has become the site of a unique concentration of leading experts on vertigo, balance and ocular motor disorders, both in the clinical and basic sciences. Academic structures have paved the way for the creation of an interdisciplinary horizontal network that also allows structured, vertical academic career paths via the Bachelor's and Master's degree programs in neuroscience, a Graduate School of Systemic Neurosciences, and the Munich Center for Neuroscience &quot;Brain and Mind&quot;. The IFB(LMU) has the following objectives with regard to structure and content: to create an independent patient-oriented clinical research center under the auspices of the Medical Faculty but with autonomic administration and budget; to overcome existing clinical and academic barriers separating the traditional specializations, to establish a standardized interdisciplinary longitudinal and transversal network at one site for the management of patients. This should professionalize both the management and the international recruitment of patients (integrated care, telemedicine); to organize the study infrastructure for prospective multicenter clinical studies as well as to free clinical scientists from administrative tasks; to promote translational research with a focus on the innovative topics of molecular functional and structural imaging, experimental and clinical pharmacotherapy, clinical research of vertigo and balance disorders, mathematical modelling, interaction between biological and technical systems (robotics) and research on functionality and the quality of life; to offer new attractive educational paths and career images for medical doctors, students of the natural sciences and engineers in clinical research in order to overcome traditional hierarchical structures. This should promote the principles of efficiency and self-reliance; to supplement the existing excellence with up to eight groups of young scientists and up to eight professorships (tenure track). This should also be seen as an incentive that will attract the best young scientists; to incorporate IFB(LMU) competence into the existing medical and biological graduate schools. The IFB(LMU) is a unique reference center worldwide.
In recent years the ability of neuroscience to identify and intervene in mental functions has progressed immensely, which raises several anthropologic and ethical questions. Meanwhile neuroethics arose as a new interdisciplinary field for critical analysis of neuroscientific actions and ethical reflection on the increasing knowledge of the human brain, with regard to society and politics. This article provides a survey of neuroethical implications for clinical practice.
Restitution after brain damage was the leading topic in 1930 at the 20th annual meeting of the Society of German Neurologists in Dresden, Germany. One of the &quot;nonanatomic&quot; presentations was held by Viktor von Weizscker about modifications in neurological function. Finally the presentation by Kurt Goldstein about restitution after damage of the brain cortex, strongly supported by Weizscker, was the starting point for controversies on the significance of natural scientific methods in the field of neurology. Goldstein and Weizscker favored the idea that function can be understood only if we consider it in light of the whole organism. However, the president of the Society of German Neurologists, Otfrid Foerster, was mainly influenced by the overall concept of the structure of the peripheral nervous system and - as Weizscker indirectly blamed - came to inadequate conclusions by transferring these concepts to the entire nervous system. In contrast Weizscker and Goldstein suggested analyzing pathological phenomena not only according to classical physiology, i.e. isolated data acquired by the dissecting method of natural science. Weizscker stressed hermeneutic views concerning the mind: body relationship in a phenomenologically oriented medical anthropology. Some years later Foerster linked up with Weizscker's position. Goldstein established the new method, the so-called holistic, organismic approach, which he carried on after emigrating to the U.S.A. in 1935. The Heidelberg School around Weizscker tried during the following years to liberate neurology from the ideology of materialistic reductionism without however reducing it to simple psychology. The doctrine of neurons and principles of saltatory conduction as basic and descriptive instruments in neurology were not to be questioned. In 1941 Weizscker succeeded Foerster as Professor of Neurology at the University of Breslau and Director of the Neurological Research Institute. His literary work &quot;The Circle of Form. Theory of the Unity of Movement and Perception&quot; and Goldstein's &quot;The Organism. A Holistic Approach to Biology derived from Pathological Data in Man&quot; [new edn. by Oliver Sacks, Zone Books, New York, 1995] obtained paradigm values which had their beginnings in Dresden in 1930. &quot;The crisis in biology in the matter of theory of cognition and natural philosophy&quot; was already then obvious and still can be found in present discussion about the relationship between neurosciences and humanities. Weizscker increased his focus on medical anthropology by taking a full professorship of general clinical medicine in 1946 in Heidelberg. It is not without reason that Weizscker is recognized as a founder of psychosomatic medicine.
Information geometry has been suggested to provide a powerful tool for analyzing multineuronal spike trains. Among several advantages of this approach, a significant property is the close link between information-geometric measures and neural network architectures. Previous modeling studies established that the first- and second-order information-geometric measures corresponded to the number of external inputs and the connection strengths of the network, respectively. This relationship was, however, limited to a symmetrically connected network, and the number of neurons used in the parameter estimation of the log-linear model needed to be known. Recently, simulation studies of biophysical model neurons have suggested that information geometry can estimate the relative change of connection strengths and external inputs even with asymmetric connections. Inspired by these studies, we analytically investigated the link between the information-geometric measures and the neural network structure with asymmetrically connected networks of N neurons. We focused on the information-geometric measures of orders one and two, which can be derived from the two-neuron log-linear model, because unlike higher-order measures, they can be easily estimated experimentally. Considering the equilibrium state of a network of binary model neurons that obey stochastic dynamics, we analytically showed that the corrected first- and second-order information-geometric measures provided robust and consistent approximation of the external inputs and connection strengths, respectively. These results suggest that information-geometric measures provide useful insights into the neural network architecture and that they will contribute to the study of system-level neuroscience.
Recently, fused in sarcoma/translated in liposarcoma (FUS/TLS) gene, located on chromosome 16p11.2, has been identified as a disease gene in familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS). We have analyzed FUS/TLS in a cohort of 52 index cases from seven Italian regions with non-SOD1 and non-TARDBP FALS. We identified a heterozygous c.G1542C missense mutation in a family of northern Italian origin, and a heterozygous c.C1574T missense mutation in a family of Sicilian origin. Both variants are located in exon 15 encoding the RNA-recognition motif, and result in a substitution of an arginine with a serine in position 514 (p.R514S) and substitution of a proline with a leucine at position 525 (p.P525L), respectively. Overall, the two mutations accounted for 3.8% of 52 non-SOD1 and non-TDP43 index cases of FALS. The clinical phenotype was similar within each of the families, with a predominantly upper limb onset in the family carrying the p.R514S mutation and bulbar onset, with very young age and a rapid course in the family carrying the p.P525L mutation.
Emotional arousal and the affective content of events influence memory. These effects shift with age such that older people find negative information less arousing and remember proportionately more positive events compared to the young. The emotional enhancement of memory is mediated by medial temporal lobe limbic structures and the prefrontal cortex, which are both affected by sex hormones. We examined whether hormone use (estrogen or estrogen and progesterone) in older women modulated perceptions of valence and arousal, and subsequent memory for emotional images or stories. Their performance was compared to younger women. Hormone use in older women resulted in higher arousal for negative images and stories but memory was not affected. We hypothesize that estrogen modifies the influence of the amygdala and the prefrontal cortex on emotion, but that age-related changes in the hippocampus prevent the enhancement of emotional memory in older women.
We investigated the effects of age and gender on emotional perception and physiology using electrodermal skin conductance response (SCR) and examined whether SCR is related to subjective perceptions of emotional pictures. Older adults found pictures to be more positive and arousing than younger participants. Older women rated pictures more extremely at both ends of the valence continuum: they rated positive pictures more positively and negative pictures more negatively. Elders were less likely to show measurable SCRs. However, magnitude of SCRs when a response occurred did not differ between young and old. Subjective ratings of emotion correlated with physiological responses in younger participants, but they were unrelated in older participants. Thus, in older adults the perception of emotional events was disconnected from the physiological state induced by emotion.
The early effects of the diabetic milieu on retinal tissue and their relation to the Renin-Angiotensin system (RAS) activation are poorly known. Here we investigated RAS signaling in retinas explanted from adult rats exposed for 48 h to high glucose (HG), with or without the Angiotensin Converting Enzyme inhibitor enalaprilat, which blocks RAS. HG was observed to i) initiate a phosphotyrosine-dependent signaling cascade; ii) up-regulate Angiotensin(1) Receptor (AT(1)R); iii) activate src tyrosine kinase and increase phosphorylation of Pyk2, PLCgamma1 and ERK1/2; and iv) activate Akt and the transcription factor CREB. In the presence of enalaprilat, tyrosine phosphorylation signal and AT(1)R upregulation decreased and activation of PLCgamma1 and CREB reverted, showing their relation to RAS signaling. In line with Akt activation, no apoptosis or synapse degeneration was found. Mller glia was activated, but in a RAS-independent manner. Our results suggest that, in early phases of HG exposure, a pro-survival cell program may be induced in the retina.
In our study we investigated the pathology-related expression patterns of the two calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) isoforms in spinal cord motor neurons of SOD1(G93A) mice, an animal model of the human motor neuron disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We found that alphaCGRP and betaCGRP gene expression and alphaCGRP immunoreactivity remained unaltered throughout disease, and alphaCGRP gene deficiency had no effect on disease progression. In contrast, betaCGRP immunoreactivity appeared at atypical sites in degenerating motor neuron cell bodies, axons, and dendrites already in the early pre-symptomatic disease phase around postnatal day 40. A close association of betaCGRP-containing dysmorphic dendritic structures with processes of activated astrocytes, in combination with a selective expression of the CGRP receptor by astrocytes, suggests that betaCGRP may function as a motor neuron-derived signaling molecule for astrocyte activation in ALS.
Epothilones are a novel class of microtubule-targeting anticancer agents that are neurotoxic. In this study, we investigated the epothilone B toxic effect in vitro and we characterized in vivo the general and neurological side effects of epothilone B administration in Wistar and Fischer rats. The in vitro experiments made it possible to explore a wide concentration range (0.1 nM-1 muM) and evidenced a dose-dependent effect of epothilone B exposure on neuron neurite elongation. This dose-dependent neurotoxic effect was confirmed in both in vivo studies performed on two different rat strains at the neurophysiological, behavioral and pathological levels in the dose range 0.25-1.5 mg/kg iv weekly x 4 weeks and tubulin hyper-polymerization was demonstrated in sciatic nerve specimens. These are the first studies of the neurological effects of epothilone B and they can provide a basis for extending pre-clinical investigation to other members of the epothilone family.
Biomarkers are needed to overcome critical roadblocks in the development of disease-modifying therapeutics for neurodegenerative diseases. Evolving genome-wide expression technologies can comprehensively search for molecular biomarkers and allow fascinating insights into the expanding complexity of the human transcriptome. The technology has matured to the point where some applications are deemed reliable enough for use in patient care. In the neurosciences, it has led to the discoveries of osteopontin in multiple sclerosis and SORL1/LR11 in Alzheimer's, and recent studies indicate its potential for identifying neurogenomic biomarkers. Advances in pre-analytical and analytical methods are improving search efficiency and reproducibility and may lead to a pipeline of biomarker candidates suitable for development into future neurologic diagnostics.
Functional brain networks provide a set of useful biomarkers for the assessment of movement disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD). Spatial covariance analysis of imaging data from PD patients has led to the identification of abnormal metabolic patterns associated with the motor and cognitive features of this disease. Measurements of pattern expression have been used for diagnosis, assessment of rates of disease progression, and objective evaluation of the efficacy of therapeutic interventions. For instance, the recent identification of new disease-specific patterns for Multiple System Atrophy (MSA) and Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (PSP) has improved diagnostic accuracy in patients with parkinsonian syndromes. Further, disease-related networks have been found to be modulated by novel treatment strategies such as gene therapy. Finally, the application of network analysis to the study of inherited movement disorders such as Huntington's disease can aid in the assessment of disease-modifying therapies in pre-symptomatic gene mutation carriers.
Studies on emotion and its neurobiology have been far more focused on the recognition of emotion than on actions that are caused by emotional states. We investigate the performance of a patient, HS, with a unilateral lesion to the left temporal pole and orbito-frontal cortex (OFC) (including left amygdala), on a well-established approach/avoid task that taps into emotion-driven action. The striking finding of the present study is a remarkable, and selective, slowing of HS's avoidance of unpleasant items in her (impaired) contralesional field. This finding suggests that the left temporal lobe and OFC structures, including the amygdala, appear to be involved in the action component of emotion, specifically in avoiding negative items.
We present the case of a right-handed patient who received surgical treatment for a left frontal WHO grade II glioma invading the left inferior and middle frontal gyri, the head of the caudate nucleus, the anterior limb of the internal capsule and the anterior insula, in direct contact also with the anterior-superior part of the lentiform nucleus. The tumor resection was guided by direct electrical stimulation on brain areas, while the patient was awake. Adding a narrative production task to the neuropsychological assessment, we compared pre-, peri- and post-surgical language skills in order to analyze the effects of the tumor infiltration and the consequences of the left IFG resection, an area known to be involved in various language and cognitive processes. We showed that the tumor infiltration and its resection did not lead to the severe impairments predicted by the localization models assigning a significant role in language processing to the left frontal lobe, notably Broca's area. We showed that slow tumor evolution - the patient had been symptom-free for a long time - enabled compensatory mechanisms to process most language functions endangered by the tumor infiltration. However, a subtle fragility was observed in two language devices, i.e., reported speech and relative clauses, related to minor working memory deficits. This case study of a patient speaking without Broca's area illustrates the efficiency of brain plasticity, and shows the necessity to broaden pre-, peri-, post-surgery language and cognitive assessments.

Ets-like transcription factor-1 (Elk-1) is a target of mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) which has been reported to play a key role in the induction of tolerance to ischemic and hypoxic injury, but little is known about the role of Elk-1 in the development of cerebral hypoxic preconditioning (HPC). In this study, we found that Elk-1 phosphorylation at Ser383 (p-Ser383 Elk-1), not protein expression, increased significantly (P &lt; 0.05) in both hippocampus and frontal cortex of mice after repetitive auto-hypoxia exposures from 1 to 6 times (H1-H6, n = 6 for each group) when compared to that of the normoxic control group (H0, n = 6). The enhanced p-Ser383 Elk-1 was also found in the nuclear extract of H3 mice brain. Similarly, increased p-Ser383 Elk-1 was observed by immunostaining in the hippocampus and frontal cortex of mice from H3 and H6 groups. In addition, we found that the increased p-Ser383 Elk-1 co-localized with a neuron-specific protein, neurogranin, in the brain of H3 mice by using double immunofluorescence labeling. These results suggested that the enhanced neuron-specific phosphorylation of Elk-1 at Ser383 is involved in cerebral HPC of mice.
One method being proposed for disentangling whether the ERP is generated by an evoked potential that is independent of and adds linearly to the ongoing rhythm or by (partial) phase resetting of the ongoing rhythm is sorting trials according to the pre-stimulus phase of the ongoing rhythm. The subsequent subtraction of phase-sorted resting-state trials is supposed to correct for phase-sorting effects otherwise maintained in the post stimulus time. Consequently, a true phase dependency of the ERP, considered to be indicative for a phase-reset (Risner, M.L., Aura, C.J., Black, J.E., Gawne, T.J., 2009. The visual evoked potential is independent of surface alpha rhythm phase. NeuroImage), would then become apparent. Here we disclose possible pitfalls of this approach causing invalid inferences. We also highlight that inferences based on this approach first depend on the assumed concept of a phase reset, and second can provide a hint at but are not sufficient for disentangling different mechanisms of ERP generation. We will discuss other criteria necessary for further confirmation of the phase reset theory.
Primary dysmenorrhea (PDM, menstrual pain without pelvic abnormality) is the most common gynecological disorder for women in the reproductive age. It is characterized by cramping pain and enhanced pain sensitivity during the menstruation period. PDM has been associated with peripheral and central sensitization. Abnormal brain mechanisms may further contribute to development and maintenance of the state. Using fluoro-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography, increased activity was observed in prefrontal/orbitofrontal regions and left ventral posterior thalamus while decreased activity mainly was observed in sensorimotor regions of the left hemisphere at onset compared to offset of PDM. These results were specific to menstrual pain and were not found in menstrual matched controls. Orbitofrontal activities were positively related to while somatosensory activities where negatively related to subjective pain ratings. These results show that ongoing menstrual pain in PDM is accompanied by abnormal brain metabolism. Disinhibition of thalamo-orbitofrontal-prefrontal networks may contribute to the generation of pain and hyperalgesia in PDM possibly by maintaining spinal and thalamic sensitization while increasing negative affect. Excessive excitatory input during menstrual pain may induce compensatory inhibitory mechanism in several somatic sensorimotor regions.
Single-trial coupling of simultaneously recorded EEG and fMRI time-series can be used to generate fMRI patterns of brain activity with high spatial resolution from EEG responses with high temporal resolution. A forced choice reaction task under different effort conditions has been previously used to demonstrate single-trial EEG-fMRI coupling effects for an early ERP component (N1: 70-150 ms) measured on a single scalp channel (Cz), thereby providing the first multi-modal evidence of early anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) activation in effortful decision making (Mulert, C., Seifert, C., Leicht, G., Kirsch, V., Ertl, M., Karch, S., Moosmann, M., Lutz, J., Mller, H.J., Hegerl, U., Pogarell, O., Jger, L., 2008. Single-trial coupling of EEG and fMRI reveals the involvement of early anterior cingulate cortex activation in effortful decision making. Neuroimage 42, 158-168.). In this work, we searched for &quot;effort-specific&quot; ERP-N1 sources and explored their single-trial EEG-fMRI correlations for discovering &quot;source-specific&quot; inter-modality coupling effects. To this end, we performed a whole-cortex distributed ERP analysis and used the local source power trial-by-trial variation as an input for single-trial EEG-fMRI coupling analysis. We found a high-effort-specific ERP-N1 source in the ACC and statistically significant differential EEG-fMRI coupling spots in five cortical regions, including the ACC. Our results provide new insights about the neural origins of effort-specific EEG and fMRI response modulations in a choice reaction task and confirm the central role of early ACC activation in motivation-related decision making processes; we discuss the importance of combining distributed source modeling with single-trial coupling for enriching the interpretation of EEG-fMRI patterns.
T2 hyperintensity is pathologically non-specific in multiple sclerosis (MS) yet lesion analysis remains an important disease outcome. Texture analysis based on the polar Stockwell Transform (PST) was performed on twelve acute T2 lesions before, during, and after the development of gadolinium-enhancement. When regular myelin structure is disrupted coarse texture increases because tissue becomes disorganized. Coarse texture was quantified as the sum of low frequency energy (sumLFE). Matching regions of contralateral and general normal appearing white matter (NAWM) and chronic T2 lesions were analyzed in parallel as controls. Coarse texture increased in acute lesions during enhancement (p&lt;0.05) then variably recovered. It remained stable in NAWM and tended to increase in chronic T2 lesions. Seven of twelve acute lesions persisted visually at 8 months and the sumLFE was higher in these visually persistent lesions (p&lt;0.05) than in resolved lesions. The sumLFE at month 8 correlated with that in pre-lesional NAWM and in acute lesions (p&lt;0.05) and was independent of lesion volume, signal intensity (SI), and location. This study suggests that PST texture analysis extracts more information about tissue integrity than conventional MRI analysis that relies on lesion size and SI. Texture analysis also appears to identify abnormalities in pre-lesional NAWM, to measure tissue injury in acute lesions, predict poor recovery, and detect mild ongoing tissue injury in chronic T2 lesions. PST texture analysis using conventional MRI may therefore provide valuable new insights into lesion pathology by measuring tissue integrity. This small longitudinal study supports further validation of the PST technique.
In the study of functional connectivity, fMRI data can be represented mathematically as a network of nodes and links, where image voxels represent the nodes and the connections between them reflect a degree of correlation or similarity in their response. Here we show that, within this framework, functional imaging data can be partitioned into 'communities' of tightly interconnected voxels corresponding to maximum modularity within the overall network. We evaluated this approach systematically in application to networks constructed from pharmacological MRI (phMRI) of the rat brain in response to acute challenge with three different compounds with distinct mechanisms of action (d-amphetamine, fluoxetine, and nicotine) as well as vehicle (physiological saline). This approach resulted in bilaterally symmetric sub-networks corresponding to meaningful anatomical and functional connectivity pathways consistent with the purported mechanism of action of each drug. Interestingly, common features across all three networks revealed two groups of tightly coupled brain structures that responded as functional units independent of the specific neurotransmitter systems stimulated by the drug challenge, including a network involving the prefrontal cortex and sub-cortical regions extending from the striatum to the amygdala. This finding suggests that each of these networks includes general underlying features of the functional organization of the rat brain.
This fMRI study examined which structures of a proposed dorsal stream system are involved in the auditory-motor integration during fast overt repetition. We used a shadowing task which requires immediate repetition of an auditory-verbal input and is supposed to elicit unconscious imitation effects of phonologically irrelevant speech parameters. Subjects' responses were recorded in the scanner. To examine automated auditory-motor mapping of speech gestures of others onto one's own speech production system we contrasted the shadowing of pseudowords produced by multiple speakers (men, women, and children) with the shadowing of pseudowords produced by a single speaker. Furthermore, we asked whether behavioral variables predicted changes in functional activation during shadowing. Shadowing multiple speakers compared to a single speaker elicited increased bilateral activation predominantly in the superior temporal sulci. These regions may mediate acoustic-phonetic speaker normalization in preparation of a translation of perceptual into motor information. Additional activation in Broca's area and the thalamus may reflect motor effects of the adaptation to multiple speaker models. Item-wise correlational analyses of response latencies with BOLD signal changes indicated that longer latencies were associated with increased activation in the left parietal operculum, suggesting that this area plays a central role in the actual transfer of auditory-verbal information to speech motor representations. A multiple regression of behavioral with imaging data showed activation in a right inferior parietal area near the temporo-parietal boundary which correlated positively with the degree of speech rate imitation and negatively with response latency. This activation may be attributable to attentional and/or paralinguistic processes.
Mapping resting-state networks allows insight into the brain's functional architecture and physiology and has rapidly become important in contemporary neuroscience research. Diffuse optical tomography (DOT) is an emerging functional neuroimaging technique with the advantages, relative to functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), of portability and the ability to simultaneously measure both oxy- and deoxyhemoglobin. Previous optical studies have evaluated the temporal features of spontaneous resting brain signals. Herein, we develop techniques for spatially mapping functional connectivity with DOT (fc-DOT). Simultaneous imaging over the motor and visual cortices yielded robust correlation maps reproducing the expected functional neural architecture. The localization of the maps was confirmed with task-response studies and with subject-matched fc-MRI. These fc-DOT methods provide a task-less approach to mapping brain function in populations that were previously difficult to research. Our advances may permit new studies of early childhood development and of unconscious patients. In addition, the comprehensive hemoglobin contrasts of fc-DOT enable innovative studies of the biophysical origin of the functional connectivity signal.
The neural underpinnings of major depressive disorder (MDD) are unknown but there is evidence for structural alteration in the hippocampus that may become more pronounced over the course of illness. The aim of the present study was to examine metabolite levels of N-acetyl-aspartate (NAA), Myo-inositol (MI), Glutamate-glutamine (Glx) and choline-containing compounds (GPC and GPC+PCh) in patients presenting for first treatment of a depressive episode compared to those with multiple past episodes and age and sex matched controls. We used single voxel proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H-MRS) centered on the hippocampus. Choline-containing compounds were significantly increased in patients with a high past illness burden relative to controls after controlling for hippocampal volume. The group presenting for first treatment had only increases in MI levels compared with matched controls. These results suggest that abnormal membrane turnover in the hippocampus is greater in patients with highly recurrent illness, and provide support for the hypothesis that there are neuronal changes in this region over the course of illness.
On March 8, 2008 in Havana, the Latin American Network for Brain Mapping (LABMAN) was created with participants from Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Cuba and Mexico. The focus of LABMAN is to promote neuroimaging and systems neuroscience in the region through the implementation of training and exchange programs, and to increase public awareness of the Latin American potential to contribute both to basic and applied research in human brain mapping.
The hippocampus is often a difficult structure to visualize with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and functional MRI (fMRI) due to its convoluted nature and susceptibility to signal dropout. Improving our ability to pinpoint changes in neural activity using fMRI in this structure remains an important challenge. Current fMRI/MRI methods typically do not permit visualization of the hippocampus and surrounding cortex at a resolution less than 1 mm. We present here improvements to our previous methods for obtaining structural MR images of the hippocampus, which provided an in-plane resolution of 0.4 mm(2) mm and two-dimensional &quot;flat&quot; maps of the hippocampus with an interpolated isotropic resolution of 0.4 mm(3) (Engel, S.A., Glover, G.H., and Wandell, B.A., (1997). Retinotopic organization in human visual cortex and the spatial precision of functional MRI. Cereb. Cortex 7, 181-192.; Zeineh, M.M., Engel, S.A., and Bookheimer, S.Y., (2000). Application of cortical unfolding techniques to functional MRI of the human hippocampal region. NeuroImage 11, 668-683.). We present changes to existing structural imaging sequences that now augment the resolution of previous scans, permitting visualization of the anterior portion of CA1, parts of the dentate gyrus, and CA23. These imaging improvements are of relevance generally to the field of imaging because they permit higher overall resolution imaging of the hippocampus than previously possible (at 3 T). We also introduce a novel application of a computational interpolation method that improves our ability to capture the convoluted three-dimensional shape of the hippocampus. Furthermore, we have developed a quantitative method for obtaining group activation patterns based on producing averaged flat maps using vector field warping techniques, allowing localization of activations to specific hippocampal subregions across groups of subjects. Together, these methods provide a means to improve imaging of neural activity in the human hippocampus and surrounding cortex during cognitive tasks.
A typical fMRI data analysis proceeds via the generalized linear model (GLM) with Gaussian noise using a model based on the experimental paradigm. This analysis ultimately results in the production of z-statistic images corresponding to the contrasts of interest. Thresholding such z-statistic images at uncorrected thresholds suitable for testing activation at a single voxel results in the problem of multiple comparisons. A number of methods which account for the problem of multiple comparisons have been proposed including Gaussian random field theory, mixture modeling and false discovery rate (FDR). The focus of this paper is on the development of a generalized version of FDR (GFDR) in an empirical Bayesian framework, specially adapted for fMRI thresholding, that is more robust to modeling violations as compared to traditional FDR. We show theoretically as well as by simulation that for real fMRI data various factors lead to a mixture of Gaussians (MOG) density for the &quot;null&quot; distribution. Artificial data was used to systematically study the bias of FDR and GFDR under varying intensity of modeling violations, signal to noise ratios and activation fractions for a range of q values. GFDR was able to handle modeling violations and produce good results when FDR failed. Real fMRI data was also used to confirm GFDR capabilities. Our results indicate that it is very important to account for the form and fraction of the &quot;null&quot; hypothesis adaptively from the data in order to obtain valid inference.
Bilingual speakers must have effective neural mechanisms to control and manage their two languages, but it is unknown whether bilingual language control includes different control components. Using mixed blocked and event-related designs, the present study explored the sustained and transient neural control of two languages during language processing. 15 Chinese-English bilingual speakers were scanned when they performed language switching tasks. The results showed that, compared to the single language condition, sustained bilingual control (mixed language condition) induced activation in the bilateral inferior frontal, middle prefrontal and frontal gyri (BA 45/46). In contrast, relative to the no switch condition, transient bilingual control (language switching condition) activated the left inferior parietal lobule (BA 2/40), superior parietal lobule (BA 7), and middle frontal gyrus (BA 11/46). Importantly, the right superior parietal activity correlated with the magnitude of the mixing cost, and the left inferior and superior parietal activity covaried with the magnitude of the asymmetric switching costs. These results suggest that sustained and transient language control induced differential lateral activation patterns, and that sustained and transient activities in the human brain modulate the behavioral costs during switching-related language control.
Perfusion-based functional brain imaging techniques such as fMRI and optical intrinsic signal (OIS) imaging are becoming increasingly important in both neuroscience research and intraoperative brain mapping. Recent studies have applied a spectroscopic approach to OIS imaging data, which we will call &quot;two-dimensional optical spectroscopy&quot; (2DOS), generating images of functional changes in hemoglobin oxygenation and blood volume. This improvement comes at the cost of several assumptions. Whereas the &quot;gold standard&quot; technique of fiber spectroscopy decomposes reflected light over a spectral axis, 2DOS retains both spatial dimensions by acquiring images at several wavelengths, sacrificing spectral resolution for the extra spatial dimension. Furthermore, 2DOS data are acquired interleaved within or between trials, but combined during the spectroscopic analysis as if acquired simultaneously. Thus far, the few studies employing this approach have assumed both that the reduced spectral resolution is tolerable, and that sufficient trial averaging can compensate for the temporally staggered data acquisition. To test these assumptions, we compared 2DOS results to those produced by traditional fiber spectroscopy by observing the hemodynamic response to hindpaw electrical stimulation over primary somatosensory cortex in anesthetized rats. Comparisons revealed low fitting residuals and a high level of correlation between the two, but noteworthy differences in response magnitudes. Inspection of individual timecourses revealed a lower signal-to-noise ratio for 2DOS data. For visualization and interpretation of the 2DOS images, we present a parameterized visualization strategy, in which oxy-, deoxy-, and total hemoglobin are assigned to individual color channels. The resulting composite image conveniently displays the evolution of hemodynamic responses through parenchymal and vascular compartments in space and time.
Non-invasive identification of transplanted neural stem cells in vivo by pre-labelling with contrast agents may play an important role in the translation of cell therapy to the clinic. Understanding the impact of these labels on the cells' ability to repair is therefore vital. In rats with middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo), a model of stroke, the transhemispheric migration of MHP36 cells labelled with the bimodal contrast agent GRID was detected on magnetic resonance images (MRI) up to 4 weeks following transplantation. However, compared to MHP36 cells labelled with the red fluorescent dye PKH26, GRID-labelled transplants did not significantly improve behaviour, and performance was akin to non-treated animals. Likewise, the evolution of anatomical damage as assessed by serial, T(2)-weighted MRI over 1 year indicated that GRID-labelled transplants resulted in a slight increase in lesion size compared to MCAo-only animals, whereas the same, PKH26-labelled cells significantly decreased lesion size by 35%. Although GRID labelling allows the in vivo identification of transplanted cells up to 1 month after transplantation, it is likely that some is gradually degraded inside cells. The translation of cellular imaging therefore does not only require the in vitro assessment of contrast agents on cellular functions, but also requires the chronic, in vivo assessment of the label on the stem cells' ability to repair in preclinical models of neurological disease.
The etiology of Parkinson disease (PD) is multifactorial and is likely to involve different causes in different patients. Several different genes have been identified as causes of familial PD, including alpha-synuclein gene mutations and multiplications, and mutations of parkin, PINK1, DJ1, and LRRK2. The biochemical consequences of these mutations have served to reinforce the relevance of the pathways to pathogenesis previously characterized, for example, mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and protein misfolding and aggregation. The recognition that glucocerebrosidase mutations represent a significant risk factor for PD has focused attention on lysosomal function and autophagy as relevant to PD. Several environmental factors have also been shown to influence the risk for PD, although odds ratios remain relatively modest. Specific toxins can cause dopaminergic cell death in man and animals, but they probably have limited relevance to the etiology of PD.
A retrospective multicentre study was performed to analyse psychogenic non-epileptic seizures (PNES) in prepubertal and pubertal patients with idiopathic epilepsy and to determine whether have different clinical characteristics. In this study, we reviewed 36 patients from six neurological referral centres: Department of Pediatrics, Chieti (3 patients); Department of Child Neuropsychiatry, Naples (9 patients); Department of Child Neuropsychiatry, Bologna (8 patients); Department of Neuroscience, Tor Vergata University, Rome (3 patients); Department of Pediatrics, La Sapienza University, Rome (5 patients); and Department of Pediatrics, Siena (8 patients). The population was divided according to Tanner'stages into 14 prepubertal (group I) and 22 pubertal (group II) patients. The two groups were compared on several variables examining the differences between them. The most frequent clinical manifestations in group I were unresponsive events, whereas in group II, motor events were exhibited more significantly. Mood disorders, including major depression, appeared more frequently in pubertal group, but this did not reach a significant difference. Among the psychosocial stressors, fear of rejection and need for attention were the predominant types in the prepubertal patients. The findings of this study reveal some similarities and differences between prepubertal and pubertal patients, which might help to identify predictive factors in patients affected by idiopathic epilepsy who can develop PNES.
Blood levels of total homocysteine (tHcy), cysteine (Cys), total and reduced glutathione (tGSH and rGSH), folic acid (FA), and vitamin B12 (B12) change during ischemic stroke as accompaniment of the tissue damage. The relationship between these changes remains scantly investigated. We evaluated the variation of these molecules in the 48 h after acute large artery atherothrombotic stroke (LAAS) and searched for the presence of matched variation of them. The study involved 50 subjects affected by acute LAAS and 49 healthy controls. Plasma levels of tHcy and Cys were significantly higher and serum levels of FA and B12 and plasma levels of rGSH were significantly lower in the patients than in the control group. Acute LAAS was associated with increased Hcy-decreased tGSH and decreased FA/tGSH. Pathways involved in cellular stress and in tissue repair are activated during acute LAAS.
Bell's palsy is a common disorder involving facial nerve. Branches of the facial nerve innervating auriculares muscles could be involved in patients with Bell's palsy. Functions of auriculares muscles were degenerated in the most of human beings, therefore, paralysis of the auriculares muscles in patients with Bell's palsy may be unnoticeable. However, unilateral loss of ear wiggling may be an interesting sign of Bell's palsy in natural ear wigglers who can move their ears voluntarily. The mechanism and muscles responsible for the ear wiggling and the innervations to these muscles were illustrated.
Recently, some authors detected increased frequency or new onset of migraine with aura (MA) after atrial septal defect (ASD) closure. We report the effects of ASD closure on the occurrence of MA in three patients of Parma Headache Centre. Two of them developed MA after the procedure one had a worsening of pre-existing MA. The increased frequency or the de novo onset of MA after ASD closure may be related to the alteration of some physiological variables that play a central role in the physiopathogenetic mechanisms of MA and may trigger attacks in predisposed individuals. In previous literature reports, the new pattern of MA appeared self-limiting within a few weeks or months. In our cases, it seemed to last longer, but the natural history of this headache subtype suggests that this finding could be related to the extended duration of our follow-up and to the prospective nature of our study.
The aim of this pilot study was to investigate the effects of levetiracetam monotherapy on seizure control, quality of life and neurocognitive performance in patients with brain tumor-related epilepsy. We present here preliminary data from 18 patients with follow-up of 6 months. We evaluated seizure frequency at baseline. We used administered Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE), Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS), Barthel index (BI), QOLIE 31P (V2), EORTC QLQ-C30 and Adverse Events Profile. After 6 months, 16 patients were seizure free (88.9%), 2 (11.1%) had reduction in seizure frequency &gt;50%. Compared to baseline, we observed a worsening of performance (KPS p = 0.011; BI = 0.008) and global lower cognitive performance (MMSE p = 0.011); distress related to seizure frequency (p = 0.003) and medication effects (p = 0.046) were significantly lower. Levetiracetam caused mild and reversible side effects. These preliminary data on LEV monotherapy in patients with brain tumor-related epilepsy show that this antiepileptic drug is efficacious and well tolerated.
The value of peripheral nerve biopsy is now sometimes questioned due to the high complication rate and the recent development of noninvasive molecular techniques for diagnosis of hereditary neuropathy. However, the disorders that can be diagnosed by genetic analysis are limited and sural nerve biopsy is still a powerful tool for making a correct diagnosis of peripheral neuropathy. Histological evaluation of the sural nerve has long focused on changes of the two major components of peripheral nerves, axons and myelin, as well as on the detection of diagnostic changes such as amyloid deposits, sarcoid tubercles, and vasculitis. In addition to these components, the sural nerve biopsy specimen contains various important cells, including perineurial cells, mast cells, endothelial cells, pericytes, and lymphocytes. Among these cells, the endothelial cells and pericytes form the blood-nerve barrier (BNB) and investigation of these cells can reveal important information, especially in inflammatory neuropathies. To better understand the biological basis of BNB, we established rat and human immortal cell lines from the endothelial cells and pericytes of endoneurial microvessels. Characterization of these cell lines is now underway at our laboratory. These BNB cell lines should provide useful information concerning the pathophysiology of peripheral neuropathy, and we should obtain a new perspective for the investigation of nerve biopsy specimens after understanding the molecular background of the BNB.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a lethal muscle disorder caused by mutations in the DMD gene for which no mutation-targeted therapy has been available thus far. However, exon-skipping mediated by antisense oligonucleotides (AOs), which are short single-strand DNAs, has considerable potential for DMD therapy, and clinical trials in DMD patients are currently underway. This exon-skipping therapy changes an out-of-frame mutation into an in-frame mutation, aiming at conversion of a severe DMD phenotype into a mild phenotype by restoration of truncated dystrophin expression. Recently, stable and less-toxic AOs have been developed, and their higher efficacy was confirmed in mice and dog models of DMD. In this review, we briefly summarize the genetic basis of DMD and the potential and perspectives of exon skipping as a promising therapy for this disease.
Clinical observations of patients with ventral frontal and anterior temporal cortical lesions reveal marked abnormalities in social attitudes. A previous study in seven patients with ventral prefrontal lesions provided the first direct experimental evidence for abnormalities in social attitudes using a well-established measure of gender stereotypes, the Implicit Association Test (IAT). Here, we were able to test whether these first findings could be reproduced in a larger sample of 154 patients with penetrating head injuries, and to determine the differential effects of ventromedial prefrontal (vmPFC) and ventrolateral prefrontal (vlPFC) cortical lesions on IAT performance. In addition, we investigated the role of the superior anterior temporal lobe (aTL), recently shown to represent conceptual social knowledge. First, we used a linear regression model to identify the role of each of the three regions, while controlling for the extent of damage to other regions. We found that larger lesions in either the vmPFC or the superior aTL were associated with increased stereotypical attitudes, whereas larger lesions in the vlPFC were associated with decreased stereotypical attitudes. Second, in a confirmatory analysis, we grouped patients by lesion location and compared their performance on the IAT with that of healthy volunteers. Compared to controls, patients with lesions in either the vmPFC or the superior aTL showed increased stereotypical attitudes, whereas patients with lesions in the vlPFC showed decreased stereotypical attitudes. The functional contributions of these regions in social attitudes are discussed.

Amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) has been conceptualized as a transitional stage between healthy aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Therefore, understanding which aspects of memory are impaired and which remain relatively intact in these patients can be useful in determining who will ultimately go on to develop AD, and subsequently designing interventions to help patients live more engaged and independent lives. The dual-process model posits that recognition memory decisions can rely on either familiarity or recollection. Whereas research is fairly consistent in showing impaired recollection in patients with aMCI, the results have been mixed regarding familiarity. A noted difference between these studies investigating familiarity has been stimulus type. The goal of the current investigation was to use high-density event-related potentials (ERPs) to help elucidate the neural correlates of recognition decisions in patients with aMCI for words and pictures. We also hoped to help answer the question of whether patients can rely on familiarity to support successful recognition. Patients and controls participated in separate recognition memory tests of words and pictures while ERPs were recorded during retrieval. Results showed that ERP components typically associated with familiarity and retrieval monitoring were similar between groups for pictures. However, these components were diminished in the patient group for words. Based on recent work, the authors discuss the possibility that implicit conceptual priming could have contributed to the enhanced ERP correlate of familiarity. Further, the authors address the possibility that enhanced retrieval monitoring may be needed to modulate increased familiarity engendered by pictures.
Sensitive gaze perception is critical for social interactions. Neuroimaging and neurophysiological results and the unique demands of gaze processing have led to suggestions that gaze is processed by different mechanisms than other aspects of faces. Neuropsychological data however provides little support for this possibility. We administered gaze discrimination tasks to six developmental prosopagnosics and one acquired prosopagnosic who exhibit identity perception deficits. First we examined whether the prosopagnosic participants could discriminate between straight and averted gaze normally. The performance of the control and prosopagnosic groups was very similar, and all of the prosopagnosics scored in the normal range. To assess whether the prosopagnosics represented gaze information like the controls, participants were tested on the discrimination task following adaptation to leftward and rightward gaze. The control and prosopagnosic groups both showed strong adaptation in the expected direction, and each prosopagnosic showed normal post-adaptation performance. These results indicate that gaze discrimination and representation is normal in these prosopagnosics. Their dissociation between impaired identity perception and normal gaze perception provides support for models of face processing suggesting that these aspects of face processing involve separate mechanisms.
The concept of reserve has been proposed to account for the disjunction between the degree of brain damage and its clinical outcome. This paper attempts to produce a coherent theoretical account the reserve in general and of cognitive reserve in particular. It reviews epidemiologic data supporting the concept of cognitive reserve, with a particular focus of its implications for aging and dementia. It then focuses on methodologic issues that are important when attempting to elucidate the neural underpinnings of cognitive reserve using imaging studies, and reviews some of our group's work in order to demonstrate these issues.

The current study examined the effects of nicotine infusion into the dorsal hippocampus or anterior cingulate on fear conditioning and on ethanol-induced deficits in fear conditioning, and whether these effects involved receptor activation or inactivation. Conditioning consisted of two white noise (30 s, 85 dB)-foot-shock (2 s, 0.57 mA) pairings. Saline or ethanol was administered to C57BL/6 mice 15 min before training and saline or nicotine was administered 5 min before training or before training and testing. The ability of the high-affinity nicotinic acetylcholinergic receptor (nAChR) antagonist dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHbetaE) to modulate the effects of ethanol and nicotine was also tested; saline or DHbetaE was administered 25 (injection) or 15 (infusion) minutes before training or before training and testing. Infusion of nicotine into the hippocampus enhanced contextual fear conditioning but had no effect on ethanol-induced learning deficits. Infusion of nicotine into the anterior cingulate ameliorated ethanol-induced deficits in contextual and cued fear conditioning but had no effect on learning in ethanol-naive mice. DHbetaE blocked the effects of nicotine on ethanol-induced deficits; interestingly, DHbetaE alone and co-administration of subthreshold doses of DHbetaE and nicotine also ameliorated ethanol-induced deficits but failed to enhance learning. Finally, DHbetaE failed to ameliorate ethanol-induced deficits in beta2 nAChR subunit knockout mice. These results suggest that nicotine acts in the hippocampus to enhance contextual learning, but acts in the cingulate to ameliorate ethanol-induced learning deficits through inactivation of high-affinity beta2 subunit-containing nAChRs.
Fentanyl is a frequently used and abused opioid analgesic and can cause internalization of mu opioid receptors (MORs). Receptor internalization modulates the signaling pathways of opioid receptors. As changes in dendritic spines and synaptic AMPA receptors play important roles in addiction and memory loss, we investigated how fentanyl affects dendritic spines and synaptic AMPA receptors in cultured hippocampal neurons. Fentanyl at low concentrations (0.01 and 0.1 microM) caused the collapse of dendritic spines and decreased the number of AMPA receptor clusters. In contrast, fentanyl at high concentrations (1 and 10 microM) had opposite effects, inducing the emergence of new spines and increasing the number of AMPA receptor clusters. These dose-dependent bidirectional effects of fentanyl were blocked by a selective MOR antagonist CTOP at 5 microM. In neurons that had been transfected with HA-tagged or GFP-tagged MORs, fentanyl at high concentrations induced persistent and robust internalization of MORs, whereas fentanyl at lower concentrations induced little or transient receptor internalization. The blockade of receptor internalization with the expression of dominant-negative Dynamin I (the K44E mutant) reversed the effect of fentanyl at high concentrations, supporting a role of receptor internalization in modulating the dose-dependent effects of fentanyl. In contrast to morphine, the effects of fentanyl on dendritic spines are distinctively bidirectional and concentration dependent, probably due to its ability to induce robust internalization of MORs at high concentrations. The characterization of the effects of fentanyl on spines and AMPA receptors may help us understand the roles of MOR internalization in addiction and cognitive deficits.

The transient receptor potential vanilloid subfamily member 1 (TRPV1) is a protein mainly expressed in sensory neurons and fibers, such as in trigeminal ganglion and dorsal root ganglion, and has been indicated to be involved in several physiological and pathological processes. Studies on thermal activation have revealed that phosphorylation is involved in TRPV1 activation and 2 putative phosphorylation sites, Ser residues 502 (Ser-502) and Ser residues 800 (Ser-800), have been recently confirmed to possess the capability of resensitizing TRPV1. In addition to acidification, alkalization has also been proved to be a highly effective stimulator for TRPV1. TRPV1 could be regulated by various physical and chemical modulators, as well as the chronic pain. TRPV1 plays a crucial role in the transmission of pain signals, especially under inflammation and the neoplasm conditions, and it can also modulate nociceptive afferents by reinforcing morphine tolerance. The present review mainly focused on the structural and functional complexities of TRPV1, together with its activation and modulation by a wide variety of physical and chemical stimuli. Its pharmacological manipulation (sensitization/desensitization) and therapeutical targets were also discussed.
We have previously found in rats that chewing, an active behavioral strategy to cope with a stressful situation, rescues long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus through activating stress-suppressed N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor function. To further examine the mechanisms underlying this ameliorative effect of chewing, we studied the involvement of the histaminergic system, which has been shown to be activated by mastication, in the LTP of hippocampal slices of rats that were allowed to chew a wooden stick during exposure to immobilization stress. Chewing failed to rescue stress-suppressed LTP in the rats treated with histamine H1 receptor (H1R) antagonist pyrilamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) before exposure to stress, although administration of pyrilamine did not affect LTP in naive rats and in stressed rats that did not chew. However, when pyrilamine was administrated immediately after exposure to stress, chewing rescued LTP whose magnitude was statistically comparable to that in the rats that chewed without drug treatment. These results suggest that chewing-induced histamine release in the hippocampus and the subsequent H1 receptor activation may be essential to rescue stress-suppressed synaptic plasticity.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive, neurodegenerative disease that can be clinically characterized by impaired memory and many other cognitive functions. Previous studies have demonstrated that the impairment is accompanied by not only regional brain abnormalities but also changes in neuronal connectivity between anatomically distinct brain regions. Specifically, using neurophysiological and neuroimaging techniques as well as advanced graph theory-based computational approaches, several recent studies have suggested that AD patients have disruptive neuronal integrity in large-scale structural and functional brain systems underlying high-level cognition, as demonstrated by a loss of small-world network characteristics. Small world is an attractive model for the description of complex brain networks because it can support both segregated and integrated information processing. The altered small-world organization thus reflects aberrant neuronal connectivity in the AD brain that is most likely to explain cognitive deficits caused by this disease. In this review, we will summarize recent advances in the brain network research on AD, focusing mainly on the large-scale structural and functional descriptions. The literature reviewed here suggests that AD patients are associated with integrative abnormalities in the distributed neuronal networks, which could provide new insights into the disease mechanism in AD and help us to uncover an imaging-based biomarker for the diagnosis and monitoring of the disease.
The clinical neurosciences were blessed in the past century by the life and works of Dr. Charles Drake. The senior author (HHB) was honored to deliver the 2006 Charles Drake Lecture at the Annual Meeting of the Congress of Neurological Surgeons. Numerous colleagues in attendance requested that we prepare a written document reflecting the content of that presentation. In this article, we attempt to convey some of the primary teachings of Dr. Drake as he communicated them to his residents and fellows and to the international neuroscience audience through his hundreds of presentations and publications. We do our best to portray the unique style and humanism of this pioneer as he approached difficult diseases, critically ill patients, grieving families, and his trainees. Drake made major contributions to the knowledge of giant intracranial aneurysms, posterior circulation aneurysms, and intracranial arteriovenous malformations; we will focus on these topics. We dissect the principles he articulated and how they applied to his practice, look at how those ideas have influenced our contemporary thinking, and look to where we--as a discipline--may be going, having been leveraged by his enormous contributions. We attempt to articulate the unique perspectives &quot;Charlie&quot; provided with respect to how we learn our craft, integrity of reporting, and how we must progress into the future. It is our hope that this presentation brings to life for young neurosurgeons the unique character of Dr. Drake and his unprecedented blend of genius, creativity, technical skill, introspection, and ever-present humility.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by a progressive degeneration of dopamine (DA) neurons and gradual worsening of motor symptoms. The investigation of progressive degenerative mechanisms and potential neuroprotective strategies relies on experimental models of the chronic neuropathology observed in human. The present study investigated the progressive nature of neurodegeneration in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine/probenecid (MPTPp) chronic mouse model of PD. MPTP (25 mg/kg) plus probenecid (250 mg/kg) were administered twice a week for 5 weeks. We evaluated behavioral deficits (olfactory and motor impairment), neurodegeneration (loss of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive cells in the substantia nigra pars compacta, SNc), biochemical markers of functional impairment in the caudate-putamen (CPu) (striatal enkephalin mRNA, DA and DOPAC levels), and glial reactivity (CD11b and GFAP immunoreactivity in the SNc and CPu) at progressive time-points (after 1, 3, 7, and 10 administrations of MPTPp). Olfactory dysfunction already appeared after the 1st MPTPp injection, whereas motor dysfunction appeared after the 3rd and worsened upon subsequent administrations. Moreover, starting after three MPTPp injections, we observed a gradual decline of TH-positive cells in the SNc, and a gradual raise of enkephalin mRNA in the CPu. Striatal DA levels reduction was not different among all time-points evaluated, whereas DOPAC levels were similarly reduced after 1-7 MPTP injections, but were further decreased after the 10th injection. Reactive microglia and astroglia were observed in both the SNc and CPu from the 1st MPTPp administration. In the SNc, gliosis displayed a gradual increase over the treatment. After 2 months, TH, DA, DOPAC, and reactive glia in the SNc were still altered in MPTPp-treated mice as compared to controls. By showing a progressive development of behavioral deficits and nigral neurodegeneration, together with impairment of biochemical parameters and gradual increase of glial response, results suggest that the chronic MPTPp protocol is a model of progressive PD, which may be suitable to investigate chronic pathological processes and neuroprotective strategies in PD.
Incidence of Parkinson's disease (PD) is lower in women compared to men (1:1.46), which is reflected in animal models. However, precise mechanisms are unclear. Administration of MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1, 2, 3, 6-tetrahydropyridine) to female mice does not lead to mitochondrial complex I inhibition as seen in males and the progressive dopaminergic cell loss in substantia nigra (SNpc) is significantly attenuated. Redox driven apoptotic signaling pathways regulated by thiol disulfide oxidoreductase(s) have been implicated in the neurodegeneration seen in PD. Oxidation of thioredoxin leads to activation of apoptosis signal regulating kinase 1 (ASK1; MAPKKK) initiating cell death cascade through MAP kinase(s). Higher constitutive expression of enzymes involved in cellular redox maintenance, such as glutathione reductase, thioredoxin, and thioredoxin reductase is observed in female brain. Exposure to MPTP activates ASK1 in male but not in female mice. Higher expression of Trx in females potentially prevents ASK1 activation. Downstream of ASK1, phosphorylation of p38 MAP kinase is seen in male but not female mice. Expression of DJ-1, the redox sensing protein is higher in females and the loss of nuclear DJ-1, followed by translocation of Daxx (death associated protein) from the nucleus to the cytosol, which promotes ASK1 mediated death cascade is not seen in females. The enzymes involved in redox maintenance potentially could play a crucial role in preventing the activation of redox driven death signaling cascade and offer neuroprotection. Theraupeutic strategies that help maintain redox homeostasis may help prevent the progressive neurodegeneration seen in PD.
Multiple sclerosis is an autoimmune disease affecting the central nervous system (CNS), in which Th17 and Th1 cells are involved. Comprehensive gene expression profiling analysis employing DNA microarray showed that NR4A2, an orphan nuclear receptor, is strongly upregulated in the peripheral blood T cells derived from MS patients. Further analysis revealed that NR4A2 plays a pivotal role for mediating production of inflammatory cytokines from pathogenic T cells. In experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of MS, NR4A2 was selectively upregulated in the CNS-infiltrating T cells and the peripheral blood T cells. Intriguingly, a forced expression of NR4A2 augmented promoter activities of IL-17 and IFN-gamma genes, leading to an excessive production of these cytokines by splenic T cells. In contrast, treatment with siRNA specific for NR4A2 resulted in a significant reduction in the production of IL-17 and IFN-gamma. Furthermore, treatment with NR4A2-specific siRNA reduced the ability of encephalitogenic T cells to adoptively transfer EAE in recipient mice. These results imply that NR4A2 is an essential transcription factor for triggering the inflammatory cascade in MS/EAE and may serve as a novel therapeutic target of the diseases.

Mitochondrial disorders (MDs) are caused by impairment of the mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC). The ETC is needed for oxidative phosphorylation, which provides the cell with the most efficient energy outcome in terms of ATP production. One of the pathogenic mechanisms of MDs is the accumulation of reactive oxygen species. Mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress appear to also have a strong impact on the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases and cancer. The treatment of MDs is still inadequate. Therapies that have been attempted include ETC cofactors, other metabolites secondarily decreased in MDs, antioxidants, and agents acting on lactic acidosis. However, the role of these dietary supplements in the treatment of the majority of MDs remains unclear. This article reviews the rationale for their use and their role in clinical practice in the context of MDs and other disorders involving mitochondrial dysfunction.




Vestibular schwannomas are benign tumors of the Schwann cells of the eighth (VIII) cranial nerve. Precision radiotherapy techniques used to manage these tumors include stereotactic radiotherapy (SRT), which can be delivered with either a conventional or hypofractionated regimen. The radio-biologic rationale and reported clinical outcomes of patients treated with SRT are reviewed.


The involvement of TRPV1 and TRPA1 in mediating craniofacial muscle nociception and mechanical hyperalgesia was investigated in male Sprague-Dawley rats. First, we confirmed the expression of TRPV1 in masseter afferents in rat trigeminal ganglia (TG), and provided new data that TRPA1 is also expressed in primary afferents innervating masticatory muscles in double-labeling immunohistochemistry experiments. We then examined whether the activation of each TRP channel in the masseter muscle evokes acute nocifensive responses and leads to the development of masseter hypersensitivity to mechanical stimulation using the behavioral models that have been specifically designed and validated for the craniofacial system. Intramuscular injections with specific agonists for TRPV1 and TRPA1, capsaicin and mustard oil (MO), respectively, produced immediate nocifensive hindpaw responses followed by prolonged mechanical hyperalgesia in a concentration-dependent manner. Pretreatment of the muscle with a TRPV1 antagonist, capsazepine, effectively attenuated the capsaicin-induced muscle nociception and mechanical hyperalgesia. Similarly, pretreatment of the muscle with a selective TRPA1 antagonist, AP18, significantly blocked the MO-induced muscle nociception and mechanical hyperalgesia. We confirmed these data with another set of selective antagonist for TRPV1 and TRPA1, AMG9810 and HC030031, respectively. Collectively, these results provide compelling evidence that TRPV1 and TRPA1 can functionally contribute to muscle nociception and hyperalgesia, and suggest that TRP channels expressed in muscle afferents can engage in the development of pathologic muscle pain conditions.
A number of papers dealing with the effects of modern, man-made electromagnetic fields (EMFs) on the immune system are summarized in the present review. EMFs disturb immune function through stimulation of various allergic and inflammatory responses, as well as effects on tissue repair processes. Such disturbances increase the risks for various diseases, including cancer. These and the EMF effects on other biological processes (e.g. DNA damage, neurological effects, etc.) are now widely reported to occur at exposure levels significantly below most current national and international safety limits. Obviously, biologically based exposure standards are needed to prevent disruption of normal body processes and potential adverse health effects of chronic exposure. Based on this review, as well as the reviews in the recent Bioinitiative Report [http://www.bioinitiative.org/] [C.F. Blackman, M. Blank, M. Kundi, C. Sage, D.O. Carpenter, Z. Davanipour, D. Gee, L. Hardell, O. Johansson, H. Lai, K.H. Mild, A. Sage, E.L. Sobel, Z. Xu, G. Chen, The Bioinitiative Report-A Rationale for a Biologically-based Public Exposure Standard for Electromagnetic Fields (ELF and RF), 2007)], it must be concluded that the existing public safety limits are inadequate to protect public health, and that new public safety limits, as well as limits on further deployment of untested technologies, are warranted.
Cranial magnetic resonance imaging was performed in three cases of acute hyperammonemic encephalopathy with three diverse etiologies: infantile citrullinemia, acute hepatic encephalopathy, and proximal urea cycle disorder. All three patients exhibited diffuse extensive cortical signal changes and swelling. Neurologic outcome was poor in all three cases. Knowledge of the magnetic resonance imaging findings of hyperammonemic encephalopathy may help in early diagnosis and treatment and could influence the neurologic outcome.
Afebrile seizures associated with rotavirus gastroenteritis, respiratory syncytial virus bronchiolitis, influenza infection, asthma, blood transfusions, and intake of a number of drugs (including theophylline, cephalosporins, metronidazole, and acyclovir) with therapeutic drug levels are uncommonly encountered in clinical practice. Reviewed here are the incidence, etiology, clinical presentation, types, diagnosis, associated electroencephalographic changes, and cranial magnetic resonance imaging findings in the literature, as well as management and prognosis of these seizures.

Marijuana is consistently the most widely used illicit drug among teenagers and most users first experiment it in adolescence. Adolescence is the period between childhood and adulthood, encompassing not only reproductive maturation, but also cognitive, emotional and social maturation and is characterized by a brain in transition that differs anatomically and neurochemically from that of the adult. The endocannabinoid system plays an important role in this critical phase for cerebral development, therefore a strong stimulation by the psychoactive component of marijuana, delta-9-tetrahydrocanabinol, that acts through the cannabinoid system, might lead to subtle but lasting neurobiological changes that can affect adult brain functions and behaviour. The literature here summarized, exploiting animal models of cannabis consumption, points to the presence of subtle changes in the adult brain circuits after heavy cannabis consumption in adolescence. These alterations lead to impaired emotional and cognitive performance, enhanced vulnerability for the use of more harmful drugs of abuse, and may represent a risk factor for developing schizophrenia in adulthood. The few studies examining the neurobiological basis of the altered behaviours demonstrate the presence of stable alteration in the endocannabinoid system that can trigger subsequent alteration in synaptic protein and synaptic morphology, thus altering the responsiveness of selected brain areas to different internal and external stimuli. These pre-clinical observations are strengthened by literature in humans where longitudinal studies often support the experimental results. There is an urgent need of multidisciplinary approaches combining behaviour with neurochemical and genetic studies to build a scientific based opinion on the long-lasting consequences of cannabis use in adolescence.
We derive analytical formulas for the firing rate of integrate-and-fire neurons endowed with realistic synaptic dynamics. In particular, we include the possibility of multiple synaptic inputs as well as the effect of an absolute refractory period into the description. The latter affects the firing rate through its interaction with the synaptic dynamics.
Phosphoinositides constitute only a small fraction of cellular phospholipids, yet their importance in the regulation of cellular functions can hardly be overstated. The rapid metabolic response of phosphoinositides after stimulation of certain cell surface receptors was the first indication that these lipids could serve as regulatory molecules. These early observations opened research areas that ultimately clarified the plasma membrane role of phosphoinositides in Ca(2+) signaling. However, research of the last 10 years has revealed a much broader range of processes dependent on phosphoinositides. These lipids control organelle biology by regulating vesicular trafficking, and they modulate lipid distribution and metabolism more generally via their close relationship with lipid transfer proteins. Phosphoinositides also regulate ion channels, pumps, and transporters as well as both endocytic and exocytic processes. The significance of phosphoinositides found within the nucleus is still poorly understood, and a whole new research concerns the highly phosphorylated inositols that also appear to control multiple nuclear processes. The expansion of research and interest in phosphoinositides naturally created a demand for new approaches to determine where, within the cell, these lipids exert their effects. Imaging of phosphoinositide dynamics within live cells has become a standard cell biological method. These new tools not only helped us localize phosphoinositides within the cell but also taught us how tightly phosphoinositide control can be linked with distinct effector protein complexes. The recent progress allows us to understand the underlying causes of certain human diseases and design new strategies for therapeutic interventions.
During embryogenesis, the neural stem cells (NSC) of the developing cerebral cortex are located in the ventricular zone (VZ) lining the cerebral ventricles. They exhibit apical and basal processes that contact the ventricular surface and the pial basement membrane, respectively. This unique architecture is important for VZ physical integrity and fate determination of NSC daughter cells. In addition, the shorter apical process is critical for interkinetic nuclear migration (INM), which enables VZ cell mitoses at the ventricular surface. Despite their importance, the mechanisms required for NSC adhesion to the ventricle are poorly understood. We have shown previously that one class of candidate adhesion molecules, laminins, are present in the ventricular region and that their integrin receptors are expressed by NSC. However, prior studies only demonstrate a role for their interaction in the attachment of the basal process to the overlying pial basement membrane. Here we use antibody-blocking and genetic experiments to reveal an additional and novel requirement for laminin/integrin interactions in apical process adhesion and NSC regulation. Transient abrogation of integrin binding and signalling using blocking antibodies to specifically target the ventricular region in utero results in abnormal INM and alterations in the orientation of NSC divisions. We found that these defects were also observed in laminin alpha2 deficient mice. More detailed analyses using a multidisciplinary approach to analyse stem cell behaviour by expression of fluorescent transgenes and multiphoton time-lapse imaging revealed that the transient embryonic disruption of laminin/integrin signalling at the VZ surface resulted in apical process detachment from the ventricular surface, dystrophic radial glia fibers, and substantial layering defects in the postnatal neocortex. Collectively, these data reveal novel roles for the laminin/integrin interaction in anchoring embryonic NSCs to the ventricular surface and maintaining the physical integrity of the neocortical niche, with even transient perturbations resulting in long-lasting cortical defects.
Associating spatial locations with rewards is fundamental to survival in natural environments and requires the integrity of the hippocampus and ventral striatum. In joint multineuron recordings from these areas, hippocampal-striatal ensembles reactivated together during sleep. This process was especially strong in pairs in which the hippocampal cell processed spatial information and ventral striatal firing correlated to reward. Replay was dominated by cell pairs in which the hippocampal &quot;place&quot; cell fired preferentially before the striatal reward-related neuron. Our results suggest a plausible mechanism for consolidating place-reward associations and are consistent with a central tenet of consolidation theory, showing that the hippocampus leads reactivation in a projection area.
Progress in science depends on the effective exchange of ideas among scientists. New ideas can be assessed and criticized in a meaningful manner only if they are formulated precisely. This applies to simulation studies as well as to experiments and theories. But after more than 50 years of neuronal network simulations, we still lack a clear and common understanding of the role of computational models in neuroscience as well as established practices for describing network models in publications. This hinders the critical evaluation of network models as well as their re-use. We analyze here 14 research papers proposing neuronal network models of different complexity and find widely varying approaches to model descriptions, with regard to both the means of description and the ordering and placement of material. We further observe great variation in the graphical representation of networks and the notation used in equations. Based on our observations, we propose a good model description practice, composed of guidelines for the organization of publications, a checklist for model descriptions, templates for tables presenting model structure, and guidelines for diagrams of networks. The main purpose of this good practice is to trigger a debate about the communication of neuronal network models in a manner comprehensible to humans, as opposed to machine-readable model description languages. We believe that the good model description practice proposed here, together with a number of other recent initiatives on data-, model-, and software-sharing, may lead to a deeper and more fruitful exchange of ideas among computational neuroscientists in years to come. We further hope that work on standardized ways of describing--and thinking about--complex neuronal networks will lead the scientific community to a clearer understanding of high-level concepts in network dynamics, and will thus lead to deeper insights into the function of the brain.
Brains were built by evolution to react swiftly to environmental challenges. Thus, sensory stimuli must be processed ad hoc, i.e., independent--to a large extent--from the momentary brain state incidentally prevailing during stimulus occurrence. Accordingly, computational neuroscience strives to model the robust processing of stimuli in the presence of dynamical cortical states. A pivotal feature of ongoing brain activity is the regional predominance of EEG eigenrhythms, such as the occipital alpha or the pericentral mu rhythm, both peaking spectrally at 10 Hz. Here, we establish a novel generalized concept to measure event-related desynchronization (ERD), which allows one to model neural oscillatory dynamics also in the presence of dynamical cortical states. Specifically, we demonstrate that a somatosensory stimulus causes a stereotypic sequence of first an ERD and then an ensuing amplitude overshoot (event-related synchronization), which at a dynamical cortical state becomes evident only if the natural relaxation dynamics of unperturbed EEG rhythms is utilized as reference dynamics. Moreover, this computational approach also encompasses the more general notion of a &quot;conditional ERD,&quot; through which candidate explanatory variables can be scrutinized with regard to their possible impact on a particular oscillatory dynamics under study. Thus, the generalized ERD represents a powerful novel analysis tool for extending our understanding of inter-trial variability of evoked responses and therefore the robust processing of environmental stimuli.
Mutations in the CLRN1 gene cause Usher syndrome type 3 (USH3), a human disease characterized by progressive blindness and deafness. Clarin 1, the protein product of CLRN1, is a four-transmembrane protein predicted to be associated with ribbon synapses of photoreceptors and cochlear hair cells, and recently demonstrated to be associated with the cytoskeleton. To study Clrn1, we created a Clrn1 knockout (KO) mouse and characterized the histological and functional consequences of Clrn1 deletion in the retina and cochlea. Clrn1 KO mice do not develop a retinal degeneration phenotype, but exhibit progressive loss of sensory hair cells in the cochlea and deterioration of the organ of Corti by 4 months. Hair cell stereocilia in KO animals were longer and disorganized by 4 months, and some Clrn1 KO mice exhibited circling behavior by 5-6 months of age. Clrn1 mRNA expression was localized in the retina using in situ hybridization (ISH), laser capture microdissection (LCM), and RT-PCR. Retinal Clrn1 transcripts were found throughout development and adulthood by RT-PCR, although expression peaked at P7 and declined to undetectable levels in adult retina by ISH. LCM localized Clrn1 transcripts to the retinas inner nuclear layer, and WT levels of retinal Clrn1 expression were observed in photoreceptor-less retinas. Examination of Clrn1 KO mice suggests that CLRN1 is unnecessary in the murine retina but essential for normal cochlear development and function. This may reflect a redundancy in the mouse retina not present in human retina. In contrast to mouse KO models of USH1 and USH2, our data indicate that Clrn1 expression in the retina is restricted to the Mller glia. This is a novel finding, as most retinal degeneration associated proteins are expressed in photoreceptors, not in glia. If CLRN1 expression in humans is comparable to the expression pattern observed in mice, this is the first report of an inner retinal protein that, when mutated, causes retinal degeneration.
Synaptic activity can boost neuroprotection through a mechanism that requires synapse-to-nucleus communication and calcium signals in the cell nucleus. Here we show that in hippocampal neurons nuclear calcium is one of the most potent signals in neuronal gene expression. The induction or repression of 185 neuronal activity-regulated genes is dependent upon nuclear calcium signaling. The nuclear calcium-regulated gene pool contains a genomic program that mediates synaptic activity-induced, acquired neuroprotection. The core set of neuroprotective genes consists of 9 principal components, termed Activity-regulated Inhibitor of Death (AID) genes, and includes Atf3, Btg2, GADD45beta, GADD45gamma, Inhibin beta-A, Interferon activated gene 202B, Npas4, Nr4a1, and Serpinb2, which strongly promote survival of cultured hippocampal neurons. Several AID genes provide neuroprotection through a common process that renders mitochondria more resistant to cellular stress and toxic insults. Stereotaxic delivery of AID gene-expressing recombinant adeno-associated viruses to the hippocampus confers protection in vivo against seizure-induced brain damage. Thus, treatments that enhance nuclear calcium signaling or supplement AID genes represent novel therapies to combat neurodegenerative conditions and neuronal cell loss caused by synaptic dysfunction, which may be accompanied by a deregulation of calcium signal initiation and/or propagation to the cell nucleus.
A 44-year-old man is described with severe flaccid quadriparesis that evolved over 3 weeks. He had regularly binged on alcohol-up to 20 cans of beer per day with occasional consumption of spirits-for more than 15 years but had balanced this with regular food intake. However, for a week prior to the current episode he had not eaten anything of significance. Nerve conduction studies revealed a background peripheral, mainly sensory, neuropathy with a superimposed acute motor axonopathy. CSF was normal. He improved with high dose vitamin replacement and physiotherapy but remains dependent on a Zimmer frame for mobility and a splint for wrist drop.
Treatment of patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage not only involves securing the aneurysm by endovascular coiling or surgical clipping but also prevention and treatment of the medical and neurological complications of the bleed. These acutely ill patients should be looked after in specialised centres by a multidisciplinary team that is available 24 h a day, 7 days a week. No medical intervention is known to improve outcome by reducing the risk of rebleeding but oral nimodipine should be standard care to prevent delayed cerebral ischaemia. For patients who develop delayed ischaemia, there is no evidence that hypervolaemia, haemodilution, hypertension, balloon angioplasty or intra-arterial vasodilating agents improve outcome. Lumbar puncture is a safe and reasonably effective way of treating those forms of acute hydrocephalus that are not caused by intraventricular obstruction.
Analysis of the interplay between cell proliferation and death has been greatly advantaged by the development of CNS slice preparations. In slices, interactions between neurons and neurons and the glial cells are fundamentally preserved in a fashion close to the in vivo situation. In parallel, these preparations offer the possibility of an easy experimental manipulation. Two main types of slices are currently in use: the acute slices, which are short living preparations where the major functions of the intact brain (including neurogenesis) are maintained, and the organotypic cultures, where the maturation and plasticity of neuronal circuitries in relation to naturally occurring neuronal death and/or experimental insults can be followed over several weeks in vitro. We will discuss here the main advantages/disadvantages linked to the use of CNS slices for histological analysis of neuronal proliferation and death, as well as the main findings obtained in the most popular types of preparations, i.e. the cortical, hippocampal, cerebellar and retinal slices.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive, neurodegenerative disease characterized by the selective loss of motor neurons in the brain and spinal cord. Death due to respiratory failure occurs typically 2-5 years after disease onset. The pathogenic mechanism that underlies ALS remains largely unknown, but is known to include both genetic and environmental factors. At the cellular level, pathological changes in motor neuron connections and loss of neuromuscular contacts precede motor neuron degeneration and clinical symptoms. Several lines of recent evidence support the challenging hypothesis that aberrant expression or function of axon guidance proteins such as Semaphorins, Ephrins, Netrins and Slits, normally involved in sculpting and maintaining motor neuron circuits, may induce such pathological changes in motor neuron circuitry and contribute to the pathogenic mechanism involved in ALS. In the present review, we discuss the emerging roles of axon guidance proteins in the pathogenesis of ALS. First, we summarize our current understanding of the role of axon guidance proteins during the formation of motor neuron circuits. Subsequently, we present several lines of evidence showing an association between aberrant axon guidance protein function or expression and ALS. Finally, we discuss the therapeutic potential of axon guidance proteins in understanding and treating the changes in motor neuron connectivity that underlie this debilitating disease.
Nanotechnology employs engineered materials or devices that interact with biological systems at a molecular level and could revolutionize the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders (NDs) by stimulating, responding to and interacting with target sites to induce physiological responses while minimizing side-effects. Conventional drug delivery systems do not provide adequate cyto-architecture restoration and connection patterns that are essential for functional recovery in NDs, due to limitations posed by the restrictive blood-brain barrier. This review article provides a concise incursion into the current and future applications of nano-enabled drug delivery systems for the treatment of NDs, in particular Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, and explores the application of nanotechnology in clinical neuroscience to develop innovative therapeutic modalities for the treatment of NDs.
The subiculum is in a pivotal position governing the output of the hippocampal formation. Despite this, it is a rather under-explored and sometimes ignored structure. Here, we discuss recent data indicating that the subiculum participates in a wide range of neurocognitive functions and processes. Some of the functions of subiculum are relatively well-known-these include providing a relatively coarse representation of space and participating in, and supporting certain aspects of, memory (particularly in the dynamic bridging of temporal intervals). The subiculum also participates in a wide variety of other neurocognitive functions too, however. Much less well-known are roles for the subiculum, and particularly the ventral subiculum, in the response to fear, stress and anxiety, and in the generation of motivated behaviour (particularly the behaviour that underlies drug addiction and the response to reward). There is an emerging suggestion that the subiculum participates in the temporal control of behaviour. It is notable that these latter findings have emerged from a consideration of instrumental behaviour using operant techniques; it may well be the case that the use of the watermaze or similar spatial tasks to assess subicular function (on the presumption that its functions are very similar to the hippocampus proper) has obscured rather than revealed neurocognitive functions of subiculum. The anatomy of subiculum suggests it participates in a rather subtle fashion in a very broad range of functions, rather than in a relatively more isolated fashion in a narrower range of functions, as might be the case for &quot;earlier&quot; components of hippocampal circuitry, such as the CA1 and CA3 subfields. Overall, there appears to a strong dorso-ventral segregation of function within subiculum, with the dorsal subiculum relatively more concerned with space and memory, and the ventral hippocampus concerned with stress, anxiety and reward. Finally, it may be the case that the whole subiculum participates in the temporal control of reinforced behaviour, although further experimentation is required to clarify this hypothesis.
The superior temporal gyrus (STG) is strongly implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, particularly with regards to auditory hallucinations. In this study, using in situ quantitative autoradiography in postmortem tissue, we investigated the binding of the [3H]ketanserin to 5-HT(2A) receptors and [3H]mesulergine to 5-HT(2C) receptors in the left STG of 8 male schizophrenic patients compared to 8 control subjects. A strong [3H]ketanserin binding was observed in the STG, however there was a very weak [3H]mesulergine binding in the STG. A significant decrease in binding of [(3)H]ketanserin was clearly observed in schizophrenia patients in comparison with control subjects. There were no significant correlations between 5-HT(2A) binding density and age, postmortem intervals, or brain pH. These results suggest that the alterations of the 5-HT(2A) receptors contribute to the pathophysiology of the STG in schizophrenia. Furthermore, there is a clear tendency for a positive correlation between 5-HT(2A) and muscarinic M1 receptor bindings, and for negative correlations between 5-HT(2A) and GABA(A) receptor bindings and between muscarinic M1 and GABA(A) receptor bindings. This provides a possible mechanism of auditory hallucinations through interactions between 5-HT(2A), acetylcholine muscarinic and GABA transmissions in the STG in schizophrenia.
Understanding the function of the entorhinal cortex (EC) has been an important subject over the years, not least because of its cortical intermediary to and from the hippocampus proper, and because of electrophysiological advances which have started to reveal the physiology in behaving animals. Clearly, a lot more needs to be done but is clear to date that EC is not merely a throughput station providing all hippocampal subfields with sensory information, but that processing within EC contributes significantly to attention, conditioning, event and spatial cognition possibly by compressing representations that overlap in time. These are transmitted to the hippocampus, where they are differentiated again and returned to EC. Preliminary evidence for such a role, but also their possible pitfalls are summarised.
The inducible gene Homer1a has been considered a candidate gene for schizophrenia. Drugs efficacious in schizophrenia and acting as dopamine receptor antagonists induce Homer1a expression, although the specific role of the different dopamine receptors in its induction is not completely known. In this study, we explored Homer1a expression induced by selective antagonists at dopamine receptors (SCH-23390, D(1) receptor selective antagonist, 0.5 mg/kg; L-741,626, D(2) receptor selective antagonist, 2 mg/kg; U-99194, D(3) receptor selective antagonist, 5 mg/kg; L-745,870, D(4) receptor selective antagonist, 3 mg/kg), haloperidol (0.8 mg/kg), and terguride (0.5 mg/kg), a partial agonist at D(2) receptors. Moreover, we evaluated the expression of two Homer1a-related genes which play essential roles in synaptic plasticity: mGluR5 and Homer1b. Gene expression was analyzed in brain regions relevant for schizophrenia pathophysiology and therapy, namely the striatum, the cortex, and the hippocampus. In striatum, Homer1a was induced by D(2) receptor antagonists and, with a different distribution, by SCH-23390. In the cortex, Homer1a was differentially induced by D(1), D(2), and D(3) receptors antagonists, while haloperidol and terguride did not affect or reduced its expression. Homer1b expression was reduced by L-741,626, L-745,870, terguride, and haloperidol in the ventral caudate-putamen, in the nucleus accumbens and in the cortex, while SCH-23390 increased the expression in the core of the accumbens. mGluR5 expression was increased by SCH-23390 in the dorsomedial putamen, the core of the accumbens, and in some hippocampal subregions. A reduction of gene expression by terguride and an increase by L-745,870 was observed in the dorsomedial putamen. The changes in expression suggest that these gene transcripts are differentially regulated by antagonism at different dopamine receptors.
Deficiency in docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is associated with impaired visual and neurological postnatal development, cognitive decline, macular degeneration, and other neurodegenerative diseases. DHA is an omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acyl chain concentrated in phospholipids of brain and retina, with photoreceptor cells displaying the highest content of DHA of all cell membranes. The identification and characterization of neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1, 10R, 17S-dihydroxy-docosa-4Z,7Z,11E,13E,15Z,19Z-hexaenoic acid) contributes in understanding the biological significance of DHA. In oxidative stress-challenged human retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells, human brain cells, or rat brains undergoing ischemia-reperfusion, NPD1 synthesis is enhanced as a response for sustaining homeostasis. Thus, neurotrophins, Abeta peptide 42 (Abeta42), calcium ionophore A23187, interleukin (IL)-1beta, or DHA supply enhances NPD1 synthesis. NPD1, in turn, up-regulates the antiapoptotic proteins of the Bcl-2 family and decreases the expression of proapoptotic Bcl-2 family members. Moreover, NPD1 inhibits IL-1beta-stimulated expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). Because both RPE and photoreceptors are damaged and then die in retinal degenerations, elucidating how NPD1 signaling contributes to retinal cell survival may lead to a new understanding of disease mechanisms. In human neural cells, DHA attenuates amyloid-beta (Abeta) secretion, resulting in concomitant formation of NPD1. NPD1 was found to be reduced in the Alzheimer's disease (AD) cornu ammonis region 1 (CA1) hippocampal region, but not in other areas of the brain. The expression of key enzymes for NPD1 biosynthesis, cytosolic phospholipase A(2) (cPLA(2)), and 15-lipoxygenase (15-LOX) was found altered in the AD hippocampal CA1 region. NPD1 repressed Abeta42-triggered activation of pro-inflammatory genes and upregulated the antiapoptotic genes encoding Bcl-2, Bcl-xl, and Bfl-1(A1) in human brain cells in culture. Overall, these results support the concept that NPD1 promotes brain and retina cell survival via the induction of antiapoptotic and neuroprotective gene-expression programs that suppress Abeta42-induced neurotoxicity and other forms of cell injury, which in turn fosters homeostasis during development in aging, as well as during the initiation and progression of neurodegenerative diseases.













The relevance of multiple sclerosis for cognitive neuroscience has evolved significantly during the last decades. After a relative and enduring disinterest, the 1980's has been marked by a first wave of studies aiming at characterizing the cognitive dysfunctions associated with this disease. Once identified, and grouped under the relatively vague and nonspecific concept of &quot;subcorticofrontal syndrome&quot;, these cognitive symptoms had to wait until the end of the 1990's to give rise to a new and vigorous resurgence of attention. Interestingly, this genuine contemporary revival of interest originates in the promotion of the very same arguments that served until there to explain the weak investment of multiple sclerosis by neuropsychology and cognitive neuroscience. The early disseminated nature of brain lesions, their dynamic and unstable nature, the prevalence of white-matter lesions, and the alteration of non-modular aspects of cognition: all these arguments have discouraged neuropsychologists for a long time. Today, these very same specific properties of multiple sclerosis offer an extremely relevant model to explore cognitive dimensions of brain plasticity, to revivify the concept of disconnection in neuropsychology, and to evaluate some neuroscientific models of consciousness.



A progressive post-onset decrease in gray matter volume 1.5 years after first hospitalization in schizophrenia has been shown in superior temporal gyrus (STG). However, it is still controversial whether progressive volume reduction occurs in chronic schizophrenia in the STG and amygdala-hippocampal complex (AHC), structures found to be abnormal in chronic schizophrenia. These structures were measured at two time points in 16 chronic schizophrenia patients and 20 normal comparison subjects using manual tracing with high spatial resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Average interscan interval was 3.1 years for schizophrenia patients and 1.4 years for healthy comparison subjects. Cross-sectional comparisons showed smaller relative volumes in schizophrenia compared with controls in posterior STG and AHC. An ANCOVA with interscan interval as a covariate showed there was no statistically significant progression of volume reduction in either the STG or AHC in the schizophrenia group compared with normal subjects. In the schizophrenia group, volume change in the left anterior AHC significantly correlated with PANSS negative symptoms. These data, and separately reported first episode data from our laboratory, suggest marked progression at the initial stage of schizophrenia, but less in chronic schizophrenia.

Injury that disrupts an epithelial layer instantaneously generates endogenous electric fields (EFs), which were detected at human skin wounds over 150 years ago. Recent researches combining molecular, genetic and imaging techniques have provided significant insights into cellular and molecular responses to this &quot;unconventional&quot; signal. One unexpected finding is that the EFs play an overriding guidance role in directing cell migration in epithelial wound healing. In experimental models where other directional cues (e.g., contact inhibition release, population pressure etc.) are present, electric fields of physiological strength override them and direct cell migration. The electrotaxis or galvanotaxis is mediated by polarized activation of multiple signaling pathways that include PI3 kinases/Pten, membrane growth factor receptors and integrins. Genetic manipulation of PI3 kinase/Pten (Phosphoinositide 3-kinases/phosphatase and tensin homolog) and integrin beta4 demonstrated the importance of those molecules. The electric fields are therefore a fundamental signal that directs cell migration in wound healing. One of the most challenging question is: How do cells sense the very weak electric signals? Clinically, it is highly desirable to develop practical and reliable technologies for wound healing management exploiting the electric signaling.
Metastasis to the central nervous system (CNS), including neoplastic meningitis (NM), is a devastating complication of systemic cancer. With the improved survival of cancer patients, the incidence of CNS metastasis is rising, especially among those with breast or lung carcinoma. New therapies that effectively treat these primary tumors outside of the CNS have underscored the significance of CNS metastases; they have become a significant clinical issue and a therapeutic challenge. This review discusses clinical situations in which treatment or chemoprophylaxis of CNS metastases and NM from breast or lung cancer may play an important role. Potential clinical trials to assess these assumptions also will be proposed.


In 2007, the American Academy of Sleep Medicine (AASM) completed a new manual for the scoring of sleep and associated events. The AASM manual is divided into separate sections relative to the parameters reported for polysomnography. The present commentary, accomplished by a Task Force of the Italian Association of Sleep Medicine, focuses on sleep scoring data, arousal rules, movement and respiratory events. Comparisons with the previous Rechtschaffen and Kales system are detailed and a number of methodological weaknesses are pointed out. Major comments address the 30-s scoring epochs, the restrictive approach to arousals and EEG activating patterns, the incomplete quantification of motor events and the thresholds for the definition of hypopnea. Since the new AASM manual is an iterative process, proposals for discussion and re-examination of the agreed criteria with other national and international organizations are encouraged.

Inhibition of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling is required for vertebrate neural induction, and fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) may affect neural induction through phosphorylation at the linker region of Smad1, thus regulating BMP signaling. Here we show that human embryonic stem cells efficiently convert to neuroepithelial cells in the absence of BMP antagonists, or even when exposed to high concentrations of exogenous BMP4. Molecular and functional analyses revealed multiple levels of endogenous BMP signaling inhibition that may account for the efficient neural differentiation. Blocking FGF signaling inhibited neural induction, but did not alter the phosphorylation of the linker region of Smad1, suggesting that FGF enhances human neural specification independently of BMP signaling.





Increased reactivity of certain frontal cortical brain regions to cocaine re-exposure or drug-associated cues in cocaine-abstinent human addicts is linked to drug craving. Similarly, in rats tested after withdrawal from repeated cocaine exposure, cocaine or other strong excitatory stimuli produce greater activation of pyramidal neurons in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Our recent findings indicate that the increased mPFC neuronal activation depends primarily upon enhanced voltage-sensitive Ca(2+) influx, most likely through high-voltage activated (HVA) L-type Ca(2+) channels, but the mechanism underlying the enhanced Ca(2+) currents is unknown. In this study, we used a protein crosslinking assay to show that repeated cocaine injections, resulting in behavioral sensitization, increased total protein levels and cell surface expression of HVA-Ca(v)1.2 L-type channels in pyramidal neurons in deep layers of the mPFC. These changes in Ca(v)1.2 L-channels were time dependent and subtype specific (i.e., differed from those observed for Ca(v)1.3 L-channels). Furthermore, we found enhanced PKA activity in the mPFC of cocaine-sensitized rats that persisted for 21 days after withdrawal. PKA phosphorylation of L-channels increases their activity, so Ca(2+) currents after cocaine withdrawal could be enhanced as a result of both increased activity and number of HVA-Ca(v)1.2 L-channels on the cell surface. By increasing the suprafiring threshold excitability of mPFC pyramidal neurons, excessive upregulation of HVA L-channel activity and number may contribute to the cortical hyper-responsiveness that enhances vulnerability to cocaine craving and relapse. More generally, our results are the first to demonstrate that repeated cocaine exposure alters the membrane trafficking of a voltage-sensitive ion channel.
Tobacco dependence is highly prevalent in depressed patients. We assessed changes in [(11)C]-raclopride binding potential (BP) using positron emission tomography (PET) before and after the oral administration of d-amphetamine in healthy controls and unmedicated patients with current depression with and without current tobacco dependence. Over a single study day 2 [(11)C]-raclopride positron emission tomography scans were taken in 38 subjects: at baseline and 2 h following oral d-amphetamine 30 mg. Twenty controls (9 smokers, 11 nonsmokers) and 18 subjects with current major depressive episode (8 smokers, 10 non-smokers). Striatal [(11)C]-raclopride binding potential was measured before and after d-amphetamine administration. Depressed smokers had a lower baseline [(11)C]-raclopride binding potential compared with both control non-smokers (P &lt; 0.007) and depressed non-smokers (P &lt; 0.001). There was a main effect of smoking status on amphetamine-induced change in [(11)C]-raclopride binding potential (P &lt; 0.02), but no main effect of depression. This may be due to a floor effect because of the low BP at baseline. Depressed subjects reported significant increase of positive mood after d-amphetamine administration compared with controls (depressed smokers vs. control smokers: P &lt; 0.05; depressed non-smokers vs. controls: P &lt; 0.055). Tobacco dependence appears to decrease d-amphetamine-induced changes in [(11)C]-raclopride binding potential as measured by positron emission tomography. Comorbid major depression and tobacco dependence exacerbates this effect, suggesting an altered dopamine system in comorbid patients.
Recent studies on the phosphoprotein synapsin II have revealed reduced expression in postmortem medial prefrontal cortex tissues from subjects with schizophrenia, and chronic antipsychotic drug treatment has resulted in concurrent increases in synapsin II mRNA and protein levels. Collectively, this research suggests a role of synapsin II in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia; however, whether synapsin II plays a causal role in this disease process still remains unclear. Therefore, the goal of this investigation was to examine whether synapsin II knockout mice display behavioral abnormalities commonly expressed in preclinical animal models of schizophrenia, namely deficits in prepulse inhibition (PPI), decreased social behavior, and locomotor hyperactivity. Results indicate that mice with knockout of the synapsin II gene demonstrate deficits in PPI at three prepulse intensities (67, 70, and 73 dB), along with deficits in habituation to startle to a 110 dB acoustic pulse. Knockout animals also expressed decreased social behavior and increased locomotor activity when compared to wildtype and heterozygous populations. Complete knockout of the synapsin II gene was confirmed in postmortem brain tissues via immunoblotting. In conclusion, these results confirm that synapsin II knockout mice display behavioral endophenotypes similar to established preclinical animal models of schizophrenia, and lend support to the notion that abnormalities in synapsin II expression may play a causal role in the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms of schizophrenia.
Glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system. Disturbed glutamate signaling resulting in hypofunction of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDAR) has been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Glutamate Carboxypeptidase II (GCP II) hydrolyzes N-acetyl-alpha L-aspartyl-L-glutamate (NAAG) into glutamate and N-acetyl-aspartate. NAAG is a neuropeptide that is an NMDAR antagonist as well as an agonist for the metabotropic glutamate receptor-3 (mGluR3), which inhibits glutamate release. The aggregate effect of NAAG is thus to attenuate NMDAR activation. To manipulate the expression of GCP II, LoxP sites were inserted flanking exons 1 and 2, which were excised by crossing with a Cre-expressing mouse. The mice heterozygous for this deletion showed a 50% reduction in the expression level of protein and functional activity of GCP II in brain samples. Heterozygous mutant crosses did not yield any homozygous null animals at birth or as embryos (N &gt; 200 live births and fetuses). These data are consistent with the previous report that GCP II homozygous mutant mice generated by removing exons 9 and 10 of GCP II gene were embryonically lethal and confirm our hypothesis that GCP II plays an essential role early in embryonic development. Heterozygous mice, however, developed normally to adulthood and exhibited increased locomotor activity, reduced social interaction, and a subtle cognitive deficit in working memory.
Four red-pigmented isolates, with optimum growth temperatures of approximately 55-60 degrees C and an optimum pH for growth between 7.5 and 8.5, were recovered from hot springs in Central France. Phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that these organisms represented a new species of the genus Meiothermus. The new isolates could be distinguished from other strains of the species of the genus Meiothermus primarily by the glycolipid profile and fatty acid composition because these organisms lacked the hydroxy fatty acids and the glycolipid variant GL-1a found in all other isolates of the species of Meiothermus examined. On the basis of the results presented here we propose the name Meiothermus rufus for the new species, which is represented by strains CAL-4(T) (=DSM 22234(T)=LMG 24878(T)) and CAL-12 (=DSM 22235=LMG 24879). We also propose emending the genus Meiothermus to include strains that have only one glycolipid instead of two glycolipid variants.
Peripheral nerve regeneration within guidance conduits involves a critical association between regenerating axons, Schwann cells (SCs), and neovascularization. However, it is currently unknown if there is a greater association between these factors in nonpermeable versus semipermeable nerve guide conduits. We therefore examined this collaboration in both silicone- and collagen-based nerve conduits in both 5- and 10-mm-injury gaps in rat sciatic nerves. Results indicate that collagen conduits promoted enhanced axonal and SC regeneration and association when compared to silicone conduits in the shorter 5-mm-gap model. In addition, collagen tubes displayed enhanced neovascularization over silicone conduits, suggesting that these three factors are intimately related in successful peripheral nerve regeneration. At later time points (1- and 2-month analysis) in a 10-mm-gap model, collagen tubes displayed enhanced axonal regeneration, myelination, and vascularization when compared to silicone-based conduits. Results from these studies suggest that regenerating cables within collagen-based conduits are revascularized earlier and more completely, which in turn enhances peripheral nerve regeneration through these nerve guides as compared to silicone conduits.
Daphnetoxin is a daphnane type orthoester diterpene found exclusively in plants of the family Thymelaeaceae while daphnoretin, a bis-coumarin derivative that is the major constituent of the bark of some plants of this family, can also be found in Leguminosae and Rutaceae. These two compounds are recognized to have different biological effects, including a possible anti-cancer activity. The subject of the present research was to compare their mitochondrial toxicity and also investigate a possible selectivity towards tumor cell lines. Wistar rat liver mitochondria and three distinct cell lines were used to investigate compound-induced toxicity. The results indicate that both test compounds are toxic to isolated mitochondrial fractions, especially when used at concentrations higher than 100 microM. However, daphnetoxin presented the highest toxicity including increased proton leak in the inner mitochondrial membrane, increased induction of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore, inhibition of ATP synthase and inhibition of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Both compounds also inhibited cell proliferation, regardless of the cell line used. Up to the maximal concentration tested in cells, no mitochondrial effects were detected by vital epifluorescence imaging, indicating that inhibition of cell proliferation may also originate from mitochondrial-independent mechanisms. The results warrant careful assessment of toxicity vs. pharmacology benefits of both molecules.
Traditionally, the cerebral cortex is seen to have the most important role in 'higher' functions of the brain, such as cognition and behavioral regulation, whereas subcortical structures are considered to have subservient or no roles in these functions. This article highlights the conceptual bias at the root of this corticocentric view of the human brain, and emphasizes its negative implications in current practices in the cognitive neurosciences. The aim of this article is to suggest that the 'corticocentric' view of the human brain is also a myopic view because it does not let us see that the 'higher' functions of the brain might in fact depend on the integrity of its 'lower' structures.
Our understanding of the molecular genetic basis of two common neurodegenerative dementias, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), has greatly advanced in recent years. Progranulin mutations were identified as a major cause of FTLD and a potential susceptibility factor for other forms of dementia. In addition, through copy-number analyses of previously identified disease genes and the study of microRNA regulation in dementia, new evidence emerged to support the view that subtle variability in the expression of known disease proteins could increase the risk for sporadic forms of dementia. Finally, in late-onset AD populations, the first genome-wide association studies were performed and novel potential AD susceptibility genes reported. These exciting findings provide novel insights into the disease mechanisms underlying dementia and hold promise for the development of potential treatments.
Two flash-lag experiments were performed in which the moving object was flashed in a succession of locations creating apparent motion and the inter-stimulus distance (ISD) between those locations was varied. In the first (n=10), the size of the flash-lag illusion was a declining non-linear function of the ISD and the largest reduction in its magnitude corresponded closely to the value where observers judged the continuity of optimal apparent motion to be lost. In the second (n=11) with large ISDs, we found the largest illusions when the flash initiated the movement, and no effect was observed when the flash terminated the movement. The data support motion position biasing or temporal integration accounts of the illusion with processing predominantly based on motion after the flash.

In a host of neurodegenerative diseases Tau, a microtubule-associated protein, aggregates into insoluble lesions within neurons. Previous studies have utilized cyanine dyes as Tau aggregation inhibitors in vitro. Herein we utilize cyanine dye 3,3'-diethyl-9-methyl-thiacarbocyanine iodide (C11) to modulate Tau polymerization in two model systems, an organotypic slice culture model derived from Tau transgenic mice and a split green fluorescent protein complementation assay in Tau-expressing cells. In slice cultures, submicromolar concentrations (0.001 microm) of C11 produced a significant reduction of aggregated Tau and a corresponding increase in unpolymerized Tau. In contrast, treatment with a 1 microm dose promoted aggregation of Tau. These results were recapitulated in the complementation assay where administration of 1 microm C11 produced a significant increase in polymerized Tau relative to control, whereas treatment of cells with 0.01 microm C11 resulted in a marked reduction of aggregated Tau. In the organotypic slice cultures, modulation of Tau aggregation was independent of changes in phosphorylation at disease and microtubule binding relevant epitopes for both dosing regimes. Furthermore, treatment with 0.001 microm C11 resulted in a decrease in both total filament mass and number. There was no evidence of apoptosis or loss of synaptic integrity at either dose, however, whereas submicromolar concentrations of C11 did not interfere with microtubule binding, higher doses resulted in a decrease in the levels of microtubule-bound Tau. Overall, a cyanine dye can dissociate aggregated Tau in an ex vivo model of tauopathy with little toxicity and exploration of the use of these type of dyes as therapeutic agents is warranted.
Though practice can lead to improved performance in many domains, it is currently unknown how practice affects the deployment of selective attention to filter distracting information. We conducted a series of experiments to address this issue by examining how performance on a task changed after repeated exposure to distractors. Distraction initially slowed response time during task performance, an effect that diminished with repeated exposure to the distractors. When the distractors were consistent in appearance, the practice effect developed quickly but was stimulus-specific. When the distractors were more variable in appearance, the practice effect developed slowly but transferred more readily to other conditions. These data indicate that practice with overcoming distraction leads to improvements in information filtering mechanisms that generalize beyond the training regimen when variable distractor stimuli are experienced.
Fanconi anemia (FA) is a genetic disease resulting in bone marrow failure, high cancer risks, and infertility, and developmental anomalies including microphthalmia, microcephaly, hypoplastic radius and thumb. Here we present cDNA sequences, genetic mapping, and genomic analyses for the four previously undescribed zebrafish FA genes (fanci, fancj, fancm, and fancn), and show that they reverted to single copy after the teleost genome duplication. We tested the hypothesis that FA genes are expressed during embryonic development in tissues that are disrupted in human patients by investigating fanc gene expression patterns. We found fanc gene maternal message, which can provide Fanc proteins to repair DNA damage encountered in rapid cleavage divisions. Zygotic expression was broad but especially strong in eyes, central nervous system and hematopoietic tissues. In the pectoral fin bud at hatching, fanc genes were expressed specifically in the apical ectodermal ridge, a signaling center for fin/limb development that may be relevant to the radius/thumb anomaly of FA patients. Hatching embryos expressed fanc genes strongly in the oral epithelium, a site of squamous cell carcinomas in FA patients. Larval and adult zebrafish expressed fanc genes in proliferative regions of the brain, which may be related to microcephaly in FA. Mature ovaries and testes expressed fanc genes in specific stages of oocyte and spermatocyte development, which may be related to DNA repair during homologous recombination in meiosis and to infertility in human patients. The intestine strongly expressed some fanc genes specifically in proliferative zones. Our results show that zebrafish has a complete complement of fanc genes in single copy and that these genes are expressed in zebrafish embryos and adults in proliferative tissues that are often affected in FA patients. These results support the notion that zebrafish offers an attractive experimental system to help unravel mechanisms relevant not only to FA, but also to breast cancer, given the involvement of fancj (brip1), fancn (palb2) and fancd1 (brca2) in both conditions.
The current study combined structural magnetic resonance imaging (sMRI) and diffusion tensor MRI (DT-MRI) to investigate both gray matter density (GMD) and white matter integrity (WMI) in 18 pianists and 21 age-matched non-musicians. The pianists began their piano training at a mean age of 12. Voxel-based morphometry of the sMRI data showed that the pianists had higher GMD in the left primary sensorimotor cortex and right cerebellum. Voxel-based analysis of the DT-MRI data showed that pianists had higher fractional anisotropy (FA) (indicating higher WMI) in the right posterior limb of the internal capsule. The sMRI and DT-MRI results indicate that both the GMD and WMI of pianists may exhibit movement-related increases during adolescence or even early adulthood compared with non-musicians.

Facial tremor occurring on smiling is a rare phenomenon and has been described (to the best of our knowledge) in the literature only once. We describe two patients who presented with a bilateral facial tremor that occurred only on smiling and other activation of therisorii muscles and had a high frequency of 9 Hz. One patient additionally suffered from young-onset Parkinson's disease, whereas the other had no further neurological symptoms or signs apart from this tremor. Anti-parkinsonian medication was unhelpful for the facial tremor in the patient with Parkinson's disease. Tremor on smiling may be a discrete entity or may be associated in some cases of Parkinson's disease.
Mutations in the presenilin genes are the main cause of familial Alzheimer's disease. Loss of presenilin activity and/or accumulation of amyloid-beta peptides have been proposed to mediate the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease by impairing synaptic function. However, the precise site and nature of the synaptic dysfunction remain unknown. Here we use a genetic approach to inactivate presenilins conditionally in either presynaptic (CA3) or postsynaptic (CA1) neurons of the hippocampal Schaeffer-collateral pathway. We show that long-term potentiation induced by theta-burst stimulation is decreased after presynaptic but not postsynaptic deletion of presenilins. Moreover, we found that presynaptic but not postsynaptic inactivation of presenilins alters short-term plasticity and synaptic facilitation. The probability of evoked glutamate release, measured with the open-channel NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptor antagonist MK-801, is reduced by presynaptic inactivation of presenilins. Notably, depletion of endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) stores by thapsigargin, or blockade of Ca(2+) release from these stores by ryanodine receptor inhibitors, mimics and occludes the effects of presynaptic presenilin inactivation. Collectively, these results indicate a selective role for presenilins in the activity-dependent regulation of neurotransmitter release and long-term potentiation induction by modulation of intracellular Ca(2+) release in presynaptic terminals, and further suggest that presynaptic dysfunction might be an early pathogenic event leading to dementia and neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease.
We examined activity in the frontal cortex as monkeys performed a duration-discrimination task. Two stimuli, one red and the other blue, appeared sequentially on a video screen--in either order. Later, both stimuli reappeared, and to receive a reward the monkeys had to choose the stimulus that had lasted longer during its initial presentation. Some neurons encoded stimulus duration, but a larger number of cells represented their relative duration, which was encoded in three ways: whether the first or second stimulus had lasted longer; whether the red or blue stimulus had lasted longer; or, less commonly, as the difference between the two durations. As the monkeys' choice approached, the signal encoding which stimulus (red or blue) had lasted longer increased as the order-based signal dissipated. By representing stimulus durations and relative durations--both bound to stimulus features and event order--the frontal cortex could contribute to both temporal perception and episodic memory.
Neuronal activity observed in response to trial outcome is hypothesized to drive learning and performance adjustment. The study by Histed et al. in this issue of Neuron observes persistent outcome-related neuronal activity lasting until the subsequent trial in both prefrontal cortex and the caudate nucleus which is correlated with behavioral adjustment.
PET imaging of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients demonstrates Abeta-protein accumulation in a default mode network. In this issue of Neuron, Sperling and colleagues show that cognitively intact individuals with Abeta in this network fail to deactivate it during memory tasks, a finding with important implications for cognitive aging and early detection of AD.

Summary: The Merci Retrieval System (TM) (Concentric Medical, Mountain View, CA, USA) was approved in 2004 for restoring blood flow in patients experiencing an acute stroke who are otherwise ineligible for intravenous tPA, or in whom intravenous tPA treatment has failed. However, this treatment results in successful recanalization in less than 60% of treatable vessels (Multi MERCI trial). We describe the use of a novel device, the Solitaire(TM) AB Neurovascular Remodeling Device (ev3 Inc., Irvine, CA, USA) that received the CE Mark for the treatment of neurovascular disease in 2007 and can recanalize arteries when MERCI has failed. We describe a case of mechanical thrombectomy in which a new device, Solitaire(TM) AB, was used for acute cerebral ischemia in the setting of middle cerebral artery occlusion after unsuccessful recanalization with the MERCI(R) Retriever. Excellent angiographic and good clinical results were obtained without any complication. The Solitaire(TM) AB device was able to retrieve and remove clots efficiently from the middle cerebral artery when the MERCI system failed, thereby offering a new alternative in the treatment of acute ischemic stroke.
Expression of cyclins D1 (cD1) and D2 (cD2) in ventricular zone and subventricular zone (SVZ), respectively, suggests that a switch to cD2 could be a requisite step in the generation of cortical intermediate progenitor cells (IPCs). However, direct evidence is lacking. Here, cD1 or cD2 was seen to colabel subsets of Pax6-expressing radial glial cells (RGCs), whereas only cD2 colabeled with Tbr2. Loss of IPCs in cD2(-/-) embryonic cortex and analysis of expression patterns in mutant embryos lacking cD2 or Tbr2 indicate that cD2 is used as progenitors transition from RGCs to IPCs and is important for the expansion of the IPC pool. This was further supported by the laminar thinning, microcephaly, and selective reduction in the cortical SVZ population in the cD2(-/-)cortex. Cell cycle dynamics between embryonic day 14-16 in knock-out lines showed preserved parameters in cD1 mutants that induced cD2 expression, but absence of cD2 was not compensated by cD1. Loss of cD2 was associated with reduced proliferation and enhanced cell cycle exit in embryonic cortical progenitors, indicating a crucial role of cD2 for the support of cortical IPC divisions. In addition, knock-out of cD2, but not cD1, affected both G(1)-phase and also S-phase duration, implicating the importance of these phases for division cycles that expand the progenitor pool. That cD2 was the predominant D-cyclin expressed in the human SVZ at 19-20 weeks gestation indicated the evolutionary importance of cD2 in larger mammals for whom expansive intermediate progenitor divisions are thought to enable generation of larger, convoluted, cerebral cortices.
Activity-dependent long-term synaptic plasticity requires gene expression and protein synthesis. Identifying essential genes and studying their transcriptional and translational regulation are key steps to understanding how synaptic changes become long lasting. Recently, the enzyme poly-(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP-1) was shown to be necessary for long-term memory (LTM) in Aplysia. Since PARP-1 decondenses chromatin, we hypothesize that this enzyme regulates the expression of specific genes essential for long-term synaptic plasticity that underlies LTM. We cloned Aplysia PARP-1 (ApPARP-1) and determined that its expression in sensory neurons is necessary for serotonin (5-HT)-mediated long-term facilitation (LTF) of sensorimotor neuron synapses. PARP enzymatic activity is also required, since transient application of PARP inhibitors blocked LTF. Differential display and RNA analysis of ganglia dissected from intact animals exposed to 5-HT identified the ribosomal RNA genes as PARP-dependent effector genes. The increase in the expression of rRNAs is long lasting and dynamic. Pulse-labeling RNA studies showed a PARP-dependent increase in rRNAs but not in the total RNA 24 h after 5-HT treatment. Moreover, the expression of both the AprpL27a (Aplysia ribosomal protein L27a) and the ApE2N (Aplysia ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2N) mRNAs also increased after 5-HT. Thus, our results suggest that 5-HT, in part by regulating PARP-1 activity, alters the expression of transcripts required for the synthesis of new ribosomes necessary for LTF.
TGFbeta1 regulates early cortical development by moving young neurons from the proliferative population and promoting their migration. Altered TGFbeta1-regulated signaling can lead to abnormal development underlying microencephaly and migratory defects as in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, dyslexia, and fetal alcohol spectrum disorder. The present study tested the hypotheses that TGFbeta1 signals through cross-talking Smad2/3 and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) pathways and that ethanol simulates these TGFbeta1-initiated signals. Slices generated from the telencephalons of 17-d-old rat fetuses were treated with TGFbeta1 (0 or 10 ng/ml), ethanol (0, 200, 400, or 800 mg/dl), and/or a pharmacological agent [to block phosphorylation of Smad2/3 (SB431542 or LY364947) or ERK1/2 (PD98059 or U0126)]. In some experiments, the proliferative compartment (the ventricular and subventricular zones; S/VZ) and the postproliferative compartment (intermediate zone/cortical plate/marginal zone) were examined separately. Smad2/3 phosphorylation increased following treatment with TGFbeta1, ethanol, and PD98059 (or U0126) plus ethanol. In contrast, SB431542 (and LY364947) blocked Smad2/3 activation and led to the phosphorylation of ERK1/2. These changes revealed cross talk between the two TGFbeta1-responsive pathways. TGFbeta1-induced effects were primarily in the S/VZ, whereas ethanol induced activation in both compartments. In summary, TGFbeta1 activates two separate pathways (Smad2/3 and ERK1/2) that actively interact. Ethanol simulates TGFbeta1-induced changes in these signaling systems. Each pathway is preferentially activated during specific developmental events: the Smad2/3 pathway is key for cells exiting from the cycling population and the ERK1/2 pathway is particularly inducible during neuronal migration.
Planning goal-directed movements requires the combination of visuospatial with abstract contextual information. Our sensory environment constrains possible movements to a certain extent. However, contextual information guides proper choice of action in a given situation and allows flexible mapping of sensory instruction cues onto different motor actions. We used anti-reach tasks to test the hypothesis that spatial motor-goal representations in cortical sensorimotor areas are gain modulated by the behavioral context to achieve flexible remapping of spatial cue information onto arbitrary motor goals. We found that gain modulation of neuronal reach goal representations is commonly induced by the behavioral context in individual neurons of both, the parietal reach region (PRR) and the dorsal premotor cortex (PMd). In addition, PRR showed stronger directional selectivity during the planning of a reach toward a directly cued goal (pro-reach) compared with an inferred target (anti-reach). PMd, however, showed stronger overall activity during reaches toward inferred targets compared with directly cued targets. Based on our experimental evidence, we suggest that gain modulation is the computational mechanism underlying the integration of spatial and contextual information for flexible, rule-driven stimulus-response mapping, and thereby forms an important basis of goal-directed behavior. Complementary contextual effects in PRR versus PMd are consistent with the idea that posterior parietal cortex preferentially represents sensory-driven, &quot;automatic&quot; motor goals, whereas frontal sensorimotor areas are stronger engaged in the representation of rule-based, &quot;inferred&quot; motor goals.
Presenilin mutations result in exaggerated endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium release in cellular and animal models of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, we examined whether dysregulated ER calcium release in young 3xTg-AD neurons alters synaptic transmission and plasticity mechanisms before the onset of histopathology and cognitive deficits. Using electrophysiological recordings and two-photon calcium imaging in young (6-8 weeks old) 3xTg-AD and non-transgenic (NonTg) hippocampal slices, we show a marked increase in ryanodine receptor (RyR)-evoked calcium release within synapse-dense regions of CA1 pyramidal neurons. In addition, we uncovered a deviant contribution of presynaptic and postsynaptic ryanodine receptor-sensitive calcium stores to synaptic transmission and plasticity in 3xTg-AD mice that is not present in NonTg mice. As a possible underlying mechanism, the RyR2 isoform was found to be selectively increased more than fivefold in the hippocampus of 3xTg-AD mice relative to the NonTg controls. These novel findings demonstrate that 3xTg-AD CA1 neurons at presymptomatic ages operate under an aberrant, yet seemingly functional, calcium signaling and synaptic transmission system long before AD histopathology onset. These early signaling alterations may underlie the later synaptic breakdown and cognitive deficits characteristic of later stage AD.
Thyroid hormone transport into cells requires plasma membrane transport proteins. Mutations in one of these, monocarboxylate transporter 8 (MCT8), have been identified as underlying cause for the Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome, an X-linked mental retardation in which the patients also present with abnormally high 3',3,5-triiodothyronine (T(3)) plasma levels. Mice deficient in Mct8 replicate the thyroid hormone abnormalities observed in the human condition. However, no neurological deficits have been described in mice lacking Mct8. Therefore, we subjected Mct8-deficient mice to a comprehensive immunohistochemical, neurological, and behavioral screen. Several behavioral abnormalities were found in the mutants. Interestingly, some of these behavioral changes are compatible with hypothyroidism, whereas others rather indicate hyperthyroidism. We thus hypothesized that neurons exclusively dependent on Mct8 are in a hypothyroid state, whereas neurons expressing other T(3) transporters become hyperthyroid, if they are exposed directly to the high plasma T(3). The majority of T(3) uptake in primary cortical neurons is mediated by Mct8, but pharmacological inhibition suggested functional expression of additional T(3) transporter classes. mRNAs encoding six T(3) transporters, including L-type amino acid transporters (LATs), were coexpressed with Mct8 in isolated neurons. We then demonstrated Lat2 expression in cultured neurons and throughout murine brain development. In contrast, LAT2 is expressed in microglia in the developing human brain during gestation, but not in neurons. We suggest that lack of functional complementation by alternative thyroid hormone transporters in developing human neurons precipitates the devastating neurodevelopmental phenotype in MCT8-deficient patients, whereas Mct8-deficient mouse neurons are functionally complemented by other transporters, for possibly Lat2.
Mitochondria in the cell bodies of neurons are transported down neuronal processes in response to changes in local energy and metabolic states. Because of their extreme polarity, neurons require specialized mechanisms to regulate mitochondrial transport and retention in axons. Our previous studies using syntaphilin (snph) knock-out mice provided evidence that SNPH targets to axonal mitochondria and controls their mobility through its static interaction with microtubules (MTs). However, the mechanisms regulating SNPH-mediated mitochondrial docking remain elusive. Here, we report an unexpected role for dynein light chain LC8. Using proteomic biochemical and cell biological assays combined with time-lapse imaging in live snph wild-type and mutant neurons, we reveal that LC8 regulates axonal mitochondrial mobility by binding to SNPH, thus enhancing the SNPH-MT docking interaction. Using mutagenesis assays, we mapped a seven-residue LC8-binding motif. Through this specific interaction, SNPH recruits LC8 to axonal mitochondria; such colocalization is abolished when neurons express SNPH mutants lacking the LC8-binding motif. Transient LC8 expression reduces mitochondrial mobility in snph (+/+) but not (-/-) neurons, suggesting that the observed effect of LC8 depends on the SNPH-mediated docking mechanism. In contrast, deleting the LC8-binding motif impairs the ability of SNPH to immobilize axonal mitochondria. Furthermore, circular dichroism spectrum analysis shows that LC8 stabilizes an alpha-helical coiled-coil within the MT-binding domain of SNPH against thermal unfolding. Thus, our study provides new mechanistic insights into controlling mitochondrial mobility through a dynamic interaction between the mitochondrial docking receptor and axonal cytoskeleton.

Modern cognitive neuroscience often thinks at the interface between anatomy and function, hypothesizing that one structure is important for a task while another is not. A flexible and sensitive way to test such hypotheses is to evaluate the pattern of activity in the specific structures using multivariate classification techniques. These methods consider the activation patterns across groups of voxels, and so are consistent with current theories of how information is encoded in the brain: that the pattern of activity in brain areas is more important than the activity of single neurons or voxels. Classification techniques can identify many types of activation patterns, and patterns unique to each subject or shared across subjects. This paper is an introduction to applying classification methods to functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data, particularly for region of interest (ROI) based hypotheses. The first section describes the main steps required for such analyses while the second illustrates these steps using a simple example.
Layer 6b in neocortex is a distinct sublamina at the ventral portion of layer 6. Corticothalamic projections arise from 6b neurons, but few studies have examined the functional properties of these cells. In the present study we examined the actions of cholecystokinin (CCK) on layer 6b neocortical neurons using whole-cell patch clamp recording techniques. We found that the general CCK receptor agonist CCK8S (sulfated CCK octapeptide) strongly depolarized the neurons, and this action persisted in the presence of tetrodotoxin, suggesting a postsynaptic site of action. The excitatory actions of CCK8S were mimicked by the selective CCK(B) receptor agonist CCK4, and attenuated by the selective CCK(B) receptor antagonist L365260, indicating a role for CCK(B) receptors. Voltage-clamp recordings revealed that CCK8S produced a slow inward current associated with a decreased conductance with a reversal potential near the K(+) equilibrium potential. In addition, intracellular cesium also blocked the inward current, suggesting the involvement of a K(+) conductance, likely K(leak). Our data indicate that CCK, acting via CCK(B) receptors, produces a long-lasting excitation of layer 6b neocortical neurons, and this action may play a critical role in modulation of corticothalamic circuit activity.
Several variations of microelectrode arrays are used to record and stimulate intracortical neuronal activity. Bypassing the immune response to maintain a stable recording interface remains a challenge. Companies and researchers are continuously altering the material compositions and geometries of the arrays in order to discover a combination that allows for a chronic and stable electrode-tissue interface. From this interface, they wish to obtain consistent quality recordings and a stable, low impedance pathway for charge injection over extended periods of time. Despite numerous efforts, no microelectrode array design has managed to evade the host immune response and remain fully functional. This study is an initial effort comparing several microelectrode arrays with fundamentally different configurations for use in an implantable epilepsy prosthesis. Specifically, NeuroNexus (Michigan) probes, Cyberkinetics (Utah) Silicon and Iridium Oxide arrays, ceramic-based thin-film microelectrode arrays (Drexel), and Tucker-Davis Technologies (TDT) microwire arrays are evaluated over a 31-day period in an animal model. Microelectrodes are compared in implanted rats through impedance, charge capacity, signal-to-noise ratio, recording stability, and elicited immune response. Results suggest significant variability within and between microelectrode types with no clear superior array. Some applications for the microelectrode arrays are suggested based on data collected throughout the longitudinal study. Additionally, specific limitations of assaying biological phenomena and comparing fundamentally different microelectrode arrays in a highly variable system are discussed with suggestions on how to improve the reliability of observed results and steps needed to develop a more standardized microelectrode design.
An explosion of functional Near Infrared Spectroscopy (fNIRS) studies investigating cortical activation in relation to higher cognitive processes, such as language, memory, and attention is underway worldwide involving adults, children and infants with typical and atypical cognition. The contemporary challenge of using fNIRS for cognitive neuroscience is to achieve systematic analyses of data such that they are universally interpretable, and thus may advance important scientific questions about the functional organization and neural systems underlying human higher cognition. Existing neuroimaging technologies have either less robust temporal or spatial resolution. Event Related Potentials and Magneto Encephalography (ERP and MEG) have excellent temporal resolution, whereas Positron Emission Tomography and functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (PET and fMRI) have better spatial resolution. Using non-ionizing wavelengths of light in the near-infrared range (700-1000 nm), where oxy-hemoglobin is preferentially absorbed by 680 nm and deoxy-hemoglobin is preferentially absorbed by 830 nm (e.g., indeed, the very wavelengths hardwired into the fNIRS Hitachi ETG-400 system illustrated here), fNIRS is well suited for studies of higher cognition because it has both good temporal resolution (approximately 5s) without the use of radiation and good spatial resolution (approximately 4 cm depth), and does not require participants to be in an enclosed structure. Participants cortical activity can be assessed while comfortably seated in an ordinary chair (adults, children) or even seated in mom s lap (infants). Notably, NIRS is uniquely portable (the size of a desktop computer), virtually silent, and can tolerate a participants subtle movement. This is particularly outstanding for the neural study of human language, which necessarily has as one of its key components the movement of the mouth in speech production or the hands in sign language. The way in which the hemodynamic response is localized is by an array of laser emitters and detectors. Emitters emit a known intensity of non-ionizing light while detectors detect the amount reflected back from the cortical surface. The closer together the optodes, the greater the spatial resolution, whereas the further apart the optodes, the greater depth of penetration. For the fNIRS Hitachi ETG-4000 system optimal penetration / resolution the optode array is set to 2cm. Our goal is to demonstrate our method of acquiring and analyzing fNIRS data to help standardize the field and enable different fNIRS labs worldwide to have a common background.
GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs), the principal sites of synaptic inhibition in the brain, are dynamic entities on the neuronal cell surface, but the role their membrane trafficking plays in shaping neuronal activity remains obscure. Here, we examined this by using mutant receptor beta3 subunits (beta3S408/9A), which have reduced binding to the clathrin adaptor protein-2, a critical regulator of GABA(A)R endocytosis. Neurons expressing beta3S408/9A subunits exhibited increases in the number and size of inhibitory synapses, together with enhanced inhibitory synaptic transmission due to reduced GABA(A)R endocytosis. Furthermore, neurons expressing beta3S408/9A subunits had deficits in the number of mature spines and reduced accumulation of postsynaptic density protein-95 at excitatory synapses. This deficit in spine maturity was reversed by pharmacological blockade of GABA(A)Rs. Therefore, regulating the efficacy of synaptic inhibition by modulating GABA(A)R membrane trafficking may play a critical role in regulating spine maturity with significant implications for synaptic plasticity together with behavior.
The activity of many ligand-gated ion channels and cell surface receptors is modulated by small molecules and ions, but an understanding of the underlying molecular mechanisms is scarce. For kainate, but not AMPA subtype glutamate receptors, the binding of Na(+) and Cl(-) ions to discrete, electrostatically coupled sites in the extracellular ligand binding domain (LBD) dimer assembly regulates the rate of entry into the desensitized state, which occurs when the dimer interface ruptures and the channel closes. Studies on glutamate receptors have defined the LBD dimer assembly as a key functional unit that controls activation and desensitization. Here we use analytical ultracentrifugation to probe the energetic effects of allosteric ions on kainate receptor dimer stability in solution, using a GluR6 mutant that desensitizes slowly. Our results show that sodium and chloride ions modulate kainate receptor dimer affinity as much as 50-fold, and that removal of either Cl(-) or Na(+) disrupts the dimer. The applicability of a similar allosteric mechanism for modulation of delta2 glutamate receptors by Ca(2+) was also tested. Our results indicate that ions can contribute substantial free energy to active state stabilization in both these receptors, and provide quantitative measurements of the energetic consequences of allosteric ion binding to a ligand-gated ion channel.
Diffuse infiltration of glioma cells into normal brain tissue is considered to be a main reason for the unfavorable outcomes of patients with malignant gliomas. Invasion of glioma cells into the brain parenchyma is facilitated by metalloprotease-mediated degradation of the extracellular matrix. Metalloproteases are released as inactive pro-forms and get activated upon cleavage by membrane bound metalloproteases. Here, we show that membrane type 1 metalloprotease (MT1-MMP) is up-regulated in glioma-associated microglia, but not in the glioma cells. Overexpression of MT1-MMP is even lethal for glioma cells. Glioma-released factors trigger the expression and activity of MT1-MMP via microglial toll-like receptors and the p38 MAPK pathway, as deletion of the toll-like receptor adapter protein MyD88 or p38 inhibition prevented MT1-MMP expression and activity in cultured microglial cells. Microglial MT1-MMP in turn activates glioma-derived pro-MMP-2 and promotes glioma expansion, as shown in an ex vivo model using MT1-MMP-deficient brain tissue and a microglia depletion paradigm. Finally, MyD88 deficiency or microglia depletion largely attenuated glioma expansion in 2 independent in vivo models.
Nanometer-scale intermembrane contact areas (CAs) formed between single small unilamellar lipid vesicles (SUVs) and planar supported lipid bilayers are quantified by measuring fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) between a homogenous layer of donor fluorophores labeling the supported bilayer and acceptor fluorophores labeling the SUVs. The smallest CAs detected in our setup between biotinylated SUVs and dense monolayers of streptavidin were approximately 20 nm in radius. Deformation of SUVs is revealed by comparing the quenching of the donors to calculations of FRET between a perfectly spherical shell and a flat surface containing complementary fluorophores. These results confirmed the theoretical prediction that the degree of deformation scales with the SUV diameter. The size of the CA can be controlled experimentally by conjugating polyethylene glycol polymers to the SUV or the surface and thereby modulating the interfacial energy of adhesion. In this manner, we could achieve secure immobilization of SUVs under conditions of minimal deformation. Finally, we demonstrate that kinetic measurements of CA, at constant adhesion, can be used to record in real-time quantitative changes in the bilayer tension of a nano-scale lipid membrane system.
It generally is assumed that a common neural substrate mediates both the palatability and the reward value of nutritive events. However, recent evidence suggests this assumption may not be true. Whereas opioid circuitry in both the nucleus accumbens and ventral pallidum has been reported to mediate taste-reactivity responses to palatable events, the assignment of reward or inventive value to goal-directed actions has been found to involve the basolateral amygdala. Here we found that, in rats, the neural processes mediating palatability and incentive value are indeed dissociable. Naloxone infused into either the ventral pallidum or nucleus accumbens shell blocked the increase in sucrose palatability induced by an increase in food deprivation without affecting the performance of sucrose-related actions. Conversely, naloxone infused into the basolateral amygdala blocked food deprivation-induced changes in sucrose-related actions without affecting sucrose palatability. This double dissociation of opioid-mediated changes in palatability and incentive value suggests that the role of endogenous opioids in reward processing does not depend on a single neural circuit. Rather, changes in palatability and in the incentive value assigned to rewarding events seem to be mediated by distinct neural processes.
Because ionotropic glutamate receptors play critical roles in numerous CNS functions, there has been considerable interest in understanding molecular mechanisms regulating their properties. In particular, the search for ligands and corresponding binding sites providing allosteric regulation of agonist binding and channel opening and closing has been intensely pursued in the hope of developing new approaches for the treatment of a variety of CNS diseases associated with abnormal functioning of glutamatergic systems. Several recent publications have reported detailed structures of the N-terminal domains of NMDA and AMPA receptors and have generated interesting predictions regarding the possibility of finding new ways to control glutamate receptor function. Together with the recently reported control of the receptors by transmembrane proteins, there is now a whole set of potential regulators of these important families of receptors.
Immunohistochemistry (IHC) is one of the most widely used laboratory techniques for the detection of target proteins in situ. Questions concerning the expression pattern of a target protein across the entire brain are relatively easy to answer when using IHC in small brains, such as those of rodents. However, answering the same questions in large and convoluted brains, such as those of primates presents a number of challenges. Here we present a systematic approach for immunodetection of target proteins in an adult monkey brain. This approach relies on the tissue embedding and sectioning methodology of NeuroScience Associates (NSA) as well as tools developed specifically for batch-staining of free-floating sections. It results in uniform staining of a set of sections which, at a particular interval, represents the entire brain. The resulting stained sections can be subjected to a wide variety of analytical procedures in order to measure protein levels, the population of neurons expressing a certain protein.
Local CNS inflammation takes place in many neurological disorders and is important for autoimmune neuroinflammation. Microglial activation is strain-dependent in rats and differential MHC class II expression is influenced by variations in the Mhc2ta gene. Despite sharing Mhc2ta and MHC class II alleles, BN and LEW.1N rats differ in MHC class II expression after ventral root avulsion (VRA). We studied MHC class II expression and glial activation markers in BN rats after VRA. Our results demonstrate that MHC class II expression originates from a subpopulation of IBA1(+), ED1(-), and ED2(-) microglia. We subsequently performed a genome-wide linkage scan in an F2(BNxLEW.1N) population, to investigate gene regions regulating this inflammatory response. Alongside MHC class II, we studied the expression of MHC class I, co-stimulatory molecules, complement components, microglial markers and Il1b. MHC class II and other transcripts were commonly regulated by gene regions on chromosomes 1 and 7. Furthermore, a common region on chromosome 10 regulated expression of complement and co-stimulatory molecules, while a region on chromosome 11 regulated MHC class I. We also detected epistatic interactions in the regulation of the inflammatory process. These results reveal the complex regulation of CNS inflammation by several gene regions, which may have relevance for disease.
Brief maternal separations of neonatal animals can exert long-lasting effects on the reactivity of the neuroendocrine system. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether manipulations of the mother-infant interaction could affect susceptibility to immune-mediated diseases, such experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), and whether this effect would be mediated by changes in leptin which has been shown to regulate disease susceptibility and severity at adulthood. Given the different gender susceptibility to EAE previously described, we tested also whether early experiences could differentially affect the two genders. To this purpose, female and male C56BL/6 mice were subjected to handling (15 min daily) postnatally, from day 2 until day 14. All subjects were weaned at 21 days. At 7 weeks of age mice were immunized with MOG(35-55) to actively induce EAE. We thus determined the effect of neonatal handling on plasma concentrations of testosterone in male mice and leptin in both genders at different times post EAE induction. Our results show that early experiences influence susceptibility to EAE in a gender-specific manner, early manipulations resulting in an enhancement of sex-related differences in susceptibility. These effects were associated with changes in the testosterone profile of male subjects. Changes in leptin levels during the preclinical stage of EAE may predict a more severe disease course.
Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II is of critical importance for the induction of immune responses. Levels of MHC class II in the nervous system are normally low, but expression is up-regulated in many disease conditions. In rat and human, variation in the MHC class II transactivator gene (C2ta) is associated with differential expression of MHC class II and susceptibility to autoimmune disease. Here we have characterized the response to facial nerve transection in 7 inbred mouse strains (C57BL/6J, DBA/2J, 129X1/SvJ, BALB/cJ, SJL/J, CBA/J, and NOD). The results demonstrate differences in expression of C2ta and markers for MHC class I and II expression, glial activation, and T cell infiltration. Expression levels of C2ta and Cd74 followed similar patterns, in contrast to MHC class I and markers of glial activation. The regulatory region of the C2ta gene was subsequently sequenced in the four strains (C57BL/6/J, DBA/2J, SJL/J and 129X1/SvJ) that represented the phenotypical extremes with regard to C2ta/Cd74 expression. We found 3 single nucleotide polymorphisms in the type I (pI) and type III (pIII) promoters of C2ta, respectively. Higher expression of pI in 129X1/SvJ correlated with the pI haplotype specific for this strain. Furthermore, congenic strains carrying the 129X1/SvJ C2ta allele on B6 background displayed significantly higher C2ta and Cd74 expression compared to parental controls. We conclude that genetic polymorphisms in the type I promoter of C2ta regulates differential expression of MHC class II, but not MHC class I, Cd3 and other markers of glial activation.
In a preterm hypoxia-ischemia model in the post-natal day 3 rat, we characterized how the expression of purine ionotropic P2X(4) receptors change in the brain post-insult. After hypoxia-ischemia, P2X(4) receptor expression increased significantly and was associated with a late increase in ionised calcium binding adapter molecule-1 protein expression indicative of microglia cell activation. Minocycline, a potent inhibitor of microglia, attenuated the hypoxia-ischemia-induced increase in P2X(4) receptor expression. We postulate that P2X(4) receptor-positive microglia may represent a population of secondary injury-induced activated microglia. Future studies will determine whether this population contributes to the progression of injury in the immature brain.
Interferon-beta (IFNbeta) is an extra-cellular protein mediator of host defense and homeostasis. IFNbeta has well-established direct antiviral, antiproliferative and immunomodulatory properties. Recombinant IFNbeta is approved for the treatment of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. The immunomodulatory effects of IFNbeta administration failed to demonstrate consistent benefit during treatment of various autoimmune neuromuscular diseases. Existing studies were flawed due to the often uncontrolled and unblinded nature of protocols, small patient numbers per study, the undetermined optimum dose and schedule of IFNbeta therapy, and the relatively brief periods of IFNbeta administration and clinical follow-up for mostly chronic inflammatory disorders. Additional, controlled, prospective studies are needed to definitely establish the full potential of this cytokine for this group of diseases. IFNbeta therapy may trigger autoantibody production, but only rarely clinically overt autoimmune disease. Anecdotal reports hint at the exceptional association between IFNbeta treatment and the induction or exacerbation of a variety of immune-mediated neuromuscular diseases, likely in genetically predisposed individuals. Thus, recombinant IFNbeta has the theoretical potential to either treat or cause autoimmune neuromuscular disorders by altering the complicated and delicate balances within the immune system networks.
The overproduction and extracellular buildup of amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) is a critical step in the etiology of Alzheimer's disease. Recent data suggest that intracellular trafficking is of central importance in the production of Abeta. Here we use a neuronal cell line to examine two structurally similar clathrin assembly proteins, AP180 and CALM. We show that RNA interference-mediated knockdown of AP180 reduces the generation of Abeta1-40 and Abeta1-42, whereas CALM knockdown has no effect on Abeta generation. Thus AP180 is among the traffic controllers that oversee and regulate amyloid precursor protein processing pathways. Our results also suggest that AP180 and CALM, while similar in their domain structures and biochemical properties, are in fact dedicated to separate trafficking pathways in neurons.

Emotion perception deficits have been well documented in schizophrenia. However, very little is known about decoding of emotion cues in daily communication in this clinical group. The aim of the current study is to examine whether patients with schizophrenia experience difficulties in decoding other people's emotional cues, such as prosody, in daily conversations. Eighteen patients with schizophrenia and nineteen matched controls were administrated an emotion and intention identification task in a series of conversations with a prosody manipulation and a questionnaire that specifically captured subjective experiences of pleasure. Compared with the healthy controls, the patients with schizophrenia exhibited a chance-level performance in emotion identification in the presence of negative prosody. These findings suggest that patients with schizophrenia have a specific deficit in recognizing negative emotion in conversation.
The family of calcium-activated slow-potassium (SK) channels comprises 3 members, the SK1, SK2 and SK3 channels, all expressed in neurons, known to mediate the slow-afterhyperpolarization occurring after action potentials. In rats, the SK2 and SK3 channels are expressed in the ascending monoaminergic systems, in particular in the serotonin (5-HT) neurons of the raphe dorsalis nucleus (RDN). In mammals the amygdala, a limbic structure involved in the control of emotion and mood, receives 5-HT-containing projections originating in the RDN. The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of SK channels in mediating the release of 5-HT in the amygdala. Apamin, a polypeptiditic compound with SK2-SK3 channel selectivity, was used to block the channels. A dual probing methodology with Nafion coated carbon-fiber micro-electrode (Nafion-mCFE) was implemented to measure concomitantly the extracellular levels of 5-HT in the amygdala and the firing rate of 5-HT neurons in the RDN of anesthetized rats. Subcutaneous administration of apamin increased both the extracellular 5-HT levels in the amygdala and the firing rate of RDN neurons at doses as low as 12.5 microg. The recorded RDN neurons were of 5-HT phenotype, according to electrophysiologic signature and to the effects observed with peripheral administration of 8-hydroxy-2-(d-n-propyl-amino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) a 5-HT(1A) agonist known to selectively reduce the firing of 5-HT neurons in RDN. Increases of extracellular 5-HT levels in the amygdala were also seen when apamin was microinjected into the RDN, suggesting a role for 5-HT neurons of the RDN as target for subcutaneously administered apamin. The confirmation of the involvement of 5-HT neurons projecting from RDN to the amygdala in mediating the effects of apamin was obtained by micro-infusion of tetradotoxine into the bundle of 5-HT ascending fibers located in the region of the posterior amygdala. Attenuation of 5-HT release in the amygdala was observed in presence of increased firing of 5-HT neurons of the RDN. In conclusion, the dual CFE micro-sensor probing approach was used to show that apamin increases 5-HT release in the amygdala by increasing the firing rate of 5-HT neurons in RDN.
An issue of increasing theoretical interest in the study of learning is to compare the processes that follow an initial learning experience (such as learning an association between a context and a shock; memory consolidation processes) with those that follow retrieval of that learning experience (such as exposure to the context in the absence of shock; memory reconsolidation and extinction processes). Much of what is known about these processes comes from separate experiments examining one process or the other; there have been few attempts to compare these processes directly in a single experiment. A challenge in between-experiment comparisons of consolidation and reconsolidation deficits is that they frequently involve comparisons between groups that are not matched on factors that may influence the size and persistence of these deficits (e.g., prior learning experience, memory expression prior to deficit). The following experiments examined the size and persistence of these deficits after matching both the amount of experience with a context and the levels of performance in that context prior to delivery of the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin. We found that systemic or intrahippocampal administration of anisomycin caused a deficit in groups receiving context conditioning (consolidation groups) or reactivation (reconsolidation groups) immediately prior to the injections. With systemic injections, the deficit was larger and more persistent in consolidation groups; with intrahippocampal injections, the initial deficit was statistically identical, yet was more persistent in the consolidation group. These experiments showed that when experiences and performance are matched prior to anisomycin injections, consolidation deficits are generally larger and more persistent compared to reconsolidation deficits.
Compared with age-matched male mice, female mice experience a more severe age-related cognitive decline (ACD). Since androgens are less abundant in aged female mice compared with aged male mice, androgen supplementation may enhance cognition in aged female mice. To test this, we assessed behavioral performance on a variety of tasks in 22- to 24-mo-old gonadally intact female mice treated for 6 wk with silastic capsules containing either testosterone (T) or dihydrotestosterone (DHT) or empty capsules (placebo). Compared with placebo-treated mice, spatial memory retention in the water maze was enhanced by testosterone treatment, but not DHT treatment. In contrast, DHT treatment improved passive avoidance (PA) retention, while T treatment only did so marginally. These data support that androgen supplementation in old female mice improves cognitive performance differentially depending upon the type of hormone treatment and cognitive task.


Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling activation by pathogens is critical to the induction of immune responses, and demands tight regulation. We describe in this study that CC chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2) secretion triggered by TLR4 or TLR8 engagement is strongly inhibited upon simultaneous activation of both TLRs in human monocyte-derived dendritic cells (DCs). Impaired CCL2 secretion occurs concomitantly to interleukin-12 up-regulation, being part of a complex regulatory circuit ensuring optimal T helper type 1 polarization. Interestingly, triggering selected TLRs or their combinations differently affects nuclear factor-kappaB p65 activation and microRNA expression. Overall, these results indicate that CCL2 supplies an important immunomodulatory role to DCs, and may contribute to dictate the cytokine profile in T helper type 1 responses induced by DCs.
A series of 5-(pyridine-3-yl)octahydropyrrolo[3,4-c]pyrroles have been prepared that exhibit high affinity to alpha4beta2 and/or alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). Simple substitution patterns have been identified that allow construction of ligands that are highly selective for either nAChR subtype. The effects of substitution on subtype selectivity provide some insight into the differences in the ligand binding domains of the alpha4beta2 and alpha7 receptors, especially in regions removed from the cation binding pocket.
Epigenetic inactivation of tumor suppressor genes is a common feature in human cancer. Promoter hypermethylation and histone deacetylation are reversible epigenetic mechanisms associated with transcriptional regulation. DNA methyltransferases (DNMT1 and DNMT3b) regulate and maintain promoter methylation and are overexpressed in human cancer. We performed whole-genome microarray analysis to identify genes with altered expression after RNAi-induced suppression of DNMT in a glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) cell line. We then identified genes with both decreased expression and evidence of promoter CpG island hypermethylation in GBM tissue samples using a combined whole-genome microarray transcriptome analysis in conjunction with a promoter array analysis after DNA immunoprecipitation with anti-5-methylcytidine. DNMT1 and 3b knockdown resulted in the restored expression of 308 genes that also contained promoter region hypermethylation. Of these, 43 were also found to be downregulated in GBM tissue samples. Three downregulated genes with hypermethylated promoters and restored expression in response to acute DNMT suppression were assayed for methylation changes using bisulfite sequence analysis of the promoter region after chronic DNMT suppression. Restoration of gene expression was not associated with changes in promoter region methylation, but rather with changes in histone methylation and chromatin conformation. Two of the identified genes exhibited growth suppressive activity in in vitro assays. Combining targeted genetic manipulations with comprehensive genomic and expression analyses provides a potentially powerful new approach for identifying epigenetically regulated genes in GBM.

As recent advances in calcium sensing technologies facilitate simultaneously imaging action potentials in neuronal populations, complementary analytical tools must also be developed to maximize the utility of this experimental paradigm. Although the observations here are fluorescence movies, the signals of interest--spike trains and/or time varying intracellular calcium concentrations--are hidden. Inferring these hidden signals is often problematic due to noise, nonlinearities, slow imaging rate, and unknown biophysical parameters. We overcome these difficulties by developing sequential Monte Carlo methods (particle filters) based on biophysical models of spiking, calcium dynamics, and fluorescence. We show that even in simple cases, the particle filters outperform the optimal linear (i.e., Wiener) filter, both by obtaining better estimates and by providing error bars. We then relax a number of our model assumptions to incorporate nonlinear saturation of the fluorescence signal, as well external stimulus and spike history dependence (e.g., refractoriness) of the spike trains. Using both simulations and in vitro fluorescence observations, we demonstrate temporal superresolution by inferring when within a frame each spike occurs. Furthermore, the model parameters may be estimated using expectation maximization with only a very limited amount of data (e.g., approximately 5-10 s or 5-40 spikes), without the requirement of any simultaneous electrophysiology or imaging experiments.

A number of recent studies have debated the existence and nature of clocks outside the suprachiasmatic nucleus that may underlie circadian rhythms in conditions of food entrainment or methamphetamine administration. These papers claim that either the canonical clock genes, or the circuitry in the dorsomedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, may not be necessary for these forms of entrainment. In this paper, we review the evidence necessary to make these claims. In particular, we point out that it is necessary to remove classical conditioning stimuli and interval timer (homeostatic) effects to insure that the remaining entrainment is due to a circadian oscillator. None of these studies appears to meet these criteria for demonstrating circadian entrainment under these conditions. Our own studies, which were discussed in detail by a recent Review in these pages by Mistlberger and colleagues, came to an opposite conclusion. However, our studies were designed to meet these criteria, and we believe that these methodological differences explain why we find that canonical clock gene Bmal1 and the integrity of the dorsomedial nucleus are both required to produce true circadian entrainment under conditions of restricted feeding.
Walking animals rely on working memory to avoid obstacles. One example is the stepping of the hindlegs of quadrupeds over an obstacle. In this case, the obstacle is not visible at the time of hindleg stepping, because of its position between the fore and hindlegs, and working memory must be used to avoid it. We have previously shown that this memory is very precise and surprisingly long-lasting and that it depends on the stepping of the forelegs over the obstacle for its initiation. In this study, we test the hypothesis that area 5 in the posterior parietal cortex of cats is necessary for the maintenance of this long-lasting working memory. We report that small bilateral lesions to area 5 do not affect the amplitude of normal stepping of the hindlegs over obstacles, but they profoundly reduce the long-lasting working memory of obstacles. We propose that inputs to area 5 associated with foreleg stepping initiate long-lasting activity that maintains the memory of obstacle height in another brain region to guide the hindlegs over obstacles.
Downregulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the cortex occurs early in the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Since BDNF plays a critical role in neuronal survival, synaptic plasticity, and memory, BDNF reduction may contribute to synaptic and cellular loss and memory deficits characteristic of AD. In vitro evidence suggests that amyloid-beta (A beta) contributes to BDNF downregulation in AD, but the specific A beta aggregation state responsible for this downregulation in vivo is unknown. In the present study, we examined cortical levels of BDNF mRNA in three different transgenic AD mouse models harboring mutations in APP resulting in A beta overproduction, and in a genetic mouse model of Down syndrome. Two of the three A beta transgenic strains (APP(NLh) and TgCRND8) exhibited significantly decreased cortical BDNF mRNA levels compared with wild-type mice, whereas neither the other strain (APP(swe)/PS-1) nor the Down syndrome mouse model (Ts65Dn) was affected. Only APP(NLh) and TgCRND8 mice expressed high A beta(42)/A beta(40) ratios and larger SDS-stable A beta oligomers (approximately 115 kDa). TgCRND8 mice exhibited downregulation of BDNF transcripts III and IV; transcript IV is also downregulated in AD. Furthermore, in all transgenic mouse strains, there was a correlation between levels of large oligomers, A beta(42)/A beta(40), and severity of BDNF decrease. These data show that the amount and species of A beta vary among transgenic mouse models of AD and are negatively correlated with BDNF levels. These findings also suggest that the effect of A beta on decreased BDNF expression is specific to the aggregation state of A beta and is dependent on large oligomers.
A network of thin (C and A delta) afferents relays various signals related to the physiological condition of the body, including sensations of gentle touch, pain, and temperature changes. Such afferents project to the insular cortex, where a somatotopic organization of responses to noxious and cooling stimuli was recently observed. To explore the possibility of a corresponding body-map topography in relation to gentle touch mediated through C tactile (CT) fibers, we applied soft brush stimuli to the right forearm and thigh of a patient (GL) lacking A beta afferents, and six healthy subjects during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). For improved fMRI analysis, we used a highly sensitive multivariate voxel clustering approach. A somatotopic organization of the left (contralateral) posterior insular cortex was consistently demonstrated in all subjects, including GL, with forearm projecting anterior to thigh stimulation. Also, despite denying any sense of touch in daily life, GL correctly localized 97% of the stimuli to the forearm or thigh in a forced-choice paradigm. The consistency in activation patterns across GL and the healthy subjects suggests that the identified organization reflects the central projection of CT fibers. Moreover, substantial similarities of the presently observed insular activation with that described for noxious and cooling stimuli solidify the hypothesized sensory-affective role of the CT system in the maintenance of physical well-being as part of a thin-afferent homeostatic network.
Bleeding head injury is associated with gastric stasis, a symptom of collapse of autonomic control of the gut described by Cushing around 1932. Recent work suggests that the proteinase thrombin, produced secondary to bleeding, may be the root cause. Results from our in vivo physiological studies show that fourth ventricular injection of PAR1 agonists, as well as thrombin itself, produced significant reductions in gastric transit in the awake rat. We expected that the PAR1 effect to inhibit gastric transit was the result of direct action on vagovagal reflex circuitry in the dorsal medulla. Surprisingly, our immunohistochemical studies demonstrated that PAR1 receptors are localized exclusively to the astrocytes and not the neurons in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NST; principal locus integrating visceral afferent input and part of the gastric vagovagal reflex control circuitry). Our in vitro calcium imaging studies of hindbrain slices revealed that PAR1 activation initially causes a dramatic increase in astrocytic calcium, followed seconds later by an increase in calcium signal in NST neurons. The neuronal effect, but not the astrocytic effect, of PAR1 activation was eliminated by glutamate receptor antagonism. TTX did not eliminate the effects of PAR1 activation on either glia or neurons. Thus, we propose that glia are the primary CNS sensors for PAR agonists and that the response of these glial cells drives the activity of adjacent (e.g., NST) neurons. These results show, for the first time, that changes in autonomic control can be directly signaled by glial detection of local chemical stimuli.
Discrimination of stimulus duration on the order of milliseconds has been observed in behavioral and neurophysiological studies across a variety of species and taxa. Several studies conducted in mammals have found neurons in the auditory midbrain (inferior colliculus) that are selective for signal duration. Duration selectivity in these cells arises from an interaction of excitatory and inhibitory events occurring at particular latencies from stimulus onset and offset. As previously shown in barn owls, coincidence of delayed, excitatory events can be used by the CNS to respond selectively to specific stimuli in auditory space. This study formulates several computational models of duration tuning that combine existing conceptual models with observed physiological responses in the auditory brainstem and midbrain to evaluate the plausibility of the proposed neural mechanisms. The computational models are able to reproduce a wide range of in vivo responses including best duration tuning, duration-selective response classes, spike counts, first-spike latencies, level tolerance to changes in signal amplitude, and neuropharmacological effects of applying inhibitory neurotransmitter antagonists to duration-tuned neurons. A unified model of duration tuning is proposed that enhances classic models of duration tuning, emphasizes similarities across the models, and simplifies our understanding of duration tuning across species and sensory modalities.
Paraplegin and AFG3L2 are ubiquitous nuclear-encoded mitochondrial proteins that form hetero-oligomeric paraplegin-AFG3L2 and homo-oligomeric AFG3L2 complexes in the inner mitochondrial membrane, named m-AAA proteases. These complexes ensure protein quality control in the inner membrane, jointly with a chaperone-like activity on the respiratory chain complexes. Despite coassembling in the same complex, mutations of either paraplegin or AFG3L2 cause two different neurodegenerative disorders. Indeed, mutations of paraplegin are responsible for a recessive form of hereditary spastic paraplegia, whereas mutations of AFG3L2 have been recently associated to a dominant form of spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA28). In this work, we report that the mouse model haploinsufficient for Afg3l2 recapitulates important pathophysiological features of the human disease, thus representing the first SCA28 model. Furthermore, we propose a pathogenetic mechanism in which respiratory chain dysfunction and increased reactive oxygen species production caused by Afg3l2 haploinsufficiency lead to dark degeneration of Purkinje cells and cerebellar dysfunction.
Relapse to cocaine-seeking behavior depends on increased glutamate transmission in key regions of the mesocorticolimbic motive circuit, including prefrontal cortex (PFC) and nucleus accumbens (NAcc). Because GLT1 is responsible for the uptake of &gt;or=90% of extracellular glutamate, we tested the hypothesis that increased GLT1 expression attenuates cocaine relapse. Rats were trained to self-administer cocaine (0.125 mg per intravenous infusion) in a lever-pressing task in a daily 2 h session for 10-14 d followed by 5 d of extinction training. Immediately after each extinction session, rats received ceftriaxone (intraperitoneally), a beta-lactam antibiotic believed to increase GLT1 expression, or vehicle. On the following day, presentation of the cue (light and tone) previously associated with cocaine self-administration reinstated lever pressing in rats treated with vehicle, whereas 100 or 200, but not 50 mg/kg ceftriaxone blocked this response. Immunoblotting confirmed that the ceftriaxone-induced blockade of cocaine relapse was associated with an increase in GLT1 expression in both PFC and NAcc. In separate groups of rats, 200 mg/kg ceftriaxone failed to block cue-induced food seeking, arguing against a ceftriaxone-induced effect unique to extinction training or lever pressing. Our results suggest that glutamate plays a key role in cue-induced relapse to cocaine-seeking behavior, implicating GLT1 as a potential therapeutic target for cocaine addiction.
A major goal in neuroscience is the development of optical reporters of membrane potential that are easy to use, have limited phototoxicity, and achieve the speed and sensitivity necessary for detection of individual action potentials in single neurons. Here we present a novel, two-component optical approach that attains these goals. By combining DiO, a fluorescent neuronal tracer dye, with dipicrylamine (DPA), a molecule whose membrane partitioning is voltage-sensitive, optical signals related to changes in membrane potential based on FRET (Frster resonance energy transfer) are reported. Using DiO/DPA in HEK-293 cells with diffraction-limited laser spot illumination, depolarization-induced fluorescence changes of 56% per 100 mV (tau approximately 0.1 ms) were obtained, while in neuronal cultures and brain slices, action potentials (APs) generated a Delta F/F per 100 mV of &gt;25%. The high sensitivity provided by DiO/DPA enabled the detection of subthreshold activity and high-frequency APs in single trials from somatic, axonal, or dendritic membrane compartments. Recognizing that DPA can depress excitability, we assayed the amplitude and duration of single APs, burst properties, and spontaneous firing in neurons of primary cultures and brain slices and found that they are undetectably altered by up to 2 microm DPA and only slightly perturbed by 5 microm DPA. These findings substantiate a simple, noninvasive method that relies on a neuronal tracer dye for monitoring electrical signal flow, and offers unique flexibility for the study of signaling within intact neuronal circuits.
Reticulon 3 (RTN3) was initially identified as a negative modulator of BACE1, an enzyme that cleaves amyloid precursor protein (APP) to release beta-amyloid peptide. Interestingly, RTN3 can also form aggregates after accumulation, and increased RTN3 aggregation correlates with the formation of RTN3 immunoreactive dystrophic neurites (RIDNs) in brains of Alzheimer's cases. Transgenic mice expressing RTN3 alone develop RIDNs in their hippocampus but not in their cortex. To determine the in vivo effects of RTN3 and preformed RIDNs on amyloid deposition, we crossed bitransgenic mice expressing APP and presenilin 1 (PS1) mutations with mice overexpressing RTN3. We found that amyloid deposition in cortex, the hippocampal CA3 region, and dentate gyrus was significantly reduced in triple transgenic mice compared with bitransgenic controls. However, reduction of amyloid deposition in the hippocampal CA1 region, where RIDNs predominantly formed before amyloid deposition, was less significant. Hence, preformed RTN3 aggregates in RIDNs clearly offset the negative modulation of BACE1 activity by RTN3. Furthermore, our study indicates that the increased expression of RTN3 could result in an alteration of BACE1 intracellular trafficking by retaining more BACE1 in the endoplasmic reticulum compartment where cleavage of APP by BACE1 is less favored. Our results suggest that inhibition of RTN3 aggregation is likely to be beneficial by reducing both amyloid deposition and the formation RIDNs.
The relationship between patterns of neural activity and corresponding behavioral expression is difficult to establish in unrestrained animals. Traditional non-invasive methods require at least partially restrained research subjects, and they only allow identification of large numbers of simultaneously activated neurons. On the other hand, small ensembles of neurons or individual neurons can only be measured using single-cell recordings obtained from largely reduced preparations. Since the expression of natural behavior is limited in restrained and dissected animals, the underlying neural mechanisms that control such behavior are difficult to identify. Here, I present a non-invasive physiological technique that allows measuring neural circuit activation in freely behaving animals. Using a pair of wire electrodes inside a water-filled chamber, the bath electrodes record neural and muscular field potentials generated by juvenile crayfish during natural or experimentally evoked escape responses. The primary escape responses of crayfish are mediated by three different types of tail-flips which move the animals away from the point of stimulation. Each type of tail-flip is controlled by its own neural circuit; the two fastest and most powerful escape responses require activation of different sets of large &quot;command&quot; neurons. In combination with behavioral observations, the bath electrode recordings allow unambiguous identification of these neurons and the associated neural circuits. Thus activity of neural circuitry underlying naturally occurring behavior can be measured in unrestrained animals and in different behavioral contexts.



To compare gene expression profiles in response to estrogen or 17beta-estradiol (E(2)) and a mycotoxin, zearalenone (ZEA), and its analogues (collectively termed ZEA compounds), breast cancer MCF-7 cells were treated with 10 nM of E(2) or ZEA compounds including ZEA, alpha-zearalenol, beta-zearalenol, zearalanone, alpha-zearalanol and beta-zearalanol. Expression profiles for 120 estrogen-responsive genes were subjected to cluster and statistical analyses using correlation coefficients or R-values. We found that all of the ZEA compounds stimulated the growth of MCF-7 cells, as much as E(2), and showed similar expression profiles to that of E(2) (R-values ranged from 0.82 to 0.96). The effect of ZEA compounds was likely mediated by estrogen-receptor-dependent Erk1/2-signaling. These results provide clues to understand the mechanism of their estrogen-like action.
A novel lab-on-a-tube integrated with spirally-rolled pressure, temperature, oxygen and glucose microsensors is described for multimodal neuromonitoring of patients with traumatic brain injury. In addition to measuring various crucial parameters in real-time continuous formats, the newly developed device also works as an intraventricular catheter to lower the elevated intracranial pressure by draining cerebrospinal fluid.

Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is followed by an energy crisis that compromises the capacity of the brain to cope with challenges, and often reduces cognitive ability. New research indicates that events that regulate energy homeostasis crucially impact synaptic function and this can compromise the capacity of the brain to respond to challenges during the acute and chronic phases of TBI. The goal of the present study is to determine the influence of the phenolic yellow curry pigment curcumin on molecular systems involved with the monitoring, balance, and transduction of cellular energy, in the hippocampus of animals exposed to mild fluid percussion injury (FPI). Young adult rats were exposed to a regular diet (RD) without or with 500 ppm curcumin (Cur) for four weeks, before an FPI was performed. The rats were assigned to four groups: RD/Sham, Cur/Sham, RD/FPI, and Cur/FPI. We found that FPI decreased the levels of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), ubiquitous mitochondrial creatine kinase (uMtCK) and cytochrome c oxidase II (COX-II) in RD/FPI rats as compared to the RD/sham rats. The curcumin diet counteracted the effects of FPI and elevated the levels of AMPK, uMtCK, COX-II in Cur/FPI rats as compared to RD/sham rats. In addition, in the Cur/sham rats, AMPK and uMtCK increased compared to the RD/sham. Results show the potential of curcumin to regulate molecules involved in energy homeostasis following TBI. These studies may foster a new line of therapeutic treatments for TBI patients by endogenous upregulation of molecules important for functional recovery.
Photic responses of the circadian system are mediated through light-induced clock gene expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). In nocturnal rodents, depending on the timing of light exposure, Per1 and Per2 gene expression shows distinct compartmentalized patterns that correspond to the behavioral responses. Whether the gene- and region-specific induction patterns are unique to nocturnal animals, or are also present in diurnal species is unknown. We explored this question by examining the light-induced Per1 and Per2 gene expression in functionally distinct SCN subregions, using diurnal grass rats Arvicanthis niloticus. Light exposure during nighttime induced Per1 and Per2 expression in the SCN, showing unique spatiotemporal profiles depending on the phase of the light exposure. After a phase delaying light pulse (LP) in the early night, strong Per1 induction was observed in the retinorecipient core region of the SCN, while strong Per2 induction was observed throughout the entire SCN. After a phase advancing LP in the late night, Per1 was first induced in the core and then extended into the whole SCN, accompanied by a weak Per2 induction. This compartmentalized expression pattern is very similar to that observed in nocturnal rodents, suggesting that the same molecular and intercellular pathways underlying acute photic responses are present in both diurnal and nocturnal species. However, after an LP in early subjective day, which induces phase advances in diurnal grass rats, but not in nocturnal rodents, we did not observe any Per1 or Per2 induction in the SCN. This result suggests that in spite of remarkable similarities in the SCN of diurnal and nocturnal rodents, unique mechanisms are involved in mediating the phase shifts of diurnal animals during the subjective day.
The prefrontal cortex projects to many thalamic nuclei, in pathways associated with cognition, emotion, and action. We investigated how multiple projection systems to the thalamus are organized in prefrontal cortex after injection of distinct retrograde tracers in the principal mediodorsal (MD), the limbic anterior medial (AM), and the motor-related ventral anterior/ventral lateral (VA/VL) thalamic nuclei in rhesus monkeys. Neurons projecting to these nuclei were organized in interdigitated modules extending vertically within layers VI and V. Projection neurons were also organized in layers. The majority of projection neurons to MD or AM originated in layer VI ( approximately 80%), but a significant proportion ( approximately 20%) originated in layer V. In contrast, prefrontal neurons projecting to VA/VL were equally distributed in layers V and VI. Neurons directed to VA/VL occupied mostly the upper part of layer V, while neurons directed to MD or AM occupied mostly the deep part of layer V. The highest proportions of projection neurons in layer V to each nucleus were found in dorsal and medial prefrontal areas. The laminar organization of prefrontal cortico-thalamic projections differs from sensory systems, where projections originate predominantly or entirely from layer VI. Previous studies indicate that layer V cortico-thalamic neurons innervate through some large terminals thalamic neurons that project widely to superficial cortical layers. The large population of prefrontal projection neurons in layer V may drive thalamic neurons, triggering synchronization by recruiting several cortical areas through widespread thalamo-cortical projections to layer I. These pathways may underlie the synthesis of cognition, emotion and action.
Fatigue could be induced following forced exercise, sickness, heat stroke or sleep disturbance and impaired brain-related functions such as concentration, attention and memory. Here we investigated whether fatigue altered the dendrites of central neurons. Central fatigue was induced by housing rats in cage with 1.5-cm deep water for 1-5 days. Three days of sleep deprivation seriously compromised rats' performance in weight-loaded forced swimming and spatial learning tests, and 5 days of treatment worsened it further. Combinations of intracellular dye injection and three-dimensional analysis revealed that dendritic spines on retrograde tracer-identified corticospinal neurons and Cornu Ammonis (CA)1 and CA3 pyramidal neurons were significantly reduced while the shape or length of the dendritic arbors was not altered. Three days of rest restored the spine loss and the degraded spatial learning and weight-loaded forced swimming performances to control levels. In conclusion, although we could not rule out additional non-hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal stress, the apparent fatigue induced following a few days of sleep deprivation could change brain structurally and functionally and the effects were reversible with a few days of rest.
We examined the effect of type 2 diabetes on stroke-induced Alzheimer's disease-like pathological and behavioral changes in rats. Rats were treated for 2 months with high fat diet (HFD) followed by streptozotocin (STZ) injection to induce type 2 diabetes (HFD-STZ model). Middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) was used to induce cerebral focal ischemia. Animals were divided into four groups: Sham-NPD, Sham-HFD-STZ, MCAO-NPD and MCAO-HFD-STZ. The results showed that HFD-STZ treatment induced obesity, hypertriglyceridemia, hypercholesterolemia, hyperinsulinemia, hyperglycemia and insulin resistance, characteristics of type 2 diabetes. The performance of rats in the Morris water maze test was impaired in MCAO-NPD and Sham-HFD-STZ rats, indicating cognitive deficits. Hippocampal caspase-3+ and beta amyloid (Abeta+) cell numbers, as well as beta-site amyloid precursor protein-cleaving enzyme (BACE1) levels and activity, increased in both groups. Moreover, HFD-STZ treatment exacerbated stroke-induced cognitive deficits, additively increased MCAO-induced activation of caspase-3, and increased levels of BACE1, C99 and Abeta. However, the level of insulin decreased in MCAO-HFD-STZ rats. These results suggested that type 2 diabetes deteriorated stroke-induced brain damage and cognitive impairment, which might be associated with increased Abeta generation and cytotoxicity. We concluded that type 2 diabetes exacerbated poststroke dementia possibly due to brain injury and synergistic generation of Abeta via activation of BACE1.
Increased angiogenesis and an altered blood-brain barrier have been reported in the brain of dystrophin-deficient mdx mouse, an experimental model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy. To further elucidate the mechanisms underlying angiogenesis in Duchenne muscular dystrophy, in this study we evaluated whether nerve growth factor (NGF) and nerve growth factor receptors (NGFRs) are involved, then correlated NGF-NGFRs expression with vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its receptor-2 (VEGFR-2) content and matrix metalloproteinases-2 and -9 (MMP-2 and -9) activity, by confocal laser microscopy and immunohistochemistry. Results showed that neurons, astrocytes and ependymal cells were strongly labeled by NGF in mdx brain, expressing NGFRs on glial and endothelial cells. In controls, NGF faintly labeled neurons and astrocytes, whereas endothelial cells were negative for NGFRs. Immunogold electron microscopy demonstrated NGFR gold particles on endothelial cells in mdx brain, while in controls few particles were recognizable only on glial end feet. Western blotting and real time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) demonstrated a higher expression of NGF and NGFR mRNA and protein in mdx brain as compared to controls, and increase of VEGF-VEGFR-2 and active MMP-2 and -9 content. Overall, these data suggest that in the brain of mdx mice, an upregulation of the NGF-NGFRs system might be involved directly, or indirectly through the activation of VEGF-VEGFR-2 and MMP-2 and -9, in the angiogenic response taking place in this pathological condition.
Chronic constriction injury (CCI) of rat sciatic nerve produces a specific pattern of electrophysiological changes in the superficial dorsal horn that lead to central sensitization that is associated with neuropathic pain. These changes can be recapitulated in spinal cord organotypic cultures by long term (5-6 days) exposure to brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) (200 ng/ml). Certain lines of evidence suggest that both CCI and BDNF increase excitatory synaptic drive to putative excitatory neurons while reducing that to putative inhibitory interneurons. Because BDNF slows the rate of discharge of synaptically-driven action potentials in inhibitory neurons, it should also decrease the frequency of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs) throughout the superficial dorsal horn. To test this possibility, we characterized superficial dorsal horn neurons in organotypic cultures according to five electrophysiological phenotypes that included tonic, delay and irregular firing neurons. Five to 6 days of treatment with 200 ng/ml BDNF decreased sIPSC frequency in tonic and irregular neurons as might be expected if BDNF selectively decreases excitatory synaptic drive to inhibitory interneurons. The frequency of sIPSCs in delay neurons was however increased. Further analysis of the action of BDNF on tetrodotoxin-resistant miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSC) showed that the frequency was increased in delay neurons, unchanged in tonic neurons and decreased in irregular neurons. BDNF may thus reduce action potential frequency in those inhibitory interneurons that project to tonic and irregular neurons but not in those that project to delay neurons.
The substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) is a compact brain structure that contains a variable distribution of cells in both medial to lateral and rostral to caudal dimensions. The SNpc is the primary brain structure affected in Parkinson's disease, where loss of dopaminergic neurons is one of the major hallmarks of the disorder. Neurotoxic and genetic models of Parkinson's disease, as well as mechanisms to treat this disorder, are modeled in the mouse. To accurately assess the validity of a model, one needs to be assured that the method(s) of analysis is accurate. Here, we determined the total number of dopaminergic neurons in the SNpc of the C57BL/6J mouse by serial reconstruction then compared that value to estimates derived using model-based stereology and design-based stereology. Serial reconstruction of the SNpc revealed the total number of SNpc dopaminergic neurons to be 8305+/-540 (+/-SEM). We compared this empirically derived neuron number to model based and design-based stereological estimates. We found that model based estimates gave a value of 8002+/-91 (+/-SEM) while design-based estimates were 8716+/-338 (+/-SEM). Statistical analysis showed no significant difference between estimates generated using model- or design-based stereological methods compared to empirically-derived counts using serial reconstruction.
Vestibular compensation refers to the behavioral recovery after a unilateral peripheral vestibular lesion. In chickens, posture and balance deficits are present immediately following unilateral vestibular ganglionectomy (UVG). After three days, most operated chickens begin to recover, but severe deficits persist in others. The tangential nucleus is a major avian vestibular nucleus whose principal cells are vestibular reflex projection neurons. From patch-clamp recordings on brain slices, the percentage of spontaneous spike firing principal cells, spike discharge rate, ionic conductances, and spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs) were investigated one and three days after UVG. Already by one day after UVG, sEPSC frequency increased significantly on the lesion side, although no differences were detected in the percentage of spontaneous spike firing cells or discharge rate. In compensated chickens three days after UVG, the percentage of spontaneous spike firing cells increased on the lesion side and the discharge rate increased bilaterally. In uncompensated chickens three days after UVG, principal cells on the lesion side showed increased discharge rate and increased sEPSC frequency, whereas principal cells on the intact side were silent. Typically, silent principal cells exhibited smaller persistent sodium conductances and higher activation thresholds for the fast sodium channel than spiking cells. In addition, silent principal cells on the intact side of uncompensated chickens had larger dendrotoxin-sensitive potassium conductance, with a higher ratio of Kv1.1 surface/cytoplasmic expression. Increased sEPSC frequency in principal cells on the lesion side of uncompensated chickens was accompanied by decreased Kv1.2 immunolabeling of presynaptic terminals on principal cell bodies. Thus, both intrinsic ionic conductances and excitatory synaptic inputs play crucial roles at early stages after lesions. Unlike the principal cells in compensated chickens which showed similar percentages of spontaneous spike firing cells, discharge rates, and sEPSC frequencies bilaterally, principal cells in uncompensated chickens displayed gross asymmetry in these properties bilaterally.
The alpha 7 subunit of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (alpha7nAChR) is expressed in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), a brain region where these receptors are implicated in cognitive function and in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Activation of this receptor is dependent on release of acetylcholine (ACh) from axon terminals that contain the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT). Since rat and mouse models are widely used for studies of specific abnormalities in schizophrenia, we sought to determine the subcellular location of the alpha7nAChR with respect to VAChT storage vesicles in axon terminals in the PFC in both species. For this, we used dual electron microscopic immunogold and immunoperoxidase labeling of antisera raised against the alpha7nAChR and VAChT. In both species, the alpha7nAChR-immunoreactivity ((-)ir) was principally identified within dendrites and dendritic spines, receptive to axon terminals forming asymmetric excitatory-type synapses, but lacking detectable alpha7nAChR or VAChT-ir. Quantitative analysis of the rat PFC revealed that of alpha7nAChR-labeled neuronal profiles, 65% (299/463) were postsynaptic structures (dendrites and dendritic spine) and only 22% (104/463) were axon terminals or small unmyelinated axons. In contrast, VAChT was principally localized to varicose vesicle-filled axonal profiles, without recognized synaptic specializations (n=240). Of the alpha7nAChR-labeled axons, 47% (37/79) also contained VAChT, suggesting that ACh release is autoregulated through the presynaptic alpha7nAChR. The VAChT-labeled terminals rarely formed synapses, but frequently apposed alpha7nAChR-containing neuronal profiles. These results suggest that in rodent PFC, the alpha7nAChR plays a major role in modulation of the postsynaptic excitation in spiny dendrites in contact with VAChT containing axons.
The lateral habenular complex (LHb) of the epithalamus is part of a dorsal diencephalic conduction system connecting basal forebrain with regulatory midbrain nuclei. The LHb has been implicated in the regulation of ascending monoaminergic transmission, particularly midbrain dopaminergic neuronal activity. Here, we have investigated whether the LHb in turn is subject to dopaminergic modulation. Alterations in spontaneous neuronal activity within the LHb following systemic application of dopaminergic drugs have been examined in anesthetized rats using extracellular single unit recordings. The administration of apomorphine (2 mg/kg) resulted in an excitation of individual LHb neurons. On average, the spontaneous action potential firing of the LHb neurons was increased by 39%. However, the apomorphine effect showed marked topographic differences within the LHb. Particularly, a small subset of neurons in the lateral division of the LHb, which was localized within the oval subnucleus, showed an apomorphine-mediated increase in discharge frequency by 96%. In contrast, spontaneous discharge of neurons within other areas of the lateral division was not modified. Likewise, within the medial division of the LHb, a region that preferentially receives projections from dopaminergic midbrain nuclei, the majority of neurons failed to show apomorphine-mediated alterations in action potential firing. However, within the superior subnucleus of this division, an area with yet unclear afferent supply, spontaneous neuronal firing was enhanced by 56%. The apomorphine-mediated excitation of LHb neurons was antagonized by coapplication of haloperidol (2 mg/kg), which alone did not alter spontaneous action potential firing of individual LHb neurons. The present study demonstrates that spontaneous activity of distinct subsets of neurons within the LHb is strongly enhanced by systemic activation of dopaminergic receptors. Despite the small sample size, the data suggest that this dopaminergic modulation shows a topographic specificity. Therefore, the results support the hypothesis of a functional subnuclear organization of the rat habenular complex.
Methamphetamine (mAMPH) is a psychostimulant drug that increases extracellular levels of monoamines throughout the brain. It has previously been observed that a single injection of mAMPH increases immediate early gene (IEG) expression in both the striatum and cerebral cortex. Moreover, this effect is modulated by dopamine and glutamate receptors since systemic administration of dopamine or glutamate antagonists has been found to alter mAMPH-induced striatal and cortical IEG expression. However, because dopamine and glutamate receptors are found in extra-striatal as well as striatal brain regions, studies employing systemic injection of dopamine or glutamate antagonists fail to localize the effects of mAMPH-induced activation. In the present experiments, the roles of striatal dopamine and glutamate receptors in mAMPH-induced gene expression in the striatum and cerebral cortex were examined. The nuclear expression of Fos, the protein product of the IEG c-fos, was quantified in both the striatum and the cortex of animals receiving intrastriatal dopamine or glutamate antagonist administration. Intrastriatal infusion of dopamine (D1 or D2) or glutamate [N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) or alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)] antagonists affected not only mAMPH-induced striatal, but also cortical, Fos expression. Overall, the effects of the antagonists occurred dose-dependently, in both the infused and non-infused hemispheres, with greater influences occurring in the infused hemisphere. Finally, unilateral intrastriatal infusion of dopamine or glutamate antagonists changed the behavior of the rats from characteristic mAMPH-induced stereotypy to rotation ipsilateral to the infusion. These results demonstrate that mAMPH's actions on striatal dopamine and glutamate receptors modulate the widespread cortical activation induced by mAMPH. It is hypothesized that dopamine release from nigrostriatal terminals modulates activity within striatal efferent pathways, thereby disinhibiting thalamo-cortical circuits. By extension, these results suggest processes through which repeated exposure to mAMPH might influence cortical function in mAMPH abusers.
The c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs) are multifunctional molecules which, on the one hand, regulate various processes in brain development, repair and memory formation. On the other hand, JNKs are potent effectors of neuronal death and neuroinflammation. This review summarizes recent findings on individual JNK functions in the nervous system under pathophysiological conditions and on their regulation by upstream kinases, phosphatases and formation of context-dependent signalosomes. By focusing on different aspects of JNK signaling, it becomes increasingly obvious that the JNK cascade is intricately regulated and intensely dependent on the availability and functionality of its single components and their intracellular localization. Our review also emphasizes, that JNKs are indispensable for neuronal cell death as well as many physiological functions in the brain. Finally, we discuss pharmacological strategies which target pathological JNK activities without affecting their physiological functions.
Using the structural equation modeling (SEM) method, the present study examined the role of large-scale neural interactions in developmental stuttering while 10 stuttering and nine non-stuttering subjects performed a covert picture-naming task. Results indicated that the connection patterns were significantly different between stuttering and non-stuttering speakers in both omnibus connection pattern and individual connection path coefficient. Specifically, stuttering speakers showed functional disconnection from the left inferior frontal gyrus to the left motor areas, and altered connectivity in the basal ganglia-thalamic-cortical circuit, and abnormal integration of supramodal information across the cerebellum and several frontal-parietal regions. These results indicate that the large-scale dysfunctional neural interactions may be involved in stuttering speakers' difficulties in planning, execution, and self-monitoring of speech motor sequence during word production.
Mapping observed actions into the onlooker's motor system seems to provide the neurofunctional mechanisms for action understanding. Subthalamic nucleus (STN) local field potential (LFP) recordings in patients with movement disorders disclosed that network oscillations in the beta range are involved in conveying motor and non-motor information across the cortico-basal ganglia-thalamo-cortical loop. This evidence, together with the existence of connections between the STN and cortical areas active during observation of actions performed by other people, suggests that the STN oscillatory activity in specific frequency bands could encode not only motor information, but also information related to action observation. To test this hypothesis we directly recorded STN oscillations through electrodes for deep brain stimulation in patients with Parkinson's disease during observation of actions and of static objects. We found selective action-related oscillatory modulations in two functionally distinct beta bands: whereas low-beta oscillations (10-18 Hz) selectively desynchronized only during action-observation, high-beta oscillations (20-30 Hz) synchronized both during the observation of action and action-related objects. Low-beta modulations are therefore specific to action observation and high-beta modulations are related to the action scene. Our findings show that in the basal ganglia there are functional changes spreading to the action environment, probably presetting the motor system in relation to the motor context and suggesting that the dynamics of beta oscillations can contribute to action understanding mechanisms.
Bipolar disorder and schizophrenia are two debilitating mental health disorders associated with both severe impairment and increased suicide risk. Several lines of evidence indicate that these disorders are associated with disturbances in the glutamate system. For almost half a century, lithium has been the most effective drug for treatment of mood disorders. Lithium is still used mainly on empiric grounds and its molecular mechanisms of action are still largely unknown. This study was designed to explore the effects of continuous lithium exposure, in therapeutically relevant concentration, on the glutamate-mediated Ca2+ response in rat primary hippocampal neurons. We show that lithium treatment is associated with multiple perturbations in calcium signaling. Lithium attenuated calcium release after activation of both metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR)1/5 as well as muscarinic cholinergic receptors, two different Gq-coupled receptors. The attenuation of the calcium response was, for mGluR5 receptors, found to be associated with a downregulation of the plasma membrane expression of this receptor. Lithium also attenuated calcium influx after activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, without affecting its cell surface expression. Furthermore lithium treatment was associated with a decrease in intracellular calcium concentration and a reduction of calcium content in intracellular stores. Thus we have shown that lithium attenuates the effects of glutamate-mediated calcium signaling and regulates intracellular calcium levels as well as calcium turnover in hippocampal neurons. These effects can be expected to influence the communication within and between neurons in a variety of ways since calcium may be considered as the most common and the most versatile signaling molecule in neurons.
Alzheimer disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by neuronal loss, dementia and pain. Two main protein aggregates, extracellular (senile plaques, SP) and intracellular (neurofibrillary tangles, NFT), are associated with AD. NFT are mainly composed of hyperphosphorylated microtubule-associated protein tau. Nowadays several protein kinases have been implicated in the phosphorylation of tau, including glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3beta), MAP kinase, protein kinase A and cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5). A deregulation in the activity of Cdk5 has been postulated to participate in the abnormal tau hyperphosphorylation in AD. Activation of Cdk5 occurs after its association with p35, a neuron-specific activator, predominantly in the nervous system. Therefore, in this study we used the tetracycline transactivator system to increase p35/GFP in neuronal cells, treated with amyloid beta 1-42 (Abeta(1-42)) peptide. These cells showed an increase of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) and cleaved caspase-3 staining, indicating increased apoptosis of neuronal cells. This effect could be reversed by the addition of tetracycline in the culture medium, suggesting synergistic effects of p35 over-expression and Abeta treatment in the apoptosis of neuronal cells. These results represent a linkage between amyloidogenic and cdk5 pathways leading to apoptosis of neuronal cells.
Mice lacking orexin/hypocretin signaling have sudden episodes of atonia and paralysis during active wakefulness. These events strongly resemble cataplexy, episodes of sudden muscle weakness triggered by strong positive emotions in people with narcolepsy, but it remains unknown whether murine cataplexy is triggered by positive emotions. To determine whether positive emotions elicit murine cataplexy, we placed orexin knockout (KO) mice on a scheduled feeding protocol with regular or highly palatable food. Baseline sleep/wake behavior was recorded with ad libitum regular chow. Mice were then placed on a scheduled feeding protocol in which they received 60% of their normal amount of chow 3 h after dark onset for the next 10 days. Wild-type and KO mice rapidly entrained to scheduled feeding with regular chow, with more wake and locomotor activity prior to the feeding time. On day 10 of scheduled feeding, orexin KO mice had slightly more cataplexy during the food-anticipation period and more cataplexy in the second half of the dark period, when they may have been foraging for residual food. To test whether more palatable food increases cataplexy, mice were then switched to scheduled feeding with an isocaloric amount of Froot Loops, a food often used as a reward in behavioral studies. With this highly palatable food, orexin KO mice had much more cataplexy during the food-anticipation period and throughout the dark period. The increase in cataplexy with scheduled feeding, especially with highly palatable food, suggests that positive emotions may trigger cataplexy in mice, just as in people with narcolepsy. Establishing this connection helps validate orexin KO mice as an excellent model of human narcolepsy and provides an opportunity to better understand the mechanisms that trigger cataplexy.
The styryl pyridinium dyes, FM1-43 and AM1-43, are fluorescent molecules that can permeate the mechanotransduction channels of hair cells, the sensory receptors of the inner ear. When these dyes are applied to hair cells, they enter the cytoplasm rapidly, resulting in a readily detectable intracellular fluorescence that is often used as a molecular indication of mechanotransduction channel activity. However, such dyes can also permeate the ATP receptor, P2X(2). Therefore, we explored the contribution of P2X receptors to the loading of hair cells with AM1-43. The chick inner ear was found to express P2X receptors and to release ATP, similar to the inner ear of mammals, allowing for the endogenous stimulation of P2X receptors. The involvement of these receptors was evaluated pharmacologically, by exposing the sensory epithelium of the chick inner ear to 5 microM AM1-43 under different experimental conditions and measuring the fluorescence in hair cells after fixation of the tissue. Pre-exposure of the tissue to 5 mM EGTA for 15 min, which should eliminate most of the gating &quot;tip links&quot; of the mechanotransduction channels, deceased fluorescence by only 44%. In contrast, P2X receptor antagonists (pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid [PPADS], suramin, 2',3'-O-(2,4,6-trinitrophenyl) ATP [TNP-ATP], and d-tubocurarine) had greater effects on dye loading. PPADS, suramin, and TNP-ATP all decreased intracellular AM1-43 fluorescence in hair cells by at least 69% when applied at a concentration of 100 microM. The difference between d-tubocurarine-treated and control fluorescence was statistically insignificant when d-tubocurarine was applied at a concentration that blocks the mechanotransduction channel (200 microM). At a concentration that also blocks P2X(2) receptors (2 mM), d-tubocurarine decreased dye loading by 72%. From these experiments, it appears that AM1-43 can enter hair cells through endogenously activated P2X receptors. Thus, the contribution of P2X receptors to dye entry should be considered when using styryl pyridinium dyes to detect hair cell mechanotransduction channel activity, especially in the absence of explicit mechanical stimulation of stereocilia.
Monte Carlo (MC) simulations significantly contributed to a better understanding of laser-Doppler flowmetry (LDF). Here it is shown that the data obtained from standard MC simulations can be reinterpreted and used to extract more information such as the photo-electric current (i(t)). This is important because i(t) is the starting point for evaluating any existing or new algorithm to be used in LDF instrumentation. This circumvents the tedious procedure of generating a specific model (often approximated if possible at all) each time a different algorithm is considered. By a series of tutorial examples, the influence of various parameters is investigated, e.g. sampling rate, total acquisition time and dc filtering. These cases also demonstrate the fundamental role played by the photons' random phase in the shaping of the LDF signal. In particular, it is demonstrated by MC simulation that when the number of photon-moving red blood cell interactions is too low, then the Siegert relation that exists between the field and photo-electric current autocorrelation functions does not hold. This is an important point because the validity of the Siegert relation is implicitly admitted in the majority of the classical analytical models for the autocorrelation function in LDF (the classical MC approach does not allow one to study this problem). The proposed method and examples could stimulate new ideas and help the scientific community develop, test and validate new approaches in LDF.
The optogenetic approach to gain control over neuronal excitability both in vitro and in vivo has emerged as a fascinating scientific tool to explore neuronal networks, but it also opens possibilities for developing novel treatment strategies for neurologic conditions. We have explored whether such an optogenetic approach using the light-driven halorhodopsin chloride pump from Natronomonas pharaonis (NpHR), modified for mammalian CNS expression to hyperpolarize central neurons, may inhibit excessive hyperexcitability and epileptiform activity. We show that a lentiviral vector containing the NpHR gene under the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IIalpha promoter transduces principal cells of the hippocampus and cortex and hyperpolarizes these cells, preventing generation of action potentials and epileptiform activity during optical stimulation. This study proves a principle, that selective hyperpolarization of principal cortical neurons by NpHR is sufficient to curtail paroxysmal activity in transduced neurons and can inhibit stimulation train-induced bursting in hippocampal organotypic slice cultures, which represents a model tissue of pharmacoresistant epilepsy. This study demonstrates that the optogenetic approach may prove useful for controlling epileptiform activity and opens a future perspective to develop it into a strategy to treat epilepsy.
Parkinson's disease (PD), a disorder caused by degeneration of the dopaminergic input to the basal ganglia, is commonly treated with l-DOPA. Use of this drug, however, is severely limited by motor side effects, or dyskinesia. We show that administration of l-DOPA in a mouse model of Parkinsonism led to dopamine D1 receptor-mediated activation of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) complex 1 (mTORC1), which is implicated in several forms of synaptic plasticity. This response occurred selectively in the GABAergic medium spiny neurons that project directly from the striatum to the output structures of the basal ganglia. The l-DOPA-mediated activation of mTORC1 persisted in mice that developed dyskinesia. Moreover, the mTORC1 inhibitor rapamycin prevented the development of dyskinesia without affecting the therapeutic efficacy of l-DOPA. Thus, the mTORC1 signaling cascade represents a promising target for the design of anti-Parkinsonian therapies.

We examined the topographic organization of the connections of the CA3 field of the macaque monkey hippocampus. Discrete anterograde and retrograde tracer injections were made at various positions within CA3 and CA1. The projections from CA3 to CA1 (Schaffer collaterals), which terminate in the strata radiatum, pyramidale, and oriens, are present throughout the entire transverse extent of CA1. Projections extend both rostrally and caudally from the injection site for as much as three-fourths of the longitudinal extent of the hippocampus. The associational projections from CA3 to CA3 also travel extensively along the longitudinal axis. CA3 gives rise to more substantial projections to CA1 than to CA3. CA3 projections that originate at the level of the uncus tend to be more restricted to the rostral portions of CA1 and CA3. As in the rodent brain, projections from CA3 to CA1 are distributed along a radial gradient, depending on the transverse location of the cells of origin. CA3 cells located near the dentate gyrus generate projections that more densely terminate superficially in the terminal zone of CA1, whereas CA3 cells located closer to CA1 give rise to projections that more heavily terminate deeply in the terminal zone of CA1. The present results indicate that in the monkey, as in the rat, CA3 cells give rise to extensive projections to CA1 and CA3. Interestingly, radial, transverse, and longitudinal gradients of CA3 fiber distribution, so clear in the rat, are much more subtle in the nonhuman primate brain.
Tick-borne encephalitis virus (TBEV) induces acute central nervous system (CNS) disease in humans. In this study, we investigate the pathogenetic mechanisms that correlate with fatal infection with TBEV in a mouse model. Following subcutaneous infection with high challenge doses (&gt;10(7) PFU), mice started to die early (8 days) and mortality rates reached &gt;80%. These doses induced acute and widespread infection of the CNS. On the other hand, following subcutaneous infection with low challenge doses (10(2)-10(6) PFU), mice started to die late (11 days) and approximately one half of the mice survived but exhibited degrees of encephalitis similar to dying mice. However, low dose dying mice exhibited severe systemic stress response, and increased levels of TNF-alpha compared with recovering mice. We therefore conclude that in addition to the development of CNS disease, systemic inflammatory and stress responses contribute to induce a fatal infection following subcutaneous infection of mice with TBEV.
Hypnotic drugs designed to treat insomnia in adults are now increasingly used in children, but the effects of these compounds on neonatal sleep are poorly understood. We investigated the hypnotic effects of the commonly prescribed non-benzodiazepine sleep agent Zolpidem (Ambien) on sleep architecture and electroencephalographic (EEG) activity in the neonatal ferret. Six ferret kits were surgically prepared for EEG/electromyographic (EMG) recordings using techniques adopted for use in neonatal animals. They were then administered in a counter-balanced design vehicle, or Zolpidem (2 mg/kg or 20 mg/kg) via intraperitoneal injection (1x/day over three days at 1 p.m.). Zolpidem did not increase non-rapid-eye-movement (NREM) or total sleep time. Instead Zolpidem reduced REM sleep and total sleep amounts and increased NREM sleep bout duration. Zolpidem also increased higher-frequency EEG energies during REM and NREM sleep and transiently produced a behavioral state that appeared intermediate between wake and sleep. Our findings demonstrate that hypnotics that improve sleep quality in adults may produce profoundly different behavioral changes in neonates.
Adenosine and dopamine receptors in striatal areas interact to regulate a number of different functions, including aspects of motor control and motivation. Recent studies indicate that adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists can reverse the effects of dopamine (DA) D(2) antagonists on instrumental tasks that provide measures of effort-related choice behavior. The present experiments compared the ability of the adenosine A(2A) antagonist KW6002, the nonselective adenosine antagonist caffeine, and the adenosine A(1) receptor selective antagonist DPCPX, to reverse the behavioral effects of the DA D(2) antagonist haloperidol. For these studies, a concurrent choice procedure was used in which rats could select between lever pressing on a fixed ratio 5 schedule for a preferred food or approaching and consuming a less preferred lab chow that was concurrently available in the chamber. Under baseline or control conditions, rats show a strong preference for lever pressing, and eat little of the chow; IP injections of 0.1 mg/kg haloperidol significantly reduced lever pressing and substantially increased chow intake. The adenosine A(2A) antagonist KW6002 (0.125-0.5 mg/kg IP) and the nonselective adenosine antagonist caffeine (5.0-20.0 mg/kg) significantly reversed the effects of haloperidol. However, the adenosine A(1) antagonist DPCPX (0.1875-0.75 mg/kg IP) failed to reverse the effects of the D(2) antagonist. The rank order of effect sizes in the reversal experiments was KW6002&gt;caffeine&gt;DPCPX. None of these drugs had any effect on behavior when they were injected in the absence of haloperidol. These results indicate that the ability of an adenosine antagonist to reverse the effort-related effects of a D(2) antagonist depends upon the subtype of adenosine receptor being blocked. Together with other recent results, these experiments indicate that there is a specific interaction between DA D(2) and adenosine A(2A) receptors, which could be related to the co-localization of these receptors on the same population of striatal neurons.
It has been shown that CA1 subserves temporal ordering processes in the hippocampus. It has also recently been shown that transecting the subcortical outputs of dorsal CA1 via the dorsal fornix results in retrieval deficits similar to those seen after lesions to CA1. The present experiment was designed to evaluate the effects of disrupting CA1 subcortical outputs for the temporal processing of visual objects and for a visual object novelty detection paradigm. The results of the present study suggest that CA1 subcortical efferents are not critically involved in temporal processing of visual objects, but are critically involved in visual object novelty detection. The data also suggest that temporal processing and novelty detection may potentially be subserved by independent mechanisms in CA1.
Current transgenic mouse models of Alzheimer disease constitute a relevant tool to examine the relationships between neuropathological lesions, neurodegeneration and clinical syndromes. Nevertheless, addressing the relation between Abeta deposition and cognition deterioration requires careful adjustment for age to decipher underlying mechanisms of impairments and identify potential therapeutic targets. In the present work we have carried out a detailed behavioral analysis of the APP(751SL) transgenic mouse model testing 6 age-points (from 2 to 19-20 months) and estimating in parallel the cerebral Abeta deposition. The immunohistochemistry study indicated a fast progression of Abeta(17-24) staining in several brain structures that reached for most of them, a maximal level at 7-8 months of age. Behavioral experiments showed that APP(751SL) mice displayed alterations in some general functions (muscular strength, motor activity) whereas other functions are preserved (anxiety, exploration). Acquisition and extinction of an appetitive operant conditioning were used to assess early learning deficits. Hippocampal but not dorso-lateral striatal lesion was shown to delay extinction. Although some learning deficits were detected at 5-6 months in the acquisition of the operant conditioning task, more robust impairments in extinction were observed in 7-8-month-old mice. Indeed, spatial memory deficit was associated to a selective hippocampal CA1 impairment of learning-induced Zif268 activation. Because this mouse model displayed gradual memory deficits it gives the opportunity to investigate the temporal progression of molecular and cellular mechanisms that induce cognitive decline.
A large amount of evidence supports a role for the parietal and frontal cortex in the planning of reaching movements. Nevertheless, neither the timing of involvement of these areas nor if and how their activity can be influenced by external stimuli has been clarified. The parieto-occipital cortex has been investigated by applying transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) at 25% (Time 1), 50% (Time 2) and 75% (Time 3) of the reaction time from a go signal to hand movement. No local effect was found with Time 1, since pulses were administered before subjects opened their eyes. Reduction of reaction time was observed at Time 2 when stimuli were applied over the anterior occipital lobe, parieto-occipital cortex and posterior parietal cortex. The effect on the posterior parietal cortex reverted when Time 3 was used. The present data confirm the existence, in humans, of a dorso-medial set of areas involved in on-line planning of reaching movements. Moreover, they provide novel evidence on the time course of this involvement. Finally, present data show that it is possible to interact with the flow of activity along this stream by appropriately delivering TMS pulses.

Current knowledge of the central nervous system distribution of the beta(1)-adrenergic receptors (beta(1)-AR) is incomplete. Here we present a general map of the beta(1)-AR distribution in the rat brain. beta(1)-AR-immunoreactivity was detected throughout the entire rat brain, but particularly dense staining was observed in the cerebellar cortex and basal ganglia. Brainstem areas displaying significant beta(1)-AR-immunoreactivity include the ventrolateral medulla, nucleus ambiguus and the nucleus of the solitary tract. Within the hypothalamus, only the paraventricular nucleus and the median eminence (ME) showed beta(1)-AR immunostaining. Numerous beta(1)-AR-immunoreactive cells were also found in the hippocampus, basal ganglia and cerebral cortex. These results extend our knowledge of the expression profile of beta(1)-AR in the central nervous system. The identification of several distinct beta(1)-AR immunoreactive substrates linked with neuropathophysiological roles in cardiovascular disease supports the hypothesis that the therapeutic benefit of beta(1)-AR blockade may be conferred at least in part through central nervous system mechanisms.
This reviews the first of a tripartite symposia series dealing with novel neuroscientific technologies, the nature of consciousness and being, and the questions that arise from such interactions. The event took place on May 8 2009, at Georgetown University, and brought together ten leading figures on fields ranging from Neuroscience and Robotics to Philosophy, that commented on their research and provided ethical, moral and practical insight and perspectives into how these technologies can shape the future of neuroscientific and human development, as well as denoting the potential abuses and the best way to proceed about them.
Reading is essential in modern societies, but many children have dyslexia, a difficulty in learning to read. Dyslexia often arises from impaired phonological awareness, the auditory analysis of spoken language that relates the sounds of language to print. Behavioral remediation, especially at a young age, is effective for many, but not all, children. Neuroimaging in children with dyslexia has revealed reduced engagement of the left temporo-parietal cortex for phonological processing of print, altered white-matter connectivity, and functional plasticity associated with effective intervention. Behavioral and brain measures identify infants and young children at risk for dyslexia, and preventive intervention is often effective. A combination of evidence-based teaching practices and cognitive neuroscience measures could prevent dyslexia from occurring in the majority of children who would otherwise develop dyslexia.

Our ability to multitask is severely limited: task performance deteriorates when we attempt to undertake two or more tasks simultaneously. Remarkably, extensive training can greatly reduce such multitasking costs. While it is not known how training alters the brain to solve the multitasking problem, it likely involves the prefrontal cortex given this brain region's purported role in limiting multitasking performance. Here, we show that the reduction of multitasking interference with training is not achieved by diverting the flow of information processing away from the prefrontal cortex or by segregating prefrontal cells into independent task-specific neuronal ensembles, but rather by increasing the speed of information processing in this brain region, thereby allowing multiple tasks to be processed in rapid succession. These results not only reveal how training leads to efficient multitasking, they also provide a mechanistic account of multitasking limitations, namely the poor speed of information processing in human prefrontal cortex.
We recently reported a cell death cascade whereby cellular stressors activate nitric oxide formation leading to S-nitrosylation of GAPDH that binds to Siah and translocates to the nucleus. The nuclear GAPDH/Siah complex augments p300/CBP-associated acetylation of nuclear proteins, including p53, which mediate cell death. We report a 52 kDa cytosolic protein, GOSPEL, which physiologically binds GAPDH, in competition with Siah, retaining GAPDH in the cytosol and preventing its nuclear translocation. GOSPEL is neuroprotective, as its overexpression prevents NMDA-glutamate excitotoxicity while its depletion enhances death in primary neuron cultures. S-nitrosylation of GOSPEL at cysteine 47 enhances GAPDH-GOSPEL binding and the neuroprotective actions of GOSPEL. In intact mice, virally delivered GOSPEL selectively diminishes NMDA neurotoxicity. Thus, GOSPEL may physiologically regulate the viability of neurons and other cells.
Studies over the past decade have enunciated silent synapses as prominent cellular substrates for synaptic plasticity in the developing brain. However, little is known about whether silent synapses can be generated postdevelopmentally. Here, we demonstrate that highly salient in vivo experience, such as exposure to cocaine, generates silent synapses in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell, a key brain region mediating addiction-related learning and memory. Furthermore, this cocaine-induced generation of silent synapses is mediated by membrane insertions of new, NR2B-containing N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptors (NMDARs). These results provide evidence that silent synapses can be generated de novo by in vivo experience and thus may act as highly efficient neural substrates for the subsequent experience-dependent synaptic plasticity underlying extremely long-lasting memory.
Mass spectrometry-based proteomics is increasingly used to address basic and clinical questions in biomedical research through studies of differential protein expression, protein-protein interactions, and posttranslational modifications. The complex structural and functional organization of the human brain warrants the application of high-throughput, systematic approaches to understand the functional alterations under normal physiological conditions and the perturbations of neurological diseases. This primer focuses on shotgun-proteomics-based tandem mass spectrometry for the identification of proteins in a complex mixture. It describes the basic concepts of protein differential expression analysis and posttranslational modification analysis and discusses several strategies to improve the coverage of the proteome.
In addition to its role in glycolysis, GAPDH has been implicated as a mediator of neurotoxicity triggered by nitrosative stress. In this issue of Neuron, Sen et al. identify a novel, negative regulator of this GAPDH neurotoxic pathway termed GOSPEL, which, like GAPDH itself, is regulated by S-nitrosylation.

Emodin (1,3,8-trihydroxy-6-methyl-anthraquinone) is a moderately potent and poorly selective inhibitor of protein kinase CK2, one of the most pleiotropic serine/threonine protein kinases, implicated in neoplasia and in other global diseases. By virtual screening of the MMS (Molecular Modeling Section) database, we have now identified quinalizarin (1,2,5,8-tetrahydroxyanthraquinone) as an inhibitor of CK2 that is more potent and selective than emodin. CK2 inhibition by quinalizarin is competitive with respect to ATP, with a Ki value of approx. 50 nM. Tested at 1 microM concentration on a panel of 75 protein kinases, quinalizarin drastically inhibits only CK2, with a promiscuity score (11.1), which is the lowest ever reported so far for a CK2 inhibitor. Especially remarkable is the ability of quinalizarin to discriminate between CK2 and a number of kinases, notably DYRK1a (dual-specificity tyrosine-phosphorylated and -regulated kinase), PIM (provirus integration site for Moloney murine leukaemia virus) 1, 2 and 3, HIPK2 (homeodomain-interacting protein kinase-2), MNK1 [MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase)-interacting kinase 1], ERK8 (extracellular-signal-regulated kinase 8) and PKD1 (protein kinase D 1), which conversely tend to be inhibited as drastically as CK2 by commercially available CK2 inhibitors. The determination of the crystal structure of a complex between quinalizarin and CK2alpha subunit highlights the relevance of polar interactions in stabilizing the binding, an unusual characteristic for a CK2 inhibitor, and disclose other structural features which may account for the narrow selectivity of this compound. Tested on Jurkat cells, quinalizarin proved able to inhibit endogenous CK2 and to induce apoptosis more efficiently than the commonly used CK2 inhibitors TBB (4,5,6,7-tetrabromo-1H-benzotriazole) and DMAT (2-dimethylamino-4,5,6,7-tetrabromo-1H-benzimidazole).

Alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (alpha(7) nAChR) agonists are promising therapeutic candidates for the treatment of cognitive impairment associated with a variety of disorders including Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia. Alpha 7 nAChRs are expressed in brain regions associated with cognitive function, regulate cholinergic neurotransmission and have been shown to be down regulated in both schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease. Herein we report a novel, potent small molecule agonist of the alpha 7 nAChR, SEN12333/WAY-317538. This compound is a selective agonist of the alpha(7) nAChR with excellent in vitro and in vivo profiles, excellent brain penetration and oral bioavailability, and demonstrates in vivo efficacy in multiple behavioural cognition models. The SAR and biological evaluation of this series of compounds are discussed.

Generation of distinct ventral neuronal subtypes in the developing spinal cord requires Shh signaling mediated by the Gli family of transcription factors. Genetic studies of Shh(-/-);Gli3(-/-) double mutants indicated that the inhibition of Gli3 repressor activity by Shh is sufficient for the generation of different neurons including motor neurons. In this study, we show that although ventral neural progenitors are initiated in normal numbers in Shh(-/-);Gli3(-/-) mutants, the subsequent appearance of motor neuron progenitors shows a approximately 20-hour lag, concomitant with a delay in the activation of a pan-neuronal differentiation program and cell cycle exit of ventral neural progenitors. Accordingly, the Shh(-/-);Gli3(-/-) mutant spinal cord exhibits a delay in motor neuron differentiation and an accumulation of a ventral neural progenitor pool. The requirement of Shh and Gli3 activities to promote the timely appearance of motor neuron progenitors is further supported by the analysis of Ptch1(-/-) mutants, in which constitutive Shh pathway activity is sufficient to elicit ectopic and premature differentiation of motor neurons at the expense of ventral neural progenitors. Taken together, our analysis suggests that, beyond its well established dorso-ventral patterning function through a Gli3-derepression mechanism, Shh signaling is additionally required to promote the timely appearance of motor neuron progenitors in the developing spinal cord.
The neocortex and the hippocampus comprise several specific layers containing distinct neurons that originate from progenitors at specific development times, under the control of an adequate cell-division patterning mechanism. Although many molecules are known to regulate this cell-division patterning process, its details are not well understood. Here, we show that, in the developing cerebral cortex, the RP58 transcription repressor protein was expressed both in postmitotic glutamatergic projection neurons and in their progenitor cells, but not in GABAergic interneurons. Targeted deletion of the RP58 gene led to dysplasia of the neocortex and of the hippocampus, reduction of the number of mature cortical neurons, and defects of laminar organization, which reflect abnormal neuronal migration within the cortical plate. We demonstrate an impairment of the cell-division patterning during the late embryonic stage and an enhancement of apoptosis of the postmitotic neurons in the RP58-deficient cortex. These results suggest that RP58 controls cell division of progenitor cells and regulates the survival of postmitotic cortical neurons.
The adult subventricular zone (SVZ) contains astrocyte-like stem cells capable of generating new neurons for the olfactory bulb. Adult neurogenesis is driven by a variety of signal systems that can induce synergistic or opposing cellular responses. It is therefore important to gain insight into the underlying downstream signaling pathways. We have previously shown that the nucleotides ADPbetaS and UTP induce rapid Ca2+ transients in cultured SVZ-derived adult neural progenitors and augment growth-factor-mediated progenitor cell proliferation. Here, we investigated signaling pathways elicited by ADPbetaS, UTP and epidermal growth factor (EGF). All three agonists elicit ERK1/2 and CREB phosphorylation but the temporal characteristics differ between the nucleotides and EGF. Differentiation of the progenitors alters the receptor profile. Oligodendrocytes and young neurons, but not astrocytes, lose responsiveness to the agonists. Inhibition experiments are indicative of an ADPbetaS-elicited EGF receptor transactivation. Whereas UTP acts via the P2Y2 receptor, ADPbetaS exerts its function via the P2Y1 receptor and the P2Y13 receptor. Our data demonstrate that nucleotides and EGF induce converging, but also differential, intracellular signaling pathways and suggest that they carry the potential to act synergistically in the control of cell proliferation and cell survival in adult neurogenesis.
Tail-anchored (TA) proteins are membrane proteins that contain an N-terminal domain exposed to the cytosol and a single transmembrane segment near the C-terminus followed by few or no polar residues. TA proteins with a mildly hydrophobic transmembrane domain, such as cytochrome b5 (b5), are able to insert post-translationally into pure lipid vesicles without assistance from membrane proteins. Here, we investigated whether any cytosolic proteins are needed to maintain b5 in a competent state for transmembrane integration. Using b5 constructs translated in vitro or produced in bacteria, we demonstrate that cytosolic proteins are neither necessary nor facilitatory for the unassisted translocation of b5. Furthermore, we demonstrate that no cytosolic protein is involved in the translocation of a C-terminal domain of 85 residues appended to the transmembrane domain of b5. Nevertheless, b5 does bind cytosolic proteins, and in their presence but not in their absence, its insertion into liposomes is inhibited by the thiol oxidant diamide and the alkylating agent N-ethylmaleimide. The effect of diamide is also observed in living cells. Thus, the specific in vivo targeting of b5 might be achieved by interaction with redox-sensitive targeting factors that hinder its nonspecific insertion into any permissive bilayer.
Keratinocytes are important for the acute phase of HSV-1 infection and subsequent persistence in sensory nervous tissue. In this study, we showed that keratinocytes (HEL-30) were refractory to IFN-gamma induction of an antiviral state to HSV-1 infection, while IFN-gamma did induce an antiviral state in fibroblasts (L929). This led us to examine the possible role of suppressor of cytokine signaling-1 (SOCS-1) in this refractiveness. RT-PCR analysis of SOCS-1 mRNA expression in HSV-1-infected cells showed a 4-fold increase for keratinocytes while having a negligible effect on fibroblasts. A similar pattern was observed at the level of SOCS-1 protein induction. Activation of STAT1alpha in keratinocytes was inhibited by HSV-1 infection. A direct effect of HSV-1 on the SOCS-1 promoter was shown in a luciferase reporter gene assay. We have developed a small peptide antagonist of SOCS-1, pJAK2(1001-1013), that had both an antiviral effect in keratinocytes against HSV-1 as well as a synergistic effect on IFN-gamma induction of an antiviral state. HSV-1 ICP0 mutant was inhibited by IFN-gamma in HEL-30 cells and was less effective than wild-type virus in induction of SOCS-1 promoter. We conclude that SOCS-1 plays an important role in the inhibition of the antiviral effect of IFN-gamma in keratinocytes infected with HSV-1. The use of SOCS-1 antagonist to abrogate this refractiveness could have a transformational effect on therapy against viral infections.
The human amygdala can be robustly activated by presenting fearful faces, and it has been speculated that this activation has functional relevance for redirecting the gaze toward the eye region. To clarify this relationship between amygdala activation and gaze-orienting behavior, functional magnetic resonance imaging data and eye movements were simultaneously acquired in the current study during the evaluation of facial expressions. Fearful, angry, happy, and neutral faces were briefly presented to healthy volunteers in an event-related manner. We controlled for the initial fixation by unpredictably shifting the faces downward or upward on each trial, such that the eyes or the mouth were presented at fixation. Across emotional expressions, participants showed a bias to shift their gaze toward the eyes, but the magnitude of this effect followed the distribution of diagnostically relevant regions in the face. Amygdala activity was specifically enhanced for fearful faces with the mouth aligned to fixation, and this differential activation predicted gazing behavior preferentially targeting the eye region. These results reveal a direct role of the amygdala in reflexive gaze initiation toward fearfully widened eyes. They mirror deficits observed in patients with amygdala lesions and open a window for future studies on patients with autism spectrum disorder, in which deficits in emotion recognition, probably related to atypical gaze patterns and abnormal amygdala activation, have been observed.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a mood disorder that is not traditionally considered to affect the visual system. However, recent findings have reported decreased cortical levels of the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA in occipital cortex. To explore possible functional consequences of MDD on visual processing, we applied a psychophysical visual motion processing task in which healthy young adults typically exhibit impaired perceptual discrimination of large high-contrast stimuli. It has been suggested that this phenomenon, spatial suppression, is mediated by GABAergic center-surround antagonism in visual pathways. Based on previous findings linking MDD to occipital GABA dysfunction, we hypothesized that MDD patients would exhibit decreased spatial suppression, leading to the counterintuitive hypothesis of better psychophysical performance. Indeed, motion perception for typically suppressed stimuli was enhanced in patients with MDD compared with age-matched controls. Furthermore, the degree of spatial suppression correlated with an individual's illness load; patients with greater lifetime duration of depression exhibited the least spatial suppression and performed the best in the high-contrast motion discrimination task. Notably, this decrease in spatial suppression persisted beyond recovery and without the confound of acute illness or treatment; all patients had been clinically recovered and unmedicated for several months at the time of testing, suggesting that depression has ubiquitous consequences that may persist long after mood symptoms have receded. This finding raises the possibility that spatial suppression may represent a sensitive endophenotypic marker of trait vulnerability in MDD.
Flexible behavior depends on the brain's ability to suppress a habitual response or to cancel a planned movement whenever needed. Such inhibitory control has been studied using the countermanding paradigm in which subjects are required to withhold an imminent movement when a stop signal appears infrequently in a fraction of trials. To elucidate the circuit mechanism of inhibitory control of action, we developed a recurrent network model consisting of spiking movement (GO) neurons and fixation (STOP) neurons, based on neurophysiological observations in the frontal eye field and superior colliculus of behaving monkeys. The model places a premium on the network dynamics before the onset of a stop signal, especially the experimentally observed high baseline activity of fixation neurons, which is assumed to be modulated by a persistent top-down control signal, and their synaptic interaction with movement neurons. The model simulated observed neural activity and fit behavioral performance quantitatively. In contrast to a race model in which the STOP process is initiated at the onset of a stop signal, in our model whether a movement will eventually be canceled is determined largely by the proactive top-down control and the stochastic network dynamics, even before the appearance of the stop signal. A prediction about the correlation between the fixation neural activity and the behavioral outcome was verified in the neurophysiological data recorded from behaving monkeys. The proposed mechanism for adjusting control through tonically active neurons that inhibit movement-producing neurons has significant implications for exploring the basis of impulsivity associated with psychiatric disorders.
Recent studies have demonstrated that GABAergic synaptic transmission among neostriatal spiny projection neurons (SPNs) is strongly modulated by dopamine with individual connections exhibiting either D(1) receptor (D(1)R)-mediated facilitation or D(2) receptor (D(2)R)-mediated inhibition and, at least in some preparations, a subset of connections exhibiting both of these effects. In light of the cell type-specific expression of D(1a)R in striatonigral and D(2)R in striatopallidal neurons and the differential expression of the other D(1) and D(2) family dopamine receptors, we hypothesize that the nature of the dopaminergic modulation is specific to the types of SPNs that participate in the connection. Here the biophysical properties and dopaminergic modulation of intrastriatal connections formed by striatopallidal neurons were examined. Contrary to previous expectation, synapses formed by striatopallidal neurons were biophysically and pharmacologically heterogeneous. Two distinct types of axon collateral connections could be distinguished among striatopallidal neurons. The more common, small-amplitude connections (80%) exhibited mean IPSC amplitudes several times smaller than their less frequent large-amplitude counterparts, principally because of a smaller number of release sites involved. The two types of connections were also differentially regulated by dopamine. Small-amplitude connections exhibited strong and exclusively D(2)R-mediated presynaptic inhibition, whereas large-amplitude connections were unresponsive to dopamine. Synaptic connections from striatopallidal to striatonigral neurons exhibited exclusively D(2)R-mediated presynaptic inhibition that was similar to the regulation of small-amplitude connections between pairs of striatopallidal cells. Together, these findings demonstrate a previously unrecognized complexity in the organization and dopaminergic control of synaptic communication among SPNs.
The orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) has been implicated in decision-making under uncertainty, but it is unknown how information about the probability or uncertainty of future reward is coded by single orbitofrontal neurons and ensembles. We recorded neuronal ensembles in rat OFC during an olfactory discrimination task in which different odor stimuli predicted different reward probabilities. Single-unit firing patterns correlated to the expected reward probability primarily within an immobile waiting period before reward delivery but also when the rat executed movements toward the reward site. During these pre-reward periods, a subset of OFC neurons was sensitive to differences in probability but only very rarely discriminated on the basis of reward uncertainty. In the reward period, neurons responded during presentation or omission of reward or during both types of outcome. At the population level, neurons were characterized by a wide divergence in firing-rate variability attributable to expected probability. A population analysis using template matching as reconstruction method indicated that OFC generates a distributed representation of reward probability with a weak dependence on neuronal group size. The analysis furthermore confirmed that predictive information coded by OFC populations was quantitatively related to reward probability, but not to uncertainty.
Brain injury may result in the development of epilepsy, one of the most common neurological disorders. We previously demonstrated that albumin is critical in the generation of epilepsy after blood-brain barrier (BBB) compromise. Here, we identify TGF-beta pathway activation as the underlying mechanism. We demonstrate that direct activation of the TGF-beta pathway by TGF-beta1 results in epileptiform activity similar to that after exposure to albumin. Coimmunoprecipitation revealed binding of albumin to TGF-beta receptor II, and Smad2 phosphorylation confirmed downstream activation of this pathway. Transcriptome profiling demonstrated similar expression patterns after BBB breakdown, albumin, and TGF-beta1 exposure, including modulation of genes associated with the TGF-beta pathway, early astrocytic activation, inflammation, and reduced inhibitory transmission. Importantly, TGF-beta pathway blockers suppressed most albumin-induced transcriptional changes and prevented the generation of epileptiform activity. Our present data identifies the TGF-beta pathway as a novel putative epileptogenic signaling cascade and therapeutic target for the prevention of injury-induced epilepsy.
Mechanical stimuli impinging on the skin are converted into electrical signals by mechanically gated ion channels located at the peripheral nerve endings of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Under inflammatory conditions sensory neurons are commonly sensitised to mechanical stimuli; a putative mechanism that may contribute to such sensitisation of sensory neurons is enhanced responsiveness of mechanotransduction ion channels. Here we show that the algogens UTP and ATP potentiate mechanosensitive RA currents in peptidergic nociceptive DRG neurons and reduce thresholds for mechanically induced action potential firing in these neurones. Pharmacological characterisation suggests that this effect is mediated by the Gq-coupled P2Y(2) nucleotide receptor. Moreover, using the in vitro skin nerve technique, we show that UTP also increases action potential firing rates in response to mechanical stimuli in a subpopulation of skin C-fibre nociceptors. Together our findings suggest that UTP sensitises a subpopulation of cutaneous C-fibre nociceptors via a previously undescribed G-protein-dependent potentiation of mechanically activated RA-type currents.
Size at birth is critical in determining life expectancy and is dependent primarily on the placental supply of nutrients. However, the fetus is not just a passive recipient of nutrients from the placenta. It exerts a significant acquisitive drive for nutrients, which acts through morphological and functional adaptations in the placenta, particularly when the genetically determined drive for fetal growth is compromised by adverse intrauterine conditions. These adaptations alter the efficiency with which the placenta supports fetal growth, which results in optimal growth for prevailing conditions in utero. This review examines placental efficiency as a means of altering fetal growth, the morphological and functional adaptations that influence placental efficiency and the endocrine regulation of these processes.

Using a structured interview method, we sought to address the following questions regarding cervical dystonia (CD) and employment: (1) what is the frequency and severity of job impairment in CD; (2) what are the clinical features that contribute to job impairment; (3) how does the effectiveness of botulinum toxin (BTx) compare to oral medications in restoring employment status. In our population of 155 CD patients, employment was affected by CD in 53.3% (31.2% reduced hours or responsibilities, 3.3% changed to different job, 18.9% loss of employment) and 68.9% of patients reported reduced overall productivity. The likelihood of altered employment (P &lt; 0.0006), reduced productivity (P &lt; 0.0001), and seeking disability benefits (P &lt; 0.003) was significantly associated with the presence of neck pain, but not type of employment, spasmodic head motions, or duration of CD symptoms before treatment with BTx. Treatment with BTx was more likely to improve employment status than oral medications (66.1 vs. 18.5%) and much more likely to restore full employment with normal productivity (12.9 vs. 0.0%). These findings suggest that employment status is frequently affected by CD, particularly in patients withneck pain. BTx is significantly more effective than oral medications in restoring premorbid employment status.
Abnormal patterns of electroencephalographic (EEG) alpha oscillations in preclinical stages of dementia reveal a selective vulnerability of thalamocortical circuits to the cascade of neurodegenerative events heralding Alzheimer's disease (AD). EEG-alpha slowing characterizes both mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and healthy aging, but it remains ambiguous whether different neural mechanisms underlie this oscillatory behavior in normal and pathological senescence. In this study, we show that the strength of phase coupling and the level of phase predictability between thalamocortical and cortico-cortical EEG sources of low alpha frequency are abnormally facilitated in MCI patients when compared to healthy elderly subjects. Additionally, we found a loss of neural complexity intrinsic to both thalamic and cortical generators of lower alpha in MCI patients, which likely influenced the aberrant phase synchronization behavior between EEG-alpha sources in this high risk group of AD. Taken together, these results suggest that different neural mechanisms account for the well known slowing of alpha rhythm present in normal aging and MCI patients. Whether these anomalous neural coding mechanisms of lower alpha generation in MCI patients represent a potential electrophysiological marker of mild AD is a topic for future research.
A critical assumption underlying the use of functional localiser scans is that the voxels identified as the functional region-of-interest (fROI) are essentially the same as those activated by the main experimental manipulation. Intra-subject variability in the location of the fROI violates this assumption, reducing the sensitivity of the analysis and biasing the results. Here we investigated consistency and variability in fROIs in a set of 45 volunteers. They performed two functional localiser scans to identify word- and object-sensitive regions of ventral and lateral occipito-temporal cortex, respectively. In the main analyses, fROIs were defined as the category-selective voxels in each region and consistency was measured as the spatial overlap between scans. Consistency was greatest when minimally selective thresholds were used to define &quot;active&quot; voxels (p&lt;0.05 uncorrected), revealing that approximately 65% of the voxels were commonly activated by both scans. In contrast, highly selective thresholds (p&lt;10(-4) to 10(-6)) yielded the lowest consistency values with less than 25% overlap of the voxels active in both scans. In other words, intra-subject variability was surprisingly high, with between one third and three quarters of the voxels in a given fROI not corresponding to those activated in the main task. This level of variability stands in striking contrast to the consistency seen in retinotopically-defined areas and has important implications for designing robust but efficient functional localiser scans.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is now a leading diagnostic technique. As technology has improved, so has the spatial resolution achievable. In 1986 MR microscopy (MRM) was demonstrated with resolutions in the tens of micrometers, and is now an established subset of MRI with broad utility in biological and non-biological applications. To date, only large cells from plants or aquatic animals have been imaged with MRM limiting its applicability. Using newly developed microsurface coils and an improved slice preparation technique for correlative histology, we report here for the first time direct visualization of single neurons in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS) using native MR signal at a resolution of 4-8 microm. Thus MRM has matured into a viable complementary cellular imaging technique in mammalian tissues.
Increases in extracellular dopamine in the shell region of the nucleus accumbens are centrally involved in mediating reinforcement of addictive drugs. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and its receptors are present in the nucleus accumbens and have been implicated in addiction mechanisms. This study further explored the potential role of NPY in addiction mechanisms using microdialysis to measure extracellular dopamine in vivo after infusion of NPY directly into the accumbal shell region of adult rats. NPY was found to dose-dependently increase extracellular dopamine levels, indicating that NPY could play an important role in drug reinforcement by modulating accumbal dopamine levels

Earlier imaging studies in schizophrenia have reported abnormal amygdala and prefrontal cortex activity during emotion processing. We investigated with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) during emotion processing changes in activity of the amygdala and of prefrontal cortex in patients with schizophrenia during 8 weeks of olanzapine treatment. Twelve previously drug-free/naive patients with schizophrenia were treated with olanzapine for 8 weeks and underwent two fMRI scans after 4 and 8 weeks of treatment during implicit and explicit emotional processing. Twelve healthy subjects were also scanned twice to control for potential repetition effects. Results showed a diagnosis by time interaction in left amygdala and a diagnosis by time by task interaction in right ventrolateral prefrontal cortex. In particular, activity in left amygdala was greater in patients than in controls at the first scan during both explicit and implicit processing, while it was lower in patients at the second relative to the first scan. Furthermore, during implicit processing, right ventrolateral prefrontal cortex activity was lower in patients than controls at the first scan, while it was greater in patients at the second relative to the first scan. These results suggest that longitudinal treatment with olanzapine may be associated with specific changes in activity of the amygdala and prefrontal cortex during emotional processing in schizophrenia.

Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) promotes proliferation of endogenous neural stem cells, and erythropoietin (EPO) promotes differentiation of these cells into neural stem cells. The current study examined effects of sequential administration of these two compounds, initiated 24 h after stroke. At that time, rats were randomized into four treatment groups: hCG+EPO (3 IM doses hCG over 5 days, followed by 3 IV doses EPO over 3 days), hCG+Saline using the same schedule, Saline+EPO using the same schedule, or neither drug (Saline+Saline). The primary endpoint was the composite neurological score, measured 11 times, from 1 h until 12 weeks post-insult. The neurological score was different across treatment groups (p&lt;0.03). Pairwise testing of groups found that the hCG+EPO group had significantly better behavior at 6/10 post-stroke time points as compared to Saline+Saline. The differences observed when comparing the two-drug group with placebo were less apparent when comparing either of the one-drug groups with placebo. The two one-drug treatment arms did not significantly differ at any time point. Treatment with hCG+EPO significantly reduced total lesion volume by 82-89% compared to the other three treatment groups. The current therapeutic strategy improved behavioral outcome and reduced lesion volume with a time window of 24 h after the onset of stroke. The results from these experiments provide new insight into the effects of these two growth factors on stroke in rats, and could suggest a potential for translation into human stroke studies.
The oxidation of xanthine by xanthine oxidase (XO) or xanthine dehydrogenase represents an important source of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which contribute to the damaging consequences of cerebral ischemia, inflammation, and neurodegenerative disorders. However, both enzymes are also able to act on reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH). The FAD binding site to which NADH binds is distinct from that of the xanthine binding site. We report that the combination of xanthine oxidase and NADH is toxic to cultures of cerebellar granule neurons. Protection by superoxide dismutase (Cu,Zn-SOD or Mn-SOD) or catalase indicates mediation of the toxicity by superoxide and hydrogen peroxide. In addition, pre-incubating XO with EDTA at concentrations as low as 2 microM, prevented the toxicity, indicating that a metal contaminating XO is involved in producing the toxic effects of XO/NADH. It is possible that such a metal might play a role in the toxicity of XO in vivo.
In rats and humans estradiol attenuates neuroendocrine responses to hypoglycemia. Since neuroendocrine responses to hypoglycemia are mediated by hypothalamic neurons, we assessed if estradiol attenuates hypoglycemia-induced gene expression in the hypothalamus in female ovariectomized mice. As expected, estradiol-implanted ovariectomized mice exhibited increased plasma estradiol, increased uterine weight, decreased body weight, decreased visceral adiposity, and enhanced glucose tolerance with decreased plasma insulin. Estradiol-implanted mice exhibited attenuated hypoglycemia-induced gene expression of both glucose transporter 1 (Glut1) and inhibitor of kappa beta signaling (IkappaB) in the hypothalamus but not in the liver. Estradiol also attenuated hypoglycemia-induced plasma glucagon, pituitary proopiomelanocortin (POMC), and adrenal c-fos, consistent with impaired counterregulatory responses to hypoglycemia. In addition, estradiol inhibited hypothalamic expression of carnitine palmitoyltransferase (CPT1a and CPT1c) and pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4 (PDK4), effects that would be expected to enhance the accumulation of long-chain fatty acids and glycolysis. Taken together, these findings suggest hypothalamic mechanisms mediating attenuation of hypoglycemia-induced neuroendocrine responses.
A recent study of how food-seeking behavior in the sea slug Aplysia becomes compulsive provides new insights into the neural mechanisms of operant conditioning.
The summed activity of multiple nodes of a distributed cortical network supports face recognition in humans, including &quot;core&quot; ventral occipitotemporal cortex (VOTC) regions, and &quot;extended&quot; regions outside VOTC. Many individuals with congenital prosopagnosia-an impairment in face processing-exhibit normal blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) activation in the core VOTC regions. These individuals evince a reduction in the structural integrity of the white matter tracts connecting VOTC to anterior temporal and frontal cortices, part of the &quot;extended&quot; face network. The impairment in congenital prosopagnosia may arise, therefore, not from a dysfunction of the core VOTC areas but from a failure to propagate signals between the intact VOTC and the extended nodes of the network. Using the fMR adaptation paradigm with famous and unknown faces, we show that individuals with congenital prosopagnosia evince normal adaptation effects in VOTC, indicating sensitivity to facial identity, but show no differential activation for familiar versus unknown faces outside VOTC, particularly in the precuneus/posterior cingulate cortex and the anterior paracingulate cortex. Normal BOLD activation in VOTC is thus insufficient to subserve intact face recognition, and disrupted information propagation between VOTC and the extended face processing network may explain the functional impairment in congenital prosopagnosia.
ROPER, S.D. Parallel processing in mammalian taste buds? Physiol Behav XXX(Y) 000-000, 2009. There is emerging evidence that two parallel lines of gustatory information are generated in taste buds. One pathway leads to higher cortical centers and is involved in discriminating basic taste qualities (sweet, bitter, sour, salty, umami) and perceiving flavors. The other pathway may conduct information involved in physiological reflexes such as swallowing, salivation, and cephalic phase digestion. If this notion is true, the existence of two populations of taste bud cells that have different functional characteristics may lie at the origins of the two pathways. This speculative concept is explored in this review of taste signal processing in mammalian taste buds.
Optimal choice of actions is a fundamental problem relevant to fields as diverse as neuroscience, psychology, economics, computer science, and control engineering. Despite this broad relevance the abstract setting is similar: we have an agent choosing actions over time, an uncertain dynamical system whose state is affected by those actions, and a performance criterion that the agent seeks to optimize. Solving problems of this kind remains hard, in part, because of overly generic formulations. Here, we propose a more structured formulation that greatly simplifies the construction of optimal control laws in both discrete and continuous domains. An exhaustive search over actions is avoided and the problem becomes linear. This yields algorithms that outperform Dynamic Programming and Reinforcement Learning, and thereby solve traditional problems more efficiently. Our framework also enables computations that were not possible before: composing optimal control laws by mixing primitives, applying deterministic methods to stochastic systems, quantifying the benefits of error tolerance, and inferring goals from behavioral data via convex optimization. Development of a general class of easily solvable problems tends to accelerate progress--as linear systems theory has done, for example. Our framework may have similar impact in fields where optimal choice of actions is relevant.
GABA cell dysfunction in both schizophrenia (SZ) and bipolar disorder (BD) involves decreased GAD(67) expression, although this change involves fundamentally different networks of genes in the 2 disorders. One gene that is common to these 2 networks is cyclin D2, a key component of cell cycle regulation that shows increased expression in SZ, but decreased expression in BD. Because of the importance of cell cycle regulation in maintaining functional differentiation and DNA repair, the current study has examined the genes involved in the G(1) and G(2) checkpoints to generate new hypotheses regarding the regulation of the GABA cell phenotype in the hippocampus of SZ and BD. The results have demonstrated significant changes in cell cycle regulation in both SZ and BD and these changes include the transcriptional complex (TC) that controls the expression of E2F/DP-1 target genes critical for progression to G(2)/M. The methyl-CpG binding domain protein (MBD4) that is pivotal for DNA repair, is significantly up-regulated in the stratum oriens (SO) of CA3/2 and CA1 in SZs and BDs. However, other genes associated with the TC, and the G(1) and G(2) checkpoints, show complex changes in expression in the SO of CA3/2 and CA1 of both SZs and BDS. Overall, the patterns of expression observed have suggested that the regulation of functional differentiation and/or genomic integrity of hippocampal GABA cells varies according to diagnosis and their location within the trisynaptic pathway.
Neocortical acetylcholine (ACH) release is known to enhance signal processing by increasing the amplitude and signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of sensory responses. It is widely accepted that the larger sensory responses are caused by a persistent increase in the excitability of all cortical excitatory neurons. Here, contrary to this concept, we show that ACH persistently inhibits layer 4 (L4) spiny neurons, the main targets of thalamocortical inputs. Using whole-cell recordings in slices of rat primary somatosensory cortex, we demonstrate that this inhibition is specific to L4 and contrasts with the ACH-induced persistent excitation of pyramidal cells in L2/3 and L5. We find that this inhibition is induced by postsynaptic M(4)-muscarinic ACH receptors and is mediated by the opening of inwardly rectifying potassium (K(ir)) channels. Pair recordings of L4 spiny neurons show that ACH reduces synaptic release in the L4 recurrent microcircuit. We conclude that ACH has a differential layer-specific effect that results in a filtering of weak sensory inputs in the L4 recurrent excitatory microcircuit and a subsequent amplification of relevant inputs in L2/3 and L5 excitatory microcircuits. This layer-specific effect may contribute to improve cortical SNR.


NG2 cells originate from various brain regions and migrate to their destinations during early development. These cells express voltage-gated Na(+) channels but fail to produce typical action potentials. The physiological role of Na(+) channels in these cells is unclear. We found that GABA induces membrane depolarization and Ca(2+) elevation in NG2 cells, a process requiring activation of GABA(A) receptors, Na(+) channels, and Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchangers (NCXs), but not Ca(2+) channels. We have identified a persistent Na(+) current in these cells that may underlie the GABA-induced pathway of prolonged Na(+) elevation, which in turn triggers Ca(2+) influx via NCXs. This unique Ca(2+) signaling pathway is further shown to be involved in the migration of NG2 cells. Thus, GABAergic signaling mediated by sequential activation of GABA(A) receptors, noninactivating Na(+) channels, and NCXs may play an important role in the development and function of NG2 glial cells in the brain.
Many neuronal proteins undergo lipid modification that regulates their function and subcellular localization. One such modification is palmitoylation, which is mediated by a large class of protein palmitoyl acyltransferases (PATs). Now, a paper in this issue (Noritake et al. 2009. J. Cell Biol. doi:10.1083/jcb.200903101) demonstrates that the localization of the PAT DHHC2 is regulated by neuronal activity and thereby selectively controls the palmitoylation and subsequent accumulation of specific proteins in the synapse.
Individuals time as if using a stopwatch that can be stopped or reset on command. Here, we review behavioural and neurobiological data supporting the time-sharing hypothesis that perceived time depends on the attentional and memory resources allocated to the timing process. Neuroimaging studies in humans suggest that timekeeping tasks engage brain circuits typically involved in attention and working memory. Behavioural, pharmacological, lesion and electrophysiological studies in lower animals support this time-sharing hypothesis. When subjects attend to a second task, or when intruder events are presented, estimated durations are shorter, presumably due to resources being taken away from timing. Here, we extend the time-sharing hypothesis by proposing that resource reallocation is proportional to the perceived contrast, both in temporal and non-temporal features, between intruders and the timed events. New findings support this extension by showing that the effect of an intruder event is dependent on the relative duration of the intruder to the intertrial interval. The conclusion is that the brain circuits engaged by timekeeping comprise not only those primarily involved in time accumulation, but also those involved in the maintenance of attentional and memory resources for timing, and in the monitoring and reallocation of those resources among tasks.
Perceived duration is conventionally assumed to correspond with objective duration, but a growing literature suggests a more complex picture. For example, repeated stimuli appear briefer in duration than a novel stimulus of equal physical duration. We suggest that such duration illusions appear to parallel the neural phenomenon of repetition suppression, and we marshal evidence for a new hypothesis: the experience of duration is a signature of the amount of energy expended in representing a stimulus, i.e. the coding efficiency. This novel hypothesis offers a unified explanation for almost a dozen illusions in the literature in which subjective duration is modulated by properties of the stimulus such as size, brightness, motion and rate of flicker.
The development of sub-disciplines within cognitive neuroscience follows common sense categories such as language, audition, action, memory, emotion and perception among others. There are also well-established research programmes into temporal perception, spatial perception and mathematical cognition that also reflect the subjective impression of how experience is constructed. There is of course no reason why the brain should respect these common sense, text book divisions and, here, we discuss the contention that generalized magnitude processing is a more accurate conceptual description of how the brain deals with information about time, space, number and other dimensions. The roots of the case for linking magnitudes are based on the use to which magnitude information is put (action), the way in which we learn about magnitudes (ontogeny), shared properties and locations of magnitude processing neurons, the effects of brain lesions and behavioural interference studies. Here, we assess this idea in the context of a theory of magnitude, which proposed common processing mechanisms of time, space, number and other dimensions.
Time research has been a neglected topic in the cognitive neurosciences of the last decades: how do humans perceive time? How and where in the brain is time processed? This introductory paper provides an overview of the empirical and theoretical papers on the psychological and neural basis of time perception collected in this theme issue. Contributors from the fields of cognitive psychology, psychiatry, neurology and neuroanatomy tackle this complex question with a variety of techniques ranging from psychophysical and behavioural experiments to pharmacological interventions and functional neuroimaging. Several (and some new) models of how and where in the brain time is processed are presented in this unique collection of recent research that covers experienced time intervals from milliseconds to minutes. We hope this volume to be conducive in developing a better understanding of the sense of time as part of complex set of brain-body factors that include cognitive, emotional and body states.
Von Economo neurons (VENs) are a type of large, layer V spindle-shaped neurons that were previously described in humans, great apes, elephants, and some large-brained cetaceans. Here we report the presence of Von Economo neurons in the anterior cingulate (ACC), anterior insular (AI), and frontopolar (FP) cortices of small odontocetes, including the bottlenose dolphin (Tursiops truncatus), the Risso's dolphin (Grampus griseus), and the beluga whale (Delphinapterus leucas). The total number and volume of VENs and the volume of neighboring layer V pyramidal neurons and layer VI fusiform neurons were obtained by using a design-based stereologic approach. Two humpback whale (Megaptera novaeangliae) brains were investigated for comparative purposes as representatives of the suborder Mysticeti. Our results show that the distribution of VENs in these cetacean species is comparable to that reported in humans, great apes, and elephants. The number of VENs in these cetaceans is also comparable to data available from great apes, and stereologic estimates indicate that VEN volume follows in these cetacean species a pattern similar to that in hominids, the VENs being larger than neighboring layer V pyramidal cells and conspicuously larger than fusiform neurons of layer VI. The fact that VENs are found in species representative of both cetacean suborders in addition to hominids and elephants suggests that these particular neurons have appeared convergently in phylogenetically unrelated groups of mammals possibly under the influence of comparable selective pressures that influenced specifically the evolution of cortical domains involved in complex cognitive and social/emotional processes.
Expression of P2X(1), P2X(2), P2X(3), P2X(4), P2X(5) and P2X(6) receptors, members of a family of ATP-gated cation channels, on neurons containing luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) in the mouse hypothalamus was studied with double-labeling fluorescence immunohistochemistry. This study demonstrated that different combinations of P2X receptor subunits were expressed on the perikarya and axon terminals of LHRH-producing neurons. It was shown for the first time that P2X(2), P2X(4), P2X(5) and P2X(6) receptor subunits were expressed on the perikarya of LHRH-producing neurons and P2X(2) and P2X(6) on their axon terminals. These results suggest that activation of P2X receptors by ATP via different homomeric or heteromeric P2X receptors at both presynaptic and postsynaptic sites could be involved in the regulation of LHRH secretion at the forebrain level.
Segments of the mouse sciatic nerve were preloaded with either d-2,3-(3)H-Aspartic acid [nonmetabolizable analog of glutamate] or l-(14)C-proline and the release of these exogenous molecules was evaluated in the fractions of the perfusate following electrical or magnetic stimulation. The electrical stimulation (10Hz, 10Am, 20s) induced an instantaneous increase in the release of both molecules, although the release of d-2,3-(3)H-Aspartic acid was much greater. Moreover, contrary to l-(14)C-proline, the release of d-2,3-(3)H-Aspartic acid was Ca(2+)-dependent. While magnetic stimulation (15mT, 0.16Hz, 30min) also induced the release of d-2,3-(3)H-Aspartic acid in a Ca(2+)-dependent way, the release of l-(14)C-proline was negligible. These results indicate that axons can release glutamate in a specific, calcium-dependent way. This release may contribute to interaxonal interactions.
Recent human studies reveal a widespread association between short sleep and obesity. Two hypotheses, which are not mutually exclusive, might explain this association. First, genetic factors that reduce endogenous sleep times might also impact energy stores, an assertion that we confirmed in a previous study. Second, metabolism may be altered by chronic partial sleep deprivation. Here we address the second assertion by measuring the impact of long-term partial sleep deprivation on energy stores using Drosophila as a model. We subjected flies to long-term partial sleep deprivation via two different methods: a mechanical stimulus and a light stimulus. We then measured whole-body triglycerides and glycogen, two important sources of energy for the fly, and compared them to un-stimulated controls. We also measured changes in energy stores in response to a random circadian clock shift. Sex and line-dependent alterations in glycogen and/or triglyceride levels occurred in response to the circadian clock shift and in flies subjected to a single night of sleep deprivation using light. Thus, consistent with previous studies, our findings suggest that acute sleep loss and changes to the circadian clock can alter metabolism. Significant changes in energy stores were also observed when flies were subjected to chronic sleep loss via the mechanical stimulus, although not the light stimulus. Interestingly, mechanical stimulation resulted in the same change in energy stores even when it was not associated with sleep deprivation, suggesting that the changes are caused by stress rather than sleep loss. These findings emphasize the importance of taking stress into account when evaluating the relationship between sleep loss and metabolism.

The pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) features amyloid beta peptide deposition, intracellular neurofibrillary tangles and deficits in the cholinergic pathway. Abnormal blood pressure is recognised as a risk factor for the development of AD, although the underlying mechanisms remain unproven. This review proposes angiotensins and associated enzymatic pathways as important mediators of recognised but undefined links between blood pressure and AD. Evidence in support of this involvement translates consistently from the most basic in vitro, in vivo and ex vivo experimental paradigms to more complex human-based observational and experimental studies, which also fortunately offer potential for therapeutic interventions against AD.
The field of Alzheimer's disease therapeutic research seems poised to bring to clinic the next generation of treatments, moving beyond symptomatic benefits to modification of the underlying neurobiology of the disease. But a series of recent trials has had disappointingly negative results that raise questions about our drug development strategies. Consideration of ongoing programs demonstrates difficult pitfalls. But a clear path forward is emerging. Successful strategies will utilize newly available tools to reconsider issues of diagnosis, assessment and analysis, facilitating the study of new treatments at early stages in the disease process at which they are most likely to yield major clinical benefits.
Neuropeptide S (NPS) regulates various biological functions by activating the NPS receptor (NPSR). Previous studies demonstrated that the substitution of Gly(5) with d-amino acids generates NPSR antagonists. Eleven [d-Xaa(5)]NPS derivatives were synthesized and pharmacologically tested measuring [Ca(2+)](i) in HEK293(mNPSR) cells. The results confirmed that the [d-Xaa(5)] substitution promotes antagonist activity with potency inversely related to the side chain size and allowed identification of the novel potent NPSR peptide antagonist [(t)Bu-d-Gly(5)]NPS.
Recent psychophysical studies have shown that perceived timings of events can be dissociated from their physical temporal relationship. In the flash-lag effect (FLE), a flash presented at the same spatiotemporal position as a continuously moving stimulus is perceived to lag behind the moving stimulus. In the present study, we report a peculiar condition in which FLE does not occur even when the position of a moving object is estimated at the moment of a transient event. In a series of experiments, we compared perceived timings and processing delays for appearance of a new object against feature changes of an existing object. We found that perceived timing of the appearance of a new object is delayed compared to the perception of feature changes updating the properties of an object. Our results suggest the construction of a new object representation requires additional time to establish a stable neuronal representation.
Existence and stability criteria for harmonic locking modes were derived for two reciprocally pulse coupled oscillators based on their first and second order phase resetting curves. Our theoretical methods are general in the sense that no assumptions about the strength of coupling, type of synaptic coupling, and model are made. These methods were then tested using two reciprocally inhibitory Wang and Buzski model neurons. The existence of bands of 2:1, 3:1, 4:1, and 5:1 phase locking in the relative frequency parameter space was predicted correctly, as was the phase of the slow neuron's spike within the cycle of the fast neuron in which it occurred. For weak coupling the bands are very narrow, but strong coupling broadens the bands. The predictions of the pulse coupled method agreed with weak coupling methods in the weak coupling regime, but extended predictability into the strong coupling regime. We show that our prediction method generalizes to pairs of neural oscillators coupled through excitatory synapses, and to networks of multiple oscillatory neurons. The main limitation of the method is the central assumption that the effect of each input dies out before the next input is received.

Oxidative stress contributes to tissue injury in conditions ranging from cardiovascular disease to stroke, spinal cord injury, neurodegeneration, and perhaps even aging. Yet the efficacy of antioxidants in human disease has been mixed at best. We need a better understanding of the mechanisms by which established antioxidants combat oxidative stress. Iron chelators are well established inhibitors of oxidative death in both neural and non-neural tissues, but their precise mechanism of action remains elusive. The prevailing but not completely substantiated view is that iron chelators prevent oxidative injury by suppressing Fenton chemistry and the formation of highly reactive hydroxyl radicals. Here, we show that iron chelation protects, rather unexpectedly, by inhibiting the hypoxia-inducible factor prolyl 4-hydroxylase isoform 1 (PHD1), an iron and 2-oxoglutarate-dependent dioxygenase. PHD1 and its isoforms 2 and 3 are best known for stabilizing transcriptional regulators involved in hypoxic adaptation, such as HIF-1alpha and cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB). Yet we find that global hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-PHD inhibition protects neurons even when HIF-1alpha and CREB are directly suppressed. Moreover, two global HIF-PHD inhibitors continued to be neuroprotective even in the presence of diminished HIF-2alpha levels, which itself increases neuronal susceptibility to oxidative stress. Finally, RNA interference to PHD1 but not isoforms PHD2 or PHD3 prevents oxidative death, independent of HIF activation. Together, these studies suggest that iron chelators can prevent normoxic oxidative neuronal death through selective inhibition of PHD1 but independent of HIF-1alpha and CREB; and that HIF-2alpha, not HIF-1alpha, regulates susceptibility to normoxic oxidative neuronal death.
Corticospinal tract (CST) connections to spinal interneurons are conserved across species. We identified spinal interneuronal populations targeted by the CST in the cervical enlargement of the cat during development. We focused on the periods before and after laminar refinement of the CST terminations, between weeks 5 and 7. We used immunohistochemistry of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), calbindin, calretinin, and parvalbumin to mark interneurons. We first compared interneuron marker distribution before and after CST refinement. ChAT interneurons increased, while calbindin interneurons decreased during this period. No significant changes were noted in parvalbumin and calretinin. We next used anterograde labeling to determine whether the CST targets different interneuron populations before and after the refinement period. Before refinement, the CST terminated sparsely where calbindin interneurons were located and spared ChAT interneurons. After refinement, the CST no longer terminated in calbindin-expressing areas but did so where ChAT interneurons were located. Remarkably, early CST terminations were dense where ChAT interneurons later increased in numbers. Finally, we determined whether corticospinal system activity was necessary for the ChAT and calbindin changes. We unilaterally inactivated M1 between weeks 5 and 7 by muscimol infusion. Inactivation resulted in a distribution of calbindin and ChAT in spinal gray matter regions where the CST terminates that resembled the immature more than mature pattern. Our results show that the CST plays a crucial role in restructuring spinal motor circuits during development, possibly through trophic support, and provide strong evidence for the importance of connections with key spinal interneuron populations in development of motor control functions.
The generation of new neurons in the olfactory bulb (OB) persists into adulthood and is a multistep process that includes proliferation, fate choice, migration, survival, and differentiation. Neural precursor cells destined to form olfactory interneurons arise in the subventricular zone (SVZ) and migrate along the rostral migratory stream (RMS) to the OB. Recently, some factors classically known from their effects on the vascular system have been found to influence different steps of adult neurogenesis. In the present study, we report a modulatory function for the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-1 (VEGFR-1) in adult olfactory neurogenesis. We identified expression of VEGFR-1 in GFAP-positive cells within regions involved in neurogenesis of the adult mouse brain. To determine functions for VEGFR-1 in adult neurogenesis, we compared neural progenitor cell proliferation, migration, and differentiation from wild-type and VEGFR-1 signaling-deficient mice (Flt-1TK(-/-) mice). Our data show that VEGFR-1 signaling is involved in the regulation of proliferation of neuronal progenitor cells within the SVZ, migration along the RMS, and in neuronal differentiation and anatomical composition of interneuron subtypes within the OB. RMS migration in Flt-1TK(-/-) mice was altered mainly as a result of increased levels of its ligand VEGF-A, which results in an increased phosphorylation of VEGFR-2 in neuronal progenitor cells within the SVZ and the RMS. This study reveals that proper RMS migration is dependent on endogenous VEGF-A protein.
The glutamate receptor-associated protein Homer2 regulates alcohol-induced neuroplasticity within the nucleus accumbens (NAC), but the precise intracellular signaling cascades involved are not known. This study examined the role for NAC metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)-Homer2-phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling in regulating excessive alcohol consumption within the context of the scheduled high alcohol consumption (SHAC) model of binge alcohol drinking. Repeated bouts of binge drinking ( approximately 1.5 g/kg per 30 min) elevated NAC Homer2a/b expression and increased PI3K activity in this region. Virus-mediated knockdown of NAC Homer2b expression attenuated alcohol intake, as did an intra-NAC infusion of the mGluR5 antagonist MPEP [2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine hydrochloride] (0.1-1 microg/side) and the PI3K antagonist wortmannin (50 ng/side), supporting necessary roles for mGluR5/Homer2/PI3K in binge alcohol drinking. Moreover, when compared with wild-type littermates, transgenic mice with an F1128R point mutation in mGluR5 that markedly reduces Homer binding exhibited a 50% reduction in binge alcohol drinking, which was related to reduced NAC basal PI3K activity. Consistent with the hypothesis that mGluR5-Homer-PI3K signaling may be a mechanism governing excessive alcohol intake, the &quot;anti-binge&quot; effects of MPEP and wortmannin were not additive, nor were they observed in the mGluR5(F1128R) transgenic mice. Finally, mice genetically selected for a high versus low SHAC phenotype differed in NAC mGluR, Homer2, and PI3K activity, consistent with the hypothesis that augmented NAC mGluR5-Homer2-PI3K signaling predisposes a high binge alcohol-drinking phenotype. Together, these data point to an important role for NAC mGluR5-Homer2-PI3K signaling in regulating binge-like alcohol consumption that has relevance for our understanding of the neurobiology of alcoholism and its pharmacotherapy.
The myelin-derived neurite growth inhibitor Nogo has been proposed to play a major role in blocking axon regeneration in the CNS after injuries. However, past studies have produced mixed results regarding the regenerative phenotype of various Nogo-deficient mouse lines after experimental spinal cord injury. Two lines did not display enhanced corticospinal tract (CST) regeneration, and one displayed modest regeneration. A fourth line, a Nogo-A,B gene-trap mutant, was instead reported to exhibit extensive CST regeneration, but the results were later found to be inadvertently confounded with an axon labeling artifact. Of the four Nogo mutant lines studied so far, three continue to express some isoform(s) of Nogo, leaving open the question whether any remaining Nogo protein contributes to the modest regenerative phenotype reported in some. The remaining Nogo mutant line studied was confounded by the unexplained rescue of embryonic lethality associated with this mutation. To gain a better understanding of the contribution of Nogo as an inhibitor of regeneration of CNS axons, and particularly CST axons, we reanalyzed the Nogo-A,B gene-trap mutant line and analyzed a novel, fully viable Nogo deletion mutant line that is null for all known isoforms of Nogo. Our analyses failed to reveal any enhanced CST regeneration after experimental spinal cord injury in either line. These results indicate that Nogo alone does not account for lack of CST regeneration and have implications for current therapeutic development for spinal cord injury in humans by targeting Nogo.
Alpha-latrotoxin induces neurotransmitter release by stimulating synaptic vesicle exocytosis via two mechanisms: (1) A Ca(2+)-dependent mechanism with neurexins as receptors, in which alpha-latrotoxin acts like a Ca(2+) ionophore, and (2) a Ca(2+)-independent mechanism with CIRL/latrophilins as receptors, in which alpha-latrotoxin directly stimulates the transmitter release machinery. Here, we show that the Ca(2+)-independent release mechanism by alpha-latrotoxin requires the synaptic SNARE-proteins synaptobrevin/VAMP and SNAP-25, and, at least partly, the synaptic active-zone protein Munc13-1. In contrast, the Ca(2+)-dependent release mechanism induced by alpha-latrotoxin does not require any of these components of the classical synaptic release machinery. Nevertheless, this type of exocytotic neurotransmitter release appears to fully operate at synapses, and to stimulate exocytosis of the same synaptic vesicles that participate in physiological action potential-triggered release. Thus, synapses contain two parallel and independent pathways of Ca(2+)-triggered exocytosis, a classical, physiological pathway that operates at the active zone, and a novel reserve pathway that is recruited only when Ca(2+) floods the synaptic terminal.
This study was undertaken to examine the effects of two acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (donepezil and physostigmine) on cognitive deficits in mice after repeated administration of the NMDA receptor antagonist phencyclidine (PCP). In the novel object recognition test, PCP (10 mg/kg/day for 10 days)-induced cognitive deficits were significantly improved by subsequent subchronic (14 days) administration of donepezil (1.0 mg/kg/day), but not donepezil (0.1 mg/kg/day). Furthermore, the effect of donepezil (1.0 mg/kg/day) on PCP-induced cognitive deficits was significantly antagonized by co-administration of the selective sigma-1 receptor antagonist NE-100 (1.0 mg/kg/day), suggesting the role of sigma-1 receptors in the active mechanisms of donepezil. In contrast, PCP-induced cognitive deficits were not improved by subsequent subchronic (14 days) administration of physostigmine (0.25 mg/kg/day). Moreover, repeated administration of PCP significantly caused the reduction of sigma-1 receptors in the hippocampus. The present study suggests that agonistic activity of donepezil at sigma-1 receptors plays a role in the active mechanisms of donepezil on PCP-induced cognitive deficits in mice. Therefore, it is likely that donepezil would be potential therapeutic drugs for the treatment of the cognitive deficits in schizophrenia.
Fibrates are lipid lowering drugs and found as ligands for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs). A clinical study has shown that one type of fibrate gemfibrozil reduces stroke incidence in men. However, it remains unknown whether gemfibrozil improves outcome after stroke. We hypothesized that prophylactic administration of gemfibrozil improves outcome after ischemic stroke. In this study, we measured the impact of gemfibrozil in two permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) models in young adult male mice on normal diet. First, we tested gemfibrozil in a filamentous MCAO model. Pretreatment with gemfibrozil (30 mg/kg) for 7 days moderately but significantly reduced infarct size at 24 h after MCAO. A higher dose (120 mg/kg) did not attenuate infarct size. Rather, it tended to increase brain swelling. Second, we tested in a distal MCAO model. Gemfibrozil (30 mg/kg) for 7 days before and after stroke significantly attenuated cortical lesion size at 7 days after MCAO. Cortical blood flow measured by laser speckle imaging was improved by gemfibrozil in the ischemic hemisphere. In non-stroke animals gemfibrozil also altered gene expression levels of PPARs in both the aorta and brain in organ specific manners; however, endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) was not significantly affected. These findings suggested the possibility that the observed infarct reductions and cortical blood flow improvements in ischemic brains were not through eNOS-mediated mechanisms. Further investigations may be meritorious to examine whether prophylactic usage of gemfibrozil against stroke is beneficial.


The neural plasticity mechanisms that underlie learning and memory may also be engaged when drug addiction occurs. It was reported that long-lasting neuroadaptations induced by cocaine use and withdrawal require the participation of hippocampus. However, the role of corticotrophin-releasing factor receptors in this process remains unclear. In the present study, the effects of chronic cocaine treatment (a 14-day cocaine administration, 20 mg/kg i.p., daily) and short-term cocaine withdrawal (a 3-day cocaine extinction following a 14-day cocaine administration) on long-term potentiation (LTP), one prominent cellular mechanism for learning and memory, were assessed in the CA1 region of the rat hippocampal slices. We found that cocaine withdrawal, but not the chronic cocaine administration itself, significantly enhanced the magnitude of LTP in hippocampal slices, as compared with that in saline controls. Selective blockade of corticotrophin-releasing factor receptor subtype 1 (CRF(1)) with the specific antagonist NBI 27914 (100 nM in vitro) attenuated the magnitude of LTP in hippocampal slices from cocaine withdrawal rats, and intriguingly, also from saline control rats, while specific blockade of corticotrophin-releasing factor receptor subtype 2 (CRF(2)) with astressin2-B (100 nM in vitro) selectively attenuated the magnitude of LTP in hippocampal slices from cocaine withdrawal rats. Our data suggest that short-term cocaine withdrawal treatment may cause synaptic plasticity in hippocampus partially via changing the activity of CRF(2) in the hippocampus.
Monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1) plays an important role in inflammatory reactions following cerebral ischemia. It is known that MCP-1 overexpression leads to increased infarct volume and elevated hematogenous cell recruitment, while MCP-1-deficient mice develop smaller infarcts. It was supposed that MCP-1 dependent macrophage recruitment might be the underlying mechanism of ischemic brain damage but a precise distinction of local microglia and invading macrophages was not performed. In this study we investigated the differential role of MCP-1 on inflammatory cells in MCP-1-deficient mice, using green fluorescent protein (GFP) transgenic bone marrow chimeras. After 30-min of focal cerebral ischemia microglia was rapidly activated and was not different between MCP-1-deficient mice and wild type controls. Activated microglia outnumbered GFP-positive macrophages over the study period. Furthermore, macrophage infiltration was significantly reduced at day 7 in MCP-1-deficient animals (31.2+/-20.1 cells/mm(2)) compared to MCP-1 wild type mice (131.5+/-66.7 cells/mm(2), P&lt;0.001). Neutrophils were also significantly reduced in MCP-1-deficient mice (62% on day 4% and 87% on day 7; P&lt;0.001). This is the first investigation in cerebral ischemia showing that MCP-1 is necessary for recruiting blood-borne cells to the injury site whereas it does not affect the microglia activation and migration. However, the remarkable predominance of activated microglia and the additional attenuation of invading macrophages suggest that different mechanisms than macrophage recruitment are responsible for the MCP-1-mediated neuroprotective effects after experimental stroke.
Calcium acts as an important second messenger in the intracellular signal pathways in a variety of cell functions. Strictly controlled intracellular calcium is required for proper neurite outgrowth of developing neurons. However, the molecular mechanisms of this process are still largely unknown. Neuronal calcium sensor-1 (NCS-1) is a high-affinity and low-capacity calcium binding protein, which is specifically expressed in the nervous system. NCS-1 was distributed throughout the entire region of growth cones located at a distal tip of neurite in cultured chick dorsal root ganglion neurons. In the central domain of the growth cone, however, NCS-1 was distributed in a clustered specific pattern and co-localized with the type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (InsP(3)R1). The pharmacological inhibition of InsP(3) receptors decreased the clustered specific distribution of NCS-1 in the growth cones and inhibited neurite outgrowth but did not change the growth cone morphology. The acute and localized loss of NCS-1 function in the growth cone induced by chromophore-assisted laser inactivation (CALI) resulted in the growth arrest of neurites and lamellipodial and filopodial retractions. These findings suggest that NCS-1 is involved in the regulation of both neurite outgrowth and growth cone morphology. In addition, NCS-1 is functionally linked to InsP(3)R1, which may play an important role in the regulation of neurite outgrowth.
Palatine tonsils (PTs), together with ileal Peyer's patches, rank among the first colonization sites for infectious prions. After replicating in these lymphoid tissues, prions undertake the process of &quot;neuroinvasion,&quot; which is likely mediated by the peripheral nerves connecting lymphoid tissues to the central nervous system (CNS). To study the connections between the tonsils and the CNS, we injected fluorescent tracers into the PTs of lambs; the highest number of Fast Blue (FB)-labeled neurons was found in cranial cervical ganglia (CCG), whereas a progressively decreasing number of cells were detected in proximal glossopharyngeal, proximal vagal, trigeminal, pterygopalatine, and cervicothoracic ganglia. Immunohistochemistry was carried out on tonsil and ganglia cryosections. Immunoreactivity (IR) for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH), neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), substance P (SP), and calcium-binding protein S100 (S100), was observed in the fibers around and within PT lymphoid nodules. In the trigeminal, proximal glossopharyngeal and vagal ganglia the retrogradely-labeled neurons showed nNOS-, SP- and CGRP-IR. In all ganglia some retrogradely-labeled neurons showed nNOS-, SP- and CGRP-IR co-localization. It is worth noting that only 66+/-19% and 75+/-13% of retrogradely-labeled neurons in CCG showed TH- and DBH-IR, respectively. The present results allow us to attribute PT innervation mainly to the sympathetic component and to the glossopharyngeal, vagal and trigeminal cranial nerves. Furthermore, these data also provide a plausible anatomic route through which infectious agents, such as prions, may access the CNS, i.e. by traveling along several cranial and sympathetic nerves, as well as by migration via glial cells.
We assessed whether a clinical dose of the anti-inflammatory drug methylprednisolone (MP) given to adult mice acutely after spinal cord injury (SCI) influences spinal cord or hippocampal progenitor cells. Mice underwent a thoracic dorsal hemisection of the spinal cord and received 30 mg/kg MP immediately and 24 h post-lesion. 5-Bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) was administered after lesion either acutely (1-6 days) or late (22-27 days) to label proliferating cells. Reaction of microglia/macrophages was quantified 7 days post-lesion and proliferation as well as differentiation of neural progenitor cells (NPCs) was analyzed after two survival times (7 days and 28 days). We also tested the influence of MP on microglia and adult NPCs in vitro. MP treatment reduced the number of cells proliferating acutely after SCI in the spinal cord and hippocampus. Besides reducing activation and proliferation of microglia/macrophages in the spinal cord, MP also decreased the number of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs). Analysis of acutely BrdU-labeled cells at 28 days post-lesion suggests that proliferation and number of OPCs were changed chronically. Late proliferating cells were no longer influenced by the glucocorticoid regimen. In vitro experiments showed an inhibitory effect of MP on adult spinal cord and hippocampal progenitor cell proliferation. Both cell types express the glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptors allowing a direct effect of MP. Our results show that MP reduces OPC proliferation after SCI either by affecting progenitor cells directly or via its anti-inflammatory effects. These findings open the question to which extent MP treatment limits the repair capacity of endogenous progenitor cells after CNS injury.
Previous data showed that cell surface expression of the glutamate transporters GLT1a and excitatory amino acid carrier 1 (EAAC1), localized in glia and neurons of the CNS, can be regulated by protein kinase C (PKC). Regulation and physiological importance of GLT1b, a splice variant of GLT1a, is not understood. In the present study we used cultured cerebellar granule cells (CGCs) from mice to investigate PKC dependent trafficking of GLT1b in comparison to GLT1a and EAAC1 using immunohistochemistry and subcellular fractionation followed by Western blotting. In neurites of CGCs, GLT1b and EAAC1 were localized to different aggregates of vesicles that were different from vesicle aggregates containing vesicular glutamate transporters. In CGCs cultured with low-potassium medium, stimulation of PKC by phorbol ester enhanced the formation of large varicosities in neurites that exhibited immunoreactivity for GLT1a, GLT1b, and EAAC1. Stimulation of PKC leads to a significant increase of GLT1b and EAAC1 in the plasma membrane whereas GLT1a in the plasma membrane was decreased. Following PKC stimulation, also a significant increase of transporter-mediated glutamate uptake representing sodium dependent glutamate uptake, was observed. Similarly, the fraction of glutamate uptake, that was sensitive to the inhibitor WAY-213613 and represents uptake by GLT1a and GLT1b, was increased after stimulation by PKC. The findings suggest that PKC is similarly involved in regulation of surface trafficking of GLT1b and EAAC1 and that PKC stimulated increase in surface location of GLT1b and EAAC1 in glutamatergic CGCs.
There is developmental refinement of the proprioreceptive muscle afferent input to the rat ventral horn. This study explored the extent to which this occurs in the medulla. Muscle afferents were transganglionically labeled from the extensor digitorum communis forelimb muscle with cholera toxin B subunit. Tracer amounts and transport times were adjusted for animal size. Immunohistochemistry revealed tracer localization in the medulla and dorsal root ganglia. Labeled muscle afferent boutons were counted in the cuneate nucleus between postnatal days 7 and 42, during which time a large decrease in the density of labeled boutons was observed qualitatively. Localization of input to dorsolateral parts of the nucleus remained broadly the same at different ages, although disappearance of a marked innervation of ventromedial regions in more caudal sections was observed. Bouton counts were corrected for growth of the medulla with age, and any spread of tracer to adjacent muscles indicated by counts of labeled dorsal root ganglion neurons. There was a statistically significant, approximately 40% reduction in the number of muscle afferent boutons in the cuneate nucleus during this developmental period. Previous studies suggest that perturbations to the corticospinal input during a developmental critical period influence the eventual size of the muscle afferent input to the ventral horn. Corticocuneate fibers invade the nucleus during the same period and may influence reorganization of its muscle afferent input, making it another potential site for aberrant reflex development in cerebral palsy.
The medial habenula (MHb) is a key bridge between limbic forebrain and midbrain monoaminergic centers. Although its exact behavioral function remains enigmatic, it is implicated in regulating many behaviors such as stress responses and circadian rhythm. Fundamental information such as the neurotransmitters in the afferent and efferent projections of the MHb remains unclear. By combining retrograde tract tracing and genetic labeling of GABAergic neurons in mice, we find that the medial septum (MS) and nucleus of diagonal band (NDB) provide GABA-ergic input to the MHb. By anterograde tracing and immunostaining against a marker of glutamatergic synapses, we find that the projection from the triangular septal nucleus (TS) to the MHb has the capacity to release glutamate. This suggests that in addition to ATP, glutamate is another neurotransmitter for the TS--&gt;MHb projection. Finally, by combining anterograde tracing and immunostaining, we find that the MHb neurons projecting to the interpeduncular nucleus (IPN) have the capacity to release glutamate. This suggests that, in addition to acetylcholine and substance P, glutamate is another neurotransmitter used by MHb projection neurons. Our findings reveal the organization of two key neurotransmitters for the MHb afferent and efferent projections, and lay framework for future functional studies of this pathway in the brain.
Increased permeability of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) has been reported in different conditions accompanied by hyperthermia, but the role of brain temperature per se in modulating brain barrier functions has not been directly examined. To delineate the contribution of this factor, we examined albumin immunoreactivity in several brain structures (cortex, hippocampus, thalamus and hypothalamus) of pentobarbital-anesthetized rats (50 mg/kg i.p.), which were passively warmed to different levels of brain temperature (32-42 degrees C). Similar brain structures were also examined for the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), an index of astrocytic activation, water and ion content, and morphological cell abnormalities. Data were compared with those obtained from drug-free awake rats with normal brain temperatures (36-37 degrees C). The numbers of albumin- and GFAP-positive cells strongly correlate with brain temperature, gradually increasing from approximately 38.5 degrees C and plateauing at 41-42 degrees C. Brains maintained at hyperthermia also showed larger content of brain water and Na(+), K(+) and Cl(-) as well as structural abnormalities of brain cells, all suggesting acute brain edema. The latter alterations were seen at approximately 39 degrees C, gradually progressed with temperature increase, and peaked at maximum hyperthermia. Temperature-dependent changes in albumin immunoreactivity tightly correlated with GFAP immunoreactivity, brain water, and numbers of abnormal cells; they were found in each tested area, but showed some structural specificity. Notably, a mild BBB leakage, selective glial activation, and specific cellular abnormalities were also found in the hypothalamus and piriform cortex during extreme hypothermia (32-33 degrees C); in contrast to hyperthermia these changes were associated with decreased levels of brain water, Na(+) and K(+), suggesting acute brain dehydration. Therefore, brain temperature per se is an important factor in regulating BBB permeability, alterations in brain water homeostasis, and subsequent structural abnormalities of brain cells.
Several lines of evidence indicate that peripheral 5-HT2A receptors are involved in the development of inflammatory and neuropathic pain. However, their localization in sensory cell bodies is not accurately known. We therefore studied 5-HT2A receptor distribution in rat lumbar dorsal root ganglia using immunocytochemistry. Forty percent of L3 lumbar dorsal root ganglion cells were immunoreactive for 5-HT2A receptor. Most were small- to medium-sized cell bodies. Double-labeled experiments revealed that they expressed various chemical phenotypes. The smaller 5-HT2AR cell bodies often bind the isolectin B4 although some 5-HT2AR cell bodies also express substance P (SP). Many 5-HT2A-positive small dorsal root ganglion cells expressed the capsaicin receptor transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 receptor (TRPV1), confirming their nociceptive nature. In addition, a few large cell bodies were labeled for 5-HT2A, and they also expressed NF200 suggesting that they were at the origin of Adelta or Abeta fibers. A total absence of double labeling with parvalbumin showed that they were not proprioceptors. 5-HT2A immunoreactivity in dorsal root ganglia cells was found in the cytoplasm and along the plasma membrane at the interface between sensory cell and the adjacent satellite cells; this distribution was confirmed under the electron microscope, and suggested a functional role for the 5-HT2A receptor at these sites. We therefore investigated the presence of 5-HT and 5-HIAA in lumbar dorsal root ganglia by high performance liquid chromatography. There were 5.75+/-0.80 ng 5-HT and 3.19+/-0.37 ng 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) per mg of protein with a ratio 5-HIAA/5-HT of 0.67+/-0.10, similar to values typically observed in brain tissues. These findings suggest that 5-HT, via the 5-HT2AR, may be involved in the peripheral control of sensory afferents, mainly unmyelinated nociceptors and to a lesser extent neurons with Adelta or Abeta fibers, and in the control of cellular excitability of some dorsal root cell bodies through a paracrine mechanism of action.
Recent evidence has suggested that mitochondrial dysfunction may lead to impaired neurotransmitter exocytosis in transgenic Huntington's disease (HD) model mice. To gain insight into the impact of mitochondrial impairment on striatal dopamine release in vivo, we used fast-scan cyclic voltammetry (FSCV) at carbon fiber microelectrodes to measure dopamine release and uptake kinetics in anesthetized Lewis rats continuously treated for 5 days with 3-nitropropionic acid (3NP). Our results indicate that, even though striatal dopamine content was unchanged, remotely stimulated dopamine release evoked per electrical stimulus pulse ([DA](p)) is decreased in 3NP-treated rats (33% of that observed in sham control rats) and that this decrease is uniform throughout all stereotaxic depths tested. Nevertheless, unlike data collected previously from transgenic HD model rodents, the maximum rate of dopamine uptake (V(max)) in 3NP-treated rats is diminished (30% of controls) while K(m) is unchanged. Treatment with 3NP also resulted in a corresponding decrease in locomotor activity, presumably due in part to the impaired dopamine release. These results indicate that dopamine release is degraded in this HD model, as is observed in transgenic HD model rodents; however, the results also imply that there are fundamental differences in dopamine uptake between 3NP-treated animals and transgenic animals.
We characterized upper trunk and pelvis motion in normal subjects and in subjects with vestibular or proprioceptive loss, to document upper body movement modes in the pitch and roll planes during quiet stance. Six bilateral vestibular loss (VL), six bilateral lower-leg proprioceptive loss (PL) and 28 healthy subjects performed four stance tasks: standing on firm or foam surface with eyes open or closed. Motion of the upper body was measured using two pairs of body-worn gyroscopes, one mounted at the pelvis and the other pair at the shoulders. Pitch and roll angular velocities recorded from the gyroscopes were analyzed separately for low-frequency (&lt;0.7 Hz) and high-frequency (&gt;3 Hz) motion. Low-frequency pitch motion was similar for all groups, consisting of in-phase pelvis and shoulder motion. High-frequency pitch motion in controls and VL subjects was dominated by pelvis motion with little shoulder motion, but vice versa in PL subjects. Low-frequency roll motion changed for all groups from mainly shoulder and little pelvis motion to in-phase pelvis and shoulder motion after moving from a firm to foam surface. In contrast, high-frequency roll motion changed from mainly shoulder motion to mainly pelvis motion with the change to a foam surface, except for PL subjects with eyes closed. Coherent low-frequency sway between pelvis and shoulder was only pronounced in VL patients. These results indicate that relative motion between the pelvis and shoulder depends on the support surface, the type of sensory loss, and whether the motion is in roll or pitch plane. Furthermore, relative motion between the pelvis and upper trunk is an integral part of movement modes used to control quiet stance. Vestibular loss patients showed very similar movement modes as controls, with larger amplitudes. Proprioceptive loss patients, however, used more shoulder motion and stabilized the pelvis for the high-frequency mode. We conclude that there is relative motion between the upper trunk and pelvis during quiet stance and suggest that it may contribute to balance control.
Serotonergic (5-HT) neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) have been implicated in stress-induced changes in behavior. Previous research indicates that stressful stimuli activate 5-HT neurons in select subregions of the DRN. Uncontrollable stress is thought to sensitize 5-HT neurons in the DRN and allow for an exaggerated 5-HT response to future stimuli. In the current study, we tested the hypothesis that following aggressive encounters, losing male Syrian hamsters would exhibit increased c-Fos immunoreactivity in 5-HT DRN neurons compared to winners or controls. In addition, we tested the hypothesis that losers would have decreased 5-HT1A mRNA levels in the DRN compared to winners or controls. We found that a single 15-min aggressive encounter increased c-Fos expression in 5-HT and non-5-HT neurons in losers compared to winners and controls. The increased c-Fos expression in losers was restricted to ventral regions of the rostral DRN. We also found that four 5-min aggressive encounters reduced total 5-HT1A mRNA levels in the DRN in losers compared to winners and controls, and that differences in mRNA levels were not restricted to specific DRN subregions. These results suggest that social defeat activates neurons in select subregions of the DRN and reduces message for DRN 5-HT1A autoreceptors. Our results support the hypothesis that social stress can activate 5-HT neurons in the DRN, reduce 5-HT1A autoreceptor-mediated inhibition, and lead to hyperactivity of 5-HT neurons.
Although fructose is commonly used as a sweetener, its effects on brain function are unclear. Using rat hippocampal slices, we found that fructose and mannose, like pyruvate, preserve ATP levels during 3-h of glucose deprivation. Similarly, fructose and mannose restored synaptic potentials (excitatory postsynaptic potential, EPSPs) depressed during glucose deprivation. However, restoration of synaptic responses was slow and only partial with fructose. EPSPs supported by mannose were inhibited by cytochalasin B (CCB), a glucose transport inhibitor, but were not inhibited by alpha-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamate (4-CIN), a monocarboxylate transport inhibitor, indicating that neurons use mannose via glucose transporters. In contrast, both CCB and 4-CIN depressed EPSPs supported by fructose, suggesting that fructose may be taken up by non-neuronal cells through CCB sensitive hexose transporters and metabolized to a monocarboxylate for subsequent use during neuronal respiration. Supporting this possibility, 20 minutes of oxygen deprivation in the presence of fructose resulted in functional and morphological deterioration whereas oxygen deprivation in the presence of glucose or mannose had minimal toxic effects. These results indicate that neuronal fructose utilization differs from glucose and mannose and likely involves release of monocarboxylates from glia.
Forced choice between alternative options of unpredictable outcome is a complex task that requires continual update of the value associated with each option. Prefrontal areas such as the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) have been shown to play a major role in performance on ambiguous decision-making tasks with substantial risk component, broadly named as &quot;gambling tasks.&quot; We have recently demonstrated that rats display complex decision-making behavior in a rodent gambling task based on serial choices between rewards of different value and probability. This rodent task retains many of the key characteristics of the human Iowa Gambling Task (IGT), and performance in this novel task is also disrupted by OFC or amygdalar lesioning. In the present study we addressed if rat models of chronic pain would have impaired performance in this gambling task, since it is already known that the IGT response patterns of human pain patients are comparable to individuals with OFC lesions. We found that animals with a monoarthritic inflammatory model of chronic pain systematically preferred the lever associated with larger but infrequent rewards. In addition, we measured the neurochemical content of the OFC, amygdala and nucleus accumbens using HPLC, and found that in prolonged chronic pain animals there was a decrease in the tonic levels of dopamine, DOPAC (3,4-hydroxyphenyl-acetic acid) and 5-HIAA (5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid) in the OFC. This is the first report of the effect of chronic pain in rat decision-making processes and supports the notion that pain may have profound effects on the functioning of the reward-aversion circuitry relevant to strategic planning.
Ghrelin induces orexigenic behavior by activation of growth hormone secretagogue 1 receptors (GHSRs) in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) as well as hypothalamus, suggesting the involvement of mesolimbic dopamine system in the action of ghrelin. The present study aimed to identify neuronal mechanisms by which peripherally administered ghrelin regulates the mesolimbic dopamine system under different food-consumptive states. Ghrelin was administered to rats peripherally (3 nmol, i.v.) as well as locally into the VTA (0.3 nmol). Dopamine in the nucleus accumbens shell (NAc) was measured by microdialysis. Peripheral administration of ghrelin decreased dopamine levels in the NAc when food was removed following ghrelin administration. This inhibitory effect was mediated through GABA(A) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the VTA. In contrast, when animals consumed food following ghrelin administration, dopamine levels increased robustly. This stimulatory effect was mediated through NMDA receptors, but not through GABA(A) receptors, in the VTA. Importantly, both the inhibitory and stimulatory effects of ghrelin primarily required activation of GHSRs in the VTA. Furthermore, local injection of ghrelin into the VTA induced dopamine release in the NAc and food consumption, supporting the local action of ghrelin in the VTA. In conclusion, peripherally administered ghrelin activates GHSRs in the VTA, and induces bimodal effects on mesolimbic dopamine neurotransmission depending on food-consumptive states.
Neurogenic inflammation of the dura mater encephali has been suggested to contribute to the mechanisms of meningeal nociception and blood flow regulation. Recent findings demonstrated that the rat dura mater is innervated by trigeminal capsaicin-sensitive peptidergic nociceptive afferent nerves which mediate meningeal vascular responses through activation of the transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) receptor. The present work explored the functional significance of the capsaicin-sensitive subpopulation of dural afferent nerves via their contribution to the meningeal vascular responses evoked through activation of the proteinase-activated receptor 2 (PAR-2). The vascular responses of the dura mater were studied by laser Doppler flowmetry in a rat open cranial window preparation. Topical applications of trypsin, a PAR-2-activator, or Ser-Leu-Ile-Gly-Arg-Leu-amide (SLIGRL-NH(2)), a selective PAR-2 agonist peptide, resulted in dose-dependent increases in meningeal blood flow. The SLIGRL-NH(2)-induced vasodilatation was significantly reduced following capsaicin-sensitive afferent nerve defunctionalization by prior systemic capsaicin treatment and by pretreatment of the dura mater with the calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist CGRP(8-37). Nomega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester hydrochloride (L-NAME) an unspecific inhibitor of nitric oxide (NO) production, but not 1-(2-trifluoromethylphenyl) imidazole (TRIM), a neuronal NO synthase inhibitor, also inhibited the vasodilator response to SLIGRL-NH(2). The vasodilator responses elicited by very low concentrations of capsaicin (10 nM) were significantly enhanced by prior application of SLIGRL-NH(2). The present findings demonstrate that activation of the PAR-2 localized on capsaicin-sensitive trigeminal nociceptive afferent nerves induces vasodilatation in the dural vascular bed by mechanisms involving NO and CGRP release. The results indicate that the PAR-2-mediated activation and sensitization of meningeal capsaicin-sensitive C-fiber nociceptors may be significantly implicated in the pathophysiology of headaches.
It has been long known that the physiological concentrations of polyamines putrescine, spermidine and spermine are essential for cell growth. However, the role of endogenous polyamines in behavior function is poorly understood at present. This study investigated animals' behavioral performance and neurochemical changes in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex following i.c.v. microinfusion of difluoromethylornithine (DFMO), a potent inhibitor of putrescine synthesis. Rats with low (25 microg) and high (50 microg) doses of DFMO spent significantly less time on the open arms and more time on the enclosed arms in the elevated plus maze relative to the saline controls, with no performance changes in the open field. The two DFMO groups were not impaired in the place and cued navigation, reversal training and probe tests in the water maze task. In the object recognition memory task, all three groups could detect the novel object, but rats in the high dose DFMO group spent significantly less time exploring displaced objects relative to the controls. DFMO treatment at both doses resulted in an 80%-90% reduction of putrescine level in the CA1, CA2/3 and dentate gyrus (DG) sub-regions of the hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex with minimal effects on the spermidine and spermine levels. Decreased spermidine/spermine molar ratio was found in DG and there were increased glutamate and GABA levels and their molar ratios in a region-specific manner in the DFMO groups. These results demonstrate that acute depletion of putrescine by DFMO produces anxiety-like behavior and impairs memory for the object displacement without affecting animals' locomotor and exploratory activity and spatial learning and memory. Multiple regression analysis data suggest the different roles of endogenous putrescine, spermidine and spermine on behavior function. The spermidine/spermine and glutamate/GABA ratios in hippocampal DG are strongly associated with anxiety-like behavior in the DFMO rats.
An extensive body of literature provides evidence for both sexual dimorphism and menstrual cycle effects in drug abuse patterns and behavioral responses. However, the cellular mechanisms underlying sexually dimorphic responses to and hormonal effects on cocaine use remain unclear. We hypothesized that endogenous hormonal fluctuations during the estrous cycle of rats modulate cocaine's effects on dopamine- and PKA-mediated intracellular responses. To test this hypothesis, intact female rats at different stages of their cycle received a single injection of saline or cocaine (20 mg/kg) and were sacrificed after 15 or 60 min. The nucleus accumbens (NAc) and caudate putamen (CPu) were dissected and analyzed via Western blot for total and phosphorylated (p-thr34) dopamine- and 3'-5'-cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein with molecular weight 32 kDa (DARPP-32), PP1, PP2B (CNA1 and CNB1 subunits), PKA, CREB, cFOS, and Delta-FosB. Our results show that saline-treated rats had estrous cycle-related differences in protein levels of pCREB, DARPP-32, p-thr34-DARPP-32, PP1, and CNA1. Saline-treated female rats in the estrus stage had higher levels of pCREB in the NAc, but cocaine-treatment lowered pCREB levels. The estrous cycle also significantly affected the magnitude of change for p-thr34-DARPP-32 protein levels in both the NAc and CPu. Sixty minutes of cocaine administration increased p-thr34-DARPP-32 levels in the NAc of rats during estrus and proestrus and in the CPu of rats in diestrus. Furthermore, cocaine-induced changes in PP1 protein levels in the NAc were also affected by the stage of the cycle; 60 min of cocaine administration increased PP1 levels in the NAc of rats during diestrus, whereas PP-1 levels decreased in rats during estrus. Taken together, these novel findings suggest that hormonal fluctuations during the estrous cycle may contribute to the previously reported sex differences in the PKA pathway and in behavioral responses to cocaine.
Exposure to intense noise induces apoptosis in hair cells in the cochlea. To identify the molecular changes associated with noise-induced apoptosis, we used quantitative real-time PCR to evaluate the changes in 84 apoptosis-related genes in cochlear samples from the sensory epithelium and lateral wall. Sprague-Dawley rats exposed to a continuous noise at 115 dB SPL for 2 h. The exposure caused a 40-60 dB threshold shift 4 h post-exposure that decreased to 20-30 dB 7 days post-exposure. These functional changes were associated with apoptotic markers including nuclear condensation and fragmentation and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling staining. Immediately after the noise exposure, 12 genes were downregulated, whereas only one gene (Traf4) was upregulated. At 4 h post-exposure, eight genes were upregulated; three (Tnrsf1a, Tnfrsf1b, Tnfrst5) belonged to the Tnfrsf family, three (Bir3, Mcl1 and Prok2) have anti-apoptotic properties and one (Gadd45a) is a target of p53. At 7 days post-exposure, all the upregulated genes returned to pre-noise levels. Interestingly, the normal control cochlea had high constitutive levels of several apoptosis-related genes. These constitutively expressed genes, together with the inducible genes, may participate in the induction of cochlear apoptotic activity.
Rats segregated according to low (LA) or high (HA) anxiety levels have been used as an important tool in the study of fear and anxiety. Since the efficacy of an anxiolytic compound is a function of the animal's basal anxiety level, it is possible that chronic treatment with a benzodiazepine (Bzp) affects LA and HA animals differently. Based on these assumptions, this study aimed to provide some additional information on the influence of acute, chronic (18 days) and withdrawal effects (48 h) from diazepam (10 mg/kg), in rats with LA or HA levels, on startle response amplitude. For this purpose, the elevated plus-maze (EPM) test was used. In addition, the role of glutamate receptors of the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (cIC), the most important mesencephalic tectum integrative structure of the auditory pathways and a brain region that is linked to the processing of auditory information of aversive nature, was also evaluated. Our results showed that, contrary to the results obtained in LA rats, long-term treatment with diazepam promoted anxiolytic and aversive effects in HA animals that were tested under chronic effects or withdrawal from this drug, respectively. In addition, since Bzp withdrawal may function as an unconditioned stressor, the negative affective states observed in HA rats could be a by-product of GABA-glutamate imbalance in brain systems that modulate unconditioned fear and anxiety behaviors, since the blockade of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptors in the cIC clearly reduced the aversion promoted by diazepam withdrawal.
The glial cell water channel aquaporin-4 (AQP4) plays an important role in brain edema, astrocyte migration, and neuronal excitability. Zhou et al. [Zhou J, Kong H, Hua X, Xiao M, Ding J, Hu G (2008) Altered blood-brain barrier integrity in adult aquaporin-4 knockout mice. Neuroreport 19:1-5] recently reported that AQP4 deletion significantly altered blood-brain barrier integrity and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunoreactivity in their AQP4 null mice. Here we describe a detailed characterization of baseline brain properties in our AQP4 null mice, including gross appearance, neuronal, astrocyte and oligodendrocyte characteristics, and blood-brain barrier integrity. Gross anatomical measurements included estimates of brain and ventricle size. Neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes were assessed using the neuronal nuclear marker NeuN, the astrocyte marker GFAP, and the myelin stain Luxol Fast Blue. The blood-brain barrier was studied by electron microscopy and the horseradish peroxidase extravasation technique. There were no differences in brain and ventricle sizes between wild type and AQP4 null mice, nor were there differences in the cerebral cortical density of NeuN positive nuclei, perimicrovessel and glia limitans GFAP immunoreactivity, or the thickness and myelination of the corpus callosum. The ultrastructure of microvessels in the frontal cortex and caudate nucleus of wild type vs. AQP4 null mice was indistinguishable, with features including intact endothelial tight junctions, absence of perimicrovessel astrocyte foot process edema, and absence of horseradish peroxidase extravasation. In contrast to the report by Zhou et al. (2008), our data show that AQP4 deletion in mice does not produce major structural abnormalities in the brain.
To achieve task goals in the various contexts of everyday life, the CNS has to adapt to short time scale changes in the properties of the neuromuscular system, such as those induced by fatigue. Here we investigated how humans preserve task success despite fatigue-induced changes within the neuromuscular system, when they have to aim at a target as fast and as accurately as possible. In such a task, subjects generally choose a compromise between speed and accuracy that has been formalized as Fitts's law. We first characterized the effect of fatigue on Fitts's law in an experiment where participants had to perform fast but accurate elbow movements aimed at targets of different sizes, before and after a fatiguing exercise that reduced maximal voluntary force by approximately 30%. We found that movements were slower to guarantee task success in the presence of fatigue. We then used an optimal control model to determine how fatigue-induced changes in variables such as noise in motor commands, muscle contraction and relaxation times, and the gain between neural activation and muscle force may contribute to changes in Fitts's law with fatigue. We concluded that the observed behavior was not due to the lack of available force, but very likely reflected the fact that the CNS uses the same optimal strategy with a fatigued neuromuscular plant that notably exhibits increased signal-dependent noise in motor commands. This strategy appears necessary to preserve task success in the presence of acute changes in the neuromuscular system.
Opiate addiction is associated with upregulation of cAMP signaling in the brain. cAMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB), a nuclear transcription factor, is a downstream component of the extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) pathway, which has been shown to regulate different physiological and psychological responses of drug addiction. RACK1, the protein receptor for activated C kinase 1, is a multifunctional scaffolding protein known to be a key regulator of various signaling cascades in the CNS. RACK1 functions specifically in integrin mediated activation of ERK cascade and targets active ERK. We examined if RACK1 is involved in the mechanism of drug addiction by regulating CREB in mouse hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. Several expressions were observed. Chronic administration of morphine made the expression of RACK1 and CREB mRNA increase in hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. The expression of RACK1 and CREB protein was strongly positive in CA1, CA3 and dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus of morphine-treated mice brain, especially the pyramidal neurons in the DG of the hippocampus. Using the small interfering RNA technology, we determined that the expression of CREB mRNA was decreased in hippocampus and prefrontal cortex of morphine-treated mice. The expression of RACK1 and CREB protein was negative in CA1, CA3 and DG of hippocampus. These findings suggest that morphine reward can influence the expression of RACK1 in mouse hippocampus and prefrontal cortex through regulating CREB transcription.
Mu opioid receptor (MOR) signaling in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) elicits marked increases in the consumption of palatable tastants. However, the mechanism and circuitry underlying this effect are not fully understood. Multiple downstream target regions have been implicated in mediating this effect but the role of the ventral pallidum (VP), a primary target of NAcc efferents, has not been well defined. To probe the mechanisms underlying increased consumption, we identified behavioral changes in rats' licking patterns following NAcc MOR stimulation. Because the temporal structure of licking reflects the physiological substrates modulating consumption, these measures provide a useful tool in dissecting the cause of increased consumption following NAcc MOR stimulation. Next, we used a combination of pharmacological inactivation and lesions to define the role of the VP in hyperphagia following infusion of the MOR-specific agonist [D-Ala2, N-MePhe4, Gly-ol]-enkephalin (DAMGO) into the NAcc. In agreement with previous studies, results from lick microstructure analysis suggest that NAcc MOR stimulation augments intake through a palatability-driven mechanism. Our results also demonstrate an important role for the VP in normal feeding behavior: pharmacological inactivation of the VP suppresses baseline and NAcc DAMGO-induced consumption. However, this interaction does not occur through a serial circuit requiring direct projections from the NAcc to the VP. Rather, our results indicate that NAcc and VP circuits converge on a common downstream target that regulates food intake.
In this study, we evaluated whether astrocytic and microglial activation mediates below-level neuropathic pain following spinal cord injury. Male Sprague-Dawley (225-250 g) rats were given low thoracic (T13) spinal transverse hemisection and behavioral, electrophysiological and immunohistochemical methods were used to examine the development and maintenance of below-level neuropathic pain. On postoperation day 28, both hind limbs showed significantly decreased paw withdrawal thresholds and thermal latencies as well as hyperexcitability of lumbar (L4-5) spinal wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons on both sides of spinal dorsal horn compared to sham controls (* P&lt;0.05). Intrathecal treatment with propentofylline (PPF, 10 mM) for 7 consecutive days immediately after spinal injury attenuated the development of mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia in both hind limbs in a dose-related reduction compared to vehicle treatments (* P&lt;0.05). Intrathecal treatment with single injections of PPF at 28 days after spinal injury, attenuated the existing mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia in both hind limbs in a dose related reduction (* P&lt;0.05). In electrophysiological studies, topical treatment of 10 mM PPF onto the spinal surface attenuated the neuronal hyperexcitability in response to mechanical stimuli. In immunohistochemical studies, astrocytes and microglia in rats with spinal hemisection showed significantly increased GFAP and OX-42 expression in both superficial and deep dorsal horns in the lumbar spinal dorsal horn compared to sham controls (* P&lt;0.05) that was prevented in a dose-related manner by PPF. In conclusion, our present data support astrocytic and microglial activation that contributes to below-level central neuropathic pain following spinal cord injury.
Calcineurin is a calmodulin (CaM) dependent protein phosphatase recently found to be altered in the brains of patients suffering from schizophrenia and by repeated antipsychotic treatment in rats. Some data suggest, however, that antipsychotics and schizophrenia may have a more widespread effect on the CaM signaling axis than calcineurin alone. In the current study, the effects of selected psychoactive drugs were investigated using Western blotting, in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry to determine if they target CaM, calmodulin-dependent protein kinases (CaMK) or calcineurin. Results indicated that repeated treatment with haloperidol, clozapine or risperidone increased CaM protein and CaMII mRNA levels but decreased calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IIalpha (CaMKIIalpha) IV (CaMKIV), kinase alpha (CaMKKalpha), kinase beta (CaMKKbeta) and calcineurin protein levels in the striatum of Sprague-Dawley rats (Rattus Norvegicus). Closer examination of CaMKIV, CaMKKalpha and CaMKKbeta revealed that the observed decreases in protein levels were short-lived following antipsychotic treatment and reversed (i.e. upregulated) 24 h post-treatment similar to what was previously reported for calcineurin. The D(2)/D(3)dopamine receptor antagonist raclopride mimicked the decreases in CaMKIV, CaMKKalpha, CaMKKbeta and calcineurin observed following antipsychotic treatment whereas increases in these proteins were observed in an amphetamine model of the positive symptoms of schizophrenia. Mood stabilizers such as lithium and valproic acid or the antidepressant fluoxetine had no effect on CaMKIV, CaMKKalpha, CaMKKbeta and calcineurin with the exception of an increase in CaMKKbeta following lithium treatment. The results collectively suggest that antipsychotic specifically target several proteins associated with CaM signaling.
The stomach-derived hormone ghrelin interacts with key CNS circuits regulating energy balance and body weight. Here we provide evidence that the central ghrelin signaling system is required for alcohol reward. Central ghrelin administration (to brain ventricles or to tegmental areas involved in reward) increased alcohol intake in a 2-bottle (alcohol/water) free choice limited access paradigm in mice. By contrast, central or peripheral administration of ghrelin receptor (GHS-R1A) antagonists suppressed alcohol intake in this model. Alcohol-induced locomotor stimulation, accumbal dopamine release and conditioned place preference were abolished in models of suppressed central ghrelin signaling: GHS-R1A knockout mice and mice treated with 2 different GHS-R1A antagonists. Thus, central ghrelin signaling, via GHS-R1A, not only stimulates the reward system, but is also required for stimulation of that system by alcohol. Our data suggest that central ghrelin signaling constitutes a potential target for treatment of alcohol-related disorders.
Metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) activation has been extensively studied under steady-state conditions. However, at central synapses, mGluRs are exposed to brief submillisecond glutamate transients and may not reach steady-state. The lack of information on the kinetics of mGluR activation impairs accurate predictions of their operation during synaptic transmission. Here, we report experiments designed to investigate mGluR kinetics in real-time. We inserted either CFP or YFP into the second intracellular loop of mGluR1beta. When these constructs were coexpressed in PC12 cells, glutamate application induced a conformational change that could be monitored, using fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET), with an EC(50) of 7.5 microM. The FRET response was mimicked by the agonist DHPG, abolished by the competitive antagonist MCPG, and partially inhibited by mGluR1-selective allosteric modulators. These results suggest that the FRET response reports active conformations of mGluR1 dimers. The solution exchange at the cell membrane was optimized for voltage-clamped cells by recording the current induced by co-application of 30 mM potassium. When glutamate was applied at increasing concentrations up to 2 mM, the activation time course decreased to a minimum of approximately 10 ms, whereas the deactivation time course remained constant (approximately 50 ms). During long-lasting applications, no desensitization was observed. In contrast, we observed a robust sensitization of the FRET response that developed over approximately 400 ms. Activation, deactivation, and sensitization time courses and amplitudes were used to derive a kinetic scheme and rate constants, from which we inferred the EC(50) and frequency dependence of mGluR1 activation under non-steady-state conditions, as occurs during synaptic transmission.
In the adult dentate gyrus, radial glia-like cells represent putative stem cells generating neurons and glial cells. Here, we combined patch-clamp recordings, biocytin filling, immunohistochemistry, single-cell transcript analysis, and mouse transgenics to test for connexin expression and gap junctional coupling of radial glia-like cells and its impact on neurogenesis. Radial glia-like cells were identified in mice expressing EGFP under control of the nestin and gfap promoters. We show that a majority of Radial glia-like cells are coupled and express Cx43. Neuronal precursors were not coupled. Mice lacking Cx30 and Cx43 in GFAP-positive cells displayed almost complete inhibition of proliferation and a significant decline in numbers of radial glia-like cells and granule neurons. Inducible virus-mediated ablation of connexins in the adult hippocampus also reduced neurogenesis. These findings strongly suggest the requirement of connexin expression by radial glia-like cells for intact neurogenesis in the adult brain and point to possible communication pathways of these cells.
Neuronal migration is essential for proper development of the cerebral cortex. As a first step, a postmitotic cell extends its leading process, presumably by adding new membrane at the growing tip, which would enable directed locomotion. The goal of the present study was to determine if biosynthetic exocytic pathway is polarized in migrating cells and whether polarized exocytosis promotes directed cell migration. A promising candidate for controlling the spatial sites of vesicle tethering and fusion at the plasma membrane is a protein complex called the exocyst. We found that cell migration in a wound assay, as well as cortical neuronal migration during embryonic development was impaired when the exocyst was disturbed. By combining TIRF microscopy and a stochastic model of exocytosis, we found that vesicle exocytosis is preferentially distributed close to the leading edge of polarized cells, that the exocytic process is organized into hotspots, and that the polarized delivery of vesicles and their clustering in hotspots depend on the intact exocyst complex. The exocyst complex seems to achieve this spatial regulation by determining the sites at the membrane where secretory vesicles tether. Thus, our study supports the notion that polarized membrane traffic regulated by the exocyst is an essential component of cell migration and that its deficit may lead to cortical abnormalities involving cortical neuronal malpositioning.
The subjective experience of stress leads to reproductive dysfunction in many species, including rodents and humans. Stress effects on reproduction result from multilevel interactions between the hormonal stress response system, i.e., the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, and the hormonal reproductive system, i.e., the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis. A novel negative regulator of the HPG axis known as gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone (GnIH) was recently discovered in quail, and orthologous neuropeptides known as RFamide-related peptides (RFRPs) have also been identified in rodents and primates. It is currently unknown, however, whether GnIH/RFRPs influence HPG axis activity in response to stress. We show here that both acute and chronic immobilization stress lead to an up-regulation of RFRP expression in the dorsomedial hypothalamus (DMH) of adult male rats and that this increase in RFRP is associated with inhibition of downstream HPG activity. We also show that adrenalectomy blocks the stress-induced increase in RFRP expression. Immunohistochemistry revealed that 53% of RFRP cells express receptors for glucocorticoids (GCs), indicating that adrenal GCs can mediate the stress effect through direct action on RFRP cells. It is thought that stress effects on central control of reproduction are largely mediated by direct or indirect effects on GnRH-secreting neurons. Our data show that stress-induced increases in adrenal GCs cause an increase in RFRP that contributes to hypothalamic suppression of reproductive function. This novel insight into HPA-HPG interaction provides a paradigm shift for work on stress-related reproductive dysfunction and infertility, and indicates that future work on stress and reproductive system interactions must include investigation of the role of GnIH/RFRP.
To date, the beta amyloid (Abeta) cascade hypothesis remains the main pathogenetic model of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but its role in the majority of sporadic AD cases is unclear. The &quot;mitochondrial cascade hypothesis&quot; could explain many of the biochemical, genetic, and pathological features of sporadic AD. Somatic mutations in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) could cause energy failure, increased oxidative stress, and accumulation of Abeta, which in a vicious cycle reinforce the mtDNA damage and the oxidative stress. Despite the evidence of mitochondrial dysfunction in AD, no causative mutations in the mtDNA have been detected so far. Indeed, results of studies on the role of mtDNA haplogroups in AD are controversial. In this review we discuss the role of the mitochondria, and especially of the mtDNA, in the cascade of events leading to neurodegeneration, dementia, and AD.
Recently, we demonstrated that intact nitric oxide (NO) signaling is essential for the development of cocaine behavioral sensitization in adulthood [M.A. Balda, K.L. Anderson, Y. Itzhak, Differential role of the nNOS gene in the development of behavioral sensitization to cocaine in adolescent and adult B6;129S mice, Psychopharmacology (Berl) 200 (2008) 509-519]. Given the requirement of dopamine (DA) transmission in cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization and the interactions between NO and DA systems, the present study investigated the role of the neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) gene and the effect of cocaine on the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive (-ir) neurons. Adult (postnatal day 80) wild type (WT) and nNOS knockout (KO) mice received saline or a sensitizing regimen of cocaine (20mg/kg) for 5 days. After 24h, TH immunoreactivity was assessed in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and the dorsal striatum (dST) using stereology and Western blotting, respectively. We report that (a) nNOS KO mice express lower levels of TH-ir neurons in the VTA compared to WT counterparts, (b) cocaine administration to WT mice significantly increased striatal TH expression, and (c) the same cocaine administration to nNOS KO mice significantly decreased striatal TH expression. Thus, the nitrergic system may contribute to cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization by regulating dopaminergic neurotransmission.
Consciousness has been proposed to emerge from functionally integrated large-scale ensembles of gamma-synchronous neural populations that form and dissolve at a frequency in the theta band. We propose that discrete moments of perceptual experience are implemented by transient gamma-band synchronization of relevant cortical regions, and that disintegration and reintegration of these assemblies is time-locked to ongoing theta oscillations. In support of this hypothesis we provide evidence that (1) perceptual switching during binocular rivalry is time-locked to gamma-band synchronizations which recur at a theta rate, indicating that the onset of new conscious percepts coincides with the emergence of a new gamma-synchronous assembly that is locked to an ongoing theta rhythm; (2) localization of the generators of these gamma rhythms reveals recurrent prefrontal and parietal sources; (3) theta modulation of gamma-band synchronization is observed between and within the activated brain regions. These results suggest that ongoing theta-modulated-gamma mechanisms periodically reintegrate a large-scale prefrontal-parietal network critical for perceptual experience. Moreover, activation and network inclusion of inferior temporal cortex and motor cortex uniquely occurs on the cycle immediately preceding responses signaling perceptual switching. This suggests that the essential prefrontal-parietal oscillatory network is expanded to include additional cortical regions relevant to tasks and perceptions furnishing consciousness at that moment, in this case image processing and response initiation, and that these activations occur within a time frame consistent with the notion that conscious processes directly affect behaviour.



The introduction of immunotherapy and its ultimate success will require re-evaluation of the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease particularly with regard to the role of the ageing microvasculature and the effects of APOE genotype. Arteries in the brain have two major functions (a) delivery of blood and (b) elimination of interstitial fluid and solutes, including amyloid-beta (Abeta), along perivascular pathways (lymphatic drainage). Both these functions fail with age and particularly severely in Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia. Accumulation of Abeta as plaques in brain parenchyma and artery walls as cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is associated with failure of perivascular elimination of Abeta from the brain in the elderly and in Alzheimer's disease. High levels of soluble Abeta in the brain correlate with cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease and reflect the failure of perivascular drainage of solutes from the brain and loss of homeostasis of the neuronal environment. Clinically and pathologically, there is a spectrum of disease related to functional failure of the ageing microvasculature with &quot;pure&quot; Alzheimer's disease at one end of the spectrum and vascular dementia at the other end. Changes in the cerebral microvasculature with age have a potential impact on therapy with cholinesterase inhibitors and especially on immunotherapy that removes Abeta from plaques in the brain, but results in an increase in severity of CAA and no clear improvement in cognition. Drainage of Abeta along perivascular pathways in ageing artery walls may need to be improved to maximise the potential for improvement of cognitive function with immunotherapy.
In cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA), amyloid fibrils deposit in walls of arteries, arterioles and less frequently in veins and capillaries of the central nervous system, often resulting in secondary degenerative vascular changes. Although the amyloid-beta peptide is by far the commonest amyloid subunit implicated in sporadic and rarely in hereditary forms of CAA, a number of other proteins may also be involved in rare familial diseases in which CAA is also a characteristic morphological feature. These latter proteins include the ABri and ADan subunits in familial British dementia and familial Danish dementia, respectively, which are also known under the umbrella term BRI2 gene-related dementias, variant cystatin C in hereditary cerebral haemorrhage with amyloidosis of Icelandic-type, variant transthyretins in meningo-vascular amyloidosis, disease-associated prion protein (PrP(Sc)) in hereditary prion disease with premature stop codon mutations and mutated gelsolin (AGel) in familial amyloidosis of Finnish type. In this review, the characteristic morphological features of the different CAAs is described and the implication of the biochemical, genetic and transgenic animal data for the pathogenesis of CAA is discussed.



Subtyping of substance dependence disorders holds promise for a number of important research areas including phenotyping for genetic studies, characterizing clinical course, and matching treatment and prevention strategies. This study sought to investigate whether a dichotomous construct similar to Babor's Types A/B and Cloninger's Types I/II for alcohol dependence can be identified for cannabis dependence in a Native American sample. In addition, heritability of this construct and its behavior in a genetic linkage analyses were evaluated. Information on cannabis use and dependence symptoms and other psychiatric disorders was obtained using the Semi-Structured Assessment for the Genetics of Alcoholism from a community sample of 606 American Indians. Hierarchical average linkage and K means cluster analysis was used, and a three-cluster solution was found to generate the best separation of variables. Ninety-one per cent of cannabis-dependent participants fell into one of the two subtypes: Type A/I cluster (n = 114, 56%) and Type B/II cluster (n = 70, 35%). Heritability (estimated using Sequential Oligogenic Linkage Analysis Routines) was only significant for the Type B/II cluster (h(2) = 0.44, SE = 0.18, P &lt; 0.01). Evidence for linkage was found for the Type B/II cluster (versus no diagnosis) on chromosome 16 [at 139 centimorgans (cM), Log of the Odds (LOD) score = 4.4], and on chromosome 19 (at 74 cM, LOD score = 6.4). Regions of interest for this phenotype (LOD &gt; 1.5) were also located on chromosomes 14, 21, 22. These findings suggest that a Type B/II cannabis dependence phenotype can be identified in this population and that it is in part heritable and linked to areas of the genome identified previously for drug dependence phenotypes in this population as well as in other studies.
Whereas amphetamine and other psychostimulants primarily act on the dopamine system, there is also evidence that other neurotransmitter systems, such as the endogenous opioid system, modulate psychostimulant-induced effects. Several studies have investigated the role of opioid antagonists on cocaine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP), but there is limited information about the interaction with amphetamines. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of the opioid receptor antagonist, naltrexone (NTX) on the conditioning, expression and reinstatement of amphetamine-induced place preference. In addition, the effect of NTX on locomotor behaviour was measured during all sessions. During training, animals were conditioned with amphetamine (2 mg/kg) to induce place preference. In order to extinguish the conditioned behaviour, animals received saline for 12 days. Reinstatement of CPP was induced by a priming dose of amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg). The interaction of NTX and amphetamine was evaluated using three paradigms of CPP: with NTX (vehicle, 0.3, 1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg) administered either 30 minutes prior to amphetamine conditioning, or 30 minutes before the expression, or 30 minutes before the amphetamine priming to induce reinstatement. Naltrexone had no effect on the conditioning, the expression or the reinstatement induced by a priming dose of amphetamine. Further, NTX by itself did not induce place preference or place aversion. In contrast, NTX significantly attenuated the locomotor response to a priming dose of amphetamine without affecting general locomotor behaviour. The results suggest differences in opioid modulation of amphetamine-induced behaviours in the rat.






Thanks to new evidence we are now a step closer to understanding how neurons produce amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta)-the chief culprit of Alzheimer's disease. As importance of clathrin-mediated endocytosis to normal neurons has become clearer, so has its role in pathology of neurological disorders. Here we update recent evidence that endocytosis plays a central role in the production of Abeta in neurons.


Small (SK) and large conductance (BK) Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels contribute to action potential repolarization, shape dendritic Ca(2+)spikes and postsynaptic responses, modulate the release of hormones and neurotransmitters, and contribute to hippocampal-dependent synaptic plasticity. Over the last decade, SK and BK channels have emerged as important targets for the development of acute ethanol tolerance and for altering neuronal excitability following chronic ethanol consumption. In this mini-review, we discuss new evidence implicating SK and BK channels in ethanol tolerance and ethanol-associated homeostatic plasticity. Findings from recent reports demonstrate that chronic ethanol produces a reduction in the function of SK channels in VTA dopaminergic and CA1 pyramidal neurons. It is hypothesized that the reduction in SK channel function increases the propensity for burst firing in VTA neurons and increases the likelihood for aberrant hyperexcitability during ethanol withdrawal in hippocampus. There is also increasing evidence supporting the idea that ethanol sensitivity of native BK channel results from differences in BK subunit composition, the proteolipid microenvironment, and molecular determinants of the channel-forming subunit itself. Moreover, these molecular entities play a substantial role in controlling the temporal component of ethanol-associated neuroadaptations in BK channels. Taken together, these studies suggest that SK and BK channels contribute to ethanol tolerance and adaptive plasticity.



In recognition of the global problem posed by Alzheimer's disease and other dementias, an international think-tank meeting was convened by Biocat, the Pasqual Maragall Foundation, and the Lou Ruvo Brain Institute in February 2009. The meeting initiated the planning of a European Union-North American collaborative research enterprise to expedite the delay and ultimate prevention of dementing disorders. The key aim is to build parallel and complementary research infrastructure that will support international standardization and inter-operability among researchers in both continents. The meeting identified major challenges, opportunities for research resources and support, integration with ongoing efforts, and identification of key domains to influence the design and administration of the enterprise.


Alzheimer's disease is characterized by numerous pathological abnormalities, including amyloid beta (Abeta) deposition in the brain parenchyma and vasculature. In addition, intracellular Abeta accumulation may affect neuronal viability and function. In this study, we evaluated the effects of different forms of Abeta on cognitive decline by analyzing the behavioral induction of the learning-related gene Arc/Arg3.1 in three different transgenic mouse models of cerebral amyloidosis (APPPS1, APPDutch, and APP23). Following a controlled spatial exploration paradigm, reductions in both the number of Arc-activated neurons and the levels of Arc mRNA were seen in the neocortices of depositing mice from all transgenic lines (deficits ranging from 14 to 26%), indicating an impairment in neuronal encoding and network activation. Young APPDutch and APP23 mice exhibited intracellular, granular Abeta staining that was most prominent in the large pyramidal cells of cortical layer V; these animals also had reductions in levels of Arc. In the dentate gyrus, striking reductions (up to 58% in aged APPPS1 mice) in the number of Arc-activated cells were found. Single-cell analyses revealed both the proximity to fibrillar amyloid in aged mice, and the transient presence of intracellular granular Abeta in young mice, as independent factors that contribute to reduced Arc levels. These results provide evidence that two independent Abeta pathologies converge in their impact on cognitive function in Alzheimer's disease.
The action of interleukin-6 (IL-6) impacts female reproduction. Although IL-6 was recently shown to inhibit cilia activity in human fallopian tubes in vitro, the molecular mechanisms underlying IL-6 signaling to tubal function remain elusive. Here, we investigate the cellular localization, regulation, and possible function of two IL-6 receptors (IL-6R alpha and gp130) in mouse and human fallopian tubes in vivo. We show that IL-6R alpha is restricted to the cilia of epithelial cells in both mouse and human fallopian tubes. Exogenous 17beta-estradiol (E(2)), but not progesterone (P(4)), causes a time-dependent decrease in IL-6R alpha expression, which is blocked by the estrogen receptor (ER) antagonist ICI-182,780. Exposure of different ER-selective agonists propyl-(1H)-pyrazole-1,3,5-triyl-trisphenol or 2,3-bis-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-propionitrile demonstrated an ER subtype-specific regulation of IL-6R alpha in mouse fallopian tubes. In contrast to IL-6R alpha, gp130 was detected in tubal epithelial cells in mice but not in humans. In humans, gp130 was found in the muscle cells and was decreased in the periovulatory and luteal phases during the reproductive cycles, indicating a species-specific expression and regulation of gp130 in the fallopian tube. Expression of tubal IL-6R alpha and gp130 in IL-6 knockout mice was found to be normal; however, E(2) treatment increased IL-6R alpha, but not gp130, in IL-6 knockout mice when compared with wild-type mice. Furthermore, expression levels of IL-6R alpha, but not gp130, decreased in parallel with estrogenic accelerated oocyte-cumulus complex (OCC) transport in mouse fallopian tubes. Our findings open the possibility that cilia-specific IL-6R alpha may play a role in the regulation of OCC transport and suggest an estrogen-regulatory pathway of IL-6R alpha in the fallopian tube.
Fatty acids stimulate lipid accumulation in parallel with increased expression of adipose differentiation-related protein (ADRP) in liver cells. Although it is generally considered that the fatty acid effect on ADRP expression is mediated by peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs), we identified here an additional molecular mechanism using the NMuLi mouse liver nonparenchymal cell line, which expresses PPARgamma and delta but not alpha. Oleic acid (OA) and specific ligands for PPARgamma and -delta stimulated ADRP expression as well as the -2,090-bp ADRP promoter activity which encompasses the PPAR response element (PPRE) adjacent to an Ets/activator protein (AP)-1 site. When the AP-1 site was mutated, OA failed to stimulate the activity despite the presence of the PPRE, whereas ligands for PPARgamma and -delta did stimulate it and so did a PPARalpha ligand under the coexpression of PPARalpha. DNA binding of AP-1 was stimulated by OA but not by PPAR ligands. Because we previously demonstrated that Pycnogenol (PYC), a French maritime pine bark extract, suppressed ADRP expression in macrophages partly by suppression of AP-1 activity, we tested the effect of PYC on NMuLi cells. PYC reduced the OA-induced ADRP expression along with suppression of lipid droplet formation. However, PYC neither suppressed the OA-stimulated ADRP promoter activity nor DNA binding of AP-1 but, instead, reduced the ADRP mRNA half-life. All these results indicate that the effect of OA on ADRP expression requires AP-1 as well as PPRE, and PYC suppresses the ADRP expression in part by facilitating mRNA degradation. PYC, a widely used dietary supplement, could be beneficial for the prevention of excessive lipid accumulation such as hepatic steatosis.
Marmosets exchange two types of calls: phees and trills. We played back phees and trills to investigate the temporal rules of vocal exchanges using ten captive common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). The marmosets usually emitted the same type of vocalizations just after the stimulus playbacks, and similar regularities were observed in the temporal intervals of phees and in trills. They vocalized with shorter intervals when they responded with trills rather than phees, and, after the first call, they repeatedly vocalized trills with shorter intervals than phees. These results suggest that the temporal rules between phees and trills are qualitatively similar but quantitatively different. These results might be owing to the different distances over which these contact calls are used.

The relationship between subjective memory beliefs and suggestibility, compliance, false memories, and objective memory performance was studied in a community sample of young and middle-aged people (N = 142). We hypothesized that people with subjective memory problems would exhibit higher suggestibility and compliance levels and would be more susceptible to false recollections than those who are optimistic about their memory. In addition, we expected a discrepancy between subjective memory judgments and objective memory performance. We found that subjective memory judgments correlated significantly with compliance, with more negative memory judgments accompanying higher levels of compliance. Contrary to our expectation, subjective memory problems did not correlate with suggestibility or false recollections. Furthermore, participants were accurate in estimating their objective memory performance.
Prenatal nicotine exposure impairs normal lung development and leads to diminished pulmonary function after birth. Previous work from our laboratory has demonstrated that nicotine alters lung development by affecting a nonneuronal cholinergic autocrine loop that is expressed in lung. Bronchial epithelial cells (BECs) express choline acetyltransferase, the choline high-affinity transporter and nicotinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptor (nAChR) subunits. We now demonstrate through a combination of morphological and electrophysiological techniques that nicotine affects this autocrine loop by up-regulating and activating cholinergic signaling. RT-PCR showed the expression of alpha 3, alpha 4, alpha 7, alpha 9, alpha 10, beta2, and beta 4 nAChR mRNAs in rhesus monkey lung and cultured BECs. The expression of alpha 7, alpha 4, and beta2 nAChR was confirmed by immunofluorescence in the cultured BECs and lung. The electrophysiological characteristics of nAChR in BECs were determined using whole-cell patch-clamp on cultured BECs. Both ACh and nicotine evoked an inward current, with a rapid desensitizing current. Nicotine induced inward currents in a concentration-dependent manner, with an EC(50) of 26.7 microM. Nicotine-induced currents were reversibly blocked by the nicotinic antagonists, mecamylamine, dihydro-beta-erythroidine, and methyllcaconitine. Incubation of BECs with 1 microM nicotine for 48 hours enhanced nicotine-induced currents by roughly 26%. The protein tyrosine phosphorylation inhibitor, genistein, increased nicotine-induced currents by 58% and enhanced methyllcaconitine-sensitive currents (alpha 7 nAChR activities) 2.3-fold, whereas the protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor, pervanadate, decreased the effects of nicotine. These results demonstrate that chronic nicotine exposure up-regulates nAChR activity in developing lung, and that nAChR activity can be further modified by tyrosine phosphorylation.
There is an increasing interest in new strategies to rapidly detect analytes of clinical and environmental interest without the need for sophisticated instrumentation. As an example, the detection of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors such as neurotoxins and organophosphates has implications for neuroscience, drug assessment, pharmaceutical development, and environmental monitoring. Functionalization of surfaces with multiple reagents, including enzymes and chromogenic reagents, is a critical component for the effective development of &quot;dipstick&quot; or lateral flow biosensors. Herein, we describe a novel paper-based solid-phase biosensor that utilizes piezoelectric inkjet printing of biocompatible, enzyme-doped, sol-gel-based inks to create colorimetric sensor strips. For this purpose, polyvinylamine (PVAm, which captures anionic agents) was first printed and then AChE was overprinted by sandwiching the enzyme within two layers of biocompatible sol-gel-derived silica on paper. AChE inhibitors, including paraoxon and aflatoxin B1, were detected successfully using this sensor by measuring the residual activity of AChE on paper, using Ellman's colorimetric assay, with capture of the 5-thio-2-nitrobenzoate (TNB(-)) product on the PVAm layer. The assay provided good detection limits (paraoxon, approximately 100 nM; aflatoxin B1, approximately 30 nM) and rapid response times (&lt;5 min). Detection could be achieved either by eye or using a digital camera and image analysis software, avoiding the need for expensive and sophisticated instrumentation. We demonstrate that the bioactive paper strip can be used either as a dipstick or a lateral flow-based biosensor. The use of sol-gel-based entrapment produced a sensor that retained enzyme activity and gave reproducible results after storage at 4 degrees C for at least 60 days, making the system suitable for storage and use in the field.
The neck is not only one of the more challenging anatomical regions to dissect but also has important application to clinical conditions, diseases, and procedures. In this study, we describe two simple modifications for dissection of the neck that (1) aid in the identification and preservation of the cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus and the accessory nerve, and (2) provide wide exposure of the root of the neck. The cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus can be identified with relative ease at the nerve point of the neck, where they are largest. To accomplish this, the skin and platysma are reflected beginning from the anterior border of trapezius and proceeding anteriorly to the midline of the neck, rather than the conventional approach of reflecting the skin from the anterior midline. The accessory nerve is identified by its relationship to the nerve point and its course to the trapezius muscle. To achieve wide exposure of the root of the neck and its contents, the acromioclavicular and sternoclavicular joints are disarticulated, and then the clavicle removed completely, rather than the more common approach of removing only the middle section of the clavicle. These modified procedures can be readily performed by first-year medical students and integrate well with methods described in widely used anatomy dissection manuals.


Mutations within LRRK2, most notably p.G2019S, cause Parkinson's disease (PD) in rare monogenic families, and sporadic occurrences in diverse populations. We investigated variation throughout LRRK2 (84 SNPs; genotype or diplotype found for 49 LD blocks) for 275 cases (European ancestry, onset at age 60 or older) and 275 neurologically healthy control subjects (NINDS Neurogenetics Repository). Three grade-of-membership groups, i.e. genetic risk sets, were identified that exactly matched many subjects (cases: 46, 4, 137; controls: 0, 178, 0), and distinguished 94% of the subjects (i.e. &gt;50% likeness to one set). Set I, affected, carried certain low frequency alleles located in multiple functional domains. Set II was unaffected. Set III, also affected, resembled set II except for slightly elevated frequencies of minor alleles not defining set I. We conclude that certain low frequency alleles distributed throughout LRRK2 are a genetic background to a third of cases, defining a distinct subset.


The adult mammalian brain continuously generates new neurons in the olfactory bulb and hippocampus throughout life. Adult neurogenesis, a highly dynamic process, has been shown to be exquisitely modulated by neuronal circuit activity at different stages, from proliferation of adult neural progenitors, to differentiation, maturation, integration, and survival of newborn neurons in the adult brain. Strategic activity-dependent addition of new neurons into the existing neuronal circuitry represents a prominent form of structural plasticity and may contribute to specific brain functions, such as learning, memory, and mood modulation. Here we review extrinsic mechanisms through which adult neurogenesis is regulated by environmental cues, physiological learning-related stimuli, and neuronal activities.
Accumulating evidence suggests that sporadic Parkinson's disease (sPD) has a long prodromal period during which several nonmotor features develop; in particular, impairment of olfaction, vagal dysfunction, and sleep disorder. Early sites of Lewy pathology are the olfactory bulb and enteric plexuses of the foregut. We propose that a neurotropic pathogen, probably viral, enters the brain via two routes: (a) nasal, with anterograde progression into the temporal lobe; and (b) gastric, secondary to swallowing of nasal secretions in saliva. These secretions might contain a neurotropic pathogen that, after penetration of the epithelial lining, could enter axons of the Meissner's plexus and via transsynaptic transmission reach the preganglionic parasympathetic motor neurons of the vagus nerve. This would allow retrograde transport into the medulla and from here into the pons and midbrain until the substantia nigra is reached and typical aspects of disease commence. Evidence for this theory from the perspective of olfactory and autonomic dysfunction is reviewed and the possible routes of pathogenic invasion are considered. It is concluded that the most parsimonious explanation for the initial events of sPD is pathogenic access to the brain through the foregut and nose-hence the term &quot;dual hit.&quot;
Efforts to quantify the public health impact of chemosensation present significant challenges, including a strong need for testing methods suitable for field assessment. This discussion highlights several promising approaches to the population-based study of taste function; it also identifies key principles that should be considered when adapting laboratory-based taste tests for field use.
Drosophila melanogaster males display stereotypical courtship ritual in courting potential mates. The fruitless (fru) gene plays a pivotal role in the generation of male-typical courtship behavior by instructing the formation of the central circuitry underlying this behavior during development. The fru gene expression can be monitored by a reporter, fruNP21, that labels approximately 800 neurons in the adult male brain. Among these fru-expressing neurons, a male-specific neural cluster called P1 initiated male-typical courtship behavior; when the P1 cluster was ectopically produced in the female brain, many such females displayed male-typical courtship behavior toward a target female. To further elucidate the central circuitry for courtship behavior, we examined central projections of sensory neurons that appear to perceive sex pheromones sensed in the foreleg gustatory receptors. The central terminals of these sensory neurons are located near dendrites of the fru-expressing interneurons named mAL. These results suggest that different subsets of fru-expressing neurons are involved in both the sensory integration of sexual cues and the activation of motor centers that generate motor outputs for courtship behavior in the Drosophila brain.
Experimental approaches to identify sex pheromones of blue crabs are outlined. I describe how consideration of the ecological context of mating behavior can lead to the development of more reliable bioassays. I also describe chemical analyses that demonstrate differences in the chemical composition of urines from animals of different sex and maturity, which indicates the promise of using biomarker targeting in identifying sex pheromones.

How do we remember olfactory information? Is the architecture of human olfactory memory unique compared with that of memory for other types of stimuli? Ten years ago, a review article evaluated these questions, as well as the distinction between long- and short-term olfactory memory, with three lines of evidence: capacity differences, coding differences, and neuropsychological evidence, though serial position effects were also considered. From the data available at the time, the article preliminarily suggested that olfactory memory was a two-component system that was not qualitatively different from memory systems for other types of stimuli. The decade that has elapsed since then has ushered in considerable changes in theories of memory structure and provided huge advances in neuroscience capabilities. Not only have many studies exploring various aspects of olfactory memory been published, but a model of olfactory perception that includes an integral unitary memory system also has been presented. Consequently, the structure of olfactory memory is reevaluated in the light of further information currently available with the same theoretical lines of evidence previously considered. This evaluation finds that the preponderance of evidence suggests that, as in memory for other types of sensory stimuli, the short-term-long-term distinction remains a valuable dissociation for conceptualizing olfactory memory, though perhaps not as architecturally separate systems.
Like odor perception, odor imagery is characterized by wide variability between individuals. The present two-part study sought to assess whether this inter-individual variability is underlain by behavioral differences in actual odor perception. In study 1, subjects judged the intensity, pleasantness, familiarity and edibility of 3 odorants. Participants were split into two olfactory imagery groups (&quot;good&quot; versus &quot;poor&quot; olfactory imagers) according to their scores on an imagery questionnaire. Results showed that good olfactory imagers judged all odors as more familiar and more edible than did poor olfactory imagers. Study 2 sought to determine whether these effects derived from a particular strategy of reenacting olfactomotor responses to smells on the part of good olfactory imagers, by recording their sniffs during odor perception. Results revealed that good olfactory imagers sniffed all odors longer and, again, judged these same odors as more edible and familiar. This supports the hypothesis of more complete odor processing and better access to odor semantics in good olfactory imagers.
Recent work from our laboratory in awake behaving animals shows that olfactory bulb processing changes depending profoundly on behavioral context. Thus, we find that when recording from the olfactory bulb in a mouse during a go-no go association learning task, it is not unusual to find a mitral cell that initially does not respond to the rewarded or unrewarded odors but develops a differential response to the stimuli during the learning session. This places a challenge on how to approach understanding of olfactory bulb processing, because neural interactions differ depending on the status of the animal. Here we address the question of how the different approaches to study olfactory bulb neuron responses, including studies in anesthetized and unanesthetized animals in vivo and recordings in slices, complement each other. We conclude that more critical understanding of the relationship between the measurements in the different preparations is necessary for future advances in the understanding of olfactory bulb processing of odor information.

The olfactory bulb contains an impressive array of specialized inhibitory local circuits. The most frequent inhibitory microcircuit in this brain region is the reciprocal dendrodendritic synapse formed between the lateral dendrites of mitral cells and distal dendritic spines of GABAergic granule cells. Recent work discussed in this review suggests that release of GABA from granule cell spines may reflect near-coincident activation of both mitral cell-to-granule cell synapses and proximal excitatory synapses on granule cells that originate from pyramidal cells in piriform cortex. Recent work using two-photon guided microstimulation demonstrated that proximal and distal excitatory synapses onto granule cells exhibit different forms of short-term plasticity, with feedback inputs from piriform cortex facilitating when tested with brief ( approximately 50 ms) interstimulus intervals. One consequence of this synaptic plasticity is that short duration, gamma-frequency, oscillatory discharges in piriform cortical cells evoke summating excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) in granule cells that effectively trigger action potentials. Piriform cortex stimulation can gate dendrodendritic inhibition onto mitral cells, presumably through the ability of EPSP-driven action potentials in granule cells to temporarily relieve the tonic blockade of NMDA receptors by extracellular Mg(2+) ions. Feedback projections in other CNS systems also may target inhibitory neurons, such as the backprojection from CA3 pyramidal neurons to GABAergic hilar interneurons. The ability of downstream processing areas to rapidly and selectively activate inhibitory interneurons in other brain regions may provide an important mechanism to dynamically modulate biological information processing.
In the olfactory bulb, mitral and tufted cells receive GABAergic inhibition at dendrodendritic synapses with granule cells. Recent studies have revealed a remarkable variability in the subunit composition of GABA(a) receptors in dendrodendritic microcircuits, with differential expression patterns of the alpha1 and alpha3 subunits in different subtypes of mitral and tufted cells. In particular, all mitral cells express the alpha1 subunit, whereas GABA(a)alpha3 is restricted to a subgroup of mitral cells, as well as to several subtypes of tufted cells. To assess the functional relevance of this heterogeneity, we investigated a mouse strain carrying a genetic deletion of the alpha1 subunit. Elimination of GABA(a)alpha1 was partially compensated for in mitral cells by receptors containing the alpha3 subunit, substantially decreasing the frequency of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents, as well as prolonging their decay time. Evoked inhibition between granule and mitral cells was slower to rise and decay and had smaller amplitude in alpha1 mutants. Remarkably, these changes in synaptic inhibition were accompanied by a significant reduction in the frequency of field oscillations. Therefore, the subunit composition of GABA(a) receptors strongly influences rhythmic activities in the olfactory bulb network. Together, these data indicate that dendrodendritic circuits in the external plexiform layer segregate into parallel pathways involving distinct GABA(a) receptors that are expressed by different subtypes of mitral and tufted cells.
Perception of sweet taste is important for animals to detect external energy source of calories. In mice, sweet-sensitive cells possess a leptin receptor. Increase of plasma leptin with increasing internal energy storage in the adipose tissue suppresses sweet taste responses via this receptor. Data from our recent studies indicate that leptin may also modulate sweet taste sensation in humans with a diurnal variation in sweet sensitivity. This leptin modulation of sweet taste information to the brain may influence individuals' preference and ingestive behavior, thereby playing important roles in regulation of energy homeostasis.

Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) is an incretin hormone that underlies the augmented insulin release from the pancreas in response to glucose in the gut lumen more than to intravenous injected glucose (the &quot;incretin effect&quot;). GLP-1, found in enteroendocrine L cells of the gut, regulates appetite and gut motility and is released from L cells in response to glucose. GLP-1-expressing duodenal L cells also express T1r taste receptors, alpha-gustducin, and many other taste transduction elements. Knockout mice lacking alpha-gustducin or T1r3 have deficiencies in secretion of GLP-1 and in the regulation of plasma levels of insulin and glucose. Gut-expressed taste-signaling elements underlie multiple chemosensory functions of the gut including the incretin effect. Modulating hormone secretion from gut &quot;taste cells&quot; may provide novel treatments for obesity, diabetes, and malabsorption.
Neuroscientists are now coming to appreciate that a significant degree of information processing occurs in the peripheral sensory organs of taste prior to signals propagating to the brain. Gustatory stimulation causes taste bud cells to secrete neurotransmitters that act on adjacent taste bud cells (paracrine transmitters) as well as on primary sensory afferent fibers (neurocrine transmitters). Paracrine transmission, representing cell-cell communication within the taste bud, has the potential to shape the final signal output that taste buds transmit to the brain. The following paragraphs summarize current thinking about how taste signals generally, and umami taste in particular, are processed in taste buds.
Recent molecular studies proposed that the T1r1/T1r3 heterodimer, mGluR1 and mGluR4 might function as umami taste receptors in mice. However, the roles of each of these receptors in umami taste are not yet clear. In this paper, we summarize recent data for T1r3, mGluR1, and mGluR4 as umami taste receptors and discuss receptor systems responsible for umami detection in mice.

Speech and music are highly complex signals that have many shared acoustic features. Pitch, Timbre, and Timing can be used as overarching perceptual categories for describing these shared properties. The acoustic cues contributing to these percepts also have distinct subcortical representations which can be selectively enhanced or degraded in different populations. Musically trained subjects are found to have enhanced subcortical representations of pitch, timbre, and timing. The effects of musical experience on subcortical auditory processing are pervasive and extend beyond music to the domains of language and emotion. The sensory malleability of the neural encoding of pitch, timbre, and timing can be affected by lifelong experience and short-term training. This conceptual framework and supporting data can be applied to consider sensory learning of speech and music through a hearing aid or cochlear implant.
Research and outcomes with cochlear implants (CIs) have revealed a dichotomy in the cues necessary for speech and music recognition. CI devices typically transmit 16-22 spectral channels, each modulated slowly in time. This coarse representation provides enough information to support speech understanding in quiet and rhythmic perception in music, but not enough to support speech understanding in noise or melody recognition. Melody recognition requires some capacity for complex pitch perception, which in turn depends strongly on access to spectral fine structure cues. Thus, temporal envelope cues are adequate for speech perception under optimal listening conditions, while spectral fine structure cues are needed for music perception. In this paper, we present recent experiments that directly measure CI users' melodic pitch perception using a melodic contour identification (MCI) task. While normal-hearing (NH) listeners' performance was consistently high across experiments, MCI performance was highly variable across CI users. CI users' MCI performance was significantly affected by instrument timbre, as well as by the presence of a competing instrument. In general, CI users had great difficulty extracting melodic pitch from complex stimuli. However, musically experienced CI users often performed as well as NH listeners, and MCI training in less-experienced subjects greatly improved performance. With fixed constraints on spectral resolution, such as occurs with hearing loss or an auditory prosthesis, training and experience can provide considerable improvements in music perception and appreciation.
The recent discovery of spontaneous synchronization to music in a nonhuman animal (the sulphur-crested cockatoo Cacatua galerita eleonora) raises several questions. How does this behavior differ from nonmusical synchronization abilities in other species, such as synchronized frog calls or firefly flashes? What significance does the behavior have for debates over the evolution of human music? What kinds of animals can synchronize to musical rhythms, and what are the key methodological issues for research in this area? This paper addresses these questions and proposes some refinements to the &quot;vocal learning and rhythmic synchronization hypothesis.&quot;
Cochlear implants (CIs) provide impressive speech perception for persons with severe hearing loss, but many CI recipients fail in perceiving speech prosody and music. Successful rehabilitation depends on cortical plasticity in the brain and postoperative measures. The present study evaluates the behavioral and neurologic effects of musical ear training on CI users' speech and music perception. The goal is to find and work out musical methods to improve CI users' auditory capabilities and, in a longer perspective, provide an efficient strategy for improving speech understanding for both adults and children with CIs.
During the last years, a number of studies demonstrated that music listening (and even more so music production) activates a multitude of brain structures involved in cognitive, sensorimotor, and emotional processing. For example, music engages sensory processes, attention, memory-related processes, perception-action mediation (&quot;mirror neuron system&quot; activity), multisensory integration, activity changes in core areas of emotional processing, processing of musical syntax and musical meaning, and social cognition. It is likely that the engagement of these processes by music can have beneficial effects on the psychological and physiological health of individuals, although the mechanisms underlying such effects are currently not well understood. This article gives a brief overview of factors contributing to the effects of music-therapeutic work. Then, neuroscientific studies using music to investigate emotion, perception-action mediation (&quot;mirror function&quot;), and social cognition are reviewed, including illustrations of the relevance of these domains for music therapy.
In the neurosciences of music, a consensus on the nature of affective states during music listening has not been reached. What is undeniable is that subjective affective states can be triggered by various and even opposite musical events. Here we review the few recent studies on the neural determinants of subjective affective processes of music, contrasted with early automatic neural processes linked to the objective universal properties of music. In particular, we focus on the evaluative judgments of music by subjects according to its aesthetic and structural values, on music-specific emotions felt by listeners, and on conscious liking. We then discuss and seek to stimulate further research on the interplay between the emotional attributes of music and the subjective cognitive, psychological, and biographic factors, such as personality traits and cognitive strategies of listening. We finally draw the neuroscientist's attention to the sociocultural context as a relevant variable to study when considering music as an aesthetic domain.
By adapting methods of cognitive psychology to neuropsychology, we examined memory and familiarity abilities in music in relation to emotion. First we present data illustrating how the emotional content of stimuli influences memory for music. Second, we discuss recent findings obtained in patients with two different brain disorders (medically intractable epilepsy and Alzheimer's disease) that show relatively spared memory performance for music, despite severe verbal memory disorders. Studies on musical memory and its relation to emotion open up paths for new strategies in cognitive rehabilitation and reinstate the importance of examining interactions between cognitive and clinical neurosciences.

Even adults with no formal music lessons have implicit musical knowledge acquired through exposure to the music of their culture. Two of these abilities are knowledge of key membership (which notes belong in a key) and harmony (chord progressions). Studies to date suggest that perception of harmony emerges around 5-6 years of age. Using simple tasks, we found that formal music training influences key and harmony perception in 3- to 6-year-olds, and that even nonmusicians as young as 3 years have some knowledge of key membership and harmony.
In the neuroscience of music, musicians have traditionally been treated as a unified group, as if the demands set by their musical activities would be more or less equal in terms of perceptual, cognitive, and motor functions. However, obviously, their musical preferences differentiate them to a higher degree, for instance, in terms of the instrument they choose and the music genre they are mostly engaged with as well as their practicing style. This diversity in musicians' profiles has been recently taken into account in several empirical endeavors. The present contribution will review the evidence available about the various neurocognitive profiles these different kinds of musicians display.
A number of studies suggest that musical training has benefits for other cognitive domains, such as language and mathematics, and studies of children and adults indicate structural as well as functional differences between the brains of musicians and nonmusicians. The induced gamma-band response has been associated with attentional, expectation, memory retrieval, and integration of top-down, bottom-up, and multisensory processes. Here we report data indicating that the induced gamma-band response to musical sounds is larger in adult musicians than in nonmusicians and that it develops in children after 1 year of musical training beginning at age 4.5 years, but not in children of this age who are not engaged in musical lessons. We conclude that musical training affects oscillatory networks in the brain associated with executive functions, and that superior executive functioning could enhance learning and performance in many cognitive domains.
Children with spina bifida meningomyelocele (SBM) are impaired relative to controls in terms of discriminating strong-meter and weak-meter rhythms, so congenital cerebellar dysmorphologies that affect rhythmic movements also disrupt rhythm perception. Cerebellar parcellations in children with SBM showed an abnormal configuration of volume fractions in cerebellar regions important for rhythm function: a smaller inferior-posterior lobe, and larger anterior and superior-posterior lobes.
Morphologic measures have long been used to determine the patho-anatomical signature of different neurologic disorders. However, these measures can also be used to determine effects of specific learning tasks and quantifiable human abilities on cerebral structure. Musicians provide interesting opportunities for this type of analysis as their various skills, such as rhythmic ability and pitch and harmony discrimination (acquired through years of practicing and playing) can be quantified and compared using distinct morphologic analyses. Here, we review magnetic resonance imaging-based morphologic analyses in the music and neuroscience literature and provide some results from our own analysis of rhythmic ability in a cohort of musicians.
Our perceptions are shaped by both extrinsic stimuli and intrinsic interpretation. The perceptual experience of a simple rhythm, for example, depends upon its metrical interpretation (where one hears the beat). Such interpretation can be altered at will, providing a model to study the interaction of endogenous and exogenous influences in the cognitive organization of perception. Using magnetoencephalography (MEG), we measured brain responses evoked by a repeating, rhythmically ambiguous phrase (two tones followed by a rest). In separate trials listeners were instructed to impose different metrical organizations on the rhythm by mentally placing the downbeat on either the first or the second tone. Since the stimulus was invariant, differences in brain activity between the two conditions should relate to endogenous metrical interpretation. Metrical interpretation influenced early evoked neural responses to tones, specifically in the upper beta range (20-30 Hz). Beta response was stronger (by 64% on average) when a tone was imagined to be the beat, compared to when it was not. A second experiment established that the beta increase closely resembles that due to physical accents, and thus may represent the genesis of a subjective accent. The results demonstrate endogenous modulation of early auditory responses, and suggest a unique role for the beta band in linking of endogenous and exogenous processing. Given the suggested role of beta in motor processing and long-range intracortical coordination, it is hypothesized that the motor system influences metrical interpretation of sound, even in the absence of overt movement.

Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) for acute ischemic stroke was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1996. Since then it has been severely underutilized. At the time when most practitioners were first being exposed to the literature concerning tPA, there were many concerns about safety and the restrictions on use were quite onerous. Since then a good deal of further work has been done to loosen the restrictions and allay concerns about the risks. The true risk to benefit ratio is far better than is generally realized. Now it is mostly economic problems related to the costs of constantly supplying emergency care that is limiting access. Furthermore, in the current litigious environment, failure to treat is likely to be a more hazardous course of action than legal exposure due to poor outcomes. It must be emphasized that the drug is quite safe and highly effective, and current utilization rates are unacceptably low. Ann Neurol 2009;66:6-10.






Responsible for the majority of excitatory activity in the central nervous system (CNS), glutamate interacts with a range of specific receptor and transporter systems to establish a functional synapse. Excessive stimulation of glutamate receptors causes excitotoxicity, a phenomenon implicated in both acute and chronic neurodegenerative diseases [e.g., ischemia, Huntington's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)]. In physiology, excitotoxicity is prevented by rapid binding and clearance of synaptic released glutamate by high-affinity, Na(+)-dependent glutamate transporters and amplified by defects to the glutamate transporter and receptor systems. ALS pathogenetic mechanisms are not completely understood and characterized, but excitotoxicity has been regarded as one firm mechanism implicated in the disease because of data obtained from ALS patients and animal and cellular models as well as inferred by the documented efficacy of riluzole, a generic antiglutamatergic drug, has in patients. In this article, we critically review the several lines of evidence supporting a role for glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity in the death of motor neurons occurring in ALS, putting a particular emphasis on the impairment of the glutamate-transport system.
Perturbation of organellar axonal transport is increasingly recognized as an important contributor in a number of neurodegenerative diseases. Although the specificity of this impairment remains to be elucidated, growing evidence suggests that in certain disease conditions, mitochondria are affected primarily by transport defects. Many hypotheses have been formulated to explain the pathogenic mechanisms involved in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The mutations described so far in genetic forms of ALS (familial ALS, fALS) affect proteins involved in a wide variety of cellular mechanisms, including free radical scavenging, energy metabolism, axonal transport, RNA processing, DNA repair, vesicular transport, and angiogenesis. Here we review the current knowledge on mitochondrial transport and its role in ALS.
BACKGROUND: The neuroanatomical basis of lexical retrieval has been studied intensively. The current review focuses on the special case of proper nouns. AIMS: This article reviews a program of research that has used both lesion-deficit and functional imaging (PET) approaches to investigate the neuroanatomical basis for lexical retrieval of proper nouns. In lesion-deficit studies, we found that damage to the left temporal polar (TP) region leads to reliable and specific impairments in naming famous persons (e.g., &quot;George Clooney&quot;) and famous landmarks (e.g., &quot;Golden Gate Bridge&quot;). In functional imaging studies, we found that when participants name famous persons and landmarks, they produce specific activation (increases in regional cerebral blood flow) in the left TP region. MAIN CONTRIBUTION: These findings converge with lesion and functional imaging data from other laboratories to support the idea that the left TP region is important for the retrieval of names for unique concrete entities, persons and landmarks being typical examples of such categories of entities. CONCLUSIONS: We have interpreted these results within a theoretical framework that suggests that left TP contains convergence regions that operate as intermediaries between conceptual knowledge retrieval and lexical retrieval for classes of unique concrete entities.

This study examines how prestroke dementia and cognitive dysfunction after stroke influence the personal activities of daily living (P-ADL) in elderly patients in the acute phase after stroke. Elderly stroke patients (n=60) referred to geriatric rehabilitation were included. Assessments were carried out at admission and evaluated at discharge from the geriatric ward. The median age of the group was 77 years. Astrand's questionnaire was used to interview a close relative about the patient's prestroke cognitive status. P-ADL was assessed with the Barthel Index (BI). The Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) and a neuropsychological test battery were used to measure cognitive functions. Analyses were made using non-parametrical methods. In the acute phase after stroke, neither the presence of prestroke dementia nor the cognitive status after stroke onset among these elderly patients influenced P-ADL at admission or at discharge. Prestroke dementia and cognitive dysfunction's were found to be common after stroke onset, however this did not have any impact on dependence in P-ADL in these elderly patients at admission or at discharge.


Neurogenesis in the central olfactory pathway of decapod crustaceans persists throughout life. Here we describe the structural basis of neurogenesis within the olfactory deutocerebrum of the crayfish Procambarus clarkii from hatchlings to adults. Using a proliferation marker and immunostaining, we found that throughout development each hemibrain contains a neurogenic complex consisting of five parts: two proliferation zones, each within the neuronal soma clusters containing local or projection interneurons, a tail of proliferating cells extending from each proliferation zone, and an elongated clump of cells where the two tails meet. The clump of cells comprises two subdivisions joined at a nucleus-free central area. Each subdivision consists of a dense group of clump cells with small, spindle-shaped nuclei and is connected to one of the proliferation zones by a strand of fibrous material encompassing the tail of proliferating cells extending from it. We identify one proliferating cell with a large nucleus in each subdivision as a putative neuroblast. Its daughter cells migrate through the strands to the associated proliferation zones, but in the strand leading to the soma cluster of local interneurons this is masked by local proliferation. We conclude that neurogenesis in the olfactory deutocerebrum of juvenile and adult P. clarkii is based on a few neuroblasts that are associated with unique clumps of cells likely representing stem cell niches.
This was a prospective cohort study, carried out in the Neuro Intensive Care Unit, Department of Neurosciences, Hospital Universiti Sains Malaysia, Kubang Kerian Kelantan. The study was approved by the local ethics committee and was conducted between November 2005 and September 2007 with a total of 30 patients included in the study. In our study, univariate analysis showed a statistically significant relationship between mean intracranial pressure (ICP) as well as cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) with both states of basal cistern and the degree of diffuse injury and oedema based on the Marshall classification system. The ICP was higher while CPP and compliance were lower whenever the basal cisterns were effaced in cases of cerebral oedema with Marshall III and IV. In comparison, the study revealed lower ICP, higher mean CPP and better mean cerebral compliance if the basal cisterns were opened or the post operative CT brain scan showed Marshall I and II. These findings suggested the surgical evacuation of clots to reduce the mass volume and restoration of brain anatomy may reduce vascular engorgement and cerebral oedema, therefore preventing intracranial hypertension, and improving cerebral perfusion pressure and cerebral compliance. Nevertheless the study did not find any significant relationship between midline shifts and mean ICP, CPP or cerebral compliance even though lower ICP, higher CPP and compliance were frequently observed when the midline shift was less than 0.5 cm. As the majority of our patients had multiple and diffuse brain injuries, the absence of midline shift did not necessarily mean lower ICP as the pathology was bilateral and even when after excluding the multiple lesions, the result remained insignificant. We assumed that the CT brain scan obtained after evacuation of the mass lesion to assess the state basal cistern and classify the diffuse oedema may prognosticate the intracranial pressure and cerebral perfusion pressure thus assisting in the acute post operative management of severely head injured patients. Hence post operative CT brain scans may be done to verify the ICP and CPP readings postoperatively. Subsequently, withdrawal of sedation for neurological assessment after surgery could be done if the CT brain scan showed an opened basal cistern and Marshall I and II coupled with ICP of less than 20 mmHg.

The development of specific therapies for organ-specific autoimmune diseases requires the identification of relevant immunogenic epitopes, recognized by both pathogenic T cells and autoantibodies. Here, we review the most relevant studies focused in the identification of peptides in multiple sclerosis (MS) and the distinct T cell reactivity induced in patients compared to controls. Only a few studies reported significant differences in terms of T cell reactivity to them. The current knowledge on this issue, and the diagnostic and therapeutic possibilities opened by the identification of pathogenic MS epitopes are discussed in this paper.
1 Purinergic signalling is involved both in short-term control of vascular tone and in longer-term control of cell proliferation, migration and death involved in vascular remodelling. 2 There is dual control of vascular tone by adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) released from perivascular nerves and by ATP released from endothelial cells in response to changes in blood flow (shear stress) and hypoxia. 3 Both ATP and its breakdown product, adenosine, regulate smooth muscle and endothelial cell proliferation. 4 These regulatory mechanisms are important in pathological conditions, including hypertension, atherosclerosis, restenosis, diabetes and vascular pain.

The macroautophagy (autophagy) pathway is thought to be involved in a variety of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer disease (AD). It is not clear however, if autophagy plays a causative role, a protective role or is a consequence of the disease process itself. Using a Drosophila model of neuron-limited expression of AD-associated amyloid beta (Abeta) peptides, we have demonstrated an autophagy-mediated neurodegenerative cascade that is initiated by Abeta(1-42) and enhanced by aging. Our results suggest a central role for the autophagy pathway in AD type neurodegeneration and a new framework to understand seemingly unrelated AD phenotypes.
This investigation was undertaken to study the effect of pentoxifylline (PTX) on iminodipropionitrile (IDPN)-induced behavioral abnormalities [excitation with choreiform and circling movements (ECC) syndrome] in rats. The animals were intraperitoneally injected with IDPN (100 mg/kg) daily for 7 days. PTX was administered daily 30 min before IDPN in the doses of 25, 50, and 100 mg/kg for 9 days. The animals were observed for neurobehavioral abnormalities including dyskinetic head movements, circling, tail hanging, air righting reflex, and contact inhibition of the righting reflex. The onset of ECC syndrome was observed on day 8 in the group treated with IDPN alone; all animals in this group became dyskinetic on day 10. Co-treatment with PTX dose dependently delayed the onset time and significantly reduced the incidence and severity of IDPN-induced ECC syndrome; high dose of PTX completely inhibited the abnormal behavioral signs in IDPN-treated rats. Administration of IDPN caused significant depletions in cerebral glutathione and vitamin E levels. Treatment with PTX dose dependently attenuated IDPN-induced oxidative stress in rats. The beneficial effects of PTX against IDPN toxicity may be attributed to its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties.
Stress and alcohol abuse are co-related. Acute alcohol is anxiolytic and stress is cited as a factor in relapse to alcohol use. A primary mediator of the stress response is the neuropeptide corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF). The CRF family of endogenous ligands includes urocortin 3 (Ucn 3), which binds selectively to the CRF type 2 receptor and has been implicated in ethanol consumption in dependent and withdrawing rats. The objective of this study was to examine the effect of Ucn 3, delivered centrally to nondependent mice, on limited-access ethanol consumption. Adult C57BL/6J mice were trained to self-administer 10% ethanol during daily, 2-h limited-access sessions, using lickometers to assess drinking patterns for both ethanol and water. Sterile saline or 0.3, 1, or 3 nmol of Ucn 3 was microinjected into the lateral ventricle immediately before the limited-access session in a within-subjects design. There was a significant decrease in ethanol (both ml and g/kg), but not water, intake following Ucn 3 treatment, explained by a change in size of the largest lick run. Food intake at both 2 h and 24 h after injection was statistically unaffected by Ucn 3 administration. These results establish a role for CRF type 2 receptors in a nondependent mouse model of ethanol self-administration.
Bilinguals are better able to perceive speech-in-noise in their native compared to their non-native language. This benefit is thought to be due to greater use of higher-level, linguistic context in the native language. Previous studies showing this have used sentences and do not allow us to determine which level of language contributes to this context benefit. Here, we used a new paradigm that isolates the SEMANTIC level of speech, in both languages of bilinguals. Results revealed that in the native language, a semantically related target word facilitates the perception of a previously presented degraded prime word relative to when a semantically unrelated target follows the prime, suggesting a specific contribution of semantics to the native language context benefit. We also found the reverse in the non-native language, where there was a disadvantage of semantic coext on word recognition, suggesting that such top-down, contextual information results in semantic interference in one's second language.
The evidence for impairment in the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) in Parkinson's disease (PD) is mounting and becoming increasingly more convincing. However, it is presently unclear whether UPS dysfunction is a cause or result of PD pathology, a crucial distinction which impedes both the understanding of disease pathogenesis and the development of effectual therapeutic approaches. Recent findings discussed within this review offer new insight and provide direction for future research to conclusively resolve this debate.
We have studied the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (PTP) under oxidizing conditions with mitochondria-bound hematoporphyrin, which generates reactive oxygen species (mainly singlet oxygen, (1)O(2)) upon UV/visible light-irradiation and promotes the photooxidative modification of vicinal targets. We have characterized the PTP-modulating properties of two major critical sites endowed with different degrees of photosensitivity: (i) the most photovulnerable site comprises critical histidines, whose photomodification by vicinal hematoporphyrin causes a drop in reactivity of matrix-exposed (internal), PTP-regulating cysteines thus stabilizing the pore in a closed conformation; (ii) the most photoresistant site coincides with the binding domains of (external) cysteines sensitive to membrane-impermeant reagents, which are easily unmasked when oxidation of internal cysteines is prevented. Photooxidation of external cysteines promoted by vicinal hematoporphyrin reactivates the PTP after the block caused by histidine photodegradation. Thus, hematoporphyrin-mediated photooxidative stress can either inhibit or activate the mitochondrial permeability transition depending on the site of hematoporphyrin localization and on the nature of the substrate; and selective photomodification of different hematoporphyrin-containing pore domains can be achieved by fine regulation of the sensitizer/light doses. These findings shed new light on PTP modulation by oxidative stress.
Recent studies that alleles in the hemochromatosis gene may accelerate the onset of Alzheimer's disease by five years have validated interest in the model in which metals (particularly iron) accelerate disease course. Biochemical and biophysical measurements demonstrated the presence of elevated levels of neurotoxic copper zinc and iron in the brains of AD patients. Intracellular levels of APP holoprotein were shown to be modulated by iron by a mechanism that is similar to the translation control of the ferritin L- and H mRNAs by iron-responsive element (IRE) RNA stem loops in their 5' untranslated regions (5'UTRs). More recently a putative IRE-like sequence was hypothesized present in the Parkinsons's alpha synuclein (ASYN) transcript (see [A.L. Friedlich, R.E. Tanzi, J.T. Rogers, The 5'-untranslated region of Parkinson's disease alpha-synuclein messenger RNA contains a predicted iron responsive element, Mol. Psychiatry 12 (2007) 222-223. [6]]). Together with the demonstration of metal dependent translation of APP mRNA, the involvement of metals in the plaque of AD patients and of increased iron in striatal neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) of Parkinson's disease patients have stimulated the development of metal attenuating agents and iron chelators as a major new therapeutic strategy for the treatment of these neurodegenerative diseases. In the case of AD, metal based therapeutics may ultimately prove more cost effective than the use of an amyloid vaccine as the preferred anti-amyloid therapeutic strategy to ameliorate the cognitive decline of AD patients.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative movement disorder with unknown etiology. It is marked by widespread neurodegeneration in the brain with profound loss of A9 midbrain dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra pars compacta. Several theories of biochemical abnormalities have been linked to pathogenesis of PD of which mitochondrial dysfunction due to an impairment of mitochondrial complex I and subsequent oxidative stress seems to take the center stage in experimental models of PD and in postmortem tissues of sporadic forms of illness. Recent identification of specific gene mutations and their influence on mitochondrial functions has further reinforced the relevance of mitochondrial abnormalities in disease pathogenesis. In both sporadic and familial forms of PD abnormal mitochondrial paradigms associated with disease include impaired functioning of the mitochondrial electron transport chain, aging associated damage to mitochondrial DNA, impaired calcium buffering, and anomalies in mitochondrial morphology and dynamics. Here we provide an overview of specific mitochondrial functions affected in sporadic and familial PD that play a role in disease pathogenesis. We propose to utilize these gained insights to further streamline and focus the research to better understand mitochondria's role in disease development and exploit potential mitochondrial targets for therapeutic interventions in PD pathogenesis.
To date, a truly representative animal model of Parkinson disease (PD) remains a critical unmet need. Although toxin-induced PD models have served many useful purposes, they have generally failed to recapitulate accurately the progressive process as well as the nature and distribution of the human pathology. During the last decade or so, the identification of several genes whose mutations are causative of rare familial forms of PD has heralded in a new dawn for PD modelling. Numerous mammalian as well as non mammalian models of genetically-linked PD have since been created. However, despite initial optimism, none of these models turned out to be a perfect replica of PD. Meanwhile, genetic and toxin-induced models alike continue to evolve towards mimicking the disease more faithfully. Notwithstanding this, current genetic models have collectively illuminated several important pathways relevant to PD pathogenesis. Here, we have attempted to provide a comprehensive discussion on existing genetic models of PD.
Neuroimaging techniques have evolved over the past several years giving us unprecedented information about the degenerative process in Parkinson's disease (PD) and other movement disorders. Functional imaging approaches such as positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computerised tomography (SPECT) have been successfully employed to detect dopaminergic dysfunction in PD, even while at a preclinical stage, and to demonstrate the effects of therapies on function of intact dopaminergic neurons within the affected striatum. PET and SPECT can also monitor PD progression as reflected by changes in brain levodopa and glucose metabolism and dopamine transporter binding. Structural imaging approaches include magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and transcranial sonography (TCS). Recent advances in voxel-based morphometry and diffusion-weighted MRI have provided exciting potential applications for the differential diagnosis of parkinsonian syndromes. Substantia nigra hyperechogenicity, detected with TCS, may provide a marker of susceptibility to PD, probably reflecting disturbances of iron metabolism, but does not appear to correlate well with disease severity or change with disease progression. In the future novel radiotracers may help us assess the involvement of non-dopaminergic brain pathways in the pathology of both motor and non-motor complications in PD.

Metallothionein (MT)-I+II synthesis is induced in the central nervous system (CNS) in response to practically any pathogen or disorder, where it is increased mainly in reactive glia. MT-I+II are involved in host defence reactions and neuroprotection during neuropathological conditions, in which MT-I+II decrease inflammation and secondary tissue damage (oxidative stress, neurodegeneration, and apoptosis) and promote post-injury repair and regeneration (angiogenesis, neurogenesis, neuronal sprouting and tissue remodelling). Intracellularly the molecular MT-I+II actions involve metal ion control and scavenging of reactive oxygen species (ROS) leading to cellular redox control. By regulating metal ions, MT-I+II can control metal-containing transcription factors, zinc-finger proteins and p53. However, the neuroprotective functions of MT-I+II also involve an extracellular component. MT-I+II protects the neurons by signal transduction through the low-density lipoprotein family of receptors on the cell surface involving lipoprotein receptor-1 (LRP1) and megalin (LRP2). In this review we discuss the newest data on cerebral MT-I+II functions following brain injury and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis.
The Wilson-Cowan model of interacting neurons (1973) is one of the most influential papers published in Biological Cybernetics (Kybernetik). This paper and a companion paper published in 1972 have been cited over 1000 times. Rather than focus on the microscopic properties of neurons, Wilson and Cowan analyzed the collective properties of large numbers of neurons using methods from statistical mechanics, based on the mean-field approach. New experimental techniques to measure neuronal activity at the level of large populations are now available to test these models, including optical recording of brain activity with intrinsic signals and voltage sensitive dyes, and new methods for analyzing EEG and MEG. These measurement techniques have revealed patterns of coherent activity that span centimetres of tissue in the cerebral cortex. Here the underlying ideas are reviewed in a historic context.





Synthetic colloid and gel hydroxyapatite (HA) nanoparticles (NPs) were spray dried to form microparticles (MPs). These are intended for use as slow release vaccine vectors. The physico-chemical properties of gel and colloid NPs and MPs were compared to those of HA obtained commercially. Their cytotoxicity to human monocytes'-derived macrophages (HMMs) was assessed in vitro using a range of techniques. These included the MTT assay, LDH leakage and a confocal based live-dead cell assay. Cytotoxicity differed significantly between preparations, with the suspended gel preparation being the most toxic (31-500 microg/ml). Other preparations were also toxic but only at higher concentrations (&gt;250 microg/ml). Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and stereology showed variable cellular uptake and subsequent dissolution of the various forms of HA. We have demonstrated that HA particle toxicity varied considerably and that it was related to their physico-chemical properties. Cell death correlated strongly with particle load. The intracellular dissolution of particles as a function of time in HMM suggests that increased cytoplasmic calcium load is likely to be the cause of cell death. Some HA NPs eluded the phagocytic pathway and a few were even seen to enter the nuclei through nuclear pores.
The calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor has been implicated in the pathogenesis of migraine. A class of urethanamide derivatives has been identified as potent inhibitors of the CGRP receptor. Compound 20 was found to be among the most potent (IC(50)=17pM). It was shown to retain excellent aqueous solubility (&gt;50mg/mL, pH 7) while dramatically improving solution stability as compared to our previously disclosed development candidate, BMS-694153 (1).



Traumatic brain injury, a silent epidemic of modern societies, is a largely neglected area in drug development and no drug is currently available for the treatment of patients suffering from brain trauma. Despite this grim situation, much progress has been made over the last two decades in closely related medical indications, such as spinal cord injury, giving rise to a more optimistic approach to drug development in brain trauma. Fundamental insights have been gained with animal models of central nervous system (CNS) trauma and spinal cord injury. Neuroregenerative drug candidates have been identified and two of these have progressed to clinical development for spinal cord injury patients. If successful, these drug candidates may be used to treat brain trauma patients. Significant progress has also been made in understanding the fundamental molecular mechanism underlying irreversible axonal growth arrest in the injured CNS of higher mammals. From these studies, we have learned that the axonal retraction bulb, previously regarded as a marker for failure of regenerative growth, is not static but dynamic and, therefore, amenable to pharmacotherapeutic approaches. With the development of modified magnetic resonance imaging methods, fibre tracts can be visualised in the living human brain and such imaging methods will soon be used to evaluate the neuroregenerative potential of drug candidates. These significant advances are expected to fundamentally change the often hopeless situation of brain trauma patients and will be the first step towards overcoming the silent epidemic of brain injury.

Stroke is a leading cause of disability, not only because of motor limitations, but also because of the frequent occurrence of post-stroke cognitive impairment. This is illustrated by the fact that the risk of post-stroke dementia is reportedly higher than a recurrent stroke. The loss of subcortical and cortical functions in the post-stroke cognitive dysfunction spectrum is usually well explained by the size and location of the infarction. However, this does not apply for post-stroke memory dysfunction (especially episodic memory dysfunction), as there is almost never an infarction in the medial temporal lobe. Involvement of the medial temporal lobe in post-stroke memory dysfunction seems likely since this structure is essential for memory encoding and retrieval. For a proper episodic memory function, the medial temporal lobe depends on intact connections with virtually the whole brain. Disconnection from other brain areas due to the infarction could lead to a reduced medial temporal lobe function and the attendant reduced episodic memory function. We investigated medial temporal lobe functionality in 28 'first-ever' stroke patients and 22 healthy controls with the aid of functional magnetic resonance imaging. Stroke patients with a reduced episodic memory function 6-8 weeks after infarction had reduced medial temporal lobe functionality. Post-stroke reduced medial temporal lobe functionality may be responsible for the frequent observation of impaired post-stroke episodic memory function. Insight into this mechanism could be helpful in identifying which stroke patients may be at increased risk for developing post-stroke dementia and those who could benefit from early cognitive rehabilitation.
Hearing developmental dyslexics and profoundly deaf individuals both have difficulties processing the internal structure of words (phonological processing) and learning to read. In hearing non-impaired readers, the development of phonological representations depends on audition. In hearing dyslexics, many argue, auditory processes may be impaired. In congenitally profoundly deaf individuals, auditory speech processing is essentially absent. Two separate literatures have previously reported enhanced activation in the left inferior frontal gyrus in both deaf and dyslexic adults when contrasted with hearing non-dyslexics during reading or phonological tasks. Here, we used a rhyme judgement task to compare adults from these two special populations to a hearing non-dyslexic control group. All groups were matched on non-verbal intelligence quotient, reading age and rhyme performance. Picture stimuli were used since this requires participants to generate their own phonological representations, rather than have them partially provided via text. By testing well-matched groups of participants on the same task, we aimed to establish whether previous literatures reporting differences between individuals with and without phonological processing difficulties have identified the same regions of differential activation in these two distinct populations. The data indicate greater activation in the deaf and dyslexic groups than in the hearing non-dyslexic group across a large portion of the left inferior frontal gyrus. This includes the pars triangularis, extending superiorly into the middle frontal gyrus and posteriorly to include the pars opercularis, and the junction with the ventral precentral gyrus. Within the left inferior frontal gyrus, there was variability between the two groups with phonological processing difficulties. The superior posterior tip of the left pars opercularis, extending into the precentral gyrus, was activated to a greater extent by deaf than dyslexic participants, whereas the superior posterior portion of the pars triangularis extending into the ventral pars opercularis, was activated to a greater extent by dyslexic than deaf participants. Whether these regions play differing roles in compensating for poor phonological processing is not clear. However, we argue that our main finding of greater inferior frontal gyrus activation in both groups with phonological processing difficulties in contrast to controls suggests greater reliance on the articulatory component of speech during phonological processing when auditory processes are absent (deaf group) or impaired (dyslexic group). Thus, the brain appears to develop a similar solution to a processing problem that has different antecedents in these two populations.
Mutations in the glucocerebrosidase gene (GBA) are associated with Gaucher's disease, the most common lysosomal storage disorder. Parkinsonism is an established feature of Gaucher's disease and an increased frequency of mutations in GBA has been reported in several different ethnic series with sporadic Parkinson's disease. In this study, we evaluated the frequency of GBA mutations in British patients affected by Parkinson's disease. We utilized the DNA of 790 patients and 257 controls, matched for age and ethnicity, to screen for mutations within the GBA gene. Clinical data on all identified GBA mutation carriers was reviewed and analysed. Additionally, in all cases where brain material was available, a neuropathological evaluation was performed and compared to sporadic Parkinson's disease without GBA mutations. The frequency of GBA mutations among the British patients (33/790 = 4.18%) was significantly higher (P = 0.01; odds ratio = 3.7; 95% confidence interval = 1.12-12.14) when compared to the control group (3/257 = 1.17%). Fourteen different GBA mutations were identified, including three previously undescribed mutations, K7E, D443N and G193E. Pathological examination revealed widespread and abundant alpha-synuclein pathology in all 17 GBA mutation carriers, which were graded as Braak stage of 5-6, and had McKeith's limbic or diffuse neocortical Lewy body-type pathology. Diffuse neocortical Lewy body-type pathology tended to occur more frequently in the group with GBA mutations compared to matched Parkinson's disease controls. Clinical features comprised an early onset of the disease, the presence of hallucinations in 45% (14/31) and symptoms of cognitive decline or dementia in 48% (15/31) of patients. This study demonstrates that GBA mutations are found in British subjects at a higher frequency than any other known Parkinson's disease gene. This is the largest study to date on a non-Jewish patient sample with a detailed genotype/phenotype/pathological analyses which strengthens the hypothesis that GBA mutations represent a significant risk factor for the development of Parkinson's disease and suggest that to date, this is the most common genetic factor identified for the disease.
Endophenotypes is one emerging strategy in schizophrenia research that is being used to identify the functional importance of genetically transmitted, brain-based deficits present in this disease. Currently, event-related potentials (ERPs) are timely used in this search. Several ERPs, including N400, present deficits in relation to schizophrenia. In order to assess the genetic liability of N400 as a possible endophenotype, a picture semantic matching task (congruent and incongruent pairs of pictures) was performed by 21 unaffected first-degree relatives of patients with schizophrenia, 21 DSM-IV diagnosed schizophrenia probands, and 21 control subjects, matched by age, gender and educational level. Probands and relatives were selected form Multiplex schizophrenia families. Significantly reduced N400 amplitude for congruent categories in N400 was found in probands and relatives in relation to controls. The latency onset and the maximum peak latency of N400 were delayed in both, relatives and probands groups compared to control. The voltage maps of incongruous-minus-congruous difference indicate a more reduced right restricted negativity in probands and relatives, when compared to a widely extended bilateral negativity in controls. No general differences were found between patients and relatives. These results demonstrate an electrophysiological deficit in semantic match processing in clinically unaffected first-degree relatives of patients with schizophrenia, suggesting a possible use of this marker as endophenotype.
The oral spelling process for logographic languages such as Chinese is intrinsically different from alphabetic languages. In Chinese only a subset of orthographic components are pronounceable and their phonological identities (i.e., component names) do not always correspond to the sound of the whole characters. We show that such phonological identities can nevertheless be selectively preserved when visual-motoric compositions are lost. We report a Chinese right-handed dysgraphic individual with left temporal and occipital damage, MZG, who was severely impaired in writing Chinese characters but was able to orally spell the same characters using the names of pronounceable components. MZG's writing deficit arose at the level of processing that is dedicated to the retrieval of the shapes (allographics) of the writing components. Such patterns show that phonological identities of components are part of the orthographic representation of Chinese characters, and that dissociation between oral and written spelling modalities is universal across different script systems. The temporal and occipital lobes in the language-dominant hemisphere are possibly important regions for allographic conversion in writing.

As the number of neuroscience databases increases, the need for neuroscience data integration grows. This paper reviews and compares several approaches, including the Neuroscience Database Gateway (NDG), Neuroscience Information Framework (NIF) and Entrez Neuron, which enable neuroscience database annotation and integration. These approaches cover a range of activities spanning from registry, discovery and integration of a wide variety of neuroscience data sources. They also provide different user interfaces for browsing, querying and displaying query results. In Entrez Neuron, for example, four different facets or tree views (neuron, neuronal property, gene and drug) are used to hierarchically organize concepts that can be used for querying a collection of ontologies. The facets are also used to define the structure of the query results.
The institutional impact and defensive reactions to the results of a longitudinal controlled outcome trial carried out within a psychotherapy hospital specializing in the treatment of personality disorder are described and discussed. The authors argue that integration of research findings with clinical practice, the development of a research culture, and building bridges with other disciplines such as psychology and neuroscience will enhance the prospect of long-term survival of psychoanalytically oriented institutions.

Neurotensin (NT)-polyplex is a nonviral system for the targeted gene delivery to cells that express and internalize the high-affinity NT receptor (NTSR1). In hemiparkinsonian rats, we previously demonstrated the morphological and functional recovery from dopaminergic neurodegeneration using the NT-polyplex as a vehicle to transfect a neurotrophic gene. The main objective of this work was to demonstrate the feasibility of NT-polyplex to transfect reporter or therapeutic genes into neuroblastoma tumors through the blood stream or by intratumoral injection. N1E-115 cells known to express NTSR1 were allografted into athymic mice to generate the neuroblastoma tumor model. Both routes of administration allowed the NT-polyplex to reach and transfect tumoral cells. A low transgene expression was also detected in intestinal tract cells only after the injection into the blood stream. The transfection of the thymidine kinase (HSVTK) suicide gene followed by ganciclovir (GCV) treatment decreased the size and weight of neuroblastoma tumors by 30-50% and increased apoptosis compared to controls. This study shows the potential of the NT-polyplex as specific gene-transfer system for NTSR1 cancer cells.
The human hMYH and NEIL1 genes encode DNA glycosylases involved in repair of oxidative base damage and mutations in these genes are associated with certain cancers. Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC), a chronic cholestatic liver disease characterized by inflammatory destruction of the biliary tree, is often complicated by the development of cholangiocarcinoma (CCA). Here, we aimed to investigate the influence of genetic variations in the hMYH and NEIL1 genes on risk of CCA in PSC patients. The hMYH and NEIL1 gene loci in addition to the DNA repair genes hOGG1, NTHL1 and NUDT1 were analyzed in 66 PSC patients (37 with CCA and 29 without cancer) by complete genomic sequencing of exons and adjacent intronic regions. Several single-nucleotide polymorphisms and mutations were identified and severe impairment of protein function was observed for three non-synonymous variants. The NEIL1 G83D mutant was dysfunctional for the major oxidation products 7,8-dihydro-8-oxoguanine (8oxoG), thymine glycol and dihydrothymine in duplex DNA, and the ability to perform delta-elimination at abasic sites was significantly reduced. The hMYH R260Q mutant had severe defect in adenine DNA glycosylase activity, whereas hMYH H434D could excise adenines from A:8oxoG pairs but not from A:G mispairs. We found no overall associations between the 18 identified variants and susceptibility to CCA in PSC patients; however, the impaired variants may be of significance for carcinogenesis in general. Our findings demonstrate the importance of complete resequencing of selected candidate genes in order to identify rare genetic variants and their possible contribution to individual susceptibility to cancer development.

In the developing nervous system, pathfinding axons navigate through a series of intermediate targets in order to form synaptic connections. Vertebrate spinal commissural axons extend toward and across the floor plate (FP), a key intermediate target located at the ventral midline (VM). Subsequently, post-crossing commissural axons grow either alongside or significant distances away from the floor plate (FP), but never re-cross the VM. Consistent with this behavior, post-crossing commissural axons lose responsiveness to the FP-associated chemoattractants, Netrin-1 and SHH, and gain responsiveness to Slits, which are potent midline repellents, in vitro. In addition, the results of several in vivo studies suggest that the upregulation of Slit-binding repulsive Robo receptors, Robo1/2, alters the responsiveness of decussated commissural axons to midline guidance cues. Nevertheless, in vertebrates, it is unclear whether Robo1/2 are the sole or major repellent receptors responsible for driving these commissural axons away from the VM and preventing their re-entry into the FP. We recently re-visited these issues in the chick spinal cord by assessing the consequences of manipulating Robo expression on commissural axons in ovo. Our findings suggest that, at least in chick embryos, the upregulation of repulsive Robos on post-crossing axons alters the responsiveness of these axons to midline repellents and facilitates their expulsion from, but is not likely to have a significant role in preventing their re-entry into the VM.
Nucleic acid oligodeoxynucleotides (ODN) are increasingly used in biological research and in clinics where they are used for both diagnostic and therapeutic purposes. In order to increase the stability and efficacy of ODNs, various chemical modifications have been applied to create nucleic acid derivatives that are not recognized by endogenous nucleic acid cleavage mechanisms. One of the most common and cost-effective modifications is the phosphothioate (PTO) modification. The PTO modification is implemented mainly in antisense ODN, but also in ODN that were shown to activate members of the toll-like receptor (TLR) family such as TLR3 (poly-I:C), TLR8 (ssRNA) and TLR9 (CpG). We recently found that PTO-ODN aimed at activating TLR9 induce a non-TLR9-specific detachment phenotype in a growth-substrate dependent manner. Moreover, we found that unmodified and PTO-modified TLR ligands induce distinct patterns of gene expression in cultured neural cells. These findings suggest that PTO-ODN can cause nonspecific effects on cell adhesion that could compromise interpretation of data from experiments using PTO-ODN.
Calcium depletion of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) induces oligomerisation, puncta formation and translocation of the ER Ca(2+) sensor proteins, STIM1 and -2 into plasma membrane (PM)-adjacent regions of the ER, where they activate the Orai1, -2 or -3 proteins present in the opposing PM. These proteins form ion channels through which store-operated Ca(2+) influx (SOC) occurs. Calcium ions exert negative feed-back on SOC. Here we examined whether subplasmalemmal mitochondria, which reduce this feed-back by Ca(2+) uptake, are located within or out of the high-Ca(2+) microdomains (HCMDs) formed between the ER and plasmalemmal Orai1 channels. For this purpose, COS-7 cells were cotransfected with Orai1, STIM1 labelled with YFP or mRFP and the mitochondrially targeted Ca(2+) sensitive fluorescent protein inverse-Pericam. Depletion of ER Ca(2+) with ATP+thapsigargin (in Ca(2+)-free medium) induced the appearance of STIM1 puncta in the &lt; or =100 nm wide subplasmalemmal space, as examined with TIRF. Mitochondria were located either in the gaps between STIM1-tagged puncta or in remote, STIM1-free regions. After addition of Ca(2+) mitochondrial Ca(2+) concentration increased irrespective of the mitochondrion-STIM1 distance. These observations indicate that mitochondria are exposed to Ca(2+) diffused laterally from the HCMDs formed between the PM and the subplasmalemmal ER.
Brain function relies on communication among neurons via highly specialized contacts, the synapses, and synaptic dysfunction lies at the heart of age-, disease-, and injury-induced defects of the nervous system. For these reasons, the formation-and repair-of synaptic connections is a major focus of neuroscience research. In this review, I summarize recent evidence that synapse development is not a cell-autonomous process and that its distinct phases depend on assistance from the so-called glial cells. The results supporting this view concern synapses in the central nervous system as well as neuromuscular junctions and originate from experimental models ranging from cell cultures to living flies, worms, and mice. Peeking at the future, I will highlight recent technical advances that are likely to revolutionize our views on synapse-glia interactions in the developing, adult and diseased brain.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease defined by motor neuron loss. Transgenic mouse model (Tg SOD1G93A) shows pathological features that closely mimic those seen in ALS patients. An hypothetic link between AD and ALS was suggested by finding an higher amount of amyloid precursor protein (APP) in the spinal cord anterior horn neurons, and of Abeta peptides in ALS patients skin. In this work, we have investigated the expression of some genes involved in Alzheimer's disease, as APP, beta- and gamma-secretase, in an animal model of ALS, to understand some possible common molecular mechanisms between these two pathologies. For gene expression analysis, we carried out a quantitative RT-PCR in ALS mice and in transgenic mice over-expressing human wild-type SOD1 (Tg hSOD1). We found that APP and BACE1 mRNA levels were increased 1.5-fold in cortical cells of Tg SOD1G93A mice respect to Tg hSOD1, whereas the expression of gamma-secretase genes, as PSEN1, PSEN2, Nicastrin, and APH1a, showed no statistical differences between wild-type and ALS mice. Biochemical analysis carried out by immunostaining and western blotting, did not show any significant modulation of the protein expression compared to the genes, suggesting the existence of post-translational mechanisms that modify protein levels.
Although the structure of the auditory organ in mature mammals, the organ of Corti, is clearly established, its development is far from being elucidated. Here, we examine its spatio-temporal development in rats from embryonic day 16 (E16) to E19 by using cytochemical and immunocytochemical methods at the light- and electron-microscope levels. We demonstrate that the organ of Corti develops from a non-proliferating cell zone that is located in the junctional region between two edges of the dorsal epithelium of the cochlear duct. We also reveal that the first cells to develop in this zone are the inner pillar cells, a particular type of non-sensory supporting cell, which arise in the base of the cochlear duct at the boundary between the two ridges at E16. Cell differentiation in this prosensory region continues according to a base-to-apex gradient; the inner hair cells appear in the greater epithelial ridge at E17 and the outer hair cells in the lesser epithelial ridge at E18. At E19, the various cell types of the organ of Corti are in place. Finally, we show that unlike the development of all the supporting cell types of the organ of Corti, the development of inner pillar cells within the prosensory domain seems not to involve Notch1 activation. These results highlight the central role that the inner pillar cells probably play in the development of the organ of Corti.


Molecular controls over the development of the exceptional neuronal subtype diversity of the cerebral cortex are now beginning to be identified. The initial subtype fate decision early in the life of a neuron, and the malleability of this fate when the balance of key postmitotic signals is modified, reveals not only that a neuron is deterministically set on a general developmental path at its birth, but also that this program must be precisely executed during postmitotic differentiation. Here, we show that callosal projection neurons (CPN) and subcerebral projection neurons (subcerebral PN) in layer V of the neocortex share aspects of molecular identity after their birth that are progressively resolved during differentiation. The LIM-homeodomain-related genes Lmo4 and Clim1 are initially expressed by both CPN and subcerebral PN in layer V, and only during mid to late differentiation does expression of Lmo4 and Clim1 become largely segregated into distinct neuronal subtypes. This progressive postmitotic resolution of molecular identity reveals similarities and possibly shared evolutionary origin between layer V CPN and subcerebral PN, and provides insight into how and when these neuronal subtypes achieve their distinct identities during cortical development.
Ventral telencephalic progenitors expressing the homeodomain transcription factor Nkx6-2 have been shown to give rise to a multitude of cortical interneuron subtypes usually associated with origin in either the medial ganglionic eminence or the caudal ganglionic eminence. The function of Nkx6-2 in directing the fate of those progenitors has, however, not been thoroughly analyzed. We used a combination of genetic inducible fate mapping and in vivo loss-of-function to analyze the requirement of Nkx6-2 in determining the fate of cortical interneurons. We have found that interneuron subtypes are born with a characteristic temporal pattern. Furthermore, we extend the characterization of interneurons from the Nkx6-2 lineage through the application of electrophysiological methods. Analysis of these populations in Nkx6-2 null mice suggests that there is a small and partially penetrant loss of delayed non-fast spiking somatostatin/calretinin double positive cortical interneurons in the absence of Nkx6-2 gene function.
It is now well established that inhibitory interneurons of the cerebral cortex display large diversity, but where each subclass originates and how they acquire final position and physiological characteristics is only begin to be elucidated. Recent studies indicate that the phenotypes of many forebrain interneurons are specified in the ganglionic eminence (GE) at the time of their origin. However, developmental history of cannabinoid type 1 receptor (CB(1)) positive (+) interneurons is not known. Here, we focus on the origin and migratory routs of prospective CB(1)/cholecystokinin (CCK)+ and CB(1)/reelin/calretinin+ gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic hippocampal interneurons. We have used variety of markers and a combination of methods, including immunocytochemistry at light and electron microscopic level, and in utero electroporation, to identify a subpopulation of CB(1)+ cells at the time of their origin in the caudal GE and pallial-subpallial boundary at the 11th-12th embryonic days. We have followed their migration, first radially to the marginal zone, then tangentially in the lateral-to-medial direction within the dorsal telencephalon, before they reach their final destination in the hippocampus proper and the dentate gyrus where they differentiate into CB(1)/CCK+ or CB(1)/reelin/calretinin+ GABAergic interneurons. Thus, the specific subclasses of CB(1)+ inhibitory interneurons, similar to the projection neurons, are determined at the time and place of last cell division and follow their own complex migratory pattern to the final positions.
Interhemispheric inhibition (IHI) refers to the neurophysiological mechanism in which one hemisphere of the brain inhibits the opposite hemisphere. IHI can be studied by transcranial magnetic stimulation using a conditioning-test paradigm. We investigated IHI from 5 motor related cortical areas in the right hemisphere to the left primary motor cortex (M1). These areas are hand and face representations of M1, dorsal premotor cortex, somatosensory cortex, and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Test stimulus was delivered to the left M1 and conditioning stimulus (CS) was delivered to one of 5 motor related cortical areas in the right hemisphere. The time course of IHI, effects of different CS intensities and current directions on IHI were tested. Maximum IHI was found at interstimulus intervals of approximately 10 ms (short latency IHI, SIHI) and approximately 50 ms (long latency IHI, LIHI) for the motor related areas tested. LIHI could be elicited over a wide range of CS intensities, whereas SIHI required higher CS intensities. We conclude that there are 2 distinct phases of IHI from motor related cortical areas to the opposite M1 through the corpus callosum, and they are mediated by different neuronal populations.
Visualizing emotionally loaded pictures intensifies peripheral reflexes toward sudden auditory stimuli, suggesting that the emotional context may potentiate responses elicited by novel events in the acoustic environment. However, psychophysiological results have reported that attentional resources available to sounds become depleted, as attention allocation to emotional pictures increases. These findings have raised the challenging question of whether an emotional context actually enhances or attenuates auditory novelty processing at a central level in the brain. To solve this issue, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to first identify brain activations induced by novel sounds (NOV) when participants made a color decision on visual stimuli containing both negative (NEG) and neutral (NEU) facial expressions. We then measured modulation of these auditory responses by the emotional load of the task. Contrary to what was assumed, activation induced by NOV in superior temporal gyrus (STG) was enhanced when subjects responded to faces with a NEG emotional expression compared with NEU ones. Accordingly, NOV yielded stronger behavioral disruption on subjects' performance in the NEG context. These results demonstrate that the emotional context modulates the excitability of auditory and possibly multimodal novelty cerebral regions, enhancing acoustic novelty processing in a potentially harming environment.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS), caused by silencing of the Fmr1 gene, is the most common form of inherited mental retardation. Epilepsy is reported to occur in 20-25% of individuals with FXS. However, no overall increased excitability has been reported in Fmr1 knockout (KO) mice, except for increased sensitivity to auditory stimulation. Here, we report that kindling increased the expressions of Fmr1 mRNA and protein in the forebrain of wild-type (WT) mice. Kindling development was dramatically accelerated in Fmr1 KO mice, and Fmr1 KO mice also displayed prolonged electrographic seizures during kindling and more severe mossy fiber sprouting after kindling. The accelerated rate of kindling was partially repressed by inhibiting N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor (NMDAR) with MK-801 or mGluR5 receptor with 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP). The rate of kindling development in WT was not effected by MPEP, however, suggesting that FMRP normally suppresses epileptogenic signaling downstream of metabolic glutamate receptors. Our findings reveal that FMRP plays a critical role in suppressing limbic epileptogenesis and predict that the enhanced susceptibility of patients with FXS to epilepsy is a direct consequence of the loss of an important homeostatic factor that mitigates vulnerability to excessive neuronal excitation.
The K(V)7 (KCNQ) subfamily of voltage-gated K(+) channels consists of five members (K(V)7.1-K(V)7.5) giving rise to non-inactivating, and slowly activating/deactivating currents mainly expressed in cardiac (K(V)7.1) and neuronal (K(V)7.2-K(V)7.5) tissue. In the present study, using the cut-open oocyte voltage clamp, we studied the relation of the ionic currents from homomeric neuronal K(V)7 channels (K(V)7.2-K(V)7.5) with the gating currents recorded after K(+) conductance blockade from the same channels. Increasing the recording temperature from 18 degrees C to 28 degrees C accelerated activation/deactivation kinetics of the ionic currents in all homomeric K(V)7 channels (activation Q(10)s at 0 mV were 3.8, 4.1, 8.3 and 2.8 for K(V)7.2, K(V)7.3, K(V)7.4 and K(V)7.5 channels, respectively), without large changes in currents voltage-dependence; moreover, at 28 degrees C, ionic currents carried by K(V)7.4 channels also showed a significant increase in their maximal value. Gating currents were only resolved in K(V)7.4 and K(V)7.5 channels; the size of the ON gating charges at +40 mV was 1.34 +/- 0.34 nC for K(V)7.4, and 0.79 +/- 0.20 nC for K(V)7.5. At 28 degrees C, K(V)7.4 gating currents had the following salient properties: (1) similar time integral of Q(ON) and Q(OFF), indicating no charge immobilization; (2) a left-shift in the V(1/2) of the Q(ON)/V when compared to the G/V (approximately 50 mV in the presence of 2 mM extracellular Ba(2+)); (3) a Q(ON) decay faster than ionic current activation; and (4) a rising phase in the OFF gating charge after depolarizations larger than 0 mV. These observations suggest that, in K(V)7.4 channels, VSD movement is followed by a slow and/or low bearing charge step linking to pore opening, a result which may help to clarify the molecular consequence of disease-causing mutations and drugs affecting channel gating.
Alternative splicing is known to alter pharmacological sensitivities, kinetics, channel distribution under pathological conditions, and developmental regulation of VGSCs. Mutations that alter channel properties in Na(V)1.7 have been genetically implicated in patients with bouts of extreme pain classified as inherited erythromelalgia (IEM) or paroxysmal extreme pain disorder (PEPD). Furthermore, patients with IEM or PEPD report differential age onsets. A recent study reported that alternative splicing of Na(V)1.7 exon 5 affects ramp current properties. Since IEM and PEPD mutations also alter Na(V)1.7 ramp current properties we speculated that alternative splicing might impact the functional consequences of IEM or PEPD mutations. We compared the effects alternative splicing has on the biophysical properties of Na(V)1.7 wild-type, IEM (I136V) and PEPD (I1461T) channels. Our major findings demonstrate that although the 5A splice variant of the IEM channel had no functional impact, the 5A splice variant of the PEPD channel significantly hyperpolarized the activation curve, slowed deactivation and closed-state inactivation, shifted the ramp current activation to more hyperpolarized potentials, and increased ramp current amplitude. We hypothesize a D1/S3-S4 charged residue difference between the 5N (Asn) and the 5A (Asp) variants within the coding region of exon 5 may contribute to shifts in channel activation and deactivation. Taken together, the additive effects observed on ramp currents from exon 5 splicing and the PEPD mutation (I1461T) are likely to impact the disease phenotype and may offer insight into how alternative splicing may affect specific intramolecular interactions critical for voltage-dependent gating.



A test of advanced theory of mind (ToM), first introduced by F. Happ (1994), was adapted for children (mental, human, animal, and nature stories plus unlinked sentences). These materials were closely matched for difficulty and were presented to forty-five 7- to 12-year-olds with autism and 27 control children. Children with autism who showed ToM impairment on independent tests performed significantly more poorly than controls solely on the mental, human, and animal stories with greatest impairment on the former and least on the latter. Thus, a mentalizing deficit may affect understanding of biologic agents even when this does not explicitly require understanding others' mental states.
The importance of eye gaze as a means of communication is indisputable. However, there is debate about whether there is a dedicated neural module, which functions as an eye gaze detector and when infants are able to use eye gaze cues in a referential way. The application of neuroscience methodologies to developmental psychology has provided new insights into early social cognitive development. This review integrates findings on the development of eye gaze processing with research on the neural mechanisms underlying infant and adult social cognition. This research shows how a cognitive neuroscience approach can improve our understanding of social development and autism spectrum disorder.
The condition of deafness presents a developmental context that provides insight into the biological, cultural, and linguistic factors underlying the development of neural systems that impact social cognition. Studies of visual attention, behavioral regulation, language development, and face and human action perception are discussed. Visually based culture and language provides deaf children with affordances that promote resiliency and optimization in their development of visual engagement, executive functions, and theory of mind. These experiences promote neural adaptations permitting nuanced perception of classes of linguistic and emotional-social behaviors. Studies of deafness provide examples of how interactions and contributions of biological predispositions and genetic phenotypes with environmental and cultural factors including childhood experiences and actions of caregivers shape developmental trajectories.





Although the benefits of clozapine have been well demonstrated in resistant schizophrenia, the frequency of adverse events is of particular concern: up to 76% of patients to whom clozapine was prescribed experienced an adverse event, with a discontinuation rate of 17%. In addition to its major clinical side effect, agranulocytosis, clozapine is reported to induce inflammatory syndromes with polyserositis. Apart from sparse case reports, no study has yet addressed this particularly interesting issue. With the aim of improving the outcome of clozapine-treated patients, we undertook a review of the literature to characterize the clinical features of clozapine-induced serositis, its pathophysiology, and to propose strategies of clinical management.








Vilazodone (EMD 68843; 5-{4-[4-(5-cyano-3-indolyl)-butyl]-1-piperazinyl}-benzofuran-2-carboxamide hydrochloride) is a combined serotonin specific reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) and 5-HT1A receptor partial agonist currently under clinical evaluation for the treatment of major depression. This molecule was designed based on the premise that negative feedback circuitry, mediated via 5-HT1 receptors, limits the acute SSRI-induced enhancements in serotonergic neurotransmission. If the hypothesis is correct, combination of SSRI with 5-HT1A partial agonism should temporally enhance the neuroplastic adaptation and subsequently hasten therapeutic efficacy compared to current treatments. Preclinical in vitro evaluation has confirmed vilazodone's primary pharmacological profile both in clonal and native systems, that is, serotonin reuptake blockade and 5-HT1A partial agonism. However, in vivo and in contrast to combination of 8-OH-DPAT and paroxetine, vilazodone selectively enhanced serotonergic output in the prefrontal cortex of rats. Behavioral evaluations, in the ultrasonic vocalization model of anxiety in rats, demonstrated anxiolytic efficacy. In the forced swim test (a putative model of depression), vilazodone also showed efficacy but at a single dose only. In man, vilazodone abolished REM sleep and demonstrated clinical antidepressant efficacy equivalent to an SSRI. Ongoing clinical evaluations will hopefully reveal whether the founding hypothesis was valid and if vilazodone will produce a more rapid onset of antidepressant efficacy.
Recent inquiries into the nature of self-representation have put forward a new and interesting conceptualization of the self, as a &quot;center of gravity&quot; of one's private and social behavior. We review recent neuroimaging work that has suggested interactions among brain regions comprising the default state network, including medial and temporo-parietal cortical regions and the mirror neuron system including lateral fronto-parietal regions as two interacting neural systems that work in concert to produce a cohesive self-representation through simulation. Simulation processes-broadly construed here as using existing representations as templates for understanding novel information-are instantiated by these brain systems across a wide range of domains including time, space, physical and social, giving rise to the multifaceted Self that we all are. Accumulating evidence also suggests, that these simulation processes are used in a multitude of cognitions that constitute the self, including autobiographical memory and prospection, perspective taking, understanding other's actions and mental states and embodied self-representation.
Commonly used measures of disability in patients with Multiple sclerosis (MS) inadequately reflect disease severity and progression. Further, cognitive deficits experienced by up to 70% of patients, are poorly represented by these measures. Saccadic eye movements may provide a powerful tool for the analysis of cognitive changes in MS, providing a surrogate measure of performance that extends more conventional measures. The cognitive control of eye movements has not previously been investigated in patients with MS. We studied antisaccade (AS) performance in 25 patients with MS and compared the results with 25 age matched healthy controls, to evaluate the resolution of response conflict between volitional and automatic processes. Experimental measures were also correlated with a battery of neuropsychological tests evaluating attention, working memory and executive processes, the most commonly reported cognitive deficits in MS. Compared to controls, patients with MS generated significantly more prosaccade errors, and AS latencies were prolonged and more variable. Error rates correlated significantly with scores on the commonly used PASAT. MS patients also exhibited poor spatial accuracy, with mean absolute error significantly larger and more variable than control subjects. The sensitivity of this task in dissociating function in MS, as well as clear correlation with a key measure of cognition, suggests that eye movements, may provide a surrogate measure of cognitive function in MS, with the potential to sensitively assess disease severity and progression.

Not all conceivable grammars are realized within human languages. Rules based on rigid distances, in which a certain word must occur at a fixed distance from another word, are never found in grammars of human languages. Distances between words are specified in terms of relative, non-rigid positions. The left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) (Broca's area) has been found to be involved in the computation of non-rigid but not of rigid syntax in the language domain. A fundamental question is therefore whether the neural activity underlying this non-rigid architecture is language-specific, given that analogous structural properties can be found in other cognitive domains. Using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in sixteen healthy native speakers of Italian, we measured brain activity for the acquisition of rigid and non-rigid syntax in the visuo-spatial domain. The data of the present experiment were formally compared with those of a previous experiment, in which there was a symmetrical distinction between rigid and non-rigid syntax in the language domain. Both in the visuo-spatial and in the language domain, the acquisition of non-rigid syntax, but not the acquisition of rigid syntax, activated Brodmann Area 44 of the left IFG. This domain-independent effect was specifically modulated by performance improvement. Thus, in the human brain, one single &quot;grammar without words&quot; serves different higher cognitive functions.
Neglect can be ego-centered or object-centered depending on the reference frames for &quot;left&quot; and &quot;right&quot;, of either the body or an object. It has been suggested that object-centered neglect is not a general phenomenon but is limited to words because only they have a true canonical representation. Here, we examined whether object-centered neglect could be observed for non-verbal material by creating, after repeated exposure, a canonical representation of a nonsense figure. Fourteen neglect patients repeatedly bisected a series of asymmetrical nonsense drawings containing two different shapes at their right and left end-points (canonical trials). In the critical trials, which were the last three in the series, the position of the two shapes was mirror-reversed. Afterwards, neglect patients were asked to draw the stimulus, which provided a further measure of whether a canonical representation of the object has been built by the patients. All the patients made rightward errors with the canonical stimuli. With mirror-reversed stimuli, the bisection errors were reversed to the contralesional side in one patient, returned to zero in one patient and significantly decreased in three patients. In addition, 10 patients reliably drew the canonical stimulus at the end of the series of trials, providing an indication that they built up a canonical representation of the stimulus. The present data provide evidence that object-centered neglect is a phenomenon that is not limited to words. The nature of a stimulus, verbal or non-verbal, is not critical for observing object-centered neglect. What is critical is the way in which material is represented by the patients.
PDE10A is a dual substrate PDE that is highly expressed in medium spiny neurons of the striatal complex. The inhibition of PDE10A produces effects that modulate basal ganglia function in ways that suggest a particular therapeutic utility in the treatment of psychosis in schizophrenia. Significant understanding of PDE10A at the molecular level has helped to guide efforts in inhibitor design, and many different inhibitor classes have now been discovered. At least one PDE10A inhibitor has been advanced into clinical trials to begin to test the hypothesis that such agents may be useful in the treatment of psychosis.

Precise regulation of stem cell self-renewal/differentiation is essential for embryogenesis and tumor suppression. Drosophila neural progenitors (neuroblasts) align their spindle along an apical/basal polarity axis to generate a self-renewed apical neuroblast and a differentiating basal cell. Here, we genetically disrupt spindle orientation without altering cell polarity to test the role of spindle orientation in self-renewal/differentiation. We perform correlative live imaging of polarity markers and spindle orientation over multiple divisions within intact brains, followed by molecular marker analysis of cell fate. We find that spindle alignment orthogonal to apical/basal polarity always segregates apical determinants into both siblings, which invariably assume a neuroblast identity. Basal determinants can all be localized into one sibling without inducing neuronal differentiation, but overexpression of the basal determinant Prospero can deplete neuroblasts. We conclude that the ratio of apical/basal determinants specifies neuroblast/GMC identity, and that apical/basal spindle orientation is required for neuroblast homeostasis and neuronal differentiation.
New neurons are born and integrated into functional circuits in the brains of many adult organisms. In virtually all of these systems, serotonin is a potent regulator of neuronal proliferation. Specific neural pathways underlying these serotonergic influences have not, however, been identified and manipulated. The goal of this study was to test whether adult neurogenesis in the crustacean brain is influenced by electrical activity in the serotonergic dorsal giant neurons (DGNs) innervating the primary olfactory processing areas, the olfactory lobes, and higher order centers, the accessory lobes. Adult-born neurons occur in two interneuronal cell clusters that are part of the olfactory pathway. This study demonstrates that neurogenesis also continues in these areas in a dissected, perfused brain preparation, although the rate of neuronal production is lower than in brains from intact same-sized animals. Inclusion of 10(-9) M serotonin in the perfusate delivered to the dissected brain preparation restores the rate of neurogenesis to in vivo levels. Although subthreshold stimulation of the DGN does not significantly alter the rate of neurogenesis, electrical activation of a single DGN results in significant increases in neurogenesis in Cluster 10 on the same side of the brain, when compared with levels on the contralateral, unstimulated side. Measurements of serotonin levels in the perfusate using high-performance liquid chromatography established that serotonin levels are elevated about 10-fold during DGN stimulation, confirming that serotonin is released during DGN activity. This is the first identified neural pathway through which adult neurogenesis has been directly manipulated.
We investigated hyposensitivity after amphetamine in early (postnatal Day 30; P30) and late (P45) adolescent rats compared to adults (P70) in experiment 1. Locomotor activity was measured for 1 hr after the first (acute) and second (24 hr later) injection of amphetamine (0.5 or 1.5 mg/kg). P30 and P45 rats were transiently hypoactive compared to adults, as indicated by reduced locomotor activity after acute amphetamine and enhanced activity after the second injection in adolescents only. In experiment 2, ovariectomy did not alter locomotor activity during habituation at any age compared to intact rats, and, as for intact adolescents, ovariectomized adolescents continued to be less active after amphetamine than adults, suggesting gonadal immaturity alone cannot account for age differences in experiment 1. However, ovariectomy attenuated the increase in activity after the second treatment. In experiment 3 involving untreated rats, tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity was reduced in P30, P40, and P50 compared to P90 rats in the nucleus accumbens core and the medial prefrontal cortex. Thus, adolescents may have an increased threshold of behavioral activation that can be overcome with either a higher dose or with repeated amphetamine treatment, and may be related to changes in the dopamine system over development.
Language impairment is a hallmark of autism spectrum disorders (ASD). The origin of the deficit is poorly understood although deficiencies in auditory processing have been detected in both perception and cortical encoding of speech sounds. Little is known about the processing and transcription of speech sounds at earlier (brainstem) levels or about how background noise may impact this transcription process. Unlike cortical encoding of sounds, brainstem representation preserves stimulus features with a degree of fidelity that enables a direct link between acoustic components of the speech syllable (e.g. onsets) to specific aspects of neural encoding (e.g. waves V and A). We measured brainstem responses to the syllable /da/, in quiet and background noise, in children with and without ASD. Children with ASD exhibited deficits in both the neural synchrony (timing) and phase locking (frequency encoding) of speech sounds, despite normal click-evoked brainstem responses. They also exhibited reduced magnitude and fidelity of speech-evoked responses and inordinate degradation of responses by background noise in comparison to typically developing controls. Neural synchrony in noise was significantly related to measures of core and receptive language ability. These data support the idea that abnormalities in the brainstem processing of speech contribute to the language impairment in ASD. Because it is both passively elicited and malleable, the speech-evoked brainstem response may serve as a clinical tool to assess auditory processing as well as the effects of auditory training in the ASD population.
The FGF family of extracellular signaling factors has been proposed to play multiple roles in patterning the telencephalon, the precursor to the cerebrum. In this study, unlike previous ones, we effectively abolish FGF signaling in the anterior neural plate via deletion of three FGF receptor (FGFR) genes. Triple FGFR mutant mice exhibit a complete loss of the telencephalon, except the dorsal midline. Disruption of FGF signaling prior to and coincident with telencephalic induction reveals that FGFs promote telencephalic character and are strictly required to keep telencephalic cells alive. Moreover, progressively more severe truncations of the telencephalon are observed in FGFR single, double and triple mutants. Together with previous gain-of-function studies showing induction of Foxg1 expression and mirror-image duplications of the cortex by exogenous FGF8, our loss-of-function results suggest that, rather than independently patterning different areas, FGF ligands and receptors act in concert to mediate organizer activity for the whole telencephalon.
The orphan nuclear receptor Nurr1 is essential for the development of meso-diencephalic dopamine (mdDA) neurons and is required, together with the homeobox transcription factor Pitx3, for the expression of genes involved in dopamine metabolism. In order to elucidate the molecular mechanisms that underlie the neuronal deficits in Nurr1(-/-) mice, we performed combined gene expression microarrays and ChIP-on-chip analysis and thereby identified Dlk1, Ptpru and Klhl1 as novel Nurr1 target genes in vivo. In line with the previously described cooperativity between Nurr1 and Pitx3, we show that the expression of Ptpru and Klhl1 in mdDA neurons is also dependent on Pitx3. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Nurr1 interacts with the Ptpru promoter directly and requires Pitx3 for full expression of Ptpru in mdDA neurons. By contrast, the expression of Dlk1 is maintained in Pitx3(-/-) embryos and is even expanded into the rostral part of the mdDA area, suggesting a unique position of Dlk1 in the Nurr1 and Pitx3 transcriptional cascades. Expression analysis in Dlk1(-/-) embryos reveals that Dlk1 is required to prevent premature expression of Dat in mdDA neuronal precursors as part of the multifaceted process of mdDA neuronal differentiation driven by Nurr1 and Pitx3. Taken together, the involvement of Nurr1 and Pitx3 in the expression of novel target genes involved in important neuronal processes such as neuronal patterning, axon outgrowth and terminal differentiation, opens up new avenues to study the properties of mdDA neurons during development and in neuronal pathology as observed in Parkinson's disease.
Drosophila larval brain neural stem cells, also known as neuroblasts, divide asymmetrically to generate a self-renewing neuroblast and a ganglion mother cell (GMC) that divides terminally to produce two differentiated neurons or glia. Failure of asymmetric cell division can result in hyperproliferation of neuroblasts, a phenotype resembling brain tumors. Here we have identified Drosophila Protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) as a brain tumor-suppressor that can inhibit self-renewal of neuroblasts. Supernumerary larval brain neuroblasts are generated at the expense of differentiated neurons in PP2A mutants. Neuroblast overgrowth was observed in both dorsomedial (DM)/posterior Asense-negative (PAN) neuroblast lineages and non-DM neuroblast lineages. The PP2A heterotrimeric complex, composed of the catalytic subunit (Mts), scaffold subunit (PP2A-29B) and a B-regulatory subunit (Tws), is required for the asymmetric cell division of neuroblasts. The PP2A complex regulates asymmetric localization of Numb, Pon and Atypical protein kinase C, as well as proper mitotic spindle orientation. Interestingly, PP2A and Polo kinase enhance Numb and Pon phosphorylation. PP2A, like Polo, acts to prevent excess neuroblast self-renewal primarily by regulating asymmetric localization and activation of Numb. Reduction of PP2A function in larval brains or S2 cells causes a marked decrease in Polo transcript and protein abundance. Overexpression of Polo or Numb significantly suppresses neuroblast overgrowth in PP2A mutants, suggesting that PP2A inhibits excess neuroblast self-renewal in the Polo/Numb pathway.



3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, Ecstasy) is a widely misused synthetic amphetamine derivative and a serotonergic neurotoxicant in animal models and possibly humans. The underlying mechanism of neurotoxicity involves the formation of reactive oxygen species although their source remains unclear. It has been postulated that MDMA-induced neurotoxicity is mediated via the formation of bioreactive metabolites. In particular, the primary catechol metabolites, 3,4-dihydroxymethamphetamine (HHMA) and 3,4-dihydroxyamphetamine (HHA), subsequently cause the formation of glutathione and N-acetylcysteine conjugates, which retain the ability to redox cycle and are serotonergic neurotoxicants in rats. Although the presence of such metabolites has been recently demonstrated in rat brain microdialysate, their formation in humans has not been reported. The present study describes the detection of 5-(N-acetylcystein-S-yl)-3,4-dihydroxymethamphetamine (N-Ac-5-Cys-HHMA) and 5-(N-acetylcystein-S-yl)-3,4-dihydroxyamphetamine (N-Ac-5-Cys-HHA) in human urine of 15 recreational users of MDMA (1.5 mg/kg) in a controlled setting. The results reveal that in the first 4 h after MDMA ingestion approximately 0.002% of the administered dose was recovered as thioether adducts. Genetic polymorphisms in CYP2D6 and catechol-O-methyltransferase expression, the combination of which are major determinants of steady-state levels of HHMA and 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyamphetamine, probably explain the interindividual variability seen in the recovery of N-Ac-5-Cys-HHMA and N-Ac-5-Cys-HHA. In summary, the formation of neurotoxic thioether adducts of MDMA has been demonstrated for the first time in humans. The findings lend weight to the hypothesis that the bioactivation of MDMA to neurotoxic metabolites is a relevant pathway to neurotoxicity in humans.
A clinical investigation program was carried out to replace endogenous albumin of patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) with 5% Human Albumin Grifols(R) through a plasma exchange (PE) schedule, in order to alter the dynamic equilibrium between albumin-bound Abeta in plasma and Abeta in cerebrospinal fluid. In a pilot proof-of-concept study, 7 patients underwent 6 PE in 3 weeks and 1 year of follow-up. Plasma Abeta determinations demonstrated a variation pattern in levels in relation with the PEs. Cognitive status scores (MMSE and ADAS-Cog) were more stable than expected. In a phase II clinical trial, 29 patients were randomized into PEtreated and control groups with 1 year follow-up. Interim results point toward the occurrence of Abeta40 mobilization in the PE-treated patients, who scored better in cognitive tests (differences at 9 months: 2.5 in MMSE and 5.5 in ADAS-cog). These results suggest that a PE program with 5% Human Albumin Grifols may have a promising role in the treatment of mild to moderate AD.
The objective of this study was to assess the impact of meal support therapy on the use of nasogastric feeding for adolescent patients hospitalized with Anorexia Nervosa. Charts of 21 adolescents (mean age 15.1 +/- 1.9 years) were reviewed. The incidence of nasogastric feeding was substantially reduced after the implementation of meal support therapy (67% versus 11% [p &lt; .02]). No differences in length of stay, change in weight, or readmission rates were observed. Meal support therapy significantly reduces the use of nasogastric feeding on inpatient units treating children and adolescents with Anorexia Nervosa.
Progesterone receptor (PR) expression and regulation of neural progenitor cell (NPC) proliferation was investigated using NPC derived from adult rat brain. RT-PCR revealed that PRA mRNA was not detected in rat NPCs, whereas membrane-associated PRs, PR membrane components (PGRMCs) 1 and 2, mRNA were expressed. Progesterone-induced increase in 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine incorporation was confirmed by fluorescent-activated cell sorting analysis, which indicated that progesterone promoted rat NPC exit of G(0)/G(1) phase at 5 h, followed by an increase in S-phase at 6 h and M-phase at 8 h, respectively. Microarray analysis of cell-cycle genes, real-time PCR, and Western blot validation revealed that progesterone increased expression of genes that promote mitosis and decreased expression of genes that repress cell proliferation. Progesterone-induced proliferation was not dependent on conversion to metabolites and was antagonized by the ERK(1/2) inhibitor UO126. Progesterone-induced proliferation was isomer and steroid specific. PGRMC1 small interfering RNA treatment, together with computational structural analysis of progesterone and its isomers, indicated that the proliferative effect of progesterone is mediated by PGRMC1/2. Progesterone mediated NPC proliferation and concomitant regulation of mitotic cell cycle genes via a PGRMC/ERK pathway mechanism is a potential novel therapeutic target for promoting neurogenesis in the mammalian brain.
Whereas hormone therapy is used for the treatment of menopausal symptoms, its efficacy in helping reduce the risk of other diseases such as Alzheimer's disease has been questioned in view of the results of recent clinical trials that appeared inconsistent with numerous basic research studies that supported the beneficial effects of hormones. One possible explanation of this discrepancy may lie in the choice of hormone used. For example, we and others found that progesterone is neuroprotective whereas medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA), the synthetic progestin used in hormone therapy, is not. Because our data suggest that progesterone-induced protection is associated with the induction of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels and, importantly, can be blocked by inhibiting the neurotrophin signaling, we determined whether progesterone and medroxyprogesterone acetate differed in their ability to regulate BDNF levels in the explants of the cerebral cortex. We found that progesterone elicited an increase in both BDNF mRNA and protein levels, whereas medroxyprogesterone acetate did not. Furthermore, using both a pharmacological inhibitor of the progesterone receptor (PR) and PR knockout mice, we determined that the effects of progesterone were mediated by the classical PR. Our results underscore the fact that not all progestins have equivalent effects on the brain and suggest that the selection of the appropriate progestin may influence the success of hormone therapy formulations used in treating the menopause and/or reducing the risk for diseases associated with the postmenopausal period.
Morphological plasticity in response to estradiol is a hallmark of astrocytes in the arcuate nucleus. The functional consequences of these morphological changes have remained relatively unexplored. Here we report that in the arcuate nucleus estradiol significantly increased the protein levels of the two enzymes in the glutamate-glutamine cycle, glutamine synthetase and glutaminase. We further demonstrate that these estradiol-mediated changes in the enzyme protein levels may underlie functional changes in neurotransmitter availability as: 1) total glutamate concentration in the arcuate nucleus was significantly increased and 2) microdialysis revealed a significant increase in extracellular glutamate levels after a synaptic challenge in the presence of estradiol. These data implicate the glutamate-glutamine cycle in the generation and/or maintenance of glutamate and suggest that the difference in extracellular glutamate between estradiol- and oil-treated animals may be related to an increased efficiency of the cycle enzymes. In vivo enzyme activity assays revealed that the estradiol mediated increase in glutamate-glutamine cycle enzymes in the arcuate nucleus led to an increase in gamma-aminobutyric acid and is likely not related to the increase in extracellular glutamate. Thus, we have observed two-independent effects of estradiol on amino acid neurotransmission in the arcuate nucleus. These data suggest a possible functional consequence of the well-established changes in glial morphology that occur in the arcuate nucleus in the presence of estradiol and suggest the importance of neuronal-glial cooperation in the regulation of hypothalamic functions such as food intake and body weight.
The benefits of estrogen replacement as a preventative treatment for Alzheimer's disease (AD) are subject to debate. Because the effects of estrogen depletion and replacement on accumulation of the neurotoxic beta-amyloid (A beta) peptide in transgenic animal models of AD have been variable, we examined A beta levels and oxidative stress in a nontransgenic animal model. Sheep have traditionally been used as a model for human reproduction; however because they share 100% sequence homology with the human form of A beta, they may also have potential as a nontransgenic model for A beta biology. The effect of ovariectomy and estrogen replacement administered for 6 months via slow-release implant was examined in the brain of 4.5-yr-old sheep. A beta levels were measured by ELISA, and protein levels of the amyloid precursor protein (APP), APP C-terminal fragments (C100), and presenilin-1 were examined semiquantitatively by Western blot as markers of APP processing. Markers of oxidative stress were examined semiquantitatively by Western blot [4-hydroxy-2(E)-nonenal] and oxyblot (protein carbonyls). We found no effects of estrogen depletion and supplementation in terms of AD-related biochemical markers, including A beta levels, APP processing, and oxidative stress levels. Evidence of a trend toward increased P450 side-chain cleavage enzyme levels in the hippocampus of ovariectomized and estrogen supplemented sheep suggests that neurosteroidogenesis may compensate for gonadal estrogen depletion; however, these findings cannot explain the lack of effect of estrogen supplementation on APP processing. It is possible that supraphysiological doses of estrogen are necessary to yield antiamyloidogenic and antioxidative benefits in ovariectomized sheep.

Angiogenesis, the formation of new blood vessels, is vital for embryonic development and disruption of this process can be a powerful mechanism of abortion. Over the last few decades there has been increasing global concern regarding the public health impact attributed to environmental smoke pollution. However, no study has yet examined the relation between exhaust from 2-stroke auto-rickshaws and angiogenesis. The current experiment was carried out to elucidate the possible detrimental effects of 2-stroke auto-rickshaw smoke solutions (2SARSS) on physiological angiogenesis, using a well-defined chicken chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) assay. Gross computer based 3D image probing and histopathologic modalities were utilized to quantify different detrimental effects of 2SARSS on the fundamental processes of angiogenesis. Macroscopic investigations of 2SARSS treated CAMs revealed severe disruption in the orientation and normal branching pattern of the blood vessels with profound disorganization. Application of 2SARSS caused substantial decrease in the total vascular area of CAM (p&lt;0.001) diameters of the primary, secondary (p&lt;0.01) and tertiary blood vessels (p&lt;0.001) as well as capillary plexuses formation (p&lt;0.001). Evaluation of different 3D parameters of 2SARSS treated CAMs unveiled diminished surface roughness, angular distribution, and height of the Abbott curves. Moreover, histological evaluations of 2SARSS treated CAMs also revealed disruption of the normal architecture of the blood vessel with marked thinning of ectodermal layer and mesodermal extracellular matrix. The anti-angiogenic effects of 2SARSS clearly demonstrate its toxicity to those travelling and/or living in the vicinity of these vehicles and these populations may suffer from several angiogenesis related pathologies.



Described here is a case of a patient who made the sign of the cross during right mesial temporal seizures, documented by intracranial depth electrode and simultaneous scalp video-EEG. The patient was ultimately found to have predominantly left temporal lobe epilepsy, and she was rendered seizure free for many years following a left anterior temporal lobe resection. Most interestingly, however, was a suggestion that in her case, making the sign of the cross may have represented a learned ictal behavioral phenomenon: the patient had been forced, over a period of many years, to make this gesture as an atonement in the postictal period. The movement ultimately came to be performed unconsciously, during the ictus, associated with a lateralized seizure discharge in the right temporal lobe. In contrast to seizure-induced experiential phenomena and typical motor automatisms, where the behavioral manifestations have no recognized association with learning, we wondered whether the pathophysiological mechanisms of chronic focal epilepsy had subserved in this case a psychological learning process, whereby right temporal seizures were ultimately able to recruit and activate an adjacent neural memory circuit.
Catamenial epilepsy is a multifaceted neuroendocrine condition in which seizures are clustered around specific points in the menstrual cycle, most often around perimenstrual or periovulatory period. Generally, a twofold or greater increase in seizure frequency during a particular phase of the menstrual cycle could be considered as catamenial epilepsy. Based on this criteria, recent clinical studies indicate that catamenial epilepsy affects 31-60% of the women with epilepsy. Three types of catamenial seizures (perimenstrual, periovulatory and inadequate luteal) have been identified. However, there is no specific drug available today for catamenial epilepsy, which has not been successfully treated with conventional antiepileptic drugs. Elucidation of the pathophysiology of catamenial epilepsy is a prerequisite to develop specific targeted approaches for treatment or prevention of the disorder. Cyclical changes in the circulating levels of estrogens and progesterone play a central role in the development of catamenial epilepsy. There is emerging evidence that endogenous neurosteroids with anticonvulsant or proconvulsant effects could play a critical role in catamenial epilepsy. It is thought that perimenstrual catamenial epilepsy is associated with the withdrawal of anticonvulsant neurosteroids. Progesterone and other hormonal agents have been shown in limited trials to be moderately effective in catamenial epilepsy, but may cause endocrine side effects. Synthetic neurosteroids, which enhance the tonic GABA-A receptor function, might provide an effective approach for the catamenial epilepsy therapy without producing hormonal side effects.
The development of novel anticonvulsant drugs with improved efficacy for the treatment of epilepsy is hindered by a lack of information regarding the quantitative relationship between target mechanism and in vivo efficacy. In the present study we have examined the correlation between the potency of structurally diverse compounds at voltage-gated sodium channels in vitro and their efficacy in a rodent model of acute generalised seizures induced by electroshock. We observed a significant correlation between the estimated affinity (Ki) of the compounds for the inactivated state of human recombinant Na(V)1.2 channels and the unbound brain concentration required for anticonvulsant efficacy. Furthermore, the data suggest that an unbound concentration equivalent to less than 50% of the Ki is sufficient for anticonvulsant effect. We noted that increasing sodium channel blocking potency was associated with increasing brain tissue binding and lipophilicity. These data suggest that there is a balance between sodium channel blocking potency in vitro and good pharmacokinetic characteristics necessary for anticonvulsant efficacy in vivo. Finally, we examined the sodium channel blocking potency of sodium valproate in relation to its anticonvulsant efficacy in vivo. We found that a higher unbound concentration of the drug in the brain was required for anticonvulsant efficacy than would be expected given its sodium channel blocking potency.

Children in remission from acute lymphoblastic leukaemia: mental health, psychosocial adjustment and parental functioningThe objective of this study is to assess the mental health and psychosocial adjustment of children in remission from acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), and parental functioning compared to healthy controls. A cross-sectional study of 40 children treated for ALL (mean age 11.8 years, range 8.5-15.4) and healthy controls (n = 42) (mean age 11.8 years, range 8.11-15.0) were assessed by the Child Behaviour Checklist (CBCL), the Youth Self-Report (YSR) and the Strength and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ). The parent's own mental health was assessed by the General Health Questionnaire (GHQ-30). Children treated for ALL showed on average significantly more symptoms as measured by the CBCL Total Behaviour Score for mother's report (P = 0.005), and for father's report (P = 0.004) compared with healthy children. Fathers reported more anxiety (P = 0.03) and depression (P = 0.02) as measured by the GHQ-30 compared with healthy controls. Children in remission from ALL showed on average significantly more problems regarding mental health and psychosocial adjustment, as reported by their parents, compared with healthy controls. Adequate rehabilitation and follow-up programmes should be implemented for children in remission from ALL. The results indicate the need to pay attention to the mental health of fathers during the rehabilitation phase.
The single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) rs449647, rs769446 and rs405509 in the promoter region of the APOE gene have been variously suggested to be epsilon 4-independent risk factors for Alzheimer's disease (AD). A previous Italian study found that the rs449647 was significantly associated with late-onset AD. The aim of this study was to verify whether these APOE promoter SNPs are genetic risk factors for AD and to investigate their interaction with the common APOE polymorphism. A total of 169 clinically diagnosed AD patients and 99 cognitively intact age-matched controls were included in the study. Significant associations with AD independent from sex, age and APOE/epsilon 4 status were found for rs449647 A/A and rs405509 G/G genotypes (positive), and rs449647 A/T and rs405509 T/T genotypes (negative). Haplotype frequency estimation at the APOE locus showed significant associations for the ATG4, ATT4 and ACG3 (positive) and ATT2, ATT3 and TCG3 (negative) haplotypes. Therefore this study confirms the role of the rs449647 A/A genotype as risk factor for AD in Italy and suggests that promoter genotypes and APOE haplotypes might have a complex function in AD-associated genetic risk factors.
DC are the most potent antigen-presenting cells that recognise signs of infection and serve as the main activators of nave T cells. We have previously shown that type I IFN (IFN-I) are produced by DC and can act in an autocrine manner to activate DC. In the present study, we have investigated the role of IFN-I in regulating the turnover and lifespan of DC. We found that DC, especially the CD8alpha(+) subset, from type I IFN receptor knock out (IFNAR KO) mice, display a reduced turnover rate when compared with DC from WT mice, as revealed by BrdU labelling kinetics. In vitro, IFNAR KO BM precursor cells cultured in the presence of GM-CSF generated CD11c(+) DC less efficiently than WT BM, and the IFNAR KO DC that arose displayed reduced migratory ability. Interestingly, splenic DC from IFNAR KO mice exhibited a higher survival rate in short-term culture compared with control DC. Exposure to IFN-I in vivo markedly increased the turnover rate of splenic DC, particularly CD8alpha(+) DC, which was preceded by a transient induction of apoptosis. In accordance with this, IFN-I stimulated the apoptosis of splenic DC in vitro. Overall, our data indicate that IFN-I are important regulators of DC turnover in vivo and suggest that these cytokines may exert this function through the modulation of multiple processes involving DC apoptosis, proliferation and migration.


Substantial evidence shows that activation of glial cells in the spinal cord may promote central sensitization and pain. Descending facilitation from the rostroventromedial medulla (RVM) is a critical component in the maintenance of chronic pain states, although the precise mechanisms through which facilitation maintains pain are unclear. Here, we investigated the possibility that glial activation in the RVM could promote descending facilitation from the RVM in states of inflammatory pain. Peripheral inflammation was induced with carrageenan injected into the hindpaws of male Sprague-Dawley rats, and behavioral responses to noxious thermal and light tactile stimuli were determined. Microinjection of the glial inhibitors minocycline or fluorocitrate, or of the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibitor SB 203580, produced a significant and time-related attenuation of behavioral hypersensitivity resulting from hindpaw inflammation. Carrageenan-induced inflammation increased immunolabeling for microglia and astrocytes in the RVM, as well as for phosphorylated p38 MAPK. Phosphorylated p38 MAPK was found in microglia and neurons of the RVM. Inflammation-induced microglial and astrocytic activation in the RVM were attenuated by RVM microinjection of the glial inhibitors. The data show that inflammatory pain is associated with glial activation in the RVM that probably participates in driving descending pain facilitation. These findings reveal a novel site of glial modulation of inflammatory pain.

Mu opioid receptor (MOR) regulation of somatodendritic dopamine neurotransmission in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) was investigated using conventional microdialysis in freely moving rats and mice. Reverse dialysis of the MOR agonist DAMGO (50 and 100 microm) into the VTA of rats produced a concentration-dependent increase in dialysate dopamine concentrations. Basal dopamine overflow in the VTA was unaltered in mice lacking the MOR gene. However, basal gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) overflow in these animals was significantly increased, whereas glutamate overflow was decreased. Intra-VTA perfusion of DAMGO into wild-type (WT) mice increased dopamine overflow. GABA concentrations were decreased, whereas glutamate concentrations in the VTA were unaltered. Consistent with the loss of MOR, no effect of DAMGO was observed in MOR knockout (KO) mice. These data provide the first direct demonstration of tonically active MOR systems in the VTA that regulate basal glutamatergic and GABAergic neurotransmission in this region. We hypothesize that increased GABAergic neurotransmission following constitutive deletion of MOR is due to the elimination of a tonic inhibitory influence of MOR on GABAergic neurons in the VTA, whereas decreased glutamatergic neurotransmission in MOR KO mice is a consequence of intensified GABA tone on glutamatergic neurons and/or terminals. As a consequence, somatodendritic dopamine release is unaltered. Furthermore, MOR KO mice do not exhibit the positive correlation between basal dopamine levels and the glutamate/GABA ratio observed in WT mice. Together, our findings indicate a critical role of VTA MOR in maintaining an intricate balance between excitatory and inhibitory inputs to dopaminergic neurons.
The AMPA receptor (AMPAR) subunits GluR1 and GluR2 show different properties in central neurons and affect AMPAR trafficking via distinct mechanisms. This subunit-specificity is partly achieved by recruiting unique protein modifications on different subunits. Here, we show that palmitoylation of GluR1 and GluR2 subunits also displays subunit-specific properties and functions. Our findings indicate that GluR1 palmitoylation requires dynamic anterograde transport from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the Golgi apparatus. In contrast, GluR2 subunits are primarily palmitoylated locally in the ER as immature receptors, and an intact microtubule network is required for their palmitoylation. Interestingly, the majority of palmitoylated GluR2 subunits are not associated with GluR1 subunits. We found that preventing palmitoylation results in loss of mature GluR2, but leaves GluR1 intact, as palmitoylation on GluR2 in the ER prevents their sorting to the lysosome after receptor maturation. Moreover, palmitoylation on GluR1 and GluR2 subunits responds differently to neuronal activity. Blocking neuronal activity by tetrodotoxin increased the pool size of palmitoylated GluR2, but not GluR1. Acute stimulation by NMDA and AMPA also differentially affect AMPAR palmitoylation in a subunit-specific manner. The present findings thus indicate that AMPAR palmitoylation is a subunit-specific process that contributes to its regulation and trafficking.
ADHD is a brain based disorder with structural and functional abnormalities in widespread but specific areas of the brain. The most significant and consistent structural imaging findings include smaller total brain volumes, and reduced volumes in the right frontal lobe, right parietal cortex, caudate nucleus, cerebellar hemispheres, and posterior-inferior lobules of the cerebellar vermis. ADHD involves hypofunction of catecholaminergic circuits, particularly those that project to the prefrontal cortex. A minimum of 18 genes have been reported to be associated with the disorder; among them the DRD4 7-repeat allele has been found associated with a thinner prefrontal and posterior parietal cortex. Epigenetic factors acting during critical periods of prenatal and postnatal development may interact with genetic determinants. Methylphenidate, as well as the catecholaminergic nonstimulant atomoxetine, are effective in improving ADHD symptoms.
The heat radiant tail flick test is commonly used to quantify nociception and pain levels. Likewise, the C57BL/6J strain of mice is frequently used in pain-related studies as transgenic mice are often backcrossed onto this background. C57BL/6J mice naturally develop non-pigmented patches of variable length on the distal part of the tail that could conceivably modify the response latency in tail flick assays. Here we find that these non-pigmented regions, in a position-independent manner, significantly increase the response latency in the heat radiant tail flick assay, but not the warm water immersion test. This finding demonstrates that the extent of pigmentation, and not other potential variables between pigmented and non-pigmented skin, affects radiant heat tail flick latency, and should be considered in the design of pain-related studies using mice with variable tail pigmentation.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of 3,5-dibenzoyl-4-(3-phenoxy-phenyl)-1,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethylpyridine (DP7), a novel multidrug resistance (MDR) reverter, on cytochrome P450 (CYP)-activities by human and rat liver microsomes. Effects of DP7 were assessed with use of selective substrates, markers of CYP activities. With rat microsomes, ethoxyresorufin (ETR) was used as substrate for CYP1A1, penthoxyresorufin (PTR) for 2B, benzyloxyresorufin (BZR) for 1A1/2, 2B, 2C, 3A. CYP3A enzyme activities of rat (3A2) and human (3A4) liver microsomes, were assessed fluorimetrically using either 7-benzyloxy-quinoline (BQ) or [3-[3(3,4-difluorobenzyl)oxy]-5,5-dimethyl-4-[4-(methylsulfonyl)-phenyl]furan-2-(5H)-one] (DFB). When rat microsomes were incubated with DP7, concentration-inhibition curves were obtained. DP7 inhibitions gave IC(50) values of 3.8 microM for PTR, 3.8 microM for ETR and 10.4 microM for BZR and were not competitive in nature; moreover, they were reversible. When BQ was used as substrate of rat microsomes, DP7 inhibited its oxidation with an IC(50) value of 4.17 microM, while this oxidation was inhibited by only 25% at the highest DP7 concentration used (75 microM) with human microsomes. On the contrary, when DFB was used as substrate, DP7 showed identical IC(50) values (34.67 microM) with microsomal preparations from either species. The moderate inhibition of CYP isoforms of rat liver microsomes and the weak inhibition of human CYP3A4 enzyme activity operated by DP7, suggest that DP7 in man should not give rise to important, unpredictable pharmacokinetic interactions. This conclusion supports the role of this compound as a lead for the development of novel MDR reverterting dihydropyridines of therapeutic interest.
The gamma-aminobutyric acid(GABA)-B receptor agonist baclofen is known to reduce drug intake in both animals and humans and to prevent reinstatement of cocaine-, opioid-, and alcohol-seeking in rats after a period of extinction, but its effect on nicotine reinstatement is unknown. This study investigated the effect of baclofen on nicotine-seeking reinstatement both using the extinction/reinstatement model of nicotine self-administration and conditioned place preference (CPP). Results showed that in rats previously trained to intravenously self-administer nicotine (30 microg/kg/inf) under a FR-1 schedule of reinforcement, acute nicotine (0.15 mg/kg) priming effectively reinstates nicotine-seeking behaviour following extinction. At doses used in this study (up to 2.5 mg/kg) baclofen alone did not affect locomotor activity and did not reinstate responding. However, baclofen dose-dependently attenuated drug-induced reinstatement of nicotine-seeking in rats. Moreover, baclofen (1.25 mg/kg) completely blocked nicotine-induced reinstatement of extinguished nicotine (0.3 mg/kg) CPP in mice. Altogether, our results showed that baclofen is able to antagonise reinstatement of nicotine-seeking and CPP triggered by nicotine primings, suggesting its potential clinical utility as an anti-relapse agent.
Previous findings imply that synaesthetic experience may have consequences for sensory processing of stimuli that do not themselves trigger synaesthesia. For example, synaesthetes who experience colour show enhanced perceptual processing of colour compared to non-synaesthetes. This study aimed to investigate whether enhanced perceptual processing was a core property of synaesthesia by contrasting tactile and colour sensitivity in synaesthetes who experience either colour, touch, or both touch and colour as evoked sensations. For comparison the performance of non-synaesthetic control subjects was also assessed. There was a relationship between the modality of synaesthetic experience and the modality of sensory enhancement. Synaesthetes who experience colour have enhanced colour sensitivity and synaesthetes who experience touch have enhanced tactile sensitivity. These findings suggest the possibility that a hyper-sensitive concurrent perceptual system is a general property of synaesthesia and are discussed in relation to theories of the condition.
Distortions of time perception are generally explained either by variations in the rate of pacing signals of an &quot;internal clock&quot;, or by lag-adaptation mechanisms that recalibrate the perceived time of one event relative to another. This study compares these accounts directly for one temporal illusion: the subjective compression of the interval between voluntary actions and their effects, known as 'intentional binding'. Participants discriminated whether two cutaneous stimuli presented after voluntary or passive movements were simultaneous or successive. In other trials, they judged the temporal interval between their movement and an ensuing tone. Temporal discrimination was impaired following voluntary movements compared to passive movements early in the action-tone interval. In a control experiment, active movements without subsequent tones produced no impairment in temporal discrimination. These results suggest that voluntary actions transiently slow down an internal clock during the action-effect interval. This in turn leads to intentional binding, and links the effects of voluntary actions to the self.
Large lesions produced by stroke to the forelimb region of motor cortex of the rat feature post-stroke improvement that in the main is due to compensation. The present study describes both recovery and compensation of forelimb use in a reach-to-eat (skilled reaching) task following small photothrombotic stroke. The rats were pretrained before stroke, and then assessed using endpoint measures and biometric movement analysis during rehabilitation in the acute and chronic post-stroke periods. Histological and MRI analysis indicated that the stroke consisted of a small lesion surrounded by cortex featuring scattered cell loss, likely of the large pyramidal cells that characterize the forelimb region of motor cortex. The stroke reduced reaching success, especially on the most demanding measure of success on first reach attempts, in the acute period, but with rehabilitation, performance returned to pre-stroke levels. Reach movements as assessed by biometric measures were severely impaired acutely but displayed significant recovery chronically although this recovery was not complete. The results suggest that not only do rats show post-stroke compensation in skilled reaching but they can also display functional recovery. It is suggested that recovery is mediated by the spared neurons in the peri-infarct region of forelimb motor cortex. The results demonstrate the utility of a small lesion model for studying post-stroke neural and behavioral change and support the view that optimal post-stroke treatment should be directed toward limiting tissue loss.
We compared mitochondrial respiratory chain function, mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) integrity, and oxidative stress levels in muscle, myoblasts, fibroblasts and cybrids, from 12 amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients with 28 control samples. Mitochondrial respiratory chain enzyme activities were normal in muscle, myoblast and fibroblast cultures from ALS patients, as were levels of mtDNA in muscle. Rearranged muscle mtDNA species were not detected by Southern blot hybridization in any of the samples and no difference was found in the number of deleted mtDNA species detected by long-range PCR. Platelet-derived cybrid studies confirmed the absence of a systemic mtDNA abnormality. Aconitase activity measurements did not indicate increased oxidative damage in muscle tissue, or in myoblasts or fibroblasts from ALS patients cultured under basal conditions. We did, however, find an increased sensitivity to oxidative stress in myoblasts from ALS patients exposed to paraquat. This altered sensitivity appears to be due to a nuclear rather than a mtDNA abnormality. Motor neurons have a large relative size and metabolic activity, and would be expected to be exposed to a greater degree of oxidative stress than most tissues throughout life. In addition, neurons are postmitotic cells, with poor regenerative potential. We do not have a ready method to study this in neural tissue of living patients, but the oxidative stress identified in myoblasts would translate into oxidative damage more readily in motor neurons than in other tissues.
Progenitor proliferation and differentiation are necessary for oligodendrocyte replacement. Previously, we showed that intraspinal activation of microglia and macrophages with the TLR4 agonist lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induced robust oligodendrocyte genesis. In this study we investigated whether this process involves iron since LPS can alter macrophage regulation of iron and its storage protein ferritin, and oligodendrocytes require iron for proper development and myelination. Further, activated macrophages can sequester and release iron and ferritin. We first examined whether iron or ferritin was present following LPS microinjection. Using Perl's stain, we noted a slight increase in iron at 1d, and peak iron levels 3d post-injection coincident with maximal macrophage activation. Ferritin+ cells were prevalent by 3d and included macrophages and NG2 cells (putative oligodendrocyte progenitors). At 7d, ferritin was mainly expressed by new oligodendrocytes prevalent throughout the lesions. Because of the timing and distribution of iron and ferritin after LPS, we next used an iron chelator to test whether free iron was necessary for maximal LPS-induced oligodendrocyte genesis. Chelating iron by Deferasirox (Exjade) after LPS microinjection significantly reduced the number of proliferating NG2 cells and new oligodendrocytes. Of the remaining oligodendrocytes, there was a 2-fold decrease in those expressing ferritin, revealing that the number of oligodendrocytes with high iron stores was reduced. Collectively, these results establish that iron accumulates after intraspinal TLR4 activation and is required for maximal TLR4-induced oligodendrogenesis. Since TLR4 agonists are abundant in CNS injury/disease sites, these results suggest that iron may be essential for macrophage/oligodendrocyte communication and adult glial replacement.
Many cellular events are involved in ischemic neuronal death, and it has been difficult to identify those that play a critical role in the cascade triggered by lack of oxygen and glucose, although it has been widely recognized that overactivation of glutamate receptors represents one of the initiating factors. Different glutamate receptor antagonists, especially those for N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, have achieved significant success in animal models of hypoxia/ischemia; however, these antagonists have failed in clinical trials. We previously reported that calpain-mediated truncation of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha (mGluR1alpha) played a critical role in excitotoxicity, and that a TAT-mGluR1 peptide consisting of a peptide surrounding the calpain cleavage site of mGluR1alpha and the peptide transduction domain of the transactivating regulatory protein (TAT) of HIV was neuroprotective against excitotoxicity. In the present study we tested the effect of this peptide in in vitro and in vivo models of neonatal hypoxia/ischemia. TAT-mGluR1 peptide prevented oxygen/glucose deprivation- (OGD) and hypoxia/ischemia- (H/I) induced neuronal death in cultured hippocampal slices and neonatal rats, respectively. TAT-mGluR1 blocked H/I-induced mGluR1alpha degradation but had no effect on H/I-induced spectrin degradation, suggesting that neuroprotection was due to prevention of calpain-mediated mGluR1alpha truncation and not to calpain inhibition. Our results therefore suggest that mGluR1alpha truncation plays a critical role in neonatal hypoxia/ischemia and that blockade of this event may prevent the activation of many downstream cytotoxic cascades. Compared to glutamate receptor antagonists and general calpain inhibitors, TAT-mGluR1 may have limited side effects.

The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of 17beta-oestradiol (E(2)) on detrusor smooth muscle contractility and its possible neuroprotective role against ischaemic-like condition, which could arise during overactive bladder disease. The effect of E(2) was investigated on rat detrusor muscle strips stimulated with carbachol, KCl and electrically, in the absence or presence of a selective oestrogen receptor antagonist (ICI 182,780) and, by using confocal Ca(2+) imaging technique, measuring the amplitude (DeltaF/F(0)) and the frequency of spontaneous whole cell Ca(2+) flashes. Moreover, the effect of 1 and 2 h of anoxia-glucopenia and reperfusion (A-G/R), in the absence or presence of the hormone, was evaluated in rat detrusor strips perfused with Krebs solution which underwent electrical field stimulation to stimulate intrinsic nerves; the amplitude and the frequency of Ca(2+) flashes were also measured. 17beta-Oestradiol exhibited antispasmogenic activity assessed on detrusor strips depolarized with 60 mm KCl at two different Ca(2+) concentrations. 17beta-Oestradiol at the highest concentration tested (30 microm) significantly decreased detrusor contractions induced by all the stimuli applied. In addition, the amplitude and the frequency of spontaneous Ca(2+) flashes were significantly decreased in the presence of E(2) (10 and 30 microm) compared with control detrusor strips. In strips subjected to A-G/R, a significant increase in the amplitude of both spontaneous and evoked flashes was observed. 17beta-Oestradiol was found to increase the recovery of detrusor strips subjected to A-G/R. The ability of E(2) to suppress contraction in control conditions may explain its ability to aid recovery following A-G/R.


Women are twice as likely as men to develop major depressive disorder (MDD) and, while the neurobiological factors underlying this discrepancy are yet to be identified, estrogen almost certainly plays a role. MDD can be precipitated or exacerbated by exposure to stress and there is substantial evidence to suggest that estrogen can interact with stress systems to produce unique stress effects in females. This review integrates current research in animal models regarding estrogen-stress interactions in three areas of the brain known to be relevant to MDD: the hippocampus, the amygdala and the prefrontal cortex. The results from these studies are discussed in the context of MDD, and their implications for future treatment of MDD in women are explored.
The corpus callosum (CC) is a midline white matter brain region that is important in interhemispheric communication and coordination. CC abnormalities are associated with a variety of psychiatric conditions, including increased vulnerability for psychotic illness, stressful early-life experiences, marijuana use, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, borderline personality disorder, dementia, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. CC abnormalities in bipolar disorder have been identified in both pediatric and adult populations. In adults, a consistent finding has been a reduction in CC size, as well as abnormal axonal orientation or structure. Axonal abnormalities have also been noted in pediatric populations, but overall CC size reductions have not thus far been demonstrated. Furthermore, there are unique gender differences in the expression of CC abnormalities in pediatric populations, possibly related to androgen changes during puberty. The protean number of conditions in which the CC is involved is reflective of its central role in normal brain function and its potential as an early marker of neuropathology in psychiatric illness. Specifically, in bipolar disorder it has the potential to be useful as an early preclinical marker of disease or disease risk.
The 6th Global College of Neuroprotection and Neuroregeneration (GCNN) and 5th Society for Study on Neuroplasticity and Neuroregeneration (SSNN) conference was held jointly in the Hilton Hotel, Vienna, Austria, 1-4 March 2009. This was the second annual joint conference of the two societies and it was highly successful from a scientific point of view, as it saw a gathering of the top basic and clinical scientists whose research is currently at the cutting edge of neuroscience. This conference saw 86 invited lectures from carefully selected leading scientists from around the world, along with 56 posters of young scientists researching of a focal theme. Over the 3 days, in 32 sessions, new developments in neuroprotection and new ways to enhance neuroregeneration were discussed intensively among more than 600 delegates. In addition, approximately 40 representatives of drug companies, five representatives from scientific publishers and 14 representatives from scientific instruments and supplies-related industries also actively participated in this huge neuroscience event. The GCNN and SSNN conference achieved a new milestone in scientific success in Vienna and established an excellent new working collaboration among the participants in a pleasant, enriched environment with several social gatherings.
The ability to repair DNA damage is likely to play an important role in the survival of facultative intracellular parasites because they are exposed to high levels of reactive oxygen species and nitrogen intermediates inside phagocytes. Correcting oxidative damage in purines and pyrimidines is the primary function of the enzymes formamidopyrimidine (faPy)-DNA glycosylase (Fpg) and endonuclease VIII (Nei) of the base excision repair pathway, respectively. Four gene homologs, belonging to the fpg/nei family, have been identified in Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37Rv. The recombinant protein encoded by M. tuberculosis Rv2924c, termed Mtb-Fpg1, was overexpressed, purified and biochemically characterized. The enzyme removed faPy and 5-hydroxycytosine lesions, as well as 8-oxo-7,8-dihydroguanine (8oxoG) opposite to C, T and G. Mtb-Fpg1 thus exhibited substrate specificities typical for Fpg enzymes. Although Mtb-fpg1 showed nearly complete nucleotide sequence conservation in 32 M. tuberculosis isolates, the region upstream of Mtb-fpg1 in these strains contained tandem repeat motifs of variable length. A relationship between repeat length and Mtb-fpg1 expression level was demonstrated in M. tuberculosis strains, indicating that an increased length of the tandem repeats positively influenced the expression levels of Mtb-fpg1. This is the first example of such a tandem repeat region of variable length being linked to the expression level of a bacterial gene.
In south Asian countries, a campaign has launched to promote CNG-powered four-stroke auto-rickshaws (CNFAR) to decrease emission load in the environment. Even though, CNFAR are considered environmentally safe, emissions of some other toxic chemicals would amplify, which may effect the development of growing fetus and may result in different growth defects. By utilizing the in vivo chicken embryo model, this report analyzes the toxic potential of CNFAR smoke solutions (CNFARSS) on embryonic movements (EM) and cardiovascular development. Application of CNFARSS to embryos caused profound decline (p&lt;0.001) in all four types of EMs. Several recovery attempts of all EMs were observed in oscillating fashion, however, EMs did not recover by the end of experiment. Exposure of CNFARSS escorted intense decline (p&lt;0.001) with temperate recovery phases in the EM of tail. Macroscopic evaluation of all CNFARSS treated chicken embryos revealed several widespread hemorrhaging throughout the whole body. Moreover, four different types of ectopia cordis were prominently observed among all CNFARSS treated embryos, namely; incomplete ectopia cordis, complete ectopia cordis, cervico-thoracic ectopia cordis and thoraco-abdominal ectopia cordis.
In the present treatise, we provide evidence that the neuroprotective and mito-protective effects of estrogens are inexorably linked and involve the ability of estrogens to maintain mitochondrial function during neurotoxic stress. This is achieved by the induction of nuclear and mitochondrial gene expression, the maintenance of protein phosphatases levels in a manner that likely involves modulation of the phosphorylation state of signaling kinases and mitochondrial pro- and anti-apoptotic proteins, and the potent redox/antioxidant activity of estrogens. These estrogen actions are mediated through a combination of estrogens receptor (ER)-mediated effects on nuclear and mitochondrial transcription of protein vital to mitochondrial function, ER-mediated, non-genomic signaling and non-ER-mediated effects of estrogens on signaling and oxidative stress. Collectively, these multifaceted, coordinated action of estrogens leads to their potency in protecting neurons from a wide variety of acute insults as well as chronic neurodegenerative processes.
Chronic cerebrospinal venous insufficiency (CCSVI) is a vascular picture that shows a strong association with multiple sclerosis (MS). The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between a Doppler cerebral venous hemodynamic insufficiency severity score (VHISS) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) flow dynamics in 16 patients presenting with CCSVI and relapsing-remitting MS (CCSVI-MS) and in eight healthy controls (HCs). The two groups (patients and controls) were evaluated using validated echo-Doppler and advanced 3T-MRI CSF flow measures. Compared with the HCs, the CCSVI-MS patients showed a significantly lower net CSF flow (p=0.027) which was highly associated with the VHISS (r=0.8280, r2=0.6855; p=0.0001). This study demonstrates that venous outflow disturbances in the form of CCSVI significantly impact on CSF pathophysiology in patients with MS.

Songbirds show dynamic seasonal changes in their reproductive activities during the year. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone-I (GnRH-I) is critical for the control of reproduction in vertebrates. The molecular mechanisms controlling reproduction are not well understood in songbirds, largely because the GnRH-I precursor polypeptide gene was unknown until now. Here, we report the complete sequence and seasonal regulation of GnRH-I precursor polypeptide mRNA in a songbird, European starling (Sturnus vulgaris). The translated starling GnRH-I precursor polypeptide contained an amino acid sequence that can be processed into chicken GnRH-I peptide (pEHWSYGLQPG-NH(2)). However, the overall homology of GnRH-I precursor polypeptide (including a 23 amino acid signal peptide, the decapeptide hormone and Gly-Lys-Arg cleavage site followed by 55 amino acid GnRH-associated peptide sequences) between starling and chicken was only 58%. GnRH-I mRNA and GnRH-I peptide were observed to be co-localized in the preoptic area of sexually mature birds using in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry. GnRH-I mRNA exhibited large variance in photosensitive birds, and converged to a high level in photostimulated birds. Subsequently, GnRH-I mRNA decreased to below detectability in most of the photorefractory birds. Changes were also observed in GnRH-I peptide levels, although changes in GnRH-I peptide were not as marked. Our data indicate that GnRH-I mRNA synthesis commences but is variable in photosensitive birds, stabilizes in photostimulated birds, then ceases when birds become photorefractory. Finer-scale investigation into temporal regulation of GnRH-I precursor polypeptide mRNA will provide insight into its regulation by environmental, social and physiological cues.
Artemisinin, by the name of Qinghaosu, has been used in China for the treatment of fever over the years. Recently, a number of artemisinin derivatives such as artesunate, artemether, dihydroartemisinin, and arteether have been developed and have found widespread clinical use because of their efficacy against resistant forms of all plasmodial species and a favorable side-effect profile. However, concerns have been expressed about the neurotoxic effects of artemisinin derivatives based on some animal and human studies. We present a case of alpha/beta-arteether-induced mania in an adolescent having a family history of chloroquine-induced psychosis to discuss the hereditary predispositions, possible mechanisms, management, and clinical implications of this rare adverse event.

The morphogenesis of oligodendrocytes is essential for central nervous system myelin formation and the rapid propagation of axon potentials through saltatory conduction. However, the discrete cellular events involved in the three-dimensional maturation of oligodendrocytes remain to be fully described. To address this, we followed the developmental stages of oligodendrocytes in mouse organotypic hippocampal slice cultures for 7-60 days using viral-mediated gene delivery of membrane-targeted fluorescent proteins. Using static and time-lapse confocal imaging, we find that postmigratory NG2-expressing cells exhibit slow anatomical reorganization over the course of hours. This is in direct contrast to oligodendrocytes that take on a promyelinating and transitional phenotype, which display a more complex morphology and undergo dramatic actin-dependent structural remodeling over just minutes. More mature myelinating oligodendrocytes, which have pruned most of their processes, still retain some local remodeling behavior at developing internodes, but in general, revert to a relatively stable state. Our findings provide a detailed characterization of cellular events that help shape oligodendrocyte morphology and likely participate in neuron-glial cell interactions and the process of myelination.
14-3-3 Isoforms are shown to be upregulated or accumulated in the glial cells of autopsied patient brains affected with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), a demylinating disease caused by JC virus (JCV). The possible involvement of 14-3-3 in JCV tropism, however, has never been examined. To investigate a potential relationship between 14-3-3 isoforms and JCV in vitro, we examined the localization of six 14-3-3 isoforms in human neural progenitors and progenitor-derived astrocytes (PDAs) in cells without JCV exposure. The 14-3-3 zeta isoform was initially localized in the progenitor cytoplasm. When differentiation of progenitors into PDAs was induced, the zeta isoform was translocated into the nucleus. However, upon JCV infection, progenitor cells exhibited an uncharacteristic 14-3-3 zeta nuclear presence in the few cells that became infected. JCV-treated PDAs showed elevated levels of 14-3-3 zeta compared with noninfected PDAs. Treatment with TGF-beta1, a known stimulant of JCV multiplication, increased the overall number of infected cells and the otherwise absent nuclear presence of 14-3-3 zeta in progenitors. These results suggest that the nuclear presence of 14-3-3 zeta may play a role in JCV infection, and that the isoform may in part determine JCV susceptibility in these cell types.
The factors affecting normal oligodendrocyte positioning in the cerebral cortex are unknown. Apart from the white matter, the highest numbers of oligodendrocytes in the rodent cortex are found in Layers V/VI, where the infragranular neurons normally reside. Few, if any, oligodendrocytes are normally found in the superficial cortical layers. To test whether or not this asymmetric positioning of oligodendrocytes is linked to the lamina positions of Layer V/VI projection neurons, mutant mice that cause neuronal layer inversion were examined. In three lines of mutant mice (Reeler, disabled-1, and p35) examined, representing two different genetic signaling pathways, the oligodendrocyte distribution was altered from an asymmetric to a symmetric distribution pattern. Unlike cortical neurons that are inverted in these mutant mice, the lack of oligodendrocyte inversion suggests a decoupling of the genetic mechanisms governing neuronal versus oligodendrocyte patterning. We conclude that oligodendrocyte positioning is not linked to the layer positions of V/VI projection neurons.
Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) and their receptors (FGFRs) initiate diverse cellular responses that contribute to the regulation of oligodendrocyte (OL) function. To understand the mechanisms by which FGFRs elicit these cellular responses, we investigated the phosphorylation of signal transduction proteins and the role of cholesterol-glycosphingolipid-enriched &quot;lipid raft&quot; microdomains in differentiated OLs. Surprisingly, we found that the most abundant tyrosine-phosphorylated protein in OLs was the 120-kd isoform of FGFR2 and that it was phosphorylated even in the absence of FGF2, suggesting a potential ligand-independent function for this receptor. Furthermore, FGFR2, but not FGFR1, was associated with lipid raft microdomains in OLs and myelin (but not in astrocytes). This provides the first evidence for the association of FGFR with TX-100-insoluble lipid raft fractions. FGFR2 phosphorylated the key downstream target, FRS2 in OLs. Raft disruption resulted in loss of phosphorylated FRS2 from lipid rafts, coupled with the loss of Akt but not of Mek or Erk phosphorylation. This suggests that FGFR2-FRS2 signaling in lipid rafts operates via the PI3-Kinase/Akt pathway rather than the Ras/Mek/Erk pathway, emphasizing the importance of microenvironments within the cell membrane. Also present in lipid rafts in OLs and myelin, but not in astrocytes, was a novel 52-kd isoform of FGFR2 that lacked the extracellular ligand-binding region. These results demonstrate that FGFR2 in OLs and myelin possess unique characteristics that are specific both to receptor type and to OLs and provide a novel mechanism to elicit distinct cellular responses that mediate both FGF-dependent and -independent functions.
Glycolipids are major components of the plasma membrane, interacting with themselves, other lipids, and proteins to form an array of heterogeneous domains with diverse biological properties. Considerable effort has been focused on identifying protein binding partners for glycolipids and the glycan specificity for these interactions, largely achieved through assessing interactions between proteins and homogenous, single species glycolipid preparations. This approach risks overlooking both the enhancing and attenuating roles of heterogeneous glycolipid complexes in modulating lectin binding. Here we report a simple method for assessing lectin-glycolipid interactions. An automatic thin-layer chromatography sampler is employed to create easily reproducible arrays of glycolipids and their heterodimeric complexes immobilized on a synthetic polyvinyl-difluoride membrane. This array can then be probed with much smaller quantities of reagents than would be required using existing techniques such as ELISA and thin-layer chromatography with immuno-overlay. Using this protocol, we have established that the binding of bacterial toxins, lectins, and antibodies can each be attenuated, enhanced, or unaffected in the presence of glycolipid complexes, as compared with individual, isolated glycolipids. These findings underpin the wide-ranging influence and importance of glycolipid-glycolipid cis interactions when the nature of protein-carbohydrate recognition events is being assessed.
Low nocturnal oxygen saturation (SpO(2)) is implicated in complications of Sickle Cell Anemia (SCA). Twenty-four children with SCA were randomized to receive overnight auto-adjusting continuous positive airway pressure (auto-CPAP) with supplemental oxygen, if required, to maintain SpO(2) &gt;or=94% or as controls. We assessed adherence, safety, sleep parameters, cognition and pain. Twelve participants randomized to auto-CPAP (3 with oxygen) showed improvement in Apnea/Hypopnea Index (p&lt;0.001), average desaturation events &gt;3%/hour (p=0.02), mean nocturnal SpO(2) (p=0.02) and cognition. Primary efficacy endpoint (Processing Speed Index) showed no group differences (p=0.67), but a second measure of processing speed and attention (Cancellation) improved in those receiving treatment (p=0.01). No bone marrow suppression, rebound pain or serious adverse event resulting from auto-CPAP use was observed. Six weeks of auto-CPAP therapy is feasible and safe in children with SCA, significantly improving sleep-related breathing disorders and at least one aspect of cognition.

Beta-amyloid (Abeta) is a neuro-peptide implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Abeta-peptide is known to disrupt cellular processes, including synaptic plasticity. To date, the precise mechanisms leading to the Abeta-mediated impairment of normal neurophysiological function still remains elusive. A rise in the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1-beta (IL-1beta) has been previously reported, following Abeta peptide insult. IL-1beta in turn, activates a cascade of pro-apoptotic markers, gradually leading to cell death. In this work, we have investigated the possible protective effects of interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) on the effects of Abeta-peptide on long-term potentiation (LTP) in the CA1 region of the rat hippocampus in vivo. We observed a significant depression of LTP in the group of animals that received intracerebroventricular (icv) injection of Abeta-peptide (1-40) compared with control animals injected with vehicle. Administration of IL-1ra alone (icv) also resulted in a depression of LTP; however, there was no change in the baseline synaptic response. Combined injection of Abeta(1-40) + IL-1ra caused an attenuation of the effects observed with Abeta(1-40) alone for a period of up to 15 min following LTP induction; rescuing post-tetanicpotentiation (PTP). Gradually however, EPSP-values declined to produce a level of LTP similar to that observed following treatment with Abeta(1-40) alone. These results suggest that the acute Abeta-mediated impairment of PTP and LTP may be partial as a result of activation of an inflammatory response and the release of IL-1beta. The attenuation of plasticity by IL-1ra alone supports the theory that low levels of IL-1beta are required for normal synaptic plasticity. The limited rescue of the Abeta-mediated effects on LTP, in the presence of IL-1ra, may represent the short half life found with this receptor antagonist in vivo.
Nitric oxide ((*)NO) is an intercellular messenger implicated in memory formation and neurodegeneration in the hippocampus. Owing to its physical and chemical properties, the concentration dynamics of (*)NO is a critical issue in determining its bioactivity as a signaling molecule. Its production is closely related to glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, following a rise in intracellular calcium levels. However, that dependent on alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptors remains elusive and controversial, despite reports describing a role for these receptors in other brain regions, largely because of lack of quantitative and dynamic measurements of (*)NO. Using a (*)NO-selective microsensor inserted in the diffusional spread of (*)NO in the CA1 region of rat hippocampal slices, we measured its real-time endogenous production, following activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors and under tissue physiological oxygen tension. Both NMDA and AMPA stimulation resulted in a concentration-dependent (*)NO production but encompassing distinct kinetics for lag phases and slower rates of (*)NO production were observed for AMPA stimulation. Robustness of the results was achieved instrumentally and pharmacologically, by means of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitors and antagonists of NMDA (D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, AP5) and AMPA (2,3-dioxo-6-nitro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydrobenzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide, NBQX) receptors. When using glutamate as a stimulus, (*)NO production was of lower magnitude in the presence of AP5 plus NBQX than with AP5 alone, suggesting that even when NMDA receptors are inhibited Ca(2+) rises to levels to induce a peak of (*)NO from the background. Whereas extracellular Ca(2+) was required for the (*)NO signals, Philanthotoxin-4,3,3 (PhTX-4,3,3) a toxin used to target Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors, attenuated (*)NO production. These observations are interpreted on basis of a distinct coupling between the glutamate receptors and neuronal NOS. A role for Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors in the Ca(2+) activation of neuronal NOS is suggested.
The spectacular progress ofthe neurosciences, as well as the intense process of popularization by the media of images and information that associate cerebral activity with practically every aspect of life, have produced a growing perception of the brain as the site and agent of all the properties and actions that define us as human beings. Today's socio-cultural context has seen increased interest in 'neuroascese' that is, discourses and practices aimed at maximizing brain performance. Tracing elements of the history of'brain ascese' back to historical moments of the nineteenth century in which neuroascetic practices were commonplace, the article examines their continued use today, taking into account the social, cultural, and historical contexts in which they originated.
Puberty represents the phase of sexual maturity, signaling the change from childhood into adulthood. During childhood and adolescence, prominent changes take place in the brain. Recently, variation in frontal, temporal, and parietal areas was found to be under varying genetic control between 5 and 19 years of age. However, at the onset of puberty, the extent to which variation in brain structures is influenced by genetic factors (heritability) is not known. Moreover, whether a direct link between human pubertal development and brain structure exists has not been studied. Here, we studied the heritability of brain structures at 9 years of age in 107 monozygotic and dizygotic twin pairs (N = 210 individuals) using volumetric MRI and voxel-based morphometry. Children showing the first signs of secondary sexual characteristics (N = 47 individuals) were compared with children without these signs, based on Tanner-stages. High heritabilities of intracranial, total brain, cerebellum, and gray and white matter volumes (up to 91%) were found. Regionally, the posterior fronto-occipital, corpus callosum, and superior longitudinal fascicles (up to 93%), and the amygdala, superior frontal and middle temporal cortices (up to 83%) were significantly heritable. The onset of secondary sexual characteristics of puberty was associated with decreased frontal and parietal gray matter densities. Thus, in 9-year-old children, global brain volumes, white matter density in fronto-occipital and superior longitudinal fascicles, and gray matter density of (pre-)frontal and temporal areas are highly heritable. Pubertal development may be directly involved in the decreases in gray matter areas that accompany the transition of our brains from childhood into adulthood.
Successful adaptive behavior requires fast information processing. Behavioral switches may be necessary in response to threatening stimuli or when anticipated outcomes fail to occur. In this study, we explored the cortical processing of these two components using high-resolution evoked potentials. Subjects made a reversal learning task where they had to predict which one of two faces had a target stimulus on the nose. We found early electrocortical differences at 100-200 ms depending on whether the target stimulus was a spider or a disk. Source estimation indicated that this distinction was mediated by an anterior medial temporal region including the amygdala and adjacent cortex. When a switch to the alternate face was required, there was a discrete early electrocortical correlate after 200 ms, mediated by ventromedial prefrontal areas. Continued validity of stimulus-target associations was signaled at 400-520 ms, mediated by the parahippocampal region. The study indicates rapid serial processing of innate emotional quality, then cognitive-behavioral relevance of stimuli, mediated by limbic and paralimbic structures.
Functional MRI can be used to assess brain plasticity over time. To confidently attribute changes in activation patterns to cortical plasticity, it is important to establish the stability of cortical activation patterns. Because little is known concerning the stability of somatosensory-evoked brain responses, we assessed the reproducibility of within-subject responses in key somatosensory regions [thalamus, primary and secondary cortex (S1, S2)] to tactile and painful stimuli using threshold-dependent and threshold-independent analyses. Six subjects underwent four biweekly scanning sessions during which tactile and painful stimuli were applied to the hand. Standard thresholding and voxel counting techniques were compared with a novel threshold-independent method utilizing percent signal change within the regions of interest. Contralateral S1 and S2 were qualitatively reproducible during tactile stimulation, with overlapping activations &gt;85% of the time. S2 was also highly reproducible during painful stimulation (88%), whereas S1 was less reproducible (44%). However, activation in the thalamus to both tactile and painful stimulation was highly variable. Ipsilateral activation was consistent within S2 but sparse within S1 and thalamus. Deactivations within ipsilateral S1 occurred 48% of the time with tactile stimuli, and 90% of the time with painful stimuli. Within contralaterally activated regions intraclass correlations (ICCs) were very high using the unthresholded method regardless of the type of stimulation, whereas much lower ICCs arose from the thresholded analyses. These data indicate that a threshold-independent analysis can produce more reproducible outcomes than a standard threshold-dependent analysis.
