Suckling stimuli induce somatodendritic oxytocin (OT) release from supraoptic nucleus (SON) neurons, which raises intranuclear OT concentrations and contributes to the effectiveness of the milk-ejection reflex. To clarify how such changes in OT concentrations modulate the activity of OT neurons, we examined OT effects using whole cell patch-clamp recordings from SON neurons in slices from lactating rats. Progressive increases from extremely low OT concentrations (0.1-10 fM) to high concentrations (0.1-10 nM) induced excitation and subsequent spike frequency reduction (SFR) in OT neurons. Significant effects of OT on firing rates were observed starting at 1 fM, reached peak level from 1 fM to 1 pM before SFR occurred in most neurons. The buildup of OT concentrations progressively promoted depolarization of membrane potential, spike broadening, decreases in spike amplitude, and increases in the rise time of spike afterhyperpolarizations, which were unrelated to firing rate. However, intermittent application of OT (1 fM, 1 pM, and 1 nM, each for 5 min) evoked dose-dependent excitation but not the SFR. Application of 1 pM OT for 40 min simulated the effects of progressively increasing OT concentrations. Vasopressin neurons were also activated by OT but did not show SFR. Consistent with presynaptic loci of OT action, ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists reduced OT effects on firing rate, whereas bicuculline did not change the excitatory effects. These results suggest that the specific autoregulatory effects of OT, and perhaps other neuropeptides as well, are time and concentration dependent.
Previous studies have shown that IL-1beta can excite the magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) of the hypothalamus. However, it is not known whether IL-1beta can have direct IL-1 receptor type 1 (IL-1R1)-mediated effects on MNCs, and little is known about the cellular mechanisms by which IL-1beta influences electrical activity in these cells. Here, we used patch-clamp recordings to examine the effects of IL-1beta on acutely isolated rat MNCs. We found that IL-1beta directly excites MNCs in a dose-dependent manner and that this response can be blocked by an inhibitor of the IL-1R1. Voltage-clamp analysis of the current evoked by IL-1beta revealed a linear current-voltage relationship between -90 and -20 mV, and a reversal potential near -35 mV. This value was not affected by reducing the concentration of chloride ions in the external solution, indicating the involvement of a nonselective cation conductance. The effects of IL-1beta were inhibited by Na-salicylate, an inhibitor of cyclooxygenase. Moreover, the effects of IL-1beta were mimicked and occluded by PGE2, and were inhibited by AH-23848, an antagonist of the PGE2 type 4 (i.e., EP4) receptor. The current evoked by IL-1beta was also abolished by 100 microM gadolinium (Gd3+), but was significantly larger when examined in cells preshrunk by negative pressure applied via the recording pipette. IL-1beta alone did not cause changes in cell volume nor in the mechanosensitivity of MNCs. We conclude that IL-1beta directly excites MNCs via an IL-1R1-mediated induction of PGE2 synthesis and EP4 receptor-dependent autocrine upregulation of the nonselective cation conductance that underlies osmoreception.
The distribution and function of P2X and P2Y receptor subtypes were investigated on intact or cultured intramural ganglia of the cat urinary bladder by immunocytochemistry and calcium-imaging techniques, respectively. Neurons were labeled by all seven P2X receptor subtype antibodies and antibodies for P2Y(2), P2Y(4), P2Y(6), and P2Y(12) receptor subtypes with a staining intensity of immunoreactivity in the following order: P2X(3)=P2Y(2)=P2Y(4)=P2Y(6)=P2Y(12)&gt;P2X(1)=P2X(2)=P2X(4)&gt;P2X(5)=P2X(6)=P2X(7). P2Y(1) receptor antibodies labeled glial cells, but not neurons. P2X(3) and P2Y(4) polyclonal antibodies labeled approximately 95 and 40% of neurons, respectively. Double staining showed that 100, 48.8, and 97.4% of P2X(3) receptor-positive neurons coexpressed choline acetyl transferase (ChAT), nitric oxide synthase (NOS), and neurofilament 200 (NF200), respectively, whereas 100, 59.2, and 97.6% of P2Y(4) receptor-positive neurons coexpressed ChAT, NOS, and NF200, respectively. Application of ATP, alpha,beta-methylene ATP, and uridine triphosphate elevated intracellular Ca(2+) concentration in a subpopulation of dissociated cultured cat intramural ganglia neurons, demonstrating the presence of functional P2Y(4) and P2X(3) receptors. This study indicates that P2X and P2Y receptor subtypes are expressed by cholinergic parasympathetic neurons innervating the urinary bladder. The neurons were also stained for NF200, usually regarded as a marker for large sensory neurons. These novel histochemical properties of cholinergic neurons in the cat bladder suggest that the parasympathetic pathways to the cat bladder may be modulated by complex purinergic synaptic mechanisms.


The capability of ultra performance liquid chromatography coupled with time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC/TOFMS) in the high-throughput quantitative analysis of a drug candidate in plasma has been investigated. Data obtained were compared with results from conventional analysis by high-performance liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometric detection on a triple quadrupole instrument (HPLC/MS/MS). The accuracies and precisions of the two approaches were comparable. The UPLC/TOFMS system displayed excellent robustness over the course of 276 injections of protein-precipitated plasma samples. With the instrumentation used, the limits of detection and quantification were approximately five-fold higher with UPLC/TOFMS than for HPLC/MS/MS. Nevertheless, the UPLC/TOFMS system proved adequate to quantify plasma concentrations of a drug molecule administered orally to rats at a pharmacologically relevant dose of 4 mg/kg. As well as providing quantitative data on the test compound, it was also possible to extract data for eight different metabolites, including several isomeric species (three +O and three +2O) from the UPLC/TOFMS data sets, using an analytical method with a 2.5-minute run time. Selectivity for the test compound and its metabolites was derived from the accurate mass capabilities of the TOF instrument, and no MS method development was required.


Passage of Trypanosoma brucei across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a hallmark of late-stage human African trypanosomiasis. In the present study we found that daily administration of minocycline, a tetracycline antibiotic, impedes the penetration of leukocytes and trypanosomes into the brain parenchyma of T. brucei brucei-infected C57BL/6 mice. The trypanosome-induced astrocytic and microglial reactions were reduced in the minocycline-treated mice, as were the levels in the brain of transcripts encoding adhesion molecules intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1) and endothelial-leukocyte adhesion molecule 1 (E-selectin); the inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor alpha, interleukin-1alpha (IL-1alpha), IL-1beta, IL-6, and gamma interferon; and matrix metalloprotease 3 (MMP-3), MMP-8, and MMP-12. Loss of weight occurring during infection with T. b. brucei was not observed after treatment of the mice with minocycline; these mice also survived longer than nontreated mice. Invasion of trypanosomes and leukocytes into the brain parenchyma most likely triggered the loss of weight and death of infected animals, since minocycline did not affect the growth of T. b. brucei either in vitro or in vivo or the levels of the transcripts encoding the cytokines and MMPs in the spleen. In conclusion, our data show that T. b. brucei invasion of the brain is related to that of leukocytes and that minocycline can ameliorate the disease in trypanosome-infected mice.
Elevated levels of NO produced within the central nervous system (CNS) are associated with the pathogenesis of neuroinflammatory and neurodegenerative human diseases such as multiple sclerosis, HIV dementia, brain ischemia, trauma, Parkinson's disease, and Alzheimer's disease. Resident glial cells in the CNS (astroglia and microglia) express inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and produce high levels of NO in response to a wide variety of proinflammatory and degenerative stimuli. Although pathways resulting in the expression of iNOS may vary in two different glial cells of different species, the intracellular signaling events required for the expression of iNOS in these cells are slowly becoming clear. Various signaling cascades converge to activate several transcription factors that control the transcription of iNOS in glial cells. The present review summarizes different results and discusses current understandings about signaling mechanisms for the induction of iNOS expression in activated glial cells. A complete understanding of the regulation of iNOS expression in glial cells is expected to identify novel targets for therapeutic intervention in NO-mediated neurological disorders.
The mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) play a central role in mediating the activation and transcriptional responses of diverse cells, including glia. c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), a member of the MAPK family, is activated by a variety of stress and proinflammatory signals and in turn phosphorylates its downstream substrates including nuclear factors, leading to transcriptional activation of target genes. There are at least three subtypes of JNK (i.e., JNKs 1-3) that may play isoform-specific roles. This study examined the role of JNK isoforms in the induction of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in astrocytes in response to lipopolysachharide (LPS) and interferon (IFN)-gamma. While an inhibitor of the JNK pathway (SP600125) inhibited iNOS expression, ectopic expression of a constitutively active form of MEKK1 (MAPK/ERK kinase kinase- 1), an upstream activator of JNK, led to an induction of co-transfected iNOS promoter activity and, in the presence of LPS, to an enhanced expression of iNOS. RNA knockdown studies with JNK subtype-specific short-interfering RNA (siRNA), indicated that JNK1- but not JNK2- nor JNK3-specific siRNA, interfered with LPS/IFNgamma induction of iNOS. It is concluded that, of the three JNK forms, JNK1 is the major mediator of iNOS induction and perhaps, inflammatory signaling in general, in glial cells.
Loss of mitochondrial membrane integrity and consequent release of apoptogenic factors may be involved in mediating striatal neurodegeneration after prolonged treatment with the typical antipsychotic drug haloperidol. Apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF), an intramitochondrial protein, may have a large influence on mediating haloperidol-induced striatal neuron destruction. Translocation of this protein from mitochondria to the nucleus promotes cell death independently of the caspase cascade. To examine how AIF may contribute to haloperidol-induced apoptosis, AIF translocation was observed in three haloperidol treatment paradigms. SH-SY5Y cells were treated with both haloperidol and clozapine and examined for AIF immunofluorescence. Immunohistochemistry was also performed on human striatal sections obtained from the Stanley Foundation Neuropathology Consortium and on rat brain sections following 28 days of antipsychotic drug treatment. In the cellular model haloperidol, but not clozapine treatment increased the nuclear AIF immunofluorescent signal and decreased cell viability. Corollary to these findings, striatal sections from patients who had taken haloperidol and rats who were administered haloperidol both had an elevated nuclear AIF signal. The results provide novel evidence implicating the involvement of AIF in haloperidol-associated apoptosis and its relevance to the development of typical antipsychotic drug-related adverse effects such as tardive dyskinesia.
This study assessed the relationship between symptoms of psychopathology and cognitive functioning in clients completing comprehensive psychoeducational assessments at a university-based outpatient mental health clinic. Seventy clients (36 women, 34 men, mean age=28.8) completed the Wechsler Memory Scale-Third Edition (WMS-III), Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Third Edition (WAIS-III), and Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-Second Edition (MMPI-2). Partial correlations between the MMPI-2 clinical scales, WMS-III Index scores, WAIS-III Index scores, and WAIS-III IQ scores were not significant. Memory and Intelligence scores for clients with comorbid symptoms of depression and anxiety were comparable to scores for clients without comorbid symptomatology. Psychopathology factors accounted for 22% of the variance in the WAIS-III Full Scale IQ and 6.5% of the variance in the WMS-III General Memory Index. The results suggest that psychopathology as measured by the MMPI-2 may be minimally associated with intelligence and memory test performance in adults seen for psychoeducational assessment.
This study examined postconcussion-like symptoms in a group of university students and explored their relationships to neuropsychological function performance. A sample of 124 students was recruited. All of the participants received the Rivermead Post-Concussion Symptoms Questionnaire (RPQ) and completed a comprehensive set of neuropsychological tests. They reported a relatively high base rate of postconcussion-like symptoms. The most frequently endorsed items were &quot;fatigue&quot; (76.9%), &quot;longer time to think&quot; (60.3%), &quot;poor concentration&quot; (58.7%), &quot;sleep disturbance&quot; (50.4%), and &quot;frustration&quot; (46.3%). There were no significant differences between low symptom reporters and high symptom reporters, except for self-reported dysexecutive problems. A comparison of the healthy high symptom reporters and a convenient sample of traumatic brain injury patients revealed that the patients performed significantly worse on neuropsychological functions than the high symptom reporters, despite non-significant differences between symptom endorsement. Our findings demonstrate that: (a) the base rate of postconcussion-like symptoms in a group of healthy university students is relatively high and (b) postconcussion symptom (PCS) is not related to neuropsychological functions in normal people.
Parkinson disease is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder with no known cure. Impairment in mitochondrial dysfunction is thought to play a major role in the pathogenesis. Recent genetic advances suggest that mitochondrial dysfunction may be the primary defect. Drugs that target the mitochondria may therefore represent the best hope for disease-modifying therapies in Parkinson disease.

In contrast to the spinal control of erection, relatively little is known about the brain control. In the present review, we have outlined the role of brain structures involved in penile erection and provided a synopsis on the brain circuit of erection. Findings from both animal and human studies are discussed. Evidence suggests that the most important structures are the frontal lobe, cingulate gyrus, amygdala, thalamus and hypothalamus. Within the brain circuit of erection, the thalamus serves as a gate-controller in which all relevant information is evaluated and further processed to higher and lower centres.


The inflammatory myopathies are a group of acquired diseases, characterized by an inflammatory infiltrate of the skeletal muscle. On the basis of clinical, immuno-pathological and demographic features, three major diseases can be identified: dermatomyositis (DM); polymyositis (PM); and inclusion body myositis (IBM). New diagnostic criteria have recently been introduced, which are crucial for discriminating between the three different subsets of inflammatory myopathies and for excluding other disorders. DM is a complement-mediated microangiopathy affecting skin and muscle. PM and IBM are T cell-mediated disorders, where CD8-positive cytotoxic T cells invade muscle fibres expressing MHC class I antigens, thus leading to fibre necrosis. In IBM, vacuolar formation with amyloid deposits are also present. This article summarizes the main clinical, laboratory, electrophysiological, immunological and histologic features as well as the therapeutic options of the inflammatory myopathies.
Neuropsychological research has permitted defining specific cognitive profiles among individuals with mental retardation (MR) of different etiology. Namely, the cognitive profile of people with Down syndrome (DS) is often reported to be characterized by a deficit in language abilities that usually exceed impairments in visual-spatial capacities. However, recent studies have demonstrated a more complex neuropsychological profile in this population, with atypical development in the cognitive and in the linguistic domain. This paper is dedicated to reviewing literature regarding motor, linguistic and cognitive abilities in DS. Our aim is to present evidences supporting the hypothesis that individuals with these syndrome exhibit a peculiar motor development and neuropsychological profile with some abilities more preserved and others more impaired. This finding may have theoretical and practical implications. In fact, a better definition of the cognitive pattern in DS may contribute to understand the nature of MR in general and, also, it may suggests individualized rehabilitation treatment protocols.
Sphingolipids have important signaling and regulatory roles in the nuclei of all vertebrate cells examined to date. Sphingomyelin (SM) is the most abundant of this group and occurs in the nuclear envelope (NE) as well as intranuclear sites. The primary product of SM metabolism is ceramide, whose release by nuclear sphingomyelinase triggers apoptosis and other metabolic changes in the nucleus. Further catabolism results in free fatty acid and sphingosine formation, the latter being capable of conversion to sphingosine phosphate by action of a specific nuclear kinase. Finally, glycosphingolipids such as gangliosides occur in the NE where GM1, one member of the gangliotetraose family, influences Ca(2+) flux by activation of a Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger located in the inner membrane of the NE. The tightly associated GM1/exchanger complex was shown to exert a cytoprotective role in neurons and other cell types, as absence of this nuclear complex rendered cells vulnerable to apoptosis. A striking example of this mode of Ca(2+) regulation is the greatly enhanced seizure activity in knockout mice lacking gangliotetraose gangliosides, involving programmed cell death in the CA3 region of the hippocampus. In this model, Ca(2+) homeostasis was restored most effectively with LIGA-20, a membrane-permeant derivative of GM1 that entered the NE and activated the nuclear Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger.
Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) is a classic glycolytic enzyme, and accumulating evidence has suggested that GAPDH is a multi-functional protein. In particular, its role as a mediator for cell death has been highlighted. For the last decade, many groups reported that a pool of GAPDH translocates to the nucleus under a variety of stressors, most of which are associated with oxidative stress. At the molecular level, sequential steps lead to nuclear translocation of GAPDH during cell death as follows: first, a catalytic cysteine in GAPDH (C150 in rat GAPDH) is S-nitrosylated by nitric oxide (NO) that is generated from inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and/or neuronal NOS (nNOS); second, the modified GAPDH becomes capable of binding with Siah1, an E3 ubiquitin ligase, and stabilizes it; third, the GAPDH-Siah protein complex translocates to the nucleus, dependent on Siah1's nuclear localization signal, and degrades Siah1's substrates in the nucleus, which results in cytotoxicity. A recent report suggests that GAPDH may be genetically associated with late-onset of Alzheimer's disease. (-)-deprenyl, which has originally been used as a monoamine oxidase inhibitor for Parkinson's disease, binds to GAPDH and displays neuroprotective actions, but its molecular mechanism is still unclear. The NO/GAPDH/Siah1 death cascade will contribute to the molecular understanding of a role of GAPDH in neurodegenerative disorders and help to establish novel therapeutic strategies.
The influence of high-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) on learning process in mice and on neuronal excitability of the hippocampal tissue obtained from stimulated animals were investigated. While the stimulation with rTMS at higher frequency (15 Hz) improved animals' performance in novel object recognition test (NOR), lower frequency (1 and 8 Hz) impaired the memory. The effect was observed when evaluated immediately after rTMS exposure and declined with time. In parallel to the results of behavioral test, there was a significant enhancement of the synaptic efficiency expressed as of the long-term potentiation (LTP) recorded from hippocampal slices prepared from the animals exposed to 15 Hz rTMS. The stimulation with 1 and 8 Hz had no influence on the magnitude of LTP. Our results demonstrate that rTMS modifies mechanisms involved in memory formation. The effects of rTMS in vivo are preserved and expressed in the hippocampus tested in vitro.



Beta-adrenoceptor blockers and thrombolytic agents are of established value in the pharmacological management of heart failure and ST-elevation myocardial infarction, respectively. However, there is uncertainty as to whether these therapeutic strategies can be safely and effectively adopted in elderly patients with comorbidities, particularly in old-old individuals. This review focuses on these trials and the age-related efficacy and safety of these drugs.
Traditionally, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors have been used for the management of patients with congestive cardiac failure. Studies performed over the last decade have demonstrated that (1) angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) are as effective as ACE inhibitors in reducing morbidity and mortality in cardiac failure; and (2) inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system provides beneficial effects in patients at high cardiovascular risk without cardiac failure. This review focuses on the applicability of the results of the main trials with ACE inhibitors and ARBs to the elderly population.
Although elderly patients represent a rapidly growing population often requiring multiple drug treatment, the evidence of effectiveness is limited for many interventions and therapies in this age group. Only during the last 30 years has a requirement to incorporate evidence into the treatment of older subjects become part of the pre- and postmarketing regulatory process in Europe and the United States. Recently, elderly patients have been shown to benefit comparably from several treatments. These studies have supported the validity of an increasingly interventional approach to disorders common in late life. However, an important issue is the applicability of the growing body of clinical trials to 'real life' patients. This is particularly true in very old (i.e. &gt;80 years) patients and those with significant comorbidities. We review the current evidence and controversies related to the effectiveness and safety of several therapeutic strategies in cardiovascular disease (i.e. statins, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, beta-adrenoceptor blockers, and thrombolytic agents) and bone health (i.e. vitamin D and bisphosphonates).
1 The goal of this study was to determine whether mutations of L293 at the 15' position of TM2 in the 5-HT(3A) receptor alter macroscopic current kinetics, and if these changes could account for alterations in alcohol modulation. Receptor function was assessed in Xenopus oocytes under voltage-clamp and in HEK293 cells with whole-cell patch-clamp recording and rapid drug application. 2 Examination of responses of L293C and L293S receptors to agonist alone revealed enhanced activation, deactivation, and desensitization rates relative to the wild-type receptor. The L293G mutation produced marked slowing of deactivation and desensitization rates. Increased potency of 5-HT and increased efficacy of the partial agonist, DA, was also observed in these mutant receptors. 3 Ethanol and trichloroethanol (TCEt) enhancement of receptor function was reduced or eliminated in receptors containing L293 mutations to C, G, or S. The L293I mutant receptor retained ethanol and TCEt sensitivity. Ethanol and TCEt enhanced activation rate in the wild-type, but not the L293G and L293S receptors. No relationship was observed between any physicochemical property of the substituted amino acids and the change in alcohol potentiation of function. 4 The changes in receptor-channel properties in the mutant receptors support the idea that the L293 residue has important roles in channel gating. Our findings indicate that loss of allosteric modulation by alcohols is not related in any simple way to changes in channel kinetic properties brought about by L293 mutants. We did not observe any evidence that L293 is part of an alcohol binding site.

A novel, non-verbal test of semantic feature knowledge is introduced, enabling subordinate knowledge of four important concept attributes--colour, sound, environmental context and motion--to be individually probed. This methodology provides more specific information than existing non-verbal semantic tests about the status of attribute knowledge relating to individual concept representations. Performance on this test of a group of 12 patients with semantic dementia (10 male, mean age: 64.4 years) correlated strongly with their scores on more conventional tests of semantic memory, such as naming and word-to-picture matching. The test's overlapping structure, in which individual concepts were probed in two, three or all four modalities, provided evidence of performance consistency on individual items between feature conditions. Group and individual analyses revealed little evidence for differential performance across the four feature conditions, though sound and colour correlated most strongly, and motion least strongly, with other semantic tasks, and patients were less accurate on the motion features of living than non-living concepts (with no such conceptual domain differences in the other conditions). The results are discussed in the context of their implications for the place of semantic dementia within the classification of progressive aphasic syndromes, and for contemporary models of semantic representation and organization.
The apolipoprotein E epsilon4 (APOE epsilon4) is the main known genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. Genetic assessments in combination with other diagnostic tools, such as neuroimaging, have the potential to facilitate early diagnosis. In this large-scale functional MRI (fMRI) study, we have contrasted 30 APOE epsilon4 carriers (age range: 49-74 years; 19 females), of which 10 were homozygous for the epsilon4 allele, and 30 non-carriers with regard to brain activity during a semantic categorization task. Test groups were closely matched for sex, age and education. Critically, both groups were cognitively intact and thus symptom-free of Alzheimer's disease. APOE epsilon4 carriers showed reduced task-related responses in the left inferior parietal cortex, and bilaterally in the anterior cingulate region. A dose-related response was observed in the parietal area such that diminution was most pronounced in homozygous compared with heterozygous carriers. In addition, contrasts of processing novel versus familiar items revealed an abnormal response in the right hippocampus in the APOE epsilon4 group, mainly expressed as diminished sensitivity to the relative novelty of stimuli. Collectively, these findings indicate that genetic risk translates into reduced functional brain activity, in regions pertinent to Alzheimer's disease, well before alterations can be detected at the behavioural level.
Morphological asymmetries favouring the left hemisphere in the planum temporale (PT) and Heschl's gyrus (HG) have both been presumed to relate to the typical left-hemisphere dominance for language functions. However, a direct link between structure and function has not been clearly established. The present study investigates this issue by measuring the volume of the PT and HG on the MRI scans of epilepsy patients classified into three groups: left speech group (LSG; n = 20), right speech group (RSG; n = 11) and bilateral speech group (BSG; n = 13), as assessed by the intracarotid Sodium Amytal procedure. Additionally, an automatic voxel-based morphometry (VBM) analysis was performed to explore collateral structural asymmetries. Although leftward structural asymmetries were found in the PT, consistent with the literature, they did not relate to language lateralization. For HG we also replicated asymmetries favouring the left side; interestingly, three of the individuals within the RSG showed a strongly reversed asymmetry, but as a whole the structure-function relationship for HG was not obligatory. The VBM analysis revealed a grey-matter concentration difference in the posterior part of the inferior frontal gyrus (pars opercularis, corresponding functionally to Broca's area), which favoured the left hemisphere in the LSG, and the right hemisphere in the RSG. The findings suggest that this frontal cortical region bears a direct relationship to language lateralization, which may be related to use-dependent plasticity in patients with language reorganization.
Demyelination of CNS axons occurs in a number of pathological conditions, including multiple sclerosis and contusion-type spinal cord injury. The demyelination can be repaired by remyelination in both humans and rodents, and even within the CNS remyelination can be achieved by endogenous and/or exogenous Schwann cells, the myelinating cells of the PNS. Remyelinated axons can often conduct impulses securely, but the organization of ion channels at long-term remyelinated nodes is not known. In the present study, the expression of voltage-gated sodium (Na(v)) and potassium (K(v)) channels along central axons remyelinated by endogenous Schwann cells has been studied in lesions induced more than 1 year previously by the intraspinal injection of ethidium bromide (EB). The expression of the channels at long-term nodes formed by Schwann cell remyelination has been compared with that present in nascent nodes formed in the adult at 18 and 23 days post-EB injection. Immunohistochemical studies revealed that long-term nodes formed by Schwann cell remyelination exhibit a clustering of Na(v)1.6 sodium channels within the nodal membrane, with the Shaker-type potassium channel K(v)1.2 segregated within the juxtaparanodal region, similar to the arrangement at normal mature CNS nodes. Na(v)1.2 was not detected at nodes formed by Schwann cells at any stage of their development. Moreover, Na(v)1.6, but not Na(v)1.2, was clustered at nascent nodes formed by remyelinating Schwann cells 18 and 23 days following EB injection. These observations show that endogenous Schwann cells can establish and maintain nodes of Ranvier on central axons for over one year, and that the nodes exhibit an apparently normal distribution of sodium and potassium channels, with Na(v)1.6 the predominant subtype of sodium channel present at such nodes at all stages of their development.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate auditory sensory and discrimination responses in children with semi-lobar holoprosencephaly (HPE). Event-related potential (ERP) signals were recorded to tone pair stimuli at 62 electrode sites from the scalp using an oddball paradigm (a two-block design, inter-stimulus interval=70 or 300 ms; frequency of tone pair=100 vs. 100 Hz for the frequent and 100 vs. 300 Hz for the infrequent). Latencies and amplitudes of P150, N250, and mismatch negativity (MMN)-like components were compared between children with HPE and controls. Our results revealed less organized ERP waveforms to both stimuli in children with HPE, with diminished P150 and N250 components across brain area. Robust and delayed MMN-like responses were elicited from the children with HPE, with decreased MMN amplitudes in the central, parietal, occipital, and posterior temporal areas. Our results suggest that while brain sensory responses to auditory tones may be impaired in children with semi-lobar HPE, subcomponents of auditory discrimination processes remain functional.
Maturation of auditory perceptual and discrimination process within the first two years of life is investigated in healthy infants by examining event-related potentials (ERPs). High-density EEG signals were recorded from the scalp monthly between 3 and 24 months of age. Two types of stimuli (100 vs. 100 Hz for standard stimuli; 100 vs. 300 Hz for deviant stimuli; occurrence rate: 85:15%) were presented using an oddball paradigm. Latencies and amplitudes were compared across development. The results showed that latencies of P150, N250, P350, and N450 components gradually decreased with increasing age. Amplitudes of the N250 and P350 components gradually increased and reached the maximum at 9 months, and then gradually decreased with the increase of age. Mismatch negativity was not obvious at 3 months of age, but was seen at 4-5 months and became robust after 6 months. Robust late positivity was recorded at all ages. These mismatch responses were noticeable in the frontal, central, and parietal areas, and the maximal MMN amplitude distribution gradually moved from the parietal area to the frontal area across the age range. Two important periods--one around 6 months and the other around 9 months are suggested in the maturation of auditory central system. Dynamical changes in the underlying source strengths and orientations may be principal contributors to ERP morphological changes in infants within the first 24 months.

Interferongamma inducible protein-10 (IP10 or CXCL10), a Th-1 affiliated chemokine, is expressed by activated glial cells and may contribute to the trafficking of immune cells in the inflamed central nervous system. This study examines the regulation of the expression of this chemokine in cultured microglial cells focusing on the roles of mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase cascades. Exposure of a mouse microglial cell line, BV-2, to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and IFNgamma led to an induction of IP10 mRNA and protein as determined by RT-PCR and ELISA, respectively. This induction was suppressed by pharmacological inhibitors of p38 MAPK (i.e., SB203580) and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK, SP600125), suggesting the involvement of the two kinases in IP10 expression. LPS also induced the activity of an IP10 promoter reporter (luciferase) construct transfected into BV-2 cells in a MAP kinase- and NFkappaB-dependent manner. The use of deletion constructs revealed that the kinase-targeted sequences were within the region between -533 bp and -332 bp upstream of the transcriptional start site. Co-transfection of IP10 luciferase with the active forms of the upstream kinases in the MAP kinase cascades, i.e., MAPK kinase-3 (MKK3), MKK6 (the immediately upstream activators of p38 kinase) and a MAP3K, i.e., TGFbeta-activated kinase-1 (TAK1), produced a marked stimulation of the promoter activity. The results of this study indicate that the MAP kinase cascades prominently regulate IP10 gene expression in microglial cells.
Amphibian oocyte and mammalian heterologous expression systems are often used to investigate the function of recombinant ion channels using electrophysiological techniques. Although both systems have yielded important information, the results obtained in these systems are sometimes conflicting. Oocytes and mammalian cells differ in their physiological temperature requirements. While room temperature is within the physiological temperature range for oocytes, this temperature is far below that required by mammalian cells. Since electrophysiological studies are often performed in both oocytes and mammalian cells at room temperature, we sought to determine if recording temperature could be a factor in some disparate results obtained in these cell types. For these studies, we examined phorbol ester modulation of GABA(A) and glycine receptors. Consistent with the literature, at room temperature, PMA (phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate) produced a large reproducible decrease in the peak amplitude of GABA and glycine-gated currents in Xenopus oocytes. In contrast, PMA was ineffective in modulating these heterologously expressed receptors at room temperature in human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells. However, when electrophysiological experiments were performed at 35 degrees C in HEK 293 cells, PMA decreased the function of these receptors. Our results indicate that the temperature at which electrophysiological studies are conducted is an important experimental variable. To determine the extent to which electrophysiological recordings are performed at physiological temperatures in HEK 293 cells, a PubMed search was conducted using the search terms &quot;patch clamp&quot; and &quot;HEK&quot; for the years 2003-2004. This search revealed that only 15% of the patch clamp studies were reported to have been conducted in the temperature range of 32-37 degrees C. The results of our study indicate that temperature is an important experimental variable that requires rational consideration in the design of electrophysiological experiments.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) plays a central role in regulating development and function of the reproductive axis, and its secretion is known to be influenced by glutamate and GABA. In the present study, we used gene microarrays and RT-PCR to compare the expression profiles of glutamate and GABA receptor subunits in three immortalized GnRH cell lines: GT1-1, GT1-7, and Gn10. All of these cell lines expressed the AMPA glutamate receptor subunit genes GluR2 and GluR4, but only the GT1-1 and GT1-7 cells expressed the kainate glutamate receptor subunit gene KA2. Additionally, GluRdelta2, a subunit that can form heteromeric receptors with kainate and AMPA subunits, was present in GT1-1 and Gn10 cells but not in GT1-7 cells. Genes encoding the GABA(A) receptor alpha3, beta2, beta3, epsilon, and pi subunits, as well as the GABA(B) receptor 1 subunit, were evident in all three cell lines. However, the gene encoding the expression of GABA(A) receptor gamma subunit was noticeably absent. Taken together, these data demonstrate comprehensive screening of neurotransmitter receptor genes in a controlled neuronal culture system, and reveal novel features.
Prenatal cocaine exposure causes alterations in auditory brainstem response in children and experimental animals and has adverse effects on auditory information processing and language skills in children. These effects may result from lesions in the cochlea since this organ is particularly sensitive to chemical insults during the development. We have thus studied here the effect of prenatal cocaine exposure on the maturation of the rat cochlea using the transient non-catecholaminergic expression of tyrosine hydroxylase in spiral ganglion neurons as an index of cochlear maturation and morphometry to evaluate the maturation of primary auditory neurons and the organ of Corti. We showed that prenatal cocaine exposure accelerated the cochlear maturation. In the basal coil of cochleas from PND8 cocaine-treated pups, the Klliker's organ had disappeared, the tunnel of Corti was opened, and the stria vascularis no longer contained undifferentiated marginal cells. The maximum expression of tyrosine hydroxylase in type I primary auditory neurons occurred at PND8 instead of PND12 in pair-fed controls. On the other hand, the prenatal cocaine exposure had no effect on the width and height of the organ of Corti, spiral ganglion volume and number and size of primary auditory neurons. In conclusion, our data suggest that prenatal cocaine exposure, though not lethal to primary auditory neurons, accelerates aspects of the cochlear sensorineural maturation. This accelerated cochlear maturation in cocaine-treated rat pups could cause auditory dysfunctions by desynchronizing the development of the whole auditory pathway.
alphaKAP is an anchoring protein for the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) and is encoded within the same gene as the CaMKIIalpha isoform. alphaKAP co-assembles with CaMKII and targets such heteromers to the membrane of the sarcoplasmic reticulum, where CaMKII can regulate Ca(2+) homeostasis. CaMKII has also nuclear functions in skeletal muscle, however, the nuclear targeting mechanism has been elusive. We show here that developmentally regulated splicing of exon Ealpha(B) generates a functional nuclear localization signal (NLS) in alphaKAP(B), the dominant alphaKAP variant in mature muscle. The alphaKAP(A) variant lacks the NLS and dominates in developing muscle before and around birth. Both alphaKAP variants localize to membranes, but a small fraction of alphaKAP(B) is additionally found in the nucleus. Indeed, alpha-karyopherins that mediate nuclear import bound to alphaKAP(B) but not alphaKAP(A) in vitro. When the N-terminal membrane anchor of alphaKAP was deleted, localization of alphaKAP(B) but not alphaKAP(A) became predominantly nuclear. Co-expression of constitutively active CaMKI and IV, which do not bind to alphaKAP, interfered with nuclear localization of alphaKAP(B). CaMKIIalpha was found essentially exclusively in the cytoplasm when expressed in cell lines but was targeted to the nucleus when co-expressed with the nuclear form of alphaKAP(B). Thus, nuclear targeting of cytoplasmic CaMKII isoforms by alphaKAP may be regulated by developmentally controlled alternative splicing and by protein kinases.
In adult hamsters, basal proenkephalin (Penk) gene expression in adrenals is independent of glucocorticoids and glucocorticoid receptor blockade, by RU 486, increases striatal preproenkephalin (PPenk) mRNA levels. However, glucocorticoids maintain both basal and induced Penk gene expression in rat adrenal (medulla) and striatum. This suggests species and tissue-specific differences in Penk gene regulation. Since studies show temporal coordination in Penk gene expression in developing hamster adrenal and striatum, we tested the hypothesis that increasing PPenk mRNA levels are dependent, while basal levels are independent of glucocorticoids in developing hamsters. To facilitate this study, we examined the influence of glucocorticoids on the temporal increases in developing hamster PPenk mRNA observed in adrenals between postnatal days 0 and 4 and in striatum between postnatal days 12 and 48. PPenk mRNA levels were determined in hamster pups after treatment with increasing doses of metyrapone (an 11beta hydroxylase inhibitor) or with the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist RU 486 +/- metyrapone between postnatal days 2 and 4. Levels were also determined 36 days after hypophysectomy at age 16-17 days. Although plasma glucocorticoid levels and/or the influence from glucocorticoids were reduced, only developmental increases in PPenk mRNA are influenced by glucocorticoids in hamster adrenals, while basal adrenal mRNA levels are unchanged. However, pituitary influence on striatal PPenk mRNA levels appears complex and may involve steroid and/or non-steroid factors. These results suggest that glucocorticoids regulate hamster Penk gene expression via a mechanism that varies with age and tissue and functions during the induction of the Penk gene and not to maintain basal gene expression. Possible mechanisms and species variation are discussed.
Neurobiological research on aggressive behaviour comes up against particular difficulties that stem from the multifactorial origin of any social behaviour and from the fact that it evolves over time under the shaping influence of experience. From a historical point of view, the conceptual framework progressively switched from a deterministic causality based on the spatial distribution of a specifically-related 'neural substrate' to a probabilistic causality taking into account all the multiple contextual and developmental determinants with their underlying brain processes and mechanisms. With regard to ethical issues, the role and the weight ascribed to biological determinants in the generation of aggressive behaviour greatly influence the way in which one plans to fight against such behaviour.
The history of the discovery of the human electroencephalogram (EEG) and the ensuing implementation of electroencephalography is characterized by striking national differences. The first publication on the EEG in 1929 by the German psychiatrist Hans Berger was met with skepticism. Substantial work in this area did not start before the public demonstration of the EEG by the British neurophysiologist Edgar Douglas Adrian in 1934. Soon afterwards, many groups specialized in the new method, particularly in the US, whereas interest remained more limited in France and Britain. A comparative analysis of the rise of electroencephalography has certainly to account for such national differences, but the trajectory of the implementation of this technology calls for an investigation of local research cultures in order to identify units of productivity and to understand the dynamics along this trajectory.
Steps in the physiological construction of the neurone concept are described. Early ideas on the function of the nerve cell led to later polemics on the neurone doctrine and the speculative attitude of histophysiology. Researches of Sherrington and Adrian emerged from a specific British context, and confronted American oscillography and Berger rhythm. At the end of various polemics, the neurone was constructed by the intracellular technique and the use of concepts borrowed from other sub-disciplines. Analysis of these paths demonstrates underlying disciplinary interactions as essential factors.
For a very long time, arguments supporting the neuro-humoral theory, produced by the pharmacologist Henri Dale, did not convince one of the main supporters of the electrical theory, the neurophysiologist John C. Eccles. This article gives a reminder of certain technical elements of this debate between two giants, which remains one of the most symbolic arguments in the history of neurosciences. The difficulties of the cholinergic transmission often betrayed the scepticism concerning the possibility of a functional approach based on neurochemistry.
In 1936 Sir Henry Dale of London and Professor Otto Loewi from Graz shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for their work on chemical neurotransmission. This paper uses much unpublished archival material to augment an examination of Dale's work, from his discovery of naturally occurring acetylcholine in 1913, through to evidence of its role as a neurotransmitter at autonomic ganglia, post-ganglionic parasympathetic nerve terminals and the neuromuscular junction.
This paper analyses an interesting story, that of the physiologist Ivan Petrovitch Pavlov. While investigating the causes of salivary secretions in the waking, behaving dog, he discovered a class of causes that he called psychic, since they were associated with perceiving a visual, acoustic or other signal, delivered before food that normally created salivation. A temporary relationship was therefore established, between the secretory command and the cerebral site associated with an initially neutral stimulus that had become a signal. This gave rise to the &quot;conditional reflex&quot;. Pavlov was probably not the first who had observed this kind of association, but he very skillfully exploited these data to create a coherent conceptual system. In 23 &quot;lectures&quot;, he very precisely summarized his views and retraced the fundamental issues explaining the main features of the purely physiological cerebral command of behaviour. The Pavlovian system necessarily became, in the particular environment of the soviet regime, a kind of credo on physical-mental relationships based upon a generalized reflexology, not allowing any deviation, nor any dissidence, nor any concession to subjectivity. The notion of conditional reflex has indeed resisted to time, but number of subtleties of the Pavlovian thinking and many phenomena that he described now seem forgotten and to have lost much of their heuristic value. Most of the recent theories of learning have only rarely followed Pavlov's line, to concentrate on more complex learning modalities.
The significance of Behaviourism is examined in relation to its far conceptual roots, i.e. comparative animal studies initiated by Darwin, mechanistic physiological thinking initiated by Descartes and empiricist associationism. The Behaviourist anti-mentalist position induced neuromechanistic interpretations based on Pavlovian reflexes, stimulus-response connectionism and the very first hypotheses on synaptic plasticity. As a result, the evolutionary tradition was dropped and the two other trends were combined into a new adaptive version of Cartesian automaton, with persisting influences in modern reductionist thinking, from robotics and cognitive science to the neuroscience of learning and memory.
In Faraday and Plateau's days, both apparent motion and the fusion of intermittent lights, two phenomena that are hardly connected, were explained by retinal persistence. The works of Exner and of the 'Gestalt' psychologists, as well as the modern works on 'sampled' motion and smooth motion, disregarded retinal persistence. One tried, originally, to measure this persistence using intermittent stimulation, but under the pressure of practical concern, what was established in 1902 was the logarithmic relation between fusion frequency and the intensity of the stimulation. One had to wait until the 1950s for the use of harmonic analysis to finally allow a renewal in which many problems that, for decades, had only given rise to discussions that led nowhere and to groundless assertions, were correctly stated and easily solved.
This is an account of the life of a 19th-century physiologist who was born in 1817 in Port-Louis (Mauritius Island, formerly 'Ile de France') and died in Paris in 1894. His mother tongue, education and medical training were French, but as the 'Ile de France' had become British a few years before his birth, he was a British citizen and therefore ineligible for a permanent position in a French institution. This explains, partly at least, his eventful life, during which he restlessly wandered during several decades between France, the United States, Great Britain and Mauritius, without ever finding a position that would satisfy him. This difficult period lasted until 1879 when, having finally acquired French nationality, he succeeded Claude Bernard in the chair of experimental medicine at the 'Collge de France'. Some of his contributions to the physiology of the nervous system are analysed: sensory pathways in the spinal cord, vasoconstrictor innervation, nervous inhibition and experimental epilepsy.
In his two-volume monograph Untersuchungen ber thierische Elektricitt, the Berlin physiologist Emil du Bois-Reymond described the relation between nervous electricity and muscle mechanics by way of a long series of experiments. This work is a key text in the history of the experimental life sciences. But it not only contains new findings about the functioning of muscles and its nerves. Du Bois-Reymond practiced an art of experimentation in which aesthetics of mechanical craftsmanship allied itself with the science of physiology. Experimentation, as du Bois-Reymond understood it, was simultaneously an epistemic and an aesthetic practice. The goal of his science was thus producing both knowledge and aesthetic success.
This essay recounts a controversy between a pioneer electrophysiologist, Emil du Bois-Reymond (1818-1896), and his student, Ludimar Hermann (1838-1914). Du Bois-Reymond proposed a molecular explanation for the slight electrical currents that he detected in frog muscles and nerves. Hermann argued that du Bois-Reymond's 'resting currents' were an artifact of injury to living tissue. He contested du Bois-Reymond's molecular model, explaining his teacher's observations as electricity produced by chemical decomposition. History has painted Hermann as the wrong party in this dispute. I seek to set the record straight.
Two aspects of psychology and physiology of time are dealt with in this paper: the way time perception was increasingly studied during the 19th century by scientists, including many physicists, and the way the temporal properties of the nervous system were discovered and explored by physiologists. The neurophysiological correlation between both aspects still remains to be explained. The relationship between time consciousness and consciousness mechanisms was often guessed by philosophers and looked for by scientists. It remains a major subject of investigation in neuroscience as well as a philosophical puzzle.
Since his first years at Turin until the last years of his life at Padua, Vincenzo Malacarne devoted most of his time to the examination of the structures and the various parts of which the cerebellum and the human brain are composed. He is rightly considered as one of the first to have correctly described the anatomy of the cerebellum, as well in the field of human anatomy and comparative anatomy. However, his work cannot be reduced to these studies. He worked out a cerebral physiology, with organic and intellectual phenomena in mind, established on an anatomopsychic parallelism. This parallelism is itself founded on a rational and mathematical criterion: the number of lamellae contained in the cerebellum. A letter written by him in 1792 and addressed to Abbot Denina was recently found by the present author in November 2005 at the Academy of Sciences of Turin. Malacarne exposed his project of studying the animal electricity put forward by Galvani within the cerebral organ. May it be that Malacarne had in mind the physiology of his time while trying to record an electric activity within the brain?



The mammalian neocortex is the largest structure in the brain, and plays a key role in brain function. A critical period for the development of the neocortex is the early postnatal life, when the majority of synapses are formed and when much of synaptic remodeling takes place. Early studies suggest that initial synaptic connections lack precision, and this rudimentary wiring pattern is refined by experience-related activity through selective elimination and consolidation. This view has been challenged by recent studies revealing the presence of a relatively precise pattern of connections before the onset of sensory experience. The recent data support a model in which specificity of neuronal connections is largely determined by genetic factors. Spontaneous activity is required for the formation of neural circuits, but whether it plays an instructive role is still controversial. Neurotransmitters including acetylcholine, serotonin, and gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) may have key roles in the regulation of spontaneous activity, and in the maturation of synapses in the developing brain.
Frontotemporal dementia (clinical Pick's disease) is a relatively common, but underdiagnosed degenerative disease in the presenium. Estimated prevalence ranges from 6-12% of dementias. The behavioural, aphasic and extrapyramidal presentations are labeled FTD-behavioural variant, Primary Progressive Aphasia (PPA) and Corticobasal Degeneration/Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (CBD/PSP). The diagnostic features and course of each are described and their overlap in the evolution of the illness is emphasized. The neuropathology ranges from the most common tau negative ubiquitin positive amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) type inclusions to the tau positive classical Pick bodies and more or less distinct changes of PSP and CBD. The genetics of the relatively frequent tau mutations and the yet unsolved problem of tau negative families are discussed. The tau negative cases tend to be associated with the behavioural presentation and semantic dementia and the tau positive ones with PPA and the CBD/PSP syndrome. However the overlap is too great to split the disease. A glossary to navigate the proliferating terminology is included.

The use of IFN-alpha in clinical oncology has generally been based on the rationale of exploiting its antiproliferative and antiangiogenic activities. However, IFN-alpha also exhibits enhancing effects on T-cell and dendritic cell functions, which may suggest a novel use as a vaccine adjuvant. We have carried out a pilot phase I-II trial to determine the effects of IFN-alpha, administered as an adjuvant of Melan-A/MART-1:26-35(27L) and gp100:209-217(210M) peptides, on immune responses in stage IV melanoma patients. In five of the seven evaluable patients, a consistent enhancement of CD8(+) T cells recognizing modified and native MART-1 and gp100 peptides and MART-1(+)gp100(+) melanoma cells was observed. Moreover, vaccination induced an increase in CD8(+) T-cell binding to HLA tetramers containing the relevant peptides and an increased frequency of CD45RA(+)CCR7(-) (terminally differentiated effectors) and CD45RA(-)CCR7(-) (effector memory) cells. In all patients, treatment augmented significantly the percentage of CD14(+) monocytes and particularly of the CD14(+)CD16(+) cell fraction. An increased expression of CD40 and CD86 costimulatory molecules in monocytes was also observed. Notably, postvaccination monocytes from two of the three patients showing stable disease or long disease-free survival showed an enhanced antigen-presenting cell function and capability to secrete IP10/CXCL10 when tested in mixed leukocyte reaction assays, associated to a boost of antigen and melanoma-specific CD8(+) T cells. Although further clinical studies are needed to show the adjuvant activity of IFN-alpha, the present data represent an important starting point for considering a new clinical use of IFN-alpha and new immunologic end points, potentially predictive of clinical response.
The natural phytoalexin resveratrol, found in grapes and red wine, recently rose to public fame for its positive effects on longevity in yeasts, worms and flies. Resveratrol anti-cancer and anti-inflammatory in vitro action on mammalian cell cultures also suggest a possible positive effect on human health and life-expectancy. To study the effects of resveratrol on vertebrate aging is obviously a particularly relevant question. We have studied resveratrol effects in a very short-lived vertebrate: the annual fish Nothobranchius furzeri. Resveratrol treatment prolonged lifespan and delayed the onset of age-related dysfunctions in this fish. This result identifies resveratrol as the first molecule which consistently retards aging in organisms as diverse as yeast, worm, fly and fish, but it also reveals the potential of this short-lived fish as an animal model for pharmacological research. Moreover, being related to stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus) the &quot;pufferfishes&quot; Takifugu and Tetraodon, and even more closely related to medaka (Oryzias latipes), it can greatly beneficiate from the recent development of genomic resources for these fish models and in the future become a complete model system for the aging research community.
Here we review evidence of roles for NF-kappaB in the regulation of developmental and synaptic plasticity, and cell survival in physiological and pathological settings. Signaling pathways modulating NF-kappaB activity include those engaged by neurotrophic factors, neurotransmitters, electrical activity, cytokines, and oxidative stress. Emerging findings support a pivotal role for NF-kappaB as a mediator of transcription-dependent enduring changes in the structure and function of neuronal circuits. Distinct subunits of NF-kappaB may uniquely affect cognition and behavior by regulating specific target genes. NF-kappaB activation can prevent the death of neurons by inducing the production of antiapoptotic proteins such as Bcl-2, IAPs and manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD). Recent findings indicate that NF-kappaB plays important roles in disorders such as epilepsy, stroke, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, as well as oncogenesis. Molecular pathways upstream and downstream of NF-kappaB in neurons are being elucidated and may provide novel targets for therapeutic intervention in various neurological disorders.
Memories become stabilized through a time-dependent process that requires gene expression and is commonly known as consolidation. During this time, memories are labile and can be disrupted by a number of interfering events, including electroconvulsive shock, trauma and other learning or the transient effect of drugs such as protein synthesis inhibitors. Once consolidated, memories are insensitive to these disruptions. However, they can again become fragile if recalled or reactivated. Reactivation creates another time-dependent process, known as reconsolidation, during which the memory is restabilized. Here we discuss some of the questions currently debated in the field of memory consolidation and reconsolidation, the molecular and anatomical requirements for both processes and, finally, their functional relationship.
In this review we address the idea that conservation of epigenetic mechanisms for information storage represents a unifying model in biology, with epigenetic mechanisms being utilized for cellular memory at levels from behavioral memory to development to cellular differentiation. Epigenetic mechanisms typically involve alterations in chromatin structure, which in turn regulate gene expression. An emerging idea is that the regulation of chromatin structure through histone acetylation and DNA methylation may mediate long-lasting behavioral change in the context of learning and memory. We find this idea fascinating because similar mechanisms are used for triggering and storing long-term 'memory' at the cellular level, for example when cells differentiate. An additional intriguing aspect of the hypothesis of a role for epigenetic mechanisms in information storage is that lifelong behavioral memory storage may involve lasting changes in the physical, three-dimensional structure of DNA itself.
Although a change in life-style is often the method of first choice for lipid lowering, lipid-lowering drugs, in general, help to control elevated levels of different forms of lipids in patients with hyperlipidemia. While one group of drugs, statins, lowers cholesterol, the other group, fibrates, is known to take care of fatty acids and triglycerides. In addition, other drugs, such as ezetimibe, colesevelam, torcetrapib, avasimibe, implitapide, and niacin are also being considered to manage hyperlipidemia. As lipids are very critical for cardiovascular diseases, these drugs reduce fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular abnormalities in the general population. However, a number of recent studies indicate that apart from their lipid-lowering activities, statins and fibrates exhibit multiple functions to modulate intracellular signaling pathways, inhibit inflammation, suppress the production of reactive oxygen species, and modulate T cell activity. Therefore, nowadays, these drugs are being considered as possible therapeutics for several forms of human disorders including cancer, autoimmunity, inflammation, and neurodegeneration. Here I discuss these applications in the light of newly discovered modes of action of these drugs.
1. The Ca(2+)-mediated regulation of interaction between FGF-1 and S100A13 in NG108-15 cells was studied. When the stress by depriving B27 supplement from the culture was given, cellular levels of both proteins were decreased, while their releases were significantly increased within 3 h. These stress-induced changes were all abolished by amlexanox, an anti-allergic drug. 2. These releases were significantly inhibited by the addition of EGTA or BAPTA-AM, cellular or extracellular Ca(2+)-chelating agent, respectively. The addition of omega-conotoxin GVIA, a N-type Ca(2+)-channel blocker caused a complete inhibition of the release, while increased the cytosolic levels of both proteins. However, omega-conotoxin MVIIC, the non-N-type Ca(2+)-channel blocker was ineffective. 3. In NG108-15 cells, which had been transfected with Venus-FGF-1 and CFP-S100A13, the supplement-deprivation stress caused several spike-type fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) signals, suggesting that both proteins showing interaction would be immediately released. These spikes were completely abolished by the addition of omega-conotoxin GVIA. However, the addition of amlexanox caused bell-shaped FRET signals without spikes. 4. Thus, it is suggested that the interaction between FGF-1 and S100A13 responsible for stress-induced non-vesicular release is dependent of Ca(2+)-influx through N-type Ca(2+)-channels.
We set out to examine selected clinical characteristics of migraine patients referred to neurologists specializing in headache in Canada, and to document their pharmacological therapy both before and after consultation with the neurologist. Demographic, clinical and pharmacotherapy data were collected at the time of consultation for 606 patients referred to five headache clinics and who were given a migraine diagnosis by the neurologist. Data were analysed as part of the Canadian Headache Outpatient Registry and Database (CHORD) Project. The mean age of the migraine patients was 39.7 years; and 82.5% were female. The majority of patients suffered severe impact from their headaches. Prior to consultation, 48.7% were taking a triptan; after consultation, 97.2% were on a triptan. Before consultation, 30.9% were on a prophylactic drug; after consultation, 70.4% were. 20.8% of patients were medication overusers. Of these medication overusers, 42.4% were overusing an opiate, usually in combination with other analgesics; 21.6% were overusing a triptan. Medication changes made by the neurologists at consultation included a large increase in the use of both triptans and prophylactic medications. Medication overuse, particularly opiate overuse, remains a significant problem in patients with migraine in Canada.
Previously, a coculture system of accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) neurons and vomeronasal (VN) neurons was established for studying the functional roles of AOB neurons in pheromonal signal processing. In this study, the effect of VN neurons on the development of AOB neurons was examined in a coculture system. Spine density was quantitatively measured for various culture periods of 21, 28, 36, and 42 days in vitro. The densities of dendritic spines were lower in the coculture than in single culture for all periods in vitro. Synapse formation on spines was analyzed immunocytochemically using an anti-synaptophysin antibody. The ratio of the density of synaptophysin-immunopositive spine/total spine density was larger in the coculture than in the single culture. The volume of spine head was larger in the coculture than in single culture. These changes were not observed in the coculture in which there was no physical contact between AOB neurons and VN neurons. These observations suggest that synapse formation on the spines of AOB neurons is modified by physical contact with VN neurons.
Plants emit complex blends of volatiles, including chiral compounds that might be detected by vertebrates and invertebrates. Insects are ideal model organisms for studying the underlying receptor neuron mechanisms involved in olfactory discrimination of enantiomers. In the present study, we have employed two-column gas chromatography linked to recordings from single olfactory receptor neurons of Mamestra brassicae, in which separation of volatiles in a polar and a chiral column was performed. We here present the response properties of olfactory receptor neurons tuned to linalool. The narrow tuning of these receptor neurons was demonstrated by their strong responses to (R)-(-)-linalool, the weaker responses to the (+)-enantiomer as well as a few structurally related compounds, and no responses to the other numerous plant released volatiles. The enantioselectivity was verified by parallel dose-response curves, that of (R)-(-)-linalool shifted 1 log unit to the left of the (S)-(+)-linalool curve. A complete overlap of the temporal response pattern was found when comparing the responses of the same strength. Analysis of the spike amplitude and waveform indicated that the responses to the two enantiomers originated from the same neuron.




An increasing body of evidence supports the existence of a strong link between inflammation, endothelial dysfunction, and the onset and progression of atherosclerosis. However, a cause-effect relationship between these phenomena has not been demonstrated yet. Although some inflammatory markers, such as C-reactive protein, have been recently shown to improve risk stratification and to strongly predict cardiovascular outcome, it is largely unknown whether modifications of these markers might provide salutary effects and reduce cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The B-vitamin folic acid has recently gained attention because of its potential to provide beneficial effects on surrogate end-points, such as endothelial function, in patients at high cardiovascular risk. However, the role of folic acid in mitigating the pro-inflammatory state associated with atherosclerosis is controversial. Despite the theoretical arguments supporting the potential anti-atherosclerotic and anti-inflammatory effects of folic acid, the current evidence is limited, deriving from small trials on different study populations, using folic acid often in combination with other vitamins and for different treatment periods. This review will consider the current evidence supporting the role of some well-established inflammatory markers in predicting cardiovascular outcomes, the mechanisms by which folic acid might exert anti-inflammatory effects, the epidemiological data relating folic acid concentrations with inflammatory markers, the published interventional studies on the effects of folic acid supplementation on these markers, and the factors that need to be considered in designing future trials.
1. Vaccination against infectious agents has been heralded as a triumph in modern medicine and, more recently, cancer vaccines have risen in prominence. The present review looks towards the use of vaccine therapy to attenuate damage after injury to the central nervous system (CNS). 2. Significant debility is associated with brain injury, most commonly occurring as a result of physical trauma or stroke. This end result reflects the inability of neurons and axons to regenerate following injury to the CNS. This unconductive environment is due, in large part, to the presence of myelin and oligodendrocyte-related inhibitors of neurite outgrowth. 3. We review how a vaccine-based approach has been variably used to circumvent this issue and promote axonal regeneration and repair following traumatic injury and other neurodegenerative disorders. In addition, emerging evidence suggests that the immune response to injury in the CNS may be manipulated so as to reduce cellular damage. Vaccine-directed approaches using this concept are also outlined.
1. Theophylline and aminophylline have been widely used as inhibitors of phosphodiesterase when examining the role of cAMP in regulating cell function. In reality, however, these phosphodiesterase inhibitors may have additional sites of action that could complicate the interpretation of the results. These additional sites of action could include antagonism of inhibitory adenosine autoreceptors and release of intracellular calcium. The purpose of the present study was to determine which of the above three is the primary mechanism by which theophylline and aminophylline affect transmitter release at the mammalian neuromuscular junction. 2. Quantal release measurements were made using intracellular recording techniques. A variety of drugs were used to elucidate this pathway. Isoproterenol, an adenylate cyclase activator, was first used to establish the effect of enhanced levels of cAMP. Theophylline application on its own or in the presence of a drug combination that blocked the adenosine receptor and phosphodiesterase pathways caused significant release depression, opposite to what is expected if it was functioning to enhance cAMP levels. However, when applied in the presence of a drug combination that blocked the adenosine receptor, phosphodiesterase and intracellular ryanodine calcium pathways, theophylline was unable to depress release. Therefore, it was concluded that the major mechanism of action of theophylline is depression of transmitter release by causing the release of intracellular calcium. 3. Aminophylline application alone resulted in a significant enhancement of release. However, when coupled with an adenosine receptor blocker, the ability of aminophylline to enhance transmitter release was blocked, suggesting that its dominant mechanism of action is adenosine receptor inhibition. 4. Taken together, these results indicate that the use of theophylline and aminophylline is inappropriate when examining the role of cAMP at the mammalian neuromuscular junction.
The &quot;Stiff person syndrome&quot;(SPS) is a rare dysimmune chronic neurological disorder, sometimes paraneoplastic, characterized by progressive stiffness, painful persistent or spasmodic muscle contractions, mostly involving spine and lower extremities. In 60 to 90 percent of cases, non-paraneoplastic forms are associated to the presence of anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase (anti-GAD) antibodies in the cerebrospinal fluid and in the serum, while anti-amphiphysin antibodies are frequently associated to paraneoplastic types. The relevant treatment consists of three basic approaches: increase in the inhibitory processes in charge of muscle activity control, re-modulation of the immune response, removal of any associated neoplasia. Indications regarding the efficacy of high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) also in this dysimmune pathology are on the increase. We described an unusual case of autoimmune SPS associated with an exclusively motor left peroneal nerve neuropathy, with conduction block, treated with high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), oral cyclosporine, sodium valproate, baclofen and diazepam.

Music, as language, is a universal human trait. Throughout human history and across all cultures, people have produced and enjoyed music. Despite its ubiquity, the musical capacity is rarely studied as a biological function. Music is typically viewed as a cultural invention. In this paper, the evidence bearing on the biological perspective of the musical capacity is reviewed. Related issues, such as domain-specificity, innateness, and brain localization, are addressed in an attempt to offer a unified conceptual basis for the study of music processing. This scheme should facilitate the study of the biological foundations of music by bringing together the fields of genetics, developmental and comparative research, neurosciences, and musicology.
After a preliminary investigation of the effects of tool feed rate and spindle speed on the surface roughness of unhydrated, lathe-cut polymacon surfaces, a laboratory and clinical comparison was made between lenses with identical parameters except that the lathe-cut posterior surface was left unpolished in the &quot;test&quot; lenses and was polished in the &quot;control&quot; lenses. The lenses had moulded anterior surfaces. Laboratory comparisons included surface roughness, lens power and its uniformity across the surface. Double-blind clinical trials over 4-hour (27 subjects) and 1-month (10 subjects) periods, involved one eye of each subject wearing a &quot;test&quot; lens and the other, a &quot;control&quot; lens. No clinically significant differences were found between the results for the test and control lenses. It is concluded that today's lathing technology makes a final polishing stage unnecessary.
In addition to its projection to the brainstem, the ventral premotor cortex (PMv) sends axons directly to the upper cervical spinal cord in primates, with few terminations more caudally in either the cervical enlargement or in the lumbosacral spinal segments. This finding suggests that PMv plays a role in the control of head movements. Furthermore, comparative neuroanatomical studies indicate that PMv's corticospinal projection was a primate innovation. If the first primates adapted to an arboreal life that involved unimanual feeding, as some experts believe, then perhaps PMv's corticospinal projection evolved to coordinate head movements with this kind of feeding behavior. The computations underlying such control could later be adapted to control head orientation during social signaling.
This article offers a conceptual framework for integrated analysis of subprocesses in action and language, based on goal-directed action. Anatomical substrates are discussed in the companion paper (Arbib and Bota, 2003) which approaches &quot;Integrative Models of Broca's Area and the Ventral Premotor Cortex&quot; within the context of explaining why the evolution of the human brain yielded mechanisms which support language in a multi-modal vocal-manual-facial system rather than privileging the vocal mode. Arbib and Bota (2003) examine homologies between different cortical areas in macaque and human to revisit the Mirror System Hypothesis (MSH) of Rizzolatti and Arbib (1998)--the notion that the mirror system for grasping (which has its frontal outpost in premotor area F5 of the macaque) provides the substrate for the evolution of the language-ready brain which supports parity of communication. They also offer a critique and extension based on the work of Aboitiz and Garca (1997; Aboitiz et al., 2006). Arbib and Bota (2003) also discussed the utility of neuroinformatics in relating information across diverse cortical atlases and evaluating degrees of homology for brain regions of interest in different species (for discussion, see Deacon, 2004; Arbib and Bota, 2004).
Despite the presence of shared characteristics across the different domains modulating Broca's area activity (e.g., structural analogies, as between language and music, or representational homologies, as between action execution and action observation), the question of what exactly the common denominator of such diverse brain functions is, with respect to the function of Broca's area, remains largely a debated issue. Here, we suggest that an important computational role of Broca's area may be to process hierarchical structures in a wide range of functional domains.
The cortex constituting Broca's area does not exist in isolation. Rather, like other cortical regions, Broca's area is connected to other brain structures, which likely play closely related functional roles. This paper focuses on the basal ganglia, a set of subcortical structures that project through topographically organized &quot;channels&quot; via the thalamus to different frontal regions. It is hypothesized that the basal ganglia project to Broca's area. This circuitry is further posited to encompass at least two channels. One channel can be characterized as subserving procedural memory, while the other underlies the retrieval of knowledge from declarative memory. These hypotheses are supported by both anatomical and functional evidence. Implications and issues for further investigation are discussed.
Since we introduced cultured dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons from streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic mice as &quot;an in vitro model to study diabetic neuropathy&quot; (Sotelo et al., 1991), more than 30 papers have been devoted to the study of diabetic neuropathy with culture systems of neurons and Schwann cells derived from adult animals. So far, methods for dissociated cell culture of peripheral neurons (mainly DRG neurons) and Schwann cells, and for explant culture of peripheral ganglia and retinas have been applied to diabetic animals or patients. In addition to these diabetic cells, adult animal neurons and Schwann cells cultured under high glucose conditions and adult animal neurons exposed to diabetic serum have been utilized. The findings from these culture models clearly show that the exposure of mature neurons and Schwann cells to hyperglycemic conditions in vivo or in vitro can alter their biophysical and biochemical properties (e.g., cell viability, neurite outgrowth activity, polyol metabolism and electrophysiological features). Therefore, the cultured neurons and Schwann cells can be useful tools for investigating the precise mechanisms leading to diabetic neuropathy and the efficacy of therapeutic agents for the prevention and treatment of that condition.
Osiris Therapeutics is developing the donor-derived mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) therapy OTI-010, which repopulates the bone marrow stroma and thus supports engraftment of hematopoietic stem cells from the same donor. This stem cell therapy, which has been awarded Orphan Drug status, is currently in development for the potential enhancement of bone marrow transplants in cancer patients, for the prevention of graft versus host disease (GVHD), and for the treatment of Crohn's disease. Japanese licensee JCR Pharmaceuticals is investigating the therapy for the potential treatment of GVHD in patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation to treat leukemia. Phase II clinical trials in acute gastrointestinal GVHD and in adult and pediatric patients with treatment-refractory severe GVHD are currently underway.

Multipotent neural stem cells (NSC) possess the ability to self-renew and to generate the three major central nervous system (CNS) cell types: neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. However, the molecular mechanisms that control NSC fate specification are not yet fully understood. Recent studies have provided evidence that soluble protein mediators such as cytokines and transcriptional factors play critical roles in cell fate determination. Furthermore, it has become apparent that epigenetic gene regulation plays an important intracellular role as cell-intrinsic programs in the specification of cell lineages. In this review, we focus on recent progress that addresses the mechanisms of NSC fate specification and their possible contribution in the field of regenerative medicine.
Nondisabling cerebrovascular events (minor stroke or transient ischemic attack) are not benign; a significant proportion of these patients will suffer a new disabling stroke or develop stroke progression in hospital, resulting in dependence or death. With the exception of the modest benefits of aspirin, there are currently no effective acute medical therapies to prevent early progression or recurrence in such patients. Early carotid revascularization appears to be the most efficacious treatment available for patients with symptomatic (&gt; 50%) internal carotid artery stenosis. More acute treatment and acute prevention trials are needed. MRI, CT bolus techniques, and transcranial Doppler emboli detection represent tools for detection of patients at high risk for deterioration and should be incorporated into the development of effective therapies by targeting the most appropriate patients for intervention.
The Ig cell adhesion molecules (CAM) neurofascin (NF) and Nr-CAM are localized at developing nodes of Ranvier in peripheral myelinated axons prior to clustering of Na+ channels. Different isoforms of NF are expressed on neurons and glia, and NF binding on both cells has been suggested to play roles in node and paranode formation. To clarify the role of NF further, we analyzed effects of NF-Fc fusion proteins in Schwann cell-DRG neuron myelinating cocultures. NF-Fc significantly inhibited nodal clustering of Na+ channels, ankyrin G, and betaIV spectrin, and modestly reduced Caspr clustering at paranodal junctions; it did not significantly affect lengths or numbers of myelin-positive segments, axon initial segments, or accumulations of phosphorylated-ERM proteins in Schwann cell nodal microvilli. NF-Fc binds to Schwann cells but little or no binding to DRG neurons was detected. The results suggest a critical early role for axonal NF in clustering of Na+ channels at nodes of Ranvier via interactions with receptors on Schwann cells.
Lim Kinase (Limk) belongs to a phylogenetically conserved family of serine/threonine kinases, which have been shown to be potent regulators of the actin cytoskeleton. Despite accumulating evidence of its biochemical actions, its in vivo function has remained poorly understood. The association of the Limk1 gene with Williams Syndrome indicates that proteins of this family play a role in the nervous system. To unravel the cellular and molecular functions of Limk, we have either knocked out or activated the Limk gene in Drosophila. At the neuromuscular junction, loss of Limk leads to enlarged terminals, while increasing the activity of Limk leads to stunted terminals with fewer synaptic boutons. In the antennal lobe, loss of Limk abolishes the ability of p21-activated kinase (Pak) to alter glomerular development. In contrast, increase in Limk function leads to ectopic glomeruli, a phenotype suppressible by the coexpression of a hyperactive Cofilin gene. These results establish Limk as a critical regulator of Cofilin function and synapse development, and a downstream effector of Pak in vivo.
A striking demonstration that sound-object correspondences are not completely arbitrary is that adults map nonsense words with rounded vowels (e.g. bouba) to rounded shapes and nonsense words with unrounded vowels (e.g. kiki) to angular shapes (Khler, 1947; Ramachandran &amp; Hubbard, 2001). Here we tested the bouba/kiki phenomenon in 2.5-year-old children and a control group of adults (n =20 per age), using four pairs of rounded versus pointed shapes and four contrasting pairs of nonsense words differing in vowel sound. Overall, participants at both ages matched words with rounded vowels to the rounder shapes and words with unrounded vowels to the pointed shapes (both ps &lt; .0005), with no significant difference between the two ages (p &gt; .10). Such naturally biased correspondences between sound and shape may influence the development of language.


This study attempts to investigate the role of sensorimotor impairments in the reading disability that characterizes dyslexia. Twenty-three children with dyslexia were compared to 22 control children, matched for age and non-verbal intelligence, on tasks assessing literacy as well as phonological, visual, auditory and motor abilities. The dyslexic group as a whole were significantly impaired on phonological, but not sensorimotor, tasks. Analysis of individual data suggests that the most common impairments were on phonological and visual stress tasks and the vast majority of dyslexics had one of these two impairments. Furthermore, phonological skill was able to account for variation in literacy skill, to the exclusion of all sensorimotor factors, while neither auditory nor motor skill predicted any variance in phonological skill. Visual stress seems to account for a small proportion of dyslexics, independently of the commonly reported phonological deficit. However, there is little evidence for a causal role of auditory, motor or other visual impairments.

The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic (i.e., receptor occupancy) properties of L-655,708, a compound with selectivity for alpha5-over alpha1-, alpha2-, and alpha3-containing GABA(A) receptors, were examined in rats with the aim of developing a formulation that would give sustained (up to 6 h) and selective occupancy of alpha5-containing GABA(A) receptors suitable for behavioral studies. Standard rat pharmacokinetic analyses showed that L-655,708 has a relatively short half-life with kinetics in the brain mirroring those in the plasma. In vivo binding experiments showed that plasma concentrations of around 100 ng/ml gave relatively selective in vivo occupancy of rat brain alpha5-versus alpha1-, alpha2-, and alpha3-containing GABA(A) receptors. Therefore, this plasma concentration was chosen as a target to achieve relatively selective occupancy of alpha5-containing receptors using s.c. implantations of L-655,708 (0.4, 1.5, or 2.0 mg) formulated into tablets of various size (20 or 60 mg) containing different amounts of L-655,708 and combinations of low and high viscosity hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (LV- and HV-HPMC). The optimum formulation, 1.5 mg of L-655,708 compressed into a 60-mg tablet with 100% HV-HPMC, resulted in relatively constant plasma concentrations being maintained for at least 6 h with very little difference between C(max) concentrations (125-150 ng/ml) and plateau concentrations (100-125 ng/ml). In vivo binding experiments confirmed the selective occupancy of rat brain alpha5-over alpha1-, alpha2-, and alpha3-containing GABA(A) receptors.
The 17th Annual Meeting of American Neuropsychiatric Association was held in La Jolla Torrey Pines, San Diego, California, U.S.A., on February 18-21, 2006. The meeting was jointly sponsored by the Center for Continuing Medical Education (CME), the Ohio State University Medical Center and the American Neuropsychiatric Association. The primary objectives of the meeting were to define and describe contributions of cognitive neuroscience, the relevance of sleep disorders to neuropsychiatry and assessment of malingering in clinical evaluation. The report provides a comprehensive outlook and addresses several aspects of neuropsychiatry such as behavioral neurology, amnesia, cognitive correlates of functional status, emotions, neuropsychiatry of sleep and related disorders, insomnia, narcolepsy and other disorders, all strongly linked with other areas of science. The conference was made up of the familiar mix of symposia, poster presentations, workshop and sociocultural programs.

Protein precipitation with TCA followed by acetone washing is frequently used to clean samples before 2-DE. However, the difficulty in solubilizing TCA-precipitated proteins causes some variability in 2-D gels and makes it difficult to detect some proteins. In this work we show that sonication of the samples, after TCA precipitation followed by elution in sample buffer, increases total protein recovery, and improves reproducibility and matching ratios between gels when analyzed by specialized software.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor family receptor (GFRalpha) 4, the binding receptor for persephin, is coexpressed with the signaling Ret receptor tyrosine kinase predominantly in thyroid calcitonin-producing C cells. We show by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry that the functional, glycolipid-anchored form of GFRalpha4 is produced in mouse only in the C cells but not in parathyroid gland or in the brain. C cells expressed functional GFRalpha4 throughout postnatal development, whereas Ret expression in these cells decreased postnatally and was undetectable in adults. To understand the physiological role of GFRalpha4, we produced GFRalpha4-deficient [knockout (KO)] mice. No differences were observed between wild-type and GFRalpha4-KO littermate animals in growth, gross behavior, or viability. The number and morphology of the thyroid C cells were indistinguishable between the genotypes in both newborn and adult age. However, thyroid tissue calcitonin content was reduced by 60% in newborn and by 45% in 3-wk-old GFRalpha4-KO mice compared with wild-type controls. In contrast, thyroid calcitonin levels were similar in adult animals. Consistent with the reduced calcitonin levels, bone formation rate in juvenile GFRalpha4-KO mice was increased. In conclusion, this study indicates a novel role for endogenous GFRalpha4 signaling in regulating calcitonin production in thyroid C cells of young mice.

The epileptic encephalopathies are conditions in which neurological deterioration is attributable entirely or partly to epileptic activity and is due to very frequent or severe seizures or severely abnormal electroencephalograms (EEGs), or both. Evidence for the concept that seizures or the abnormal EEGs are responsible for the cognitive deterioration is the observation that patients can improve dramatically when therapy eliminates or reduces seizure frequency and improves or normalizes the EEG. For example, children with the syndrome of continuous spike-wave of sleep (CSWS) have electrical status epilepticus during sleep (ESES) and cognitive regression. Although seizures often occur in the disorder, there are indications that the EEG abnormalities are responsible for the cognitive regression. Interictal spikes, which correspond to a large intracellular depolarization with evoked action potentials, in many ways mimic a &quot;miniseizure.&quot; Interictal spikes can result in transitory cognitive impairment with the type of deficit dependent on where in the cortex the spike arises. We suggest that interictal spikes, particularly if frequent and widespread, can impair cognitive abilities, through interference with waking learning and memory, and memory consolidation during sleep.
Hippocampal reduced glutathione (GSH) levels diminish after status epilepticus (SE), which precedes damage to mitochondrial enzymes, which is associated with cell death. The rat perforant pathway stimulation model was used to assess whether intraperitoneal administration of the GSH precursor N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) protected against these changes. NAC (300 mg/kg) treated animals exhibited the same GSH decrease post SE as vehicle treated. Furthermore, NAC treatment had no protective effects on mitochondrial dysfunction.
From an age of 2-3 months onwards, the WAG/Rij rat, a genetic model for absence epilepsy, develops spike-wave discharges (SWD). SWD start in the peri-oral somatosensory cortex (POsc), whereas the rostral reticular thalamic nucleus (rRTN) contributes to synchronizing the thalamo-cortical oscillations. We hypothesize that N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors in the POsc and rRTN are involved in, respectively, the initiation and synchronization of SWD activity. As a first step to test this hypothesis, 3 months old non-epileptic and 6 months old absence epileptic WAG/Rij rats were compared with age-matched non-epileptic ACI control rats. The presence of NMDA and AMPA receptors was assessed by quantifying immunostaining for the NMDA-NR1 subunit and the AMPA-GluR4 subunit, respectively. In the POsc, WAG/Rij rats of both ages showed less NMDA-NR1 (-14.7%) and AMPA-GluR4 (-8.7%) subunit staining than ACI rats. From 3 to 6 months, AMPA-GluR4 subunit staining more strongly increased in the rRTN of WAG/Rij rats than of ACI rats. Further studies should support our assumption that in the POsc of the WAG/Rij rat, SWD start as a result of reduced NMDA- and AMPA-mediated glutamatergic stimulation, and that AMPA-GluR4 containing neurons in the rRTN of this rat strain contribute to synchronization of thalamic and cortical neurons.
Sleep fragmentation, a symptom in many clinical disorders, leads to cognitive impairments. To investigate the mechanisms by which sleep fragmentation results in memory impairments, rats were awakened once every 2 min via 30 s of slow movement on an automated treadmill. Within 1 h of this sleep interruption (SI) schedule, rats began to sleep in the 90-s periods without treadmill movement. Total non-rapid eye movement sleep (NREM) sleep time did not change over the 24 h of SI, although there was a significant decline in rapid eye movement sleep (REM) sleep and a corresponding increase in time spent awake. In the SI group, the mean duration of sleep episodes decreased and delta activity during periods of wake increased. Control rats either lived in the treadmill without movement (cage controls, CC), or had 10-min periods of movement followed by 30 min of non-movement allowing deep/continuous sleep (exercise controls, EC). EC did not differ from baseline in the total time spent in each vigilance state. Hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP), a long-lasting change in synaptic efficacy thought to underlie declarative memory formation, was absent in rats exposed to 24 and 72 h SI. In contrast, LTP was normal in EC rats. However, long-term depression and paired-pulse facilitation were unaltered by 24 h SI. Twenty-four hour SI also impaired acquisition of spatial learning in the hippocampus-dependent water maze test. Twenty-four hour SI elevated plasma corticosterone (CORT) to levels previously shown to enhance LTP (125 ng/mL). The results suggest that sleep fragmentation negatively impacts spatial learning. Loss of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent LTP in the hippocampal CA1 region may be one mechanism involved in this deficit.
Chronic L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) pharmacotherapy in Parkinson's disease is often accompanied by the development of abnormal and excessive movements known as dyskinesia. Clinical and experimental studies indicate that indirect serotonin agonists can suppress dyskinesia without affecting the efficacy of L-DOPA. While the mechanism by which these effects occur is not clear, recent research suggests that serotonin 5-HT1A receptors may play a pivotal role. To test this, male Sprague-Dawley rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine medial forebrain bundle lesions received 1 week of daily treatment with L-DOPA (12 mg/kg, i.p.) plus benserazide (15 mg/kg, i.p.). Beginning on the 8th day of treatment and every 3rd or 4th day thereafter, rats were pretreated with vehicle (0.9% NaCl), the serotonin and dopamine releaser 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; 0.25 or 2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) or the serotonin releaser fenfluramine (FEN; 0.25 or 2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) 5 min prior to L-DOPA, after which abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) and rotations were quantified every 20th minute for 2 h. Pretreatment with 2.5 mg/kg of either MDMA or FEN reduced AIMs. To determine the contribution of the 5-HT1A receptor to these effects, another group of L-DOPA-primed 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats were pretreated with the 5-HT1A antagonist WAY100635 (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.), MDMA + WAY100635 (2.5 + 0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) or FEN + WAY100635 (2.5 + 0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) 5 min prior to L-DOPA and subsequent AIMs and rotation tests. The antidyskinetic effects of MDMA and FEN were reversed by cotreatment with WAY100635. These results suggest that 5-HT-augmenting compounds such as MDMA and FEN probably convey antidyskinetic properties in part via stimulation of 5-HT1A receptors.
Although constitutive neurogenesis exclusively occurs in restricted regions of the adult mammalian brain, resident progenitors can be isolated from many different CNS sites, and neuronal neogeneration can be stimulated in vivo by injury or infusion of growth factors. To ask whether latent compensatory mechanisms, which may be exploited to promote repair processes, are present throughout the CNS, we examined the neurogenic potentialities of the adult rat cerebellum in normal conditions, following injury, and after infusion of growth factors. Degeneration of Purkinje cells was induced by intracerebroventricular administration of the toxin saporin, conjugated to anti-p75 antibodies. In addition, epidermal growth factor and basic fibroblast growth factor, or FGF8, were infused for 2 weeks to either intact or injured animals. In all conditions, proliferating cells were identified from bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation. In the unmanipulated cerebellum there were rare dividing cells, mainly represented by NG2-positive presumptive oligodendrocyte precursors. Mitotic activity was strongly enhanced in cortical areas with Purkinje cell degeneration, being mostly sustained by microglia, plus minor fractions of NG2-expressing cells, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. In contrast, growth factor infusion had a weak effect on both intact and injured cerebella. In all experimental conditions, we never found any BrdU-positive cells coexpressing distinctive markers for immature or differentiated cerebellar neurons. Therefore, although some progenitor cells reside in the adult cerebellum, the local environment, either intact or injured, does not provide efficient cues to direct their differentiation towards neuronal phenotypes. In addition, neurogenic potentialities cannot be induced or boosted by the application of growth factors which are effective in other CNS regions.
The pathogenesis of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1)-associated dementia is mediated by neuronal dysfunction and death, brought about by the action of soluble neurotoxic factors that are released by virally infected macrophages and microglia. Paradoxically, many candidate HIV-1 neurotoxins also possess the ability to activate nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB), which has a potent pro-survival effect in primary neurons. The present study explored this conundrum and investigated why NF-kappaB might fail to protect neurons that are exposed to candidate HIV-1 neurotoxins. Here, we evaluated the ability of virus-depleted conditioned medium produced by HIV-1-infected human macrophages (HIV-MCMs) to modulate NF-kappaB activity in neurons. We demonstrated that HIV-MCMs inhibit the normal signaling pathways that lead to NF-kappaB activation in neurons. This inhibitory effect of HIV-MCM is dependent upon the presence of HIV-1 Tat, which activates glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3beta in neurons. Activation of GSK-3beta, in turn, results in modification of the NF-kappaB subunit RelA at serine 468, thereby regulating the physical interaction of RelA with histone deacetylase-3 corepressor molecules. Furthermore, neutralization of Tat or inhibition of GSK-3beta activity prevents neuronal apoptosis induced by HIV-MCM. We conclude that HIV-1 Tat may compromise neuronal function and fate by interfering with normal survival pathways subserved by NF-kappaB. These findings may have important therapeutic implications for the management of HIV-1-associated dementia.
The noradrenergic pathway arising from the locus coeruleus (LC) is involved in the regulation of attention, arousal, cognitive processes and sleep. These physiological activities are affected by Cannabis exposure - both in humans and laboratory animals. In addition, exogenous cannabinoids, as well as pharmacological and genetic manipulation of the endocannabinoid system, are known to influence emotional states (e.g. anxiety) for which a contributory role of the LC-noradrenergic system has long been postulated. However, whether cannabinoid administration would affect the LC neuronal activity in vivo is still unknown. To this end, single-unit extracellular recordings were performed from LC noradrenergic cells in anaesthetized rats. Intravenous injection of both the synthetic cannabinoid agonist, WIN55212-2, and the main psychoactive principle of Cannabis, Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol, dose-dependently increased the firing rate of LC noradrenergic neurons, with WIN55212-2 being the most efficacious. Similar results were obtained by the administration of these drugs into a lateral ventricle. Cannabinoid-induced stimulation of LC noradrenergic neuronal activity was counteracted by SR141716A, a cannabinoid receptor antagonist/reverse agonist, which by itself slightly reduced LC discharge rate. Moreover, WIN55212-2 suppressed the inhibition of noradrenergic cells produced by stimulation of the major gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic afferent to the LC, the nucleus prepositus hypoglossi. Altogether, these findings suggest the involvement of noradrenergic pathways in some consequences of Cannabis intake (e.g. cognitive and attention deficits, anxiety reactions), as well as a role for cannabinoid receptors in basic brain activities sustaining arousal and emotional states.
Oxidative stress affects cellular membrane lipids and proteins. Using whole-cell patch-clamp recording we demonstrate differential oxidative inhibition of voltage-gated transient (IA) and delayed rectifier [IK(V)] K+ currents by arachidonic acid (AA) and H2O2 in CA1 neurons in hippocampal slice. We show that intracellular application of 1 pm AA or its non-metabolizable analog eicosatetraynoic acid (100 pm) reduced IA by approximately 42% but did not affect IK(V). AA shifted the voltage dependence of steady-state inactivation of IA by 12 mV to more negative potentials whereas the rate of inactivation was unchanged. Surprisingly, intracellular glutathione (GSH, 20 mm) enhanced the effect of AA on maximal IA (-62%) and with AA slowed inactivation of IA. The combination of GSH and extracellular ascorbate (0.4 mm) prevented reduction of IA by AA. Intracellular Trolox (a vitamin E analog, 10 microm) reduced IA by 61%and IK(V) by 39%. Like AA, intracellular Trolox caused a 10-mV left shift of IA steady-state inactivation but Trolox and AA did not cause a shift when coapplied. Extracellular Trolox (100 microm) had no effects on IA. H2O2 (80 microm) reduced both IA and IK(V) in a GSH- and ascorbate-sensitive manner and slowed the rate of inactivation of IA by a factor of 2. Coapplication of H2O2 with GSH and extracellular ascorbate caused approximately 22 mV negative shifts of both steady-state inactivation and activation. We conclude that AA is extremely potent in affecting IA by oxidative modifications. Antioxidants can augment these effects, probably by catalysis of the underlying reactions between oxidants and IA channel proteins.
Excessive activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors increases oxidative stress, contributing to the neuronal death observed following neurological insults such as ischemia and seizures. Post-translational histone modifications may be key mediators in the detection and repair of damage resulting from oxidative stress, including DNA damage, and may thus affect neuronal survival in the aftermath of insults characterized by excessive glutamate release. In non-neuronal cells, phosphorylation of histone variant H2A.X (termed gamma-H2AX) occurs rapidly following DNA double-strand breaks. We investigated gamma-H2AX formation in rat cortical neurons (days in vitro 14) following activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) or alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)/kainate glutamate receptors using fluorescent immunohistochemical techniques. Moreover, we evaluated the co-localization of gamma-H2AX 'foci' with Mre11, a double-strand break repair protein, to provide further evidence for the activation of this DNA damage response pathway. Here we show that minimally cytotoxic stimulation of ionotropic glutamate receptors was sufficient to evoke gamma-H2AX in neurons, and that NMDA-induced gamma-H2AX foci formation was attenuated by pretreatment with the antioxidant, Vitamin E, and the intracellular calcium chelator, BAPTA-AM. Moreover, a subset of gamma-H2AX foci co-localized with Mre11, indicating that at least a portion of gamma-H2AX foci is damage dependent. The extent of gamma-H2AX induction following glutamate receptor activation corresponded to the increases we observed following conventional DNA damaging agents [i.e. non-lethal doses of gamma-radiation (1 Gy) and hydrogen peroxide (10 microm)]. These data suggest that insults not necessarily resulting in neuronal death induce the DNA damage-evoked chromatin modification, gamma-H2AX, and implicate a role for histone alterations in determining neuronal vulnerability following neurological insults.
An increase in intracellular Ca2+ due to voltage-gated Ca2+ (CaV) channel opening represents an important trigger for a number of second-messenger-mediated effects ranging from neurotransmitter release to gene activation. Ca2+ entry occurs through the principal pore-forming protein but several ancillary subunits are known to more precisely tune ion influx. Among them, the CaVbeta subunits are perhaps the most important, given that they largely influence the biophysical and pharmacological properties of the channel. Notably, several functional features may be associated with specific structural regions of the CaVbeta subunits emphasizing the relevance of intramolecular domains in the physiology of these proteins. In the current report, we show that CaVbeta3 contains two PEST motifs and undergoes Ca2+ -dependent degradation which can be prevented by the specific calpain inhibitor calpeptin. Using mutant constructs lacking the PEST motifs, we present evidence that they are necessary for the cleavage of CaVbeta3 by calpain. Furthermore, the deletion of the PEST sequences did not affect the binding of CaVbeta3 to the ion-conducting CaV2.2 subunit and, when expressed in human embryonic kidney-293 cells, the PEST motif-deleted CaVbeta3 significantly increased whole-cell current density and retarded channel inactivation. Consistent with this observation, calpeptin treatment of human embryonic kidney-293 cells expressing wild-type CaVbeta3 resulted in an increase in current amplitude. Together, these findings suggest that calpain-mediated CaVbeta3 proteolysis may be an essential process for Ca2+ channel functional regulation.
Self-renewal and differentiation of CNS stem cells are regulated by still poorly understood cell-cell interactions. Notch is a well-known cell surface protein that can promote both cell cycle progression and mitotic arrest but the molecular mechanism controlling these opposite effects is unknown. Here we demonstrate that, in CNS stem cells, the level of active Notch1 determines the cellular response. Specifically, low levels of the active form of Notch1 promote proliferation whereas high levels lead to growth arrest. Here we provide the first evidence that Notch effects on proliferation and differentiation are a function of dose, and propose a hypothesis on how oncogenes may also act as tumor suppressors.
Positive allosteric modulators of metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGlu5) have promising therapeutic potential. The effects of selective mGlu5 receptor positive allosteric modulators on signaling molecules in brain slices have not been previously reported. The current study demonstrated that the selective mGlu5 receptor positive allosteric modulator, N-{4-chloro-2-[(1,3-dioxo-1,3-dihydro-2H-isoindol-2yl)-methyl]phenyl}-2-hydrobenzamide (CPPHA) potentiated the response to a subthreshold concentration of 3,5-dihydroxy-phenylglycine (DHPG) on extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) and cyclic-AMP responsive element-binding protein (CREB) activity, as well as N-methyl d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunit NR1 phosphorylation in cortical and hippocampal slices. These results suggest that allosteric modulators of mGlu5 receptor could have physiologically significant effects by potentiating the actions of glutamate.
Phencyclidine and ketamine (but not other NMDA channel blockers, such as memantine) produce psychotomimetic effects. Since unlike memantine, phencyclidine-like compounds show no significant affinity at 5-HT(3) receptors, we investigated if behavioral effects of ketamine could be reduced by 5HT(3) receptor blockade. Ketamine (3-40 mg/kg) produced ataxia, stereotypes and diminished exploratory activity in mice, and reduced prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle response, lowered accuracy in fixed consecutive number and in delayed non-matching-to-sample tasks in rats. The 5HT(3) receptor antagonist MDL 72222 (0.3-3 mg/kg) administration did not reverse any of these deficits and exerted no effects on discriminative stimulus properties of ketamine. In the tail suspension test, both ketamine and MDL 72222 produced anti-immobility effects when given alone (50-66 and 3 mg/kg, respectively) and together (12.5-25 and 1 mg/kg). The present data suggest that 5-HT(3) receptor blockade does not reverse the behavioral deficits of ketamine and may even enhance its certain effects, such as the antidepressant-like action.
The neurosteroid allopregnanolone may increase feeding by altering food palatability; however, it may also increase feeding by reducing anxiety (neophobia). Moreover, it is unclear whether this induced hyperphagia is selective to safe, palatable foods only. Male rats were injected with allopregnanolone 20 min prior to behavioral testing. The taste reactivity test was used to examine possible shifts in the palatability of a 0.3 M sucrose solution. A lickometer was used to monitor intake and licking of either a sucrose or sucrose-quinine solution. Sucrose palatability was not enhanced; however, allopregnanolone significantly increased sucrose intake and licking on Test Day 1 when the solution was novel, but not on Test Day 2 when the solution was familiar. Sucrose-quinine intake was not enhanced. Allopregnanolone-induced hyperphagia is not a result of altered sucrose palatability, but rather reflects a reduction in the neophobia elicited by a novel solution; an effect that further seems to be selective to safe, palatable foods.
Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) provides a means for the quantitative analysis of haemodynamic disturbances in vivo, but most work has used phantoms or idealised geometry. Our purpose was to use CFD to analyse flow in carotid atherosclerosis using patient-specific geometry and flow data. Eight atherosclerotic carotid arteries and one healthy control artery were imaged with magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and duplex ultrasound, and the data used to construct patient-specific computational models used for CFD and wall shear stress (WSS) analysis. There is a progressive change in three-dimensional (3-D) velocity profile and WSS profile with increasing severity of stenosis, characterised by increasing restriction of areas of low WSS, change in oscillation patterns, and progressive rise in WSS within stenoses and downstream jets. Areas of turbulent, retrograde flow and of low WSS are demonstrated in the lee of the stenoses. This study presents the largest CFD analysis of abnormal haemodynamics at the atheromatous carotid bifurcation using patient-specific data and provides the basis for further investigation of causal links between haemodynamic variables and atherogenesis and formation of unstable plaque. We propose that this provides a means for the prospective assessment of relative stroke risk in patients with carotid atherosclerosis.

Estrogens are gonadal steroid hormones that are present in the circulation of both males and females and that can no longer be considered within the strict confines of reproductive function. In fact, the bone, the cardiovascular system, and extrahypothalamic regions of the brain are now well-established targets of estrogens. Among the numerous aspects of brain function regulated by estrogens are their effects on mood, cognitive function, and neuronal viability. Here, we review the supporting evidence for estrogens as neuroprotective agents and summarize the various mechanisms that may be involved in this effect, focusing particularly on the mitochondria as an important target. On the basis of this evidence, we discuss the clinical applicability of estrogens in treating various age-related disorders, including Alzheimer disease and stroke, and identify the caveats that must be considered.
Arm and hand movements are generally controlled using a combination of sensory-based and memory-based guidance mechanisms. This study examined similarities and differences in visually-guided and memory-guided arm movements, and sought to determine as to what extent certain control principles apply to each type of movement. In particular, the 2/3 power law is a principle that appears to govern the formation of complex, curved hand trajectories; it specifies that the tangential velocity should be proportional to the radius of curvature raised to an exponent of 1/3. A virtual reality system was used to project complex target paths in three-dimensional (3D) space. Human subjects first tracked (with the tip of a handheld pen) a single target moving along an unseen path. The entire target path then became visible and the subject traced the shape. Finally, the target shape disappeared and the subject was to draw it, in the same 3D space, from memory. Most aspects of the movements (speed, path size, shape and arm postures) were very similar across the three conditions. However, subjects adhered to the 2/3 power law most closely in the tracing condition, when the entire target path was visible. Also, only within the tracing condition, there were significant differences in the value of the exponent depending on the size and the spatial orientation of the trajectory. In the tracking and drawing conditions, the exponent was greater than 1/3, indicating that subjects spent more time in areas of tight curvature. This may represent a strategy for learning and remembering the complex shape.
Little is known about the manual tracking of targets that move in three dimensions. In the present study, human subjects followed, with the tip of a hand-held pen, a virtual target moving four times (period 5 s) around a novel, unseen path. Two basic types of target paths were used: a peanut-shaped Cassini ellipse and a quasi-spherical shape where four connected semicircles lay in orthogonal planes. The quasi-spherical shape was presented in three different sizes, and the Cassini shape was varied in spatial orientation and by folding it along one of the three bend axes. During the first cycle of Cassini shapes, the hand lagged behind the target by about 150 ms on average, which decreased to 100 ms during the last three cycles. Tracking performance gradually improved during the first 3 s of the first cycle and then stabilized. Tracking was especially good during the smooth, planar sections of the shapes, and time lag was significantly shorter when the tracking of a low-frequency component was compared to performance at a higher frequency (-88 ms at 0.2 Hz vs. -101 ms at 0.6 Hz). Even after the appropriate adjustment of the virtual target path to a virtual shape tracing condition, tracking in depth was poor compared to tracking in the frontal plane, resulting in a flattening of the hand path. In contrast to previous studies where target trajectories were linear or sinusoidal, these complex trajectories may have involved estimation of the overall shape, as well as prediction of target velocity.
When reaching out for objects, the digits' paths curve so that they approach their positions of contact moving more or less perpendicularly to the local surface orientation. This increases the accuracy of positioning the digits and ensures that any forces exerted at contact are nearly perpendicular to the surface, so that friction will prevent the digits from slipping along the surface. When lifting the object a similar force perpendicular to the surface is needed to prevent the object from slipping from one's fingers. In order to determine whether these two issues are dealt with simultaneously we let subjects pick up a cube from three different starting positions and measured the digits' movements and forces from before contact until the moment the cube started moving. The impact force was low. After impact, the digits spent about 200 ms in contact with the surface of the cube before the latter started to move. The digits first decelerated, and then they gradually built up the grip- and lift forces to move the cube upwards. We found no direct relationship between the control of the reaching movement towards the object and the force applied at the surface of the object to pick it up. We conclude that the reaching and lifting movements are quite independent.
Ten cocaine-dependent participants were trained to discriminate between intravenous saline and 20 mg/70 kg cocaine. During the first session, saline and cocaine injections were alternated twice, with each separated by 1 hr. The injections were identified by letter codes. During the next 3 sessions, 12 trials were conducted, with saline and cocaine administered 6 times each in pseudorandom order. Thirty minutes following each injection, participants were asked to identify the injection by letter code. Seven of the 10 learned the discrimination (at least 10 trials correct). To evaluate sensitivity, the investigators tested participants with different doses of cocaine in test sessions. In the next phase, methamphetamine (5 and 10 mg/70 kg) and pentobarbital (50 and 100 mg/70 kg) were given intravenously during test sessions to determine whether the discrimination exhibited pharmacological class selectivity. During the evaluation of sensitivity and selectivity, training sessions were interspersed. As dose of cocaine increased, the number of participants identifying the test dose as cocaine increased, demonstrating sensitivity. The higher doses of methamphetamine and pentobarbital substituted for cocaine. The physiological and subjective effects of cocaine and methamphetamine were stimulant-like and dose related. Pentobarbital produced no physiological changes but increased Visual Analog Scale ratings of Sedation, Good Drug Effect, and High. This failure to demonstrate pharmacological selectivity may be related to participants' learning a drug-vs.-no-drug discrimination, and thus it may be necessary to alter training procedures in future studies.
This review discusses actual and potential contributors to functional improvement after stroke injuries. Topics that will be covered are neuronal re-organization and sprouting, neural stem/progenitor cell activation and neuronal replacement, as well as the neuronal milieu defined by glia, inflammatory cells and blood vessel supply. It is well established that different types of neuronal plasticity ultimately lead to post-stroke recovery. However, an untapped potential which only recently has started to be extensively explored is neuronal replacement through endogenous or exogenous resources. Major experimental efforts are needed to achieve progress in this burgeoning area. The review stresses the importance of applying neurodevelopmental principles as well as performing a characterization of the role of the postischemic milieu when studying adult brain neural stem/progenitor cells. Integrated and multifaceted experimentation, incorporating actual and possible poststroke function modulators, will be necessary in order to determine future strategies that will ultimately enable considerable progress in the field of neurorehabilitation.
Environmental enrichment (EE) alleviates sensorimotor deficits after brain infarcts but the cellular correlates are not well-known. This study aimed to test the effects of postischemic EE on neocortical cell genesis. A neocortical infarct was caused by distal ligation of the middle cerebral artery in adult spontaneously hypertensive rats, subsequently housed in standard environment or EE. Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) was administered during the first postischemic week to label proliferating cells and BrdU incorporation was quantified 4 weeks later in the periinfarct, ipsilateral medial and contralateral cortex. Immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy were used to analyze co-localization of BrdU with neuronal (calbindin D28k, calretinin, parvalbumin, glutamic acid decarboxylase, tyrosine hydroxylase), astrocytic (glial fibrillary acidic protein, glutamine synthetase, vimentin, nestin), microglia/macrophage (CD11b/Ox-42, CD68/ED-1), oligodendrocyte progenitor/polydendrocyte (NG2, platelet-derived growth factor alpha receptor) or mature oligodendrocyte (myelin basic protein) markers. BrdU positive cells were increased in all analyzed cortical regions in stroke EE rats compared with stroke standard environment rats. Newly born cells in the periinfarct cortex were mostly reactive astroglia. Occasionally, BrdU positive cells in the periinfarct cortex that were negative for glial or microglia/macrophage markers co-expressed markers typical for interneurons but did not express appropriate functional markers. The majority of BrdU positive cells in intact cortical regions, ipsi- and contralaterally, were identified as NG2 positive polydendrocytes. Perineuronally situated newly born cells and polydendrocytes were found to be brain-derived neurotrophic factor immunoreactive. In conclusion, EE enhanced newborn glial scar astroglia and NG2+ polydendrocytes in the postischemic neocortex which might be beneficial for brain repair and poststroke plasticity.

Despite high rates of prescription, little is known about the long-term consequences of stimulant medication therapy for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) sufferers. Historically, the clinical use of stimulants for ADHD has been based on trial and error before optimal therapy is reached. Concurrently, scientific research on the mechanism of action of stimulants has influenced neurobiological models of ADHD, but has not always informed their prescription. Whilst the two main stimulant types (methylphenidate and dexamphetamine) have numerous similarities, they also differ (slightly) in mechanism and possibly individual response. A further issue relates to differences in cost and availability compounded by the expectation for stimulants to be effective in ameliorating a broad spectrum of ADHD-related symptoms. Thus, there is an increasing need for treating clinicians to prescribe not only the most effective drug, but also the most appropriate dose with the associated release mechanism and schedule for each ADHD patient presented. In this regard, the field is witnessing an emergence of the personalized medicine approach to ADHD, in which treatment decisions are tailored to each individual. This shift requires a new approach to research into treatment response prediction. Given the heterogeneity of ADHD, a profile of information may be required to capture the most sensitive predictors of treatment response in individuals. These profiles will also benefit from the integration of data from clinical rating scales with more direct measures of cognition and brain function. In conclusion, there is a need to establish a more robust normative framework as the baseline for treatment, as well as diagnostic decisions, and as discussed, the growth of integrated neuroscience databases will be important in this regard.
Cholesterol and the cholesterol oxide 24S-hydroxycholesterol (24S-HC) are highly enriched in the human CNS. Clinical, genetic, neurochemical and epidemiological evidence continue to support dysfunctional cholesterol metabolism as an important contributing factor driving the development and/or progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD) neuropathology. Cholesterol overabundance in the brain plasma membrane lipid- raft domains, appears to be fundamental to the generation of the more neurotoxic forms of amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide from beta-amyloid holoprotein precursor. 24S-HC may have a pivotal role in promoting altered inflammatory signaling, apoptotic genetic responses and AD-type change. In clinical studies, cholesterol-lowering statins, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, cholesterol absorption/transport inhibitors and related modulators of cholesterol trafficking have demonstrated some pharmacological benefit for the treatment of AD, but overall their efficacy at slowing the cognitive decline and the progression of AD remains controversial and open to question.
Leukocyte trafficking to the central nervous system (CNS), regulated in part by chemokines, determines severity of the demyelinating diseases multiple sclerosis (MS) and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). To examine chemokine receptor CX3CR1 in EAE, we studied CX3CR1(GFP/GFP) mice, in which CX3CR1 targeting by insertion of Green Fluorescent Protein (GFP) allowed tracking of CX3CR1+ cells in CX3CR1(+/GFP) animals and cells destined to express CX3CR1 in CX3CR1(GFP/GFP) knockouts. NK cells were markedly reduced in the inflamed CNS of CX3CR1-deficient mice with EAE, whereas recruitment of T cells, NKT cells and monocyte/macrophages to the CNS during EAE did not require CX3CR1. Impaired recruitment of NK cells in CX3CR1(GFP/GFP) mice was associated with increased EAE-related mortality, nonremitting spastic paraplegia and hemorrhagic inflammatory lesions. The absence of CD1d did not affect the severity of EAE in CX3CR1(GFP/GFP) mice, arguing against a role for NKT cells. Accumulation of NK cells in livers of wild-type (WT) and CX3CR1(GFP/GFP) mice with cytomegalovirus hepatitis was equivalent, indicating that CX3CL1 mediated chemoattraction of NK cells was relatively specific for the CNS. These results are the first to define a chemokine that governs NK cell migration to the CNS, and the findings suggest novel therapeutic manipulation of CX3CR1+ NK cells.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the selective loss of motoneurons in the spinal cord, brain stem, and motor cortex. However, despite intensive research, an effective treatment for this disease remains elusive. In this study we show that treatment of postsymptomatic, 90-day-old SOD1G93A mice with a synthetic cannabinoid, WIN55,212-2, significantly delays disease progression. Furthermore, genetic ablation of the Faah enzyme, which results in raised levels of the endocannabinoid anandamide, prevented the appearance of disease signs in 90-day-old SOD1G93A mice. Surprisingly, elevation of cannabinoid levels with either WIN55,212-2 or Faah ablation had no effect on life span. Ablation of the CB1 receptor, in contrast, had no effect on disease onset in SOD1(G93A) mice but significantly extended life span. Together these results show that cannabinoids have significant neuroprotective effects in this model of ALS and suggest that these beneficial effects may be mediated by non-CB1 receptor mechanisms.
The mitochondrial permeability transition pore is a high conductance channel whose opening leads to an increase of mitochondrial inner membrane permeability to solutes with molecular masses up to approximately 1500 Da. In this review we trace the rise of the permeability transition pore from the status of in vitro artifact to that of effector mechanism of cell death. We then cover recent results based on genetic inactivation of putative permeability transition pore components, and discuss their meaning for our understanding of pore structure. Finally, we discuss evidence indicating that the permeability transition pore plays a role in pathophysiology, with specific emphasis on in vivo models of disease.
The peptides of the neuropeptide Y (NPY) family exert their functions, including regulation of appetite and circadian rhythm, by binding to G-protein coupled receptors. Mammals have five subtypes, named Y1, Y2, Y4, Y5 and Y6, and recently Y7 has been discovered in fish and amphibians. In chicken we have previously characterized the first four subtypes and here we describe Y6 and Y7. The genes for Y6 and Y7 are located 1 megabase apart on chromosome 13, which displays conserved synteny with human chromosome 5 that harbours the Y6 gene. The porcine PYY radioligand bound the chicken Y6 receptor with a K(d) of 0.80 +/- 0.36 nm. No functional coupling was demonstrated. The Y6 mRNA is expressed in hypothalamus, gastrointestinal tract and adipose tissue. Porcine PYY bound chicken Y7 with a K(d) of 0.14 +/- 0.01 nm (mean +/- SEM), whereas chicken PYY surprisingly had a much lower affinity, with a Ki of 41 nm, perhaps as a result of its additional amino acid at the N terminus. Truncated peptide fragments had greatly reduced affinity for Y7, in agreement with its closest relative, Y2, in chicken and fish, but in contrast to Y2 in mammals. This suggests that in mammals Y2 has only recently acquired the ability to bind truncated PYY. Chicken Y7 has a much more restricted tissue distribution than other subtypes and was only detected in adrenal gland. Y7 seems to have been lost in mammals. The physiological roles of Y6 and Y7 remain to be identified, but our phylogenetic and chromosomal analyses support the ancient origin of these Y receptor genes by chromosome duplications in an early (pregnathostome) vertebrate ancestor.
Stress protein responses have evolved in part as a mechanism to protect cells from the toxic effects of environmental damaging agents. Oesophageal squamous epithelial cells have evolved an atypical stress response that results in the synthesis of a 53 kDa protein of undefined function named squamous epithelial-induced stress protein of 53 kDa (SEP53). Given the role of deoxycholic acid (DCA) as a potential damaging agent in squamous epithelium, we developed assays measuring the effects of DCA on SEP53-mediated responses to damage. To achieve this, we cloned the human SEP53 gene, developed a panel of monoclonal antibodies to the protein, and showed that SEP53 expression is predominantly confined to squamous epithelium. Clonogenic assays were used to show that SEP53 can function as a survival factor in mammalian cell lines, can attenuate DCA-induced apoptotic cell death, and can attenuate DCA-mediated increases in intracellular free calcium. Deletion of the highly conserved EF-hand calcium-binding domain in SEP53 neutralizes the colony survival activity of the protein, neutralizes the protective effects of SEP53 after DCA exposure, and permits calcium elevation in response to DCA challenge. These data indicate that the squamous cell-stress protein SEP53 can function as a modifier of the DCA-mediated calcium influx and identify a novel survival pathway whose study may shed light on mechanisms relating to squamous cell injury and associated cancer development.
Corticotropin Releasing Hormone-Binding Protein (CRH-BP), a 37 kDa secreted glycoprotein, binds both CRH and urocortin with high affinity and is structurally unrelated to the CRH receptors. CRH-BP orthologues have been identified in multiple invertebrate and vertebrate species. It is strongly conserved throughout evolution, suggesting the maintenance of a structural conformation necessary for biological activity. CRH-BP is an important modulator of CRH activity; it inhibits CRH-induced ACTH secretion from pituitary corticotropes and may exert similar actions at central sites of CRH release. While the function of CRH-BP is thought to be primarily inhibitory, recent studies indicate that novel functional roles may exist in both the brain and pituitary. Regulation of CRH-BP expression by stress and metabolic factors are consistent with in vivo models of altered CRH-BP expression. Positive regulation of pituitary CRH-BP by reproductive hormones suggests that additional interactions between the stress and reproductive axes may exist. While recent research has focused on the evolutionary conservation, expanded sites of expression, regulation and in vivo function of CRH-BP, a more complete understanding of the central and peripheral functions of CRH-BP and its mechanisms of action will help elucidate its potential role in the etiology or treatment of disorders of CRH dysregulation.
Central serotonergic (5-HT) and noradrenergic (NA) neurons, which innervate the same regions of the brain, are known to play a crucial role in emotion and mood. These monoamine neurons have a great capacity to alter axonal morphology in response to repeated stress. The morphological responses of 5-HT and NA axons to repeated stress are different, and they sometimes even demonstrate opposite responses (namely, either sprouting or degeneration). Moreover, a morphological interaction also occurs between 5-HT and NA axons during axonal regeneration. This review describes the differential features of axonal plasticity of 5-HT and NA neurons in relation to stress, and discusses the possible roles that the morphological plasticity of 5-HT and NA axons may play in the pathophysiology of depression.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are involved in the pathogenesis of several diseases of the CNS, that share common pathophysiological processes, such as blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption, oxidative stress, remodeling of the extracellular matrix (ECM) and inflammation. In ischemic brain injury, MMPs are implicated in various stages of the disease. Early after the onset of ischemia, MMPs contribute to the disruption of the BBB leading to vasogenic edema and to the influx of leucocytes into the CNS. The ability of MMPs to digest the basal lamina of capillaries increases the risk of hemorrhagic transformation of the ischemic tissue. During the acute ischemic phase, maintenance of the ECM is essential for neuronal survival. However, ECM degradation and its reconstitution are critical to tissue recovery. MMPs as a key modulator of ECM homeostasis play a role in the cascades leading to neuronal cell death and tissue regeneration. This pleiotropic implication of MMPs in brain injury has open new areas of investigation, which should lead to innovative therapeutic strategies. Yet MMPs may have a detrimental or beneficial role depending on the stage of brain injury. Simple therapeutic strategies based on MMP inhibition have thus little chance to favorably alter prognosis.

Yeast prions are non-Mendelian genetic elements that are conferred by altered and self-propagating protein conformations. Such a protein conformation-based transmission is similar to that of PrP(Sc), the infectious protein responsible for prion diseases. Despite recent progress in understanding the molecular nature and epigenetic transmission of prions, the underlying mechanisms governing prion conformational switch and determining prion &quot;strains&quot; are not understood. We report here that the evolutionarily conserved heat-shock transcription factor (HSF) strongly influences yeast prion formation and strain determination. An hsf1 mutant lacking the amino-terminal activation domain inhibits the yeast prion [PSI+] formation whereas a mutant lacking the carboxyl-terminal activation domain promotes [PSI+] formation. Moreover, specific [PSI+] strains are preferentially formed in these mutants, demonstrating the importance of genetic makeup in determining de novo appearance of prion strains. Although these hsf1 mutants preferentially support the formation of certain [PSI+] strains, they are capable of receiving and faithfully propagating nonpreferable strains, suggesting that prion initiation and propagation are distinct processes requiring different cellular components. Our findings establish the importance of HSF in prion initiation and strain determination and imply a similar regulatory role of mammalian HSFs in the complex etiology of prion disease.
8-Oxoguanine (8-oxoG), a major spontaneous form of oxidative DNA damage, is considered to be a natural cause of genomic diversity in organisms because of its mutagenic potential. The steady-state level of 8-oxoG in the nuclear genome of a human cell has been estimated to be several residues per 10(6) guanines. In the present study, to clarify the genome-wide distribution of 8-oxoG in the steady state, we performed fluorescence in situ detection of 8-oxoG on human metaphase chromosomes using a monoclonal antibody. Multiple dot-like signals were observed on each metaphase chromosome. We then mapped the position of the signal at megabase resolution referring to the cytogenetically identified chromosomal band, and demonstrated that 8-oxoG is unevenly distributed in the normal human genome and that the distribution pattern is conserved among different individuals. Moreover, we found that regions with a high frequency of recombination and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are preferentially located within chromosomal regions with a high density of 8-oxoG. Our findings suggest that 8-oxoG is one of the main causes of frequent recombinations and SNPs in the human genome, which largely contribute to the genomic diversity in human beings.


In a climate of renewed interest in the synergy between neurology and psychiatry, practitioners are increasingly recognizing the importance of exchange and collaboration between these two disciplines. However, there are few working models of interdisciplinary teams that freely share expertise in real time, while providing clinical and academic training to future physicians who specialize in the central nervous system. Over the past 11 years, the McLean Hospital Neuropsychiatry and Behavioral Neurology service has provided proof-of-principle for such collaboration, demonstrating that a team comprising psychiatrists, neurologists, and neuropsychologists can function effectively as a unit while maintaining the autonomy of these three disciplines and also synthesizing their combined knowledge. In addition to delivering enhanced patient care and promoting medical research, this clinical service has provided enriched cross-specialty training for fellows, residents, and medical students. The practical functioning of the team is described, and case vignettes are presented to illustrate the team's collaborative synergism in practice.
Neurophysiologic studies indicate that pruritus is a distinct sensation with its own neuronal pathways in the peripheral and central nervous system which are different from that of pain. Pruritus is a very disturbing sensation and most common skin-related symptom. Histamine was long considered to be the only mediator of pruritus. However, it has become evident that - besides histamine - a variety of neuromediators such as neurotrophins and neuropeptides as well as their receptors play an important role in pruritus. Neuromediators are produced by mast cells, keratinocytes and eosinophil granulocytes which are in close contact to sensory nerves. The discovery of these neurophysiological interactions opens new and promising therapeutic options for the treatment of pruritus.
A previous study has shown that duration selectivity of neurons in the inferior colliculus (IC) of the big brown bat, Eptesicus fuscus becomes sharper with increasing pulse repetition rate (PRR). The present study examines the role of GABAergic inhibition in improving duration selectivity of bat IC neurons with PRR by means of iontophoretic application of GABA as well as its antagonist, bicuculline. Duration selectivity of IC neurons is studied by plotting the duration tuning curves with the number of impulses per pulse against the pulse duration. Duration tuning curves of IC neurons are described as band-, short-, long- and all-pass in terms of filtering properties to sound duration. Bicuculline application produces more pronounced broadening of duration tuning curves at high than at low PRR. Conversely, GABA application produces more pronounced narrowing of duration tuning curves at low than at high PRR. In either case, sharpening of duration selectivity of IC neurons with increasing PRR is abolished during drug application. The duration tuning curves of IC neurons progressively broadens with recording depth. Broadening of duration tuning curves during bicuculline application is more pronounced for neurons at upper than at deep IC. This progressive decrease in duration selectivity with recording depth is discussed in relation to spatial distribution gradient of GABAA receptors in the IC. Possible biological significance of these findings relevant to bat echolocation is discussed.
The recording of otoacoustic emissions (OAEs) is today a widely used tool in medical diagnosis. The mechanisms of OAE generation in the cochlea and their transmission to the external ear canal, however, are not well understood and a matter of long-standing debates. Here, the frequency distribution of 1660 spontaneous otoacoustic emissions (SOAEs) from three surveys, covering 296 human subjects, is analyzed. Neonates show a monomodal distribution with a peak at 4 kHz, but both children (5-11 y) and adults show an identical bimodal distribution, with two peaks in an octave distance (1.5 and 3 kHz). For the combined children and adult data, distribution density at the two peak tops is 2.8 and 2.7 times as high as at the low between them. Mean SOAE amplitudes are unrelated to the two peaks, but show a significant narrow-band dip precisely at the low in between at 2140 Hz (P&lt;0.008). External ear canal resonance can explain the single 4 kHz mode at birth and the 3 kHz mode in children and adults. The octave shifted 1.5 kHz mode remains without mechanical explanation. It may reflect descending neural influence from central octave band processing. The results are relevant for the interpretation of OAE levels in medical diagnosis.
The relationship between androgens and paternal behavior is not straightforward, potentially because of the diversity of tasks a male must undertake to maximize reproductive success, notably alternating between courtship, aggression, and offspring care. In some species, these events are separated in time, but in others they are coincident. The endocrine profiles of species that simultaneously court, parent, and defend a nest, such as male bluebanded gobies (Lythrypnus dalli), are not well understood. We sampled a potent fish androgen, 11-ketotestosterone (KT), at different life history stages (experienced parenting males, experienced males not actively parenting, inexperienced males with their first clutch, and females), to examine this relationship. We found that experienced parenting L. dalli males have the highest KT levels of any group, while none of the other groups differed significantly. Males showed elevated KT levels when they had eggs compared to when they did not. Our data suggest that KT facilitates at least some aspects of parental care in L. dalli.
Hormone secretion is highly organized temporally, achieving optimal biological functioning and health. The master clock located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus coordinates the timing of circadian rhythms, including daily control of hormone secretion. In the brain, the SCN drives hormone secretion. In some instances, SCN neurons make direct synaptic connections with neurosecretory neurons. In other instances, SCN signals set the phase of &quot;clock genes&quot; that regulate circadian function at the cellular level within neurosecretory cells. The protein products of these clock genes can also exert direct transcriptional control over neuroendocrine releasing factors. Clock genes and proteins are also expressed in peripheral endocrine organs providing additional modes of temporal control. Finally, the SCN signals endocrine glands via the autonomic nervous system, allowing for rapid regulation via multisynaptic pathways. Thus, the circadian system achieves temporal regulation of endocrine function by a combination of genetic, cellular, and neural regulatory mechanisms to ensure that each response occurs in its correct temporal niche. The availability of tools to assess the phase of molecular/cellular clocks and of powerful tract tracing methods to assess connections between &quot;clock cells&quot; and their targets provides an opportunity to examine circadian-controlled aspects of neurosecretion, in the search for general principles by which the endocrine system is organized.
The neuropeptide oxytocin has been implicated in the regulation of affiliative behavior and maternal responsiveness in several mammalian species. Rodent species vary considerably in the expression of juvenile alloparental behavior. For example, alloparental behavior is spontaneous in juvenile female prairie voles (approximately 20 days of age), takes 1-3 days of pup exposure to develop in juvenile rats, and is nearly absent in juvenile mice and meadow voles. Here, we tested the hypothesis that species differences in pup responsiveness in juvenile rodents are associated with oxytocin receptor (OTR) density in specific brain regions. We found that OTR density in the nucleus accumbens (NA) is highest in juvenile prairie voles, intermediate in juvenile rats, and lowest in juvenile mice and meadow voles. In the caudate putamen (CP), OTR binding was highest in prairie voles, intermediate in rats and meadow voles, and lowest in mice. In contrast, the lateral septum (LS) shows an opposite pattern, with OTR binding being high in mice and meadow voles and low in prairie voles and rats. Thus, alloparental responsiveness in juvenile rodents is positively correlated with OTR density in the NA and CP and negatively correlated with OTR density in the LS. We then investigated whether a similar receptor-behavior relationship exists among juvenile female prairie voles by correlating individual variation in alloparental behavior with variation in OTR density. The time spent adopting crouching postures, the most distinctive component of alloparental behavior in juveniles, was positively correlated with OTR density in the NA (r = 0.47) and CP (r = 0.45) and negatively correlated with OTR density in the lateral septum (r = -0.53). Thus, variation in OTR density in the NA, CP, and LS may underlie both species and individual differences in alloparental care in rodents.
Repetition suppression refers to the phenomenon that prior processing of stimuli (or stimulus attributes) decreases activation elicited by processing subsequent stimuli with identical attributes. We present two complementary approaches to identify regions that show repetition suppression for subsequent sentences with either identical: (1) sentence forms or (2) speakers. The first categorical approach simply compares sentences that are presented in Same and Different blocks. The second factorial approach operationally defines repetition suppression as decreased activation for the subsequent Same stimulus relative to its preceding sentence. To account for nonspecific time confounds, this approach tests for a repetition x condition (Same or Different) interaction. Surprisingly, the two approaches revealed different results: Only the categorical analysis detected sentence repetition effects in multiple regions within a bilateral frontotemporal system that has previously been implicated in sentence processing. These discrepancies might be due to the different efficiencies with which the particular contrasts were estimated or spurious differences in stimuli or attentional set that could not be entirely controlled within a single subject. Finally, we combined the two approaches in a [global null] conjunction analysis.
Proneuron Biotechnologies Inc is developing ProCord, an activated macrophage cell therapy, for the potential treatment of neurological conditions. In September 2004, ProCord was granted Orphan Drug status by the US Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of acute spinal cord injury.

There is circumstantial evidence that reproductive events can influence symptom severity of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). We sent self-report questionnaires to 350 female outpatients with OCD to examine the relationship between the menstrual cycle, pregnancy, menopause, hormonal contraceptives, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and symptom severity of OCD. Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale scores were used at three serial time points during the menstrual cycle to assess symptom severity. One hundred and one out of 350 questionnaires (29%) were returned and completed. Forty-nine patients reported an exacerbation of OCD symptoms during the premenstrual period, nine during the menopause and 17 patients during pregnancy, whereas 11 patients mentioned improvement of OCD symptoms during pregnancy. Premenstrual dysphoric disorder could only partly explain a premenstrual exacerbation of OCD symptoms. Exacerbation of OCD could be related to reproductive events in a considerable number of patients, especially the premenstrum. Because reproductive cycle events influence the symptom severity of OCD, the menstrual cycle should be taken into account when assessing the severity of OCD symptoms during pharmacological studies.
This multinational, randomized, double-blind, flexible-dose study evaluated the short- and long-term antidepressant tolerability and efficacy of escitalopram and paroxetine. Tolerability was assessed by monitoring adverse events throughout the study, and discontinuation events during brief treatment interruption and tapered withdrawal. Discontinuation-emergent effects were evaluated in two separate double-blind periods. First, to mimic the consequences of non-compliance, patients were randomized to one of two treatment interruption periods (placebo-substitution for 3-5 days). Second, patients were randomized to a 1-2-week tapered withdrawal period randomly scheduled between weeks 28 and 31. The pre-specified primary efficacy endpoint was the mean change from baseline in total Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) score at week 8, using the principle of last observation carried forward. A total of 323 patients entered 8 weeks of double-blind treatment and received at least one flexible dose of escitalopram (10-20 mg/day) or paroxetine (20-40 mg/day). Patients who demonstrated evidence of a significant clinical improvement (Clinical Global Impression-Improvement of 1 or 2) at week 8 entered a 19-week, double-blind maintenance period during which they were treated with the same dose they received at week 8, followed by a 1-2-week tapered withdrawal period. A total of 89 patients (28%) withdrew during the study; significantly (P&lt;0.01) more patients withdrew from the paroxetine group (34%) than from the escitalopram group (21%), and significantly (P&lt;0.05) more paroxetine patients withdrew due to lack of efficacy. The mean MADRS total score improved for both treatment groups from baseline to week 8, with no statistical difference between groups. In severely depressed patients (baseline MADRS total score &gt;or=30), escitalopram was superior (P&lt;0.05) to paroxetine at week 27 (end of maintenance treatment). There was a high prevalence of sexual dysfunction at baseline: the mean Arizona Sexual Experience Scale (ASEX) score was approximately 20 points in both treatment groups. Mean total ASEX scores increased slightly above baseline values during the acute period and declined slightly below baseline values towards the end of the maintenance period. During taper and cessation of treatment, patients in the paroxetine group demonstrated significantly more discontinuation symptoms relative to escitalopram based on the Discontinuation Emergent Signs and Symptoms scores.



This article reviews recent findings in the developmental neurophysiology of children subjected to psychological trauma. Studies link extreme neglect and abuse with long-term changes in the nervous and endocrine systems. A growing body of research literature indicates that individuals with severe trauma histories are at higher risk of behaving violently than those without such histories. This article links these two research areas by discussing how severe and protracted child abuse and/or neglect can lead to biological changes, putting these individuals at greater risk for committing homicide and other forms of violence than those without child maltreatment histories. The implications of these biological findings for forensic evaluations are discussed. Based on new understanding of the effects of child maltreatment, the authors invite law and mental health professionals to rethink their notions of justice and offender accountability, and they challenge policymakers to allocate funds for research into effective treatment and for service delivery.
Human African trypanosomiasis, also known as sleeping sickness, is caused by protozoan parasites of the genus Trypanosoma, and is a major cause of human mortality and morbidity. The East African and West African variants, caused by Trypanosma brucei rhodesiense and Trypanosoma brucei gambiense, respectively, differ in their presentation but the disease is fatal if untreated. Accurate staging of the disease into the early haemolymphatic stage and the late encephalitic stage is critical as the treatment for the two stages is different. The only effective drug for late stage disease, melarsoprol, which crosses the blood-brain barrier, is followed by a severe post-treatment reactive encephalopathy in 10% of cases of which half die. There is no current consensus on the diagnostic criteria for CNS involvement and the specific indications for melarsoprol therapy also differ. There is a pressing need for a quick, simple, cheap and reliable diagnostic test to diagnose Human African trypanosomiasis in the field and also to determine CNS invasion. Cerebrospinal fluid and plasma analyses in patients with Human African trypanosomiasis have indicated a role for both pro-inflammatory and counter-inflammatory cytokines in determining the severity of the meningoencephalitis of late stage disease, and, at least in T. b. rhodesiense infection, the balance of these opposing cytokines may be critical. Rodent models of Human African trypanosomiasis have proved very useful in modelling the post-treatment reactive encephalopathy of humans and have demonstrated the central role of astrocyte activation and cytokine balances in determining CNS disease. Such animal models have also allowed a greater understanding of the more direct mechanisms of trypanosome infection on CNS function including the disruption of circadian rhythms, as well as the immunological determinants of passage of trypanosomes across the blood-brain barrier.
The paper presents gedankenmodels which, based on the theories and models in the present special issue, describe the conditions for a breakthrough in brain sciences and neuroscience. The new model is based on contemporary findings which show that the brain and its cognitive processes show super-synchronization. Accordingly, understanding the brain/body-mind complex is possible only when these three are considered as a wholistic entity and not as discrete structures or functions. Such a breakthrough and the related perspectives to the brain/body-mind complex will involve a transition from the mechanistic Cartesian system to a nebulous Cartesian system, one that is basically characterized by parallel computing and is further parallel to quantum mechanics. This integrated outlook on the brain/body-mind, or dynamic functionality, will make the treatment of also the meta-cognitive processes and the greater part of the iceberg, the unconscious, possible. All this will be possible only through the adoption of a multidisciplinary approach that will bring together the knowledge and the technology of the four P's which consist of physics, physiology, psychology and philosophy. The genetic approach to the functional dynamics of the brain/body-mind, where the oscillatory responses were found to be laws of brain activity, is presented in this volume as one of the most recent perspectives of neuroscience.
A case can be made for the proposition that the most neglected aspect of biology is the evolution of complexity and for the assertion that the evolution of complex nervous systems--in short, of the brain--is an outstanding fact, manifesting a span of difference in grade of complexity from the simplest exemplars to the most advanced far greater than any other systems known except systems made up of many brains. The aim of this essay is not to make this case, which I take to be self-evident but to point out how little studied are the specifics defining the grades of complexity, in other words, the consequences of neural evolution. A major step in opening this field of study would be to recognize some way of measuring complexity, relevant to animal biology.
Perspectives on the P300 event-related brain potential (ERP) are reviewed by outlining the distinction between the P3a and P3b subcomponents. The critical factor for eliciting P3a is how target/standard discrimination difficulty rather than novelty modulates task processing. The neural loci of P3a and P3b generation are sketched and a theoretical model is developed. P3a originates from stimulus-driven disruption of frontal attention engagement during task processing. P3b originates when temporal-parietal mechanisms process the stimulus information for memory storage. The neuropharmacological implications of this view are then outlined by evaluating how acute and chronic use of ethanol, marijuana, and nicotine affect P3a and P3b. The findings suggest that the circuit underlying ERP generation is influenced in a different ways for acute intake and varies between chronic use levels across drugs. Theoretical implications are assessed.




The &quot;chick-a-dee&quot; call of the black-capped chickadee (Poecile atricapillus) contains four note types, A, B, C, and D that have important functional roles. This provides strong motivation for studying the classification of acoustic components of the call into different note types. In this paper, the spectrograms from a sample of A, B, and C notes (370 in total) were each described as a set of 9 summary features. An artificial neural network was trained to identify note type on the basis of these features, and was able to obtain better than 98% accuracy. An internal analysis of this network revealed a distributed code in which different hidden units generated high activities to different subsets of notes. By combining these different sensitivities, the network could discriminate all three types of notes. The performance of this network was compared to a discriminant analysis of the same data. This analysis also achieved a high level of performance (95%). A comparison between the two approaches revealed some striking similarities, but also some intriguing differences. These results are discussed in terms of two related issues: developing a research tool for note classification, and developing a theory of how birds themselves might classify notes.
For over half a century, musicologists and linguists have suggested that the prosody of a culture's native language is reflected in the rhythms and melodies of its instrumental music. Testing this idea requires quantitative methods for comparing musical and spoken rhythm and melody. This study applies such methods to the speech and music of England and France. The results reveal that music reflects patterns of durational contrast between successive vowels in spoken sentences, as well as patterns of pitch interval variability in speech. The methods presented here are suitable for studying speech-music relations in a broad range of cultures.
NoSpi thresholds for a 500-Hz tonal signal were measured with broadband and with narrowband maskers using a single-interval adaptive matrix procedure [C. Kaernbach, J Acoust. Soc. Am. 88, 2645-2655 (1990)]. The purpose of the study was to investigate and to account for the effects on thresholds of varying the durations of the signals and maskers and the durations of forward masking fringes that preceded the occurrence of signal-plus-noise. For detection in both broadband and narrowband noise, the addition of brief forward fringes of masking noise resulted in elevations in threshold for the shortest signal durations. Longer forward fringes led to larger decreases in threshold when the masker was broadband as compared to when the masker was narrowband. The complex patterning of the data was explained by the operation of: (1) &quot;predetection&quot; temporal integration associated with peripheral auditory filtering; (2) duration-dependent, across-frequency influences that differentially affect broadband and narrowband NoSpi thresholds, (3) &quot;post-detection&quot; temporal integration associated with the central binaural mechanism, and (4) consideration of the detection thresholds in terms of changes in interaural correlation rather than in terms of signal level or signal-to-noise ratio, per se.
The total number of neurons in the medial and lateral habenular nuclei of the rat epithalamus was estimated using modern stereological counting methods and systematic random sampling techniques. Six to eight young adult male rats, and a complete set of serial 40-microm glycolmethacrylate sections for each rat, were used to quantify neuronal numbers. After a random start, a systematic subset (e.g. every third) of the serial sections was used to estimate the total volume of each nucleus using Cavalieri's method. The same set of sampled sections was used to estimate the number of neurons in a known subvolume (i.e. the numerical density N(v)) by the optical disector method. Multiplication of the total volume by N(v) yielded the total number of neurons. It was found that the right medial habenular nucleus consisted, on average, of 18,000 neurons (with a coefficient of variation of 0.18), while the right lateral habenular nucleus had 13,000 neurons on average (0.14). These total neuronal numbers provide important data for the transfer of information through these nuclei and for species comparisons.
Vena cava filters are the most commonly used mechanical devices to prevent pulmonary embolism. A retrievable permanent filter has been available since 1999. That has allowed the direct study of thrombi captured in humans and the punctual interaction of blood and device at long and short term. Through traditional histologic methods, captured thrombi and the tissues formed around the filter were observed. An innovative environmental scanning electron microscopy technique allowed detection of micro- and nanosized foreign bodies inside thrombi and tissues, and chemical analysis could be carried out by means of energy dispersive spectroscopy. All specimens contained different quantities of foreign debris ranging from few tens of microns to 50 nanometers; their chemistry was not homogeneous when patients were compared, and also differed considerably within the same filter. The constant presence of debris deeply embedded in all thrombi observed may mean that they are the cause that triggered the formation of those thrombi as a result of the interaction between foreign bodies and blood components.
Fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy (FLIM) allows the investigation of the physicochemical environment of fluorochromes and protein-protein interaction mapping by Forster resonance energy transfer (FRET) in living cells. However, simpler and cheaper solutions are required before this powerful analytical technique finds a broader application in the life sciences. Wide-field frequency-domain FLIM represents a solution whose application is currently limited by the need for multichannel-plate image intensifiers. We recently showed the feasibility of using a charge-coupled device/complementory metal-oxide semiconductor (CCD/CMOS) hybrid lock-in imager, originally developed for 3-D vision, as an add-on device for lifetime measurements on existing wide-field microscopes. In the present work, the performance of the setup is validated by comparison with well-established wide-field frequency-domain FLIM measurements. Furthermore, we combine the lock-in imager with solid-state light sources. This results in a simple, inexpensive, and compact FLIM system, operating at a video rate and capable of single-shot acquisition by virtue of the unique parallel retrieval of two phase-dependent images. This novel FLIM setup is used for cellular and FRET imaging, and for high-throughput and fast imaging applications. The all-solid-state design bridges the technological gap that limits the use of FLIM in areas such as drug discovery and medical diagnostics.
Due to cellular complexity, studying fast signaling in neurons is often limited by: 1. the number of sites that can be simultaneously probed with conventional tools, such as patch pipettes, and 2. the recording speed of imaging tools, such as confocal or multiphoton microscopy. To overcome these spatiotemporal limitations, we develop an addressable confocal microscope that permits concurrent optical recordings from multiple user-selected sites of interest at high frame rates. Our system utilizes acousto-optic deflectors (AODs) for rapid positioning of a focused laser beam and a digital micromirror device (DMD) for addressable spatial filtering to achieve confocality. A registration algorithm synchronizes the AODs and DMD such that point illumination and point detection are always colocalized in conjugate image planes. The current system has an adjustable spatial resolution of approximately 0.5 to 1 microm. Furthermore, we show that recordings can be made at an aggregate frame rate of approximately 40 kHz. The system is capable of optical sectioning; this property is used to create 3-D reconstructions of fluorescently labeled test specimens and visualize neurons in brain slices. Additionally, we use the system to record intracellular calcium transients at several sites in hippocampal neurons using the fluorescent calcium indicator Oregon Green BAPTA-1.
Spreading depression (SD) waves occur in focal cerebral ischemia of the brain. Optical reflectance imaging at 550 +/- 10-nm wavelength using a charge-coupled device (CCD) camera, called optical intrinsic signal imaging (OISI) in the neuroscience community, provides high resolution imaging of SD waves based on changes in blood perfusion. We present optical images of SD waves in normal rat brain induced by a pinprick, and the spontaneous SD waves that follow middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). The images of change in reflectance are calculated as A = (I-I(o))I(o), where I is pixel intensity as some timepoint and I(o) is the initial intensity just prior to an SD wave. Difference images B = [I(i)-I(i-1)]I(o), where I(i) is the image at time i and I(i-1) is the previous image at time i-1 (a 6.4-s interval), significantly sharpen the boundaries between leading and trailing edges of the SD wave. Maximum rate-of-change images C = max(B) display the maximum pixel value of B within the duration of a single SD wave, and provide an image that visualizes the entire penumbra. The penumbra appear bright due to a rapid drop in perfusion, while the normal brain and infarct area appear dark.

Mitochondria play a critical role in cell death by releasing apoptogenic factors, such as cytochrome c and apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF), from the intermembrane space into the cytoplasm. Because mitochondrial dysfunction has been shown to be involved in several neurodegenerative diseases, mitochondrial toxins are largely used to model these disorders. These include 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP), an irreversible inhibitor of succinate dehydrogenase, which has been used to model Huntington's disease and was previously reported by us to induce apoptotic cell death through caspase activation. In the present study, we evaluated the involvement of caspase-independent neuronal cell death induced by 3-NP (1 mM) and the effect of z-VDVAD-fmk, an inhibitor of caspase-2, using cortical neurons in culture. Our results highly suggest that 3-NP induces both caspase-dependent and -independent cell death. We showed that z-VDVAD-fmk prevented both caspase-2 and -3-like activities evoked by 3-NP, but only partly prevented chromatin fragmentation/condensation. However, z-VDVAD-fmk did not avoid 3-NP-induced release of cytochrome c or AIF from mitochondria nor did it affect the levels of mitochondrial Bax. Furthermore, 3-NP-mediated decrease in plasma membrane integrity was not affected by z-VDVAD-fmk. Under these conditions, the inhibitor prevented the caspase-dependent cell death.
In the rodent hippocampus, the radial glial scaffold consists of radial glial cells (RGCs) and plays important roles in neurogenesis in this area after birth. However, the mechanisms that maintain the radial glial scaffold in the postnatal dentate gyrus (DG) area remain elusive. In the present work, we studied the role of Neuregulin (NRG) in the formation and maintenance of the radial glial scaffold in the hippocampal DG of postnatal rats using slice culture. We found that ErbB4 receptors were expressed in vimentin-positive RGCs in DG of postnatal day 6 (P6) rats. Treatment with NRG and Ab-3, the inhibitor of ErbB4, revealed that in P6 rats exogenous NRG promoted the proliferation of Vimentin-positive RGCs in DG. On the other hand, endogenous NRG was found necessary for maintaining the characteristic morphological and immunohistochemical features of these cells. These results indicated that NRG plays a critical role in the formation and maintenance of the radial glial scaffold in the hippocampal DG of postnatal rats.
Platelet-derived growth factor-B (PDGF-B) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of proliferative retinopathies and other scarring disorders in the eye. In this study, we sought to test the therapeutic potential of an aptamer that selectively binds PDGF-B, ARC126, and its PEGylated derivative, ARC127. Both ARC126 and ARC127 blocked PDGF-B-induced proliferation of cultured fibroblasts with an IC50 of 4 nM. Pharmacokinetic studies in rabbits showed similar peak vitreous concentrations of approximately 110 microM after intravitreous injection of 1 mg of either ARC126 or ARC127, but the terminal half-life was longer for ARC127 (98 versus 43 h). Efficacy was tested in rho/PDGF-B transgenic mice that express PDGF-B in photoreceptors and develop severe proliferative retinopathy resulting in retinal detachment. Compared to eyes injected with 20 microg of scrambled aptamer in which five of six developed detachments (three total and two partial), eyes injected with ARC126 (no detachment in five of six and one partial detachment), or ARC127 (no detachment in six of six) had significantly fewer retinal detachments. They also showed a significant reduction in epiretinal membrane formation. These data demonstrate that a single intravitreous injection of an aptamer that specifically binds PDGF-B is able to significantly reduce epiretinal membrane formation and retinal detachment in rho/PDGF-B mice. These striking effects in an aggressive model of proliferative retinopathy suggest that ARC126 and ARC127 should be considered for treatment of diseases in which PDGF-B has been implicated, including ischemic retinopathies such as proliferative diabetic retinopathy, proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR), and choroidal neovascularization.
Bid is a proapoptotic member of the Bcl-2 family that mediates cell death by caspase-dependent and -independent pathways. We tested mice genetically deficient in Bid in a controlled cortical impact (CCI) model to examine the hypothesis that Bid contributes to cell death and functional outcome after traumatic brain injury. After CCI, truncated Bid (15 kDa) was robustly detected in cortical brain homogenates of wild-type mice. Bid-/- mice had decreased numbers of cortical cells with acute plasmalemma injury at 6 h (wild type (WT), 1721+/-124; Bid-/-, 1173+/-129 cells/ x 200 field; P&lt;0.01), decreased numbers of cells expressing cleaved caspase-3 in the dentate gyrus at 48 h (WT, 113+/-15; Bid-/-, 65+/-9 cells/ x 200 field; P&lt;0.05), and reduced lesion volume at 12 days (Bid-/-, 5.9+/-0.4 mm(3); WT, 8.4+/-0.4 mm(3); P&lt;0.001), but did not differ from WT mice at later times after injury regarding lesion size (30 days) or brain tissue atrophy (40 days). Compared with nave mice, injured mice in both groups performed significantly worse on motor and Morris water maze (MWM) tests; however, mice deficient in Bid did not differ from WT in postinjury motor and MWM performance. The data show that Bid deficiency decreases early posttraumatic brain cell death and tissue damage, but does not reduce functional outcome deficits after CCI in mice.
Laser speckle imaging of the exposed cerebral cortex allows detailed examination of the time course and topography of perfusion under different experimental conditions. Here we examine the quantitative capacity of the method and its sensitivity for the detection of peri-infarct depolarisations (PIDs). In four cats anaesthetised with chloralose, the right hemisphere was exposed and the right middle cerebral artery was occluded. The brain was illuminated with a laser diode, the speckle pattern was imaged, and images of inverse speckle correlation time (ICT) were derived from the calculated speckle contrast images. We examined the relationship of ICT with perfusion, as imaged quantitatively using umbelliferone clearance (CBF(umb)). Values of ICT and CBF(umb) were compared and regression parameters were calculated for each experiment. In eight cats, cortical surface direct current (DC) potential was monitored at two locations and detection of PIDs by DC potential and ICT change was compared. ICT- and CBF(umb)-derived values of perfusion were closely correlated, with a high degree of significance (P&lt;0.0001). Overall, monitoring of DC potential detected 90% of PIDs, whereas ICT detected 56%. We conclude that (1) laser speckle imaging provides an index of perfusion that has a linear relationship with the clearance rate of umbelliferone within the range of levels of perfusion examined; (2) this relationship is relatively stable between experiments; and (3) the method's ability to detect blood flow changes associated with PIDs likely depends on the noise level of the speckle measurements.
Several studies have highlighted a delayed secondary pathology developing after reperfusion in animals subjected to prolonged cerebral ischemia, and recently we have shown that peri-infarct depolarizations (PIDs) occur not only during ischemia, but also in this delayed period of infarct maturation. Here we study the electrocorticographic (ECoG) manifestations of PIDs as signatures of developing secondary pathology. DC- and traditional AC-ECoG signals were recorded continuously from epidural, nonpolarizable electrodes during 2 h of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) and 22 h of reperfusion in freely behaving rats. During MCAo, seizures and PIDs recurred frequently and their incidence was significantly correlated. After reperfusion, seizures and PIDs ceased, and for the next several hours delta wave abnormalities dominated the ECoG with progressively increasing amplitude. After a variable period (5 to 15 h), the ECoG amplitude decremented with the onset of a prolonged repetitive series of PIDs. Initial PIDs in this delayed phase produced transient depressions of the high amplitude ECoG signal, but thereafter the ECoG was persistently attenuated, with no transient depressions during subsequent PIDs. The time of onset of postreperfusion PIDs, and hence measures of ECoG attenuation, correlated with 24 h infarct volumes. PIDs could always be detected in baseline shifts of the AC-ECoG signal with a low high-pass cutoff setting. These results suggest that delayed PIDs after reperfusion contribute to a complex secondary pathology involving delayed edema, intracranial hypertension, and hypoperfusion. The manifestation of PIDs in ECoG/electroencephalography recordings may enable continuous real-time monitoring of infarct progression.
We previously observed degranulated mast cells (MC) in association with perivascular brain edema formation during focal cerebral ischemia. Brain MC are typically located perivascularly and contain potent fast-acting vasoactive and proteolytic substances. We examined in a rat model of transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) whether, in the early phase of ischemia, MC regulate microcirculation, the blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability, and edema formation. First, animals received MC inhibitor (cromoglycate), MC-degranulating drug (compound 48/80), or saline. Thereafter, we performed transient MCAO in gene-manipulated MC-deficient rats and their wild-type (WT) littermates, calculating brain swelling, visualizing BBB leakage by intravenously administered Evans blue albumin, and determining neutrophil infiltration with light microscopy. Cerebral blood flow, monitored by laser-Doppler flowmetry in separate experiments, was similar among pharmacological treatments. Ischemic swelling resulted in increased hemispheric volume of 13.4%+/-1.0% in controls, 8.1%+/-0.4% (39% reduction) after cromoglycate, and 25.2%+/-2.0% (89% increase) after compound 48/80 (P&lt;0.05). Early ischemic BBB leakage was reduced by 51% after cromoglycate, and 50% enhanced by compound 48/80 (P&lt;0.05). The cromoglycate group showed 37% less postischemic neutrophil infiltration than did controls (P&lt;0.05). Furthermore, MC-deficient rats responded to focal ischemia with 58% less brain swelling (6.7%+/-1.2%) than did their WT littermates (15.8%+/-1.4%, P&lt;0.05). Blood-brain barrier damage was 47% lower in MC-deficient rats than in the WT (P&lt;0.05). Neutrophil infiltration after MCAO was decreased 47% in MC-deficient rats in comparison to WT (P&lt;0.05). Pharmacological MC inhibition thus appears to deserve further investigation regarding reduction of brain swelling and inflammation early after stroke.
Key pharmacophoric elements for the (aminoalkyl)indole (AAI) CB1 cannabinoid receptor agonists are the aminoalkyl moiety, the lipophilic aroyl group, and the heterocyclic indole ring. In the present study, the docking space allowed for (R)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-[(4-morpholinyl)methyl]pyrrolo[1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl](1-naphthalenyl)methanone (WIN55212-2; 1) within the CB1 receptor was extensively explored by a docking approach that combines Monte Carlo (MC) and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. The goals were to understand the key binding interactions of AAIs within the CB1 receptor and to examine the role of the ligand in inducing a receptor conformational change. From the findings of extensive SAR studies on the cannabinoid compounds and correlation between AAI binding affinity data and calculated binding energies, we proposed two alternative binding conformations, aroyl-up1 and aroyl-up2. These denote the directionality of the ligand naphthyl ring within the receptor upward with respect to the extracellular side. A comprehensive structural analysis of 1 demonstrated that the aroyl ring moiety could be important as the steric trigger for inducing CB1 receptor conformational change. Thus, it appears that aromatic-aromatic interactions are important not only for the binding of 1 but also for inducing receptor conformational change. It is possible that differences in the nature of the ligand binding could contribute to ligand-specific conformational changes in the receptor.


Prolonged QT interval and increased QT(C) dispersion have been described immediately following rupture of intracranial aneurysm, due to increased sympathetic activity. Here, we report a patient with transient prolongation of the QT interval, probably due to heparin-induced hypocalcaemia, which occurred during coiling of a right internal carotid aneurysm, 54 days after ictus. Correction of the hypocalcaemia led to resolution of the electrocardiogram and blood pressure abnormalities.
Subarachnoid haemorrhage in pregnancy is often the result of aneurysmal rupture or severe hypertension. A young woman with postpartum eclampsia and 'normal' blood pressure developed sudden-onset head pain, and was found to have minor biconvexity subarachnoid hemorrhages. Serial angiograms of the cervicocranial vessels revealed no evidence of aneurysm or arteriovenous malformation. A follow-up angiogram revealed diffuse vessel narrowing, consistent with postpartum angiopathy. Treatment consisted only of nimodipine for the prevention of vasospasm. The patient made an excellent recovery, without residual neurological deficits.
Permission by families for transplant donation has decreased in Australia. We do know that Australians are interested in donating organs. What has not been explored is how people feel about donating brain tissue for medical research. This study examines the verbal responses of the next of kin, on the day of autopsy of the deceased, to the question of brain donation for medical research. On the day of autopsy a telephone call was made to the next of kin. Families were asked to consider donating the brain tissue of the deceased to medical research. All responses were recorded. Fifty-eight per cent of families contacted by telephone gave permission for the brain donation. The main reasons given for donating the brain to research were wanting to help others, and the family knowing the deceased's wishes. This is an excellent response from families and more encouraging than the literature would predict. Further education and awareness about brain donation is needed and may be achieved effectively by combining donation options with the Australian Organ Donor Register.
For many individuals attachment trauma is at the core of psychoneurosis and personality disorder. Combining theoretical aspects of psychodynamic therapy, developmental neuroscience, and attachment styles provides a useful framework for intensifying emotion and accelerating the course of treatment. A bihemispheric model is considered. The model addresses the challenge in treating the implicit trauma, which resides in the right hemisphere. This is achieved without resorting to interpretation, which is largely a left hemispheric process. The article presents a patient who benefits from a brief emotionally based psychotherapy that was completed after a course of a 20-year psychoanalysis.
Our understanding of the importance of emotion in psychopathology, personality, and psychotherapy has been rapidly advancing. New findings from neuroscience support the centrality of emotion as a convergent force in shaping individuals and relationships. Emotion-focused short-term psychotherapy capitalizes on the power of emotion to accelerate the course of treatment. This article provides a brief historical background on the development of affective science, offers some ways in which emotion can enhance clinical utility, and introduces the Journal of Clinical Psychology: In Session issue devoted to emotion-focused, short-term psychotherapy.

Sucrose stimulation of gustatory receptor neurons on the antennae, the tarsi, and the mouthparts elicits the proboscis extension reflex in many insect species, including lepidopterans. The sensory pathways involved in this reflex have only partly been investigated, and in hymenopterans only. The present paper concerns the pathways of the gustatory receptor neurons on the antennae and on the proboscis involved in the proboscis extension reflex in the moth Heliothis virescens (Lepidoptera; Noctuidae). Fluorescent dyes were applied to the contact chemosensilla, sensilla chaetica on the antennae, and sensilla styloconica on the proboscis, permitting tracing of the axons of the gustatory receptor neurons in the central nervous system. The stained axons showed projections from the two appendages in two closely located but distinct areas in the suboesophageal ganglion (SOG)/tritocerebrum. The projections of the antennal gustatory receptor neurons were located posterior-laterally to those from the proboscis. Electrophysiological recordings from the receptor neurons in s. chaetica during mechanical and chemical stimulation were performed, showing responses of one mechanosensory and of several gustatory receptor neurons. Separate neurons showed excitatory responses to sucrose and sinigrin. The effect of these two tastants on the proboscis extension reflex was tested by repeated stimulations with solutions of the two compounds. Whereas sucrose elicited extension in 100% of the individuals in all repetitions, sinigrin elicited extension in fewer individuals, a number that decreased with repeated stimulation.
Thresholds for detecting the presence of amplitude modulation in a noise carrier were determined for rats using conditioned avoidance procedures. There was a progressive increase in threshold with modulation rates between 5 Hz and 2 kHz. Further tests were conducted to determine difference thresholds for detecting an increase in modulation rate for standard rates of 10, 50, and 100 Hz. The size of the difference threshold increased progressively as the standard rate increased. In addition, thresholds for detecting an increase in the duration of a noise burst were determined for various standard durations. The difference thresholds were constant for values between 10 and 50 ms but increased progressively, with standard durations between 0.1 and 1.0 s.
This report presents an unusual case of asymptomatic sialolith of the submandibular gland. A 61-year-old man was referred to our department for multiple extractions. An ortopantomographic exam revealed the existence of a large radiopacity in the right premolar mandibular region. The patient was completely asymptomatic and no episodes of pain and swelling had occurred in the previous years. Ultrasonography and clinical examination confirmed the diagnosis of sialolithiasis of the submandibular duct. The calculus was removed trans-orally in local anaesthesia. The sialolith measured 22 mm and it was mainly constituted by phosphate, calcium and smaller amounts of magnesium. The bacteriological exam revealed the presence of Streptococcus Mitis, Streptococcus Salivarius and non-pathogenic Neisserie. Postoperative course was uneventful. Even a sialolith of significant dimensions may not be symptomatic. Nevertheless, the likelihood of future complications may constitute an indication for surgical removal of abnormal asymptomatic sialoliths.
The mammalian signal transduction apparatus utilized by vomeronasal sensory neurons (VSNs) in the vomeronasal organ (VNO) has been richly explored, while that of reptiles, and in particular, the stinkpot or musk turtle Sternotherus odoratus, is less understood. Given that the turtle's well-known reproductive and mating behaviors are governed by chemical communication, 247 patch-clamp recordings were made from male and female S. odoratus VSNs to study the chemosignal-activated properties as well as the second-messenger system underlying the receptor potential. Of the total neurons tested, 88 (35%) were responsive to at least one of five complex natural chemicals, some of which demonstrated a degree of sexual dimorphism in response selectivity. Most notably, male VSNs responded to male urine with solely outward currents. Ruthenium Red, an IP3 receptor (IP3R) antagonist, failed to block chemosignal-activated currents, while the phospholipase C (PLC) inhibitor, U73122, abolished the chemosignal-activated current within 2 min, implicating the PLC system in the generation of a receptor potential in the VNO of musk turtles. Dialysis of several second messengers or their analogues failed to elicit currents in the whole-cell patch-clamp configuration, negating a direct gating of the transduction channel by cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3), arachidonic acid (AA), or diacylglycerol (DAG). Reversal potential analysis of chemosignal-evoked currents demonstrated that inward currents reversed at -5.7+/-7.8 mV (mean +/- s.e.m.; N=10), while outward currents reversed at -28.2+/-2.4 mV (N=30). Measurements of conductance changes associated with outward currents indicated that the outward current represents a reduction of a steady state inward current by the closure of an ion channel when the VSN is exposed to a chemical stimulus such as male urine. Chemosignal-activated currents were significantly reduced when a peptide mimicking a domain on canonical transient receptor potential 2 (TRPC2), to which type 3 IP3 receptor (IP3R3) binds, was included in the recording pipette. Collectively these data suggest that there are multiple transduction cascades operational in the VSNs of S. odoratus, one of which may be mediated by a non-selective cation conductance that is not gated by IP3 but may be modulated by the interaction of its receptor with the TRPC2 channel.
The biological mechanisms of behavioral selection, as it relates to locomotion, are far from understood, even in relatively simple invertebrate animals. In the medicinal leech, Hirudo medicinalis, the decision to swim is distributed across populations of swim-activating and swim-inactivating neurons descending from the subesophageal ganglion of the compound cephalic ganglion, i.e. the brain. In the present study, we demonstrate that the serotonergic LL and Retzius cells in the brain are excited by swim-initiating stimuli and during spontaneous swim episodes. This activity likely influences or resets the neuromodulatory state of neural circuits involved in the activation or subsequent termination of locomotion. When serotonin (5-HT) was perfused over the brain, multi-unit recordings from descending brain neurons revealed rapid and substantial alterations. Subsequent intracellular recordings from identified command-like brain interneurons demonstrated that 5-HT, especially in combination with octopamine, inhibited swim-triggering neuron Tr1, as well as swim-inactivating neurons Tr2 and SIN1. Although 5-HT inhibited elements of the swim-inactivation pathway, rather than promoting them, the indirect and net effect of the amine was a reliable and sustained reduction in the firing of the segmental swim-gating neuron 204. This modulation caused cell 204 to relinquish its excitatory drive to the swim central pattern generator. The activation pattern of serotonergic brain neurons that we observed during swimming and the 5-HT-immunoreactive staining pattern obtained, suggest that within the head brain 5-HT secretion is massive. Over time, 5-HT secretion may provide a homeostatic feedback mechanism to limit swimming activity at the level of the head brain.
M. Pea, L. L. Bonatti, M. Nespor, and J. Mehler argued that humans compute nonadjacent statistical relations among syllables in a continuous artificial speech stream to extract words, but they use other computations to determine the structural properties of words. Instead, when participants are familiarized with a segmented stream, structural generalizations about words are quickly established. P. Perruchet, M. D. Tyler, N. Galland, and R. Peereman criticized M. Pea et al.'s work and dismissed their results. In this article, the authors show that P. Perruchet et al.'s criticisms are groundless.
Cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channels play important roles in the transduction of visual and olfactory information by sensing changes in the intracellular concentration of cyclic nucleotides. We have investigated the interactions between intracellularly applied quaternary ammonium (QA) ions and the alpha subunit of rod cyclic nucleotide-gated channels. We have used a family of alkyl-triethylammonium derivatives in which the length of one chain is altered. These QA derivatives blocked the permeation pathway of CNG channels in a concentration- and voltage-dependent manner. For QA compounds with tails longer than six methylene groups, increasing the length of the chain resulted in higher apparent affinities of approximately 1.2 RT per methylene group added, which is consistent with the presence of a hydrophobic pocket within the intracellular mouth of the channel that serves as part of the receptor binding site. At the single channel level, decyltriethyl ammonium (C10-TEA) ions did not change the unitary conductance but they did reduce the apparent mean open time, suggesting that the blocker binds to open channels. We provide four lines of evidence suggesting that QA ions can also bind to closed channels: (1) the extent of C10-TEA blockade at subsaturating [cGMP] was larger than at saturating agonist concentration, (2) under saturating concentrations of cGMP, cIMP, or cAMP, blockade levels were inversely correlated with the maximal probability of opening achieved by each agonist, (3) in the closed state, MTS reagents of comparable sizes to QA ions were able to modify V391C in the inner vestibule of the channel, and (4) in the closed state, C10-TEA was able to slow the Cd2+ inhibition observed in V391C channels. These results are in stark contrast to the well-established QA blockade mechanism in Kv channels, where these compounds can only access the inner vestibule in the open state because the gate that opens and closes the channel is located cytoplasmically with respect to the binding site of QA ions. Therefore, in the context of Kv channels, our observations suggest that the regions involved in opening and closing the permeation pathways in these two types of channels are different.


Symptoms of depression and Sense of Coherence (SOC) in a sample of mass-evacuated adults from Kosovo were studied using a prospective design with a baseline study and follow-ups at 3 months and 6 months in Sweden, with an additional follow-up after 1.5 years in both Sweden and Kosovo. The 12-item version of the SOC, depression subscales of the General Health Questionnaire, and the Hopkins Symptom Check List-25 were used. At the additional follow-up after 1.5 years, the same measures were used together with clinical diagnostic assessment. Depression scores increased and SOC decreased over time. There was a significant negative correlation between SOC and symptoms of depression on all occasions, and SOC scores could not predict the diagnosis or symptoms of depression. Those who remained in Sweden became significantly more depressed than those who repatriated. The results are discussed in terms of postmigration stress and breakdown of SOC.
Anethole dithiolethione (ADT) is a clinically available, pluripotent antioxidant proposed as a neuroprotectant for Parkinson's disease (PD). Here, using extracts from cultured astrocytes, containing both monoamine oxidase (MAO) A and B activity, we demonstrate that ADT concentration-dependently inhibits MAO-B activity in a clinically relevant concentration range (0.03-30 microM, IC-50 = 0.5 microM) without affecting MAO A activity. Considering the alleged contribution of MAO activity in general, and MAO-B in particular, to oxidative stress and neurodegeneration in PD, our data further support the neuroprotective potential of ADT.
Various studies use ketamine/xylazine, fentanyl/medetomidine, etorphine/methotrimeprazine, and isoflurane anaesthesia for creating the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesion rat model of Parkinson's disease. As these anaesthetics are known to modulate uptake and turnover of dopamine and that 6-OHDA-induced neurotoxicity is also dependents on uptake/turnover, we studied the effects of these anaesthetics on the extent of nigrostriatal dopaminergic damage caused by 6-OHDA. Infusion of 8 microg of 6-OHDA into the medial forebrain bundle significantly reduced the numbers of dopaminergic cells in nigra and striatal concentrations of dopamine in animals anaesthetized with fentanyl/medetomidine, etorphine/methotrimeprazine and isoflurane but not with ketamine/xylazine. In the latter group, however, increasing the dose of 6-OHDA to 10 and 12 microg resulted in a moderate (15 and 29%), but significant loss of dopaminergic cells. A severe loss of dopaminergic cells (59% and 81%) was seen with these doses in isoflurane-anaesthetized animals, but with only 8 microg in etorphine/methotrimeprazine-anaesthetized animals. Thus, these results suggest that the extent of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neuronal loss with 6-OHDA seems to be influenced by anaesthetic used during the surgery.
Environmental sounds convey specific meanings and the neural circuitry for their recognition may have preceded language. To dissociate semantic mnemonic from sensory perceptual processing of non-verbal sound stimuli we systematically altered the inherent semantic properties of non-verbal sounds from natural and man-made sources while keeping their acoustic characteristics closely matched. We hypothesized that acoustic analysis of complex non-verbal sounds would be right lateralized in auditory cortex regardless of meaning content and that left hemisphere regions would be engaged when meaningful concept could be extracted. Using H(2) (15)O-PET imaging and SPM data analysis, we demonstrated that activation of the left superior temporal and left parahippocampal gyrus along with left inferior frontal regions was specifically associated with listening to meaningful sounds. In contrast, for both types of sounds, acoustic analysis was associated with activation of right auditory cortices. We conclude that left hemisphere brain regions are engaged when sounds are meaningful or intelligible.
The medial amygdala (Me), a brain region essential for mating behavior, changes in size during puberty. In pre-, mid-, and late pubertal (21, 35, and 49 days of age) male Syrian hamsters, we examined neuronal structure in Me and protein levels of spinophilin and synaptophysin in the amygdaloid complex for evidence of synaptic plasticity coincident with behavioral and physiological development. Body weight, testes weight, and testosterone levels increased during puberty. Mounting behavior, including ectopic, nonintromittive, and intromittive mounts, also increased. Neuronal structure in the posterodorsal medial amygdala (MePD) was assessed in Golgi-impregnated neurons. Pruning occurred during puberty in the number of dendrites emanating from the cell body and in terminal dendritic spine densities. Approximately half of all MePD neurons analyzed had an axon emanating from a dendrite rather than the cell body. However, prepubertal males were more likely to have the axon emanating from a higher order dendritic segment (secondary or tertiary) than were mid- and late pubertal males. Finally, protein levels in the amygdaloid complex varied with pubertal age. Spinophilin decreased, while synaptophysin and GAPDH protein levels increased. These results suggest that puberty is a period of dramatic synaptic plasticity in Me. Specifically, pruning of dendrites and spines, in combination with axonal changes, is likely to modify the afferent influences and electrophysiological properties of Me neurons. Because the Me is an integral component of a social behavior neural network, these changes may be related not only to sexual behavior, but also to other behaviors that mature during puberty, including aggressive, risk-taking, fear-related, and parental behaviors.
Transforming growth factor (TGF) beta1 and ethanol retard the migration of young, post-mitotic neurons to the developing cerebral cortex. The coordination of this migration depends upon cell adhesion proteins (CAPs). We examined the effects of TGFbeta1 and ethanol on genes related to both TGF and CAPs. Rat B104 neuroblastoma cells were treated with TGFbeta1 (0 or 10 ng/mL) and ethanol (0 or 400 mg/dL) for 6-48 h. Total RNA was purified from each sample and analyzed using the Rat U34A GeneChip (Affymetrix). Candidate genes were those up- or down-regulated by either TGFbeta1 or ethanol. Twenty transcripts of CAPs were identified as being expressed by B104 cells and as being affected by treatment with TGFbeta1 or ethanol. The expression was verified for five representative genes (neural cell adhesion molecule, L1, and integrins alpha1, alpha7, and beta1) using assays with real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reactions. Each of these genes showed time-dependent changes. The changes were reflected in increases in protein expression that appeared within 24 or 48 h. Thus, the effects of TGFbeta1 and ethanol on CAPs parallel changes described in vivo and likely underlie changes associated with ethanol-induced alterations in neuronal migration.
Cannabinoid receptors have been implicated in the regulation of blood flow in the cerebral vasculature. Because the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shows high levels of central cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1) expression we examined the effects of cannabinoids on the local transient alkaline shifts and increases in extracellular oxygen induced by electrical stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) in conscious animals. These changes result from increases in cerebral blood flow (CBF) and metabolism in the NAc that are evoked by the stimulation. Oxygen and pH changes were monitored using fast-scan cyclic voltammetry at carbon-fiber microelectrodes in the NAc of freely moving rats. Administration of the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN55,212-2 potently inhibited extracellular oxygen and pH changes, an effect that was reversed and prevented by pre-treatment with the CB1 receptor antagonists SR141716A and AM251. The effects on pH following WIN55,212-2 were similar to those following nimodipine, a recognized vasodilator. When AM251 was injected alone, the amplitude of electrically evoked pH shifts was unaffected. Administration of AM404 and VDM11, endocannabinoid transport inhibitors, partially inhibited pH transients in a CB1 receptor-dependent manner. The present findings suggest that CB1 receptor activation modulates changes in two well-established indices of local blood flow and metabolism resulting from electrically evoked activation of ascending fibers. Although endogenous cannabinoid tone alone is not sufficient to modify these responses, uptake blockade demonstrates that the system has the potential to exert CB1-specific effects similar to those of full agonists.
To provide insights into the effects of temporary focal ischemia on the function of neurons and astrocytes in vivo, we measured the incorporation of radiolabel from [U-14C]glucose into both glutamate and glutamine in brain subregions at 1 h of reperfusion following occlusion of the middle cerebral artery for 2 or 3 h. Under the experimental conditions used, 14C-glutamate is mainly produced in neurons whereas 14C-glutamine is generated in astrocytes from 14C-glutamate of both neuronal and astrocytic origin. Radiolabel incorporation into both amino acids was greatly decreased. The change in 14C-glutamate accumulation provides strong evidence for substantial reductions in neuronal glucose metabolism. The resulting decrease in delivery of 14C-glutamate from the neurons to astrocytes was probably also the major contributor to the change in 14C-glutamine content. These alterations probably result in part from a marked depression of glycolytic activity in the neurons, as suggested by previous studies assessing deoxyglucose utilization. Alterations in 14C-glucose metabolism were not restricted to tissue that would subsequently become infarcted. Thus, these changes did not inevitably lead to death of the affected cells. The ATP : ADP ratio and phosphocreatine content were essentially preserved during recirculation following 2 h of ischemia and showed at most only moderate losses in some subregions following 3 h of ischemia. This retention of energy reserves despite the decreases in 14C-glucose metabolism in neurons suggests that energy needs were substantially reduced in the post-ischemic brain. Marked increases in tissue lactate accumulation during recirculation, particularly following 3 h of ischemia, provided evidence that impaired pyruvate oxidation probably also contributed to the altered 14C-glucose metabolism. These findings indicate the presence of complex changes in energy metabolism that are likely to greatly influence the responses of neurons and astrocytes to temporary focal ischemia.
Mutations in alpha-synuclein cause some cases of familial Parkinson's disease (PD), but the mechanism by which alpha-synuclein promotes degeneration of dopamine-producing neurons is unknown. We report that human neural cells expressing mutant alpha-synuclein (A30P and A53T) have higher plasma membrane ion permeability. The higher ion permeability caused by mutant alpha-synuclein would be because of relatively large pores through which most cations can pass non-selectively. Both the basal level of [Ca2+]i and the Ca2+ response to membrane depolarization are greater in cells expressing mutant alpha-synuclein. The membrane permeable Ca2+ chelator BAPTA-AM significantly protected the cells against oxidative stress, whereas neither L-type (nifedipine) nor N-type (omega-conotoxin-GVIA) Ca2+ channel blockers protected the cells. These findings suggest that the high membrane ion permeability caused by mutant alpha-synuclein may contribute to the degeneration of neurons in PD.
A class of scaffolding protein containing the post-synaptic density-95/Dlg/ZO-1 (PDZ) domain is thought to be involved in synaptic trafficking of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptors during development. To clarify the molecular mechanism of AMPA receptor trafficking, we performed a yeast two-hybrid screening system using the cytoplasmic tail of the GluR1 subunit of AMPA receptor as a bait and identified a synaptic molecule, Shank3/ProSAP2, as a GluR1 subunit-interacting molecule. Shank3 is a PDZ domain-containing multidomain protein and is predominantly expressed in developing neurons. Using the glutathione S-transferase pull-down assay and immunoprecipitation technique we demonstrated that the GluR1 subunit directly binds to the PDZ domain of Shank3 via its carboxyl terminal PDZ-binding motif. We raised anti-Shank3 antibody to investigate the expression of Shank3 in cortical neurons. The pattern of Shank3 immunoreactivity was strikingly punctate, mainly observed in the spines, and closely matched the pattern of post-synaptic density-95 immunoreactivity, indicating that Shank3 is colocalized with post-synaptic density-95 in the same spines. When Shank3 and the GluR1 subunit were overexpressed in primary cortical neurons, they were also colocalized in the spines. Taken together with the biochemical interaction of Shank3 with the GluR1 subunit, these results suggest that Shank3 is an important molecule that interacts with GluR1 AMPA receptor at synaptic sites of developing neurons.
Because brain extracellular acetylcholine (ACh) levels are near detection limits in microdialysis samples, an acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor such as neostigmine is often added to microdialysis perfusates to increase ACh levels in the dialysate, a practice that raises concerns that the inhibitor might alter the results. Two experiments compared functional differences in ACh release with and without neostigmine. In the first experiment, 30-60% increases in extracellular ACh concentrations in the hippocampus were evident during food-rewarded T-maze training with 20-500 nm neostigmine in the perfusate but no increases were seen without neostigmine. In the second experiment, 78% increases in ACh release in the hippocampus were seen after injections of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline, into medial septum only if neostigmine (50 nm) was included in the perfusate. These findings suggest that, in the hippocampus, endogenous brain AChEs are very efficient at removing extracellular ACh, obscuring differences in ACh release in these experiments. Therefore, inclusion of AChE inhibitors in the microdialysis perfusate may be necessary under some conditions for observations of functional changes in release of ACh in the hippocampus.
Best known for their pivotal role in a form of programmed cell death called apoptosis, caspases may also function in more subtle physiological processes. Caspases are present in synapses and dendrites of neurons where they can be activated in response to glutamate receptor stimulation and calcium influx. Here we tested the hypothesis that caspase-1 plays a role in modulating long-term potentiation (LTP) at hippocampal synapses. We provide evidence that caspase-1 plays a role in regulating alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor-mediated calcium influx and synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus. LTP of excitatory postsynaptic potentials at CA1 synapses was significantly enhanced when hippocampal slices were treated with either a pan-caspase inhibitor or a selective inhibitor of caspase-1, but not by an inhibitor of caspase-6. Inhibition of caspase-1 significantly enhanced the AMPA current-mediated component of LTP without affecting the N-methyl-D-aspartate current-mediated component. Calcium responses to AMPA were enhanced in hippocampal neurons treated with a caspase-1 inhibitor suggesting that caspase-1 normally functions to reduce AMPA receptor-mediated calcium influx. These findings suggest that, by selectively reducing AMPA currents and calcium influx, caspase-1 functions as a negative regulator of LTP at hippocampal synapses.
Nuclear factor kappaB (NFkappaB) is a dynamically modulated transcription factor with an extensive literature pertaining to widespread actions across species, cell types and developmental stages. Analysis of NFkappaB in a complex environment such as neural tissue suffers from a difficulty in simultaneously establishing both activity and location. Much of the available data indicate a profound recalcitrance of NFkappaB activation in neurons, as compared with most other cell types. Few studies to date have sought to distinguish between the various combinatorial dimers of NFkappaB family members. Recent research has illuminated the importance of these problems, as well as opportunities to move past them to the nuances manifest through variable activation pathways, subunit complexity and target sequence preferences.
Dendritic spines are dynamically regulated, both morphologically and functionally, by neuronal activity. Morphological changes are mediated by a variety of synaptic proteins, whereas functional changes can be dramatically modulated by the regulation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptor trafficking. Although these two forms of plasticity appear to be highly coordinated, the connections between them are not fully understood. In this study the synaptic cell adhesion molecule N-cadherin was found to associate with AMPA receptors and regulate AMPA receptor trafficking in neurons. N-cadherin and beta-catenin formed a protein complex with AMPA receptors in vivo, and this association was regulated by extracellular Ca2+. In addition, these proteins co-clustered at synapses in cultured neurons. In heterologous cells and in cultured neurons, overexpression of wild-type N-cadherin specifically increased the surface expression level of the AMPA receptor subunit glutamate receptor 1 (GluR1) and this effect was reversed by a dominant-negative form of N-cadherin. Finally, GluR1 increased the surface expression of N-cadherin in heterologous cells. Importantly, recent studies suggest that N-cadherin and beta-catenin play key roles in structural plasticity in neurons. Therefore, our data suggest that the association of N-cadherin with AMPA receptors may serve as a biochemical link between structural and functional plasticity of synapses.

To clarify the molecular background underlying the heterogeneity of multiple sclerosis (MS), we characterized the gene expression profile of peripheral blood CD3+ T cells isolated from MS and healthy control (CN) subjects by using a cDNA microarray. Among 1258 cDNAs on the array, 286 genes were expressed differentially between 72 untreated Japanese MS patients and 22 age- and sex-matched CN subjects. When this set was used as a discriminator for hierarchical clustering analysis, it identified four distinct subgroups of MS patients and five gene clusters differentially expressed among the subgroups. One of these gene clusters was overexpressed in MS versus CN, and particularly enhanced in the clinically most active subgroup of MS. After 46 of the MS patients were treated with interferon-beta (IFNbeta-1b) for two years, IFNbeta responders were clustered in two of the four MS subgroups. Furthermore, the IFNbeta responders differed from nonresponders in the kinetics of IFN-responsive genes at 3 and 6 months after starting IFNbeta treatment. These results suggest that T-cell gene expression profiling is valuable to identify distinct subgroups of MS associated with differential disease activity and therapeutic response to IFNbeta.
Murine models of CNS injury show auto-reactive T cell responses directed at myelin antigens, associated with improved neuronal survival and functional recovery. This pilot study shows, for the first time, that similar immune responses against myelin occur in human traumatic brain injury (TBI), with an expansion of lymphocytes recognising myelin basic protein observed in 40% of patients studied. &quot;Reactive&quot; patients did not have greater contusion volume on imaging, but were younger than the &quot;unreactive&quot; subgroup and tended towards a more favorable outcome. These findings are consistent with the concept of &quot;beneficial autoimmunity&quot;.
Recent data support an important role played by nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) in peripheral neuropathies. We investigated expression and activation of NF-kappaB in experimental autoimmune neuritis (EAN) in rat sciatic nerves removed after 7, 14 and 21 days after immunization. Immunoreactivity for the activated form of NF-kappaB was found in the nuclei of T cells and macrophages at days 14 and 21, and also in the nuclei of few Schwann cells and of vascular endothelial cells at all time points, especially during the peak stage. Western blot showed a single band corresponding to 65 kDa in all EAN animals. NF-kappaB DNA-binding activity was revealed by electrophoretic mobility shift assay. Our results support NF-kappaB activation in EAN during the induction stage as well as in the disease remission.
New Zealand white rabbits were immunized with a lipopolysaccharide (LPS) extracted from a Campylobacter jejuni HS:19 strain isolated from a GBS patient expressing GM1 and GD1a-like epitopes, Freund's adjuvant (group I) and Freund's adjuvant plus keyhole lympet hemocyanin (KLH) (group II). Both groups showed high titers of anti-LPS and anti-GM1 and lower titers of anti-GD1b and anti-GD1a antibodies. Weakness and axonal degeneration in sciatic nerves was detected in 1/11 of group I and 6/7 of group II. This model replicates, at least in part, the pathogenetic process hypothesized in the human axonal GBS with antiganglioside antibodies post C. jejuni infection and indicates that KLH plays an additional role in neuropathy induction.
An autoimmune background is thought to characterize the families of multiple sclerosis (MS) patients, but disease patterns and HLA-DR association seem to vary considerably among different ethnic groups. We investigated the prevalence of autoimmune diseases in 245 MS patients and 245 age- and sex-matched normal controls (NC), originating from and living in North-east Italy, and their first degree relatives, using a case-control method. Further, HLA-DRB1 expression was analysed in MS and NC. The following significant findings were observed: 1) a significant excess of autoimmunity in first-degree relatives of MS patients (p = 0.000), 2) an association of MS with Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) (p = 0.02), 3) an increase in DR4 expression (namely DRB1*0401) in MS patients from families with multiple autoimmune pathology compared with reference MS patients (p=0.02) and NC (p=0.01). We conclude that the risk of autoimmune disease is higher in first-degree relatives of MS patients and that disease association and HLA-DR expression in North-east Italy differs from other geographic regions of Europe.

The LRRK2 G2019S mutation is the commonest genetic cause of Parkinson's disease (PD) identified to date, although estimates of its prevalence in idiopathic disease vary considerably. Our objectives were to determine G2019S mutation frequency in an unselected, community based cohort of idiopathic PD cases from the UK and to describe phenotypic characteristics among carriers. The mutation was present in two of 519 cases (0.4%) and none of 887 control individuals. The true prevalence of the mutation in idiopathic disease, its penetrance, and the phenotypic heterogeneity of associated cases have important implications for genetic screening in the clinical field.

Paraffin-embedded blocks from the thalamus of 9 control patients, 9 moderately disabled, 12 severely disabled, and 10 vegetative head-injured patients assessed using the Glasgow Outcome Scale and identified from the Department of Neuropathology archive. Neurons, astrocytes, macrophages, and activated microglia were differentiated by Luxol fast blue/cresyl violet, GFAP, CD68, and CR3/43 staining and stereological techniques used to estimate cell number in a 28-microm-thick coronal section. Counts were made in subnuclei of the mediodorsal, lateral posterior, and ventral posterior nuclei, the intralaminar nuclei, and the related internal lamina. Neuronal loss occurred from mediodorsal parvocellularis, rostral center medial, central lateral and paracentral nuclei in moderately disabled patients; and from mediodorsal magnocellularis, caudal center medial, rhomboid, and parafascicular nuclei in severely disabled patients; and all of the above and the centre median nucleus in vegetative patients. Neuronal loss occurred primarily from cognitive and executive function nuclei, a lesser loss from somatosensory nuclei and the least loss from limbic motor nuclei. There was an increase in the number of reactive astrocytes, activated microglia, and macrophages with increasing severity of injury. The study provides novel quantitative evidence for differential neuronal loss, with survival after human head injury, from thalamic nuclei associated with different aspects of cortical activation.
Autophagy is the regulated process by which cytoplasmic organelles and long-lived proteins are delivered for lysosomal degradation. Increased numbers of autophagosomes and autolysosomes often represent prominent ultrastructural features of degenerating or dying neurons. This morphology is characteristic not only of neurons undergoing pathologic degeneration, but also during developmental programmed cell death of some neuronal populations. In recent years, a growing number of reports highlight potentially important roles for autophagy-related processes in relation to protein aggregation, regulated cell death pathways, and neurodegeneration. While starvation-induced autophagy involves nonselective bulk degradation of cytoplasm, mechanisms that regulate selective targeting of damaged organelles form an emerging area. As the study of autophagy evolves from physiologic homeostasis to pathologic situations, consideration of terminology and definitions becomes important. Increased autophagic vacuoles do not necessarily correlate with increased autophagic activity or flux. Instead, the striking accumulation of autophagic vacuoles in dying or degenerating neurons likely reflects an imbalance between the rates of autophagic sequestration and completion of the degradative process. In other words, these cells can be thought of as undergoing &quot;autophagic stress.&quot; The concept of autophagic stress may reconcile apparently conflicting roles of autophagy-related processes in adaptive, homeostatic responses and in pathways of neurodegeneration and cell death.
Understanding the mechanisms by which sensory neurons encode and decode information remains an important goal in neuroscience. We quantified the performance of optimal linear and nonlinear encoding models in a well-characterized sensory system: the electric sense of weakly electric fish. We show that linear encoding models generally perform better under spatially localized stimulation than under spatially diffuse stimulation. Through pharmacological blockade of feedback input and spatial saturation of the receptive field center, we show that there is significantly less synaptic noise under spatially diffuse stimuli as compared with spatially localized stimuli. Modeling results suggest that pyramidal cells nonlinearly encode sensory information through shunting in their dendrites and clarify the influence of synaptic noise on the performance of linear encoding models. Finally, we used information theory to quantify the performance of linear decoders. While the optimal linear decoder for spatially localized stimuli could capture 60% of the information in pyramidal cell spike trains, the optimal linear decoder for spatially diffuse stimuli could only capture 40% of the information. These results show that nonlinear decoders are necessary to fully access information in pyramidal cell spike trains, and we discuss potential mechanisms by which higher-order neurons could decode this information.
ON-OFF amacrine cells were studied with whole cell recording techniques and intracellular staining methods using intact retina-eyecup preparations of the tiger salamander (Ambystoma tigrinum) and the mudpuppy (Necturus maculosus). Morphological characterization of these cells included three-dimensional reconstruction methods based on serial optical sections obtained with a confocal microscope. Some cells had their detailed morphology digitized with a computer-assisted tracing system and converted to compartmental models for computer simulations. The dendrites of ON-OFF amacrine cells have spines and numerous varicosities. Physiological recordings confirmed that ON-OFF amacrine cells generate both large- and small-amplitude impulses attributed, respectively, to somatic and dendritic generation sites. Using a multichannel model for impulse generation, computer simulations were carried out to evaluate how impulses are likely to propagate throughout these structures. We conclude that the ON-OFF amacrine cell is organized with multifocal dendritic impulse generating sites and that both dendritic and somatic impulse activity contribute to the functional repertoire of these interneurons: locally generated dendritic impulses can provide regional activation, while somatic impulse activity results in rapid activation of the entire dendritic tree.
Although it has been known for decades that monocular deprivation shifts ocular dominance in kitten striate cortex, uncertainty persists about the adequate stimulus for deprivation-induced losses of cortical responsiveness. In the current study we compared the effects of 2 days of lid closure and 2 days of monocular blur using an overcorrecting contact lens. Our finding of comparable ocular dominance shifts in visual cortex indicates that deprived-eye response depression is not a result of reduced retinal illumination. The quality rather than the quantity of retinal illumination is the key factor for ocular dominance plasticity. These data have implications for both the mechanism and treatment of amblyopia.
The composition of a visual scene influences the ability of humans to select specific details within that scene for discrimination or foveation with saccadic eye movements. With the goal of establishing an animal model to investigate the neural mechanisms underlying the deployment of visual attention and the guidance of saccades during visual search, we studied the visual behavior of three monkeys while they performed a conjunction (color + form) search task similar to those used in human studies. We found that search performance declined when distractors adjacent to the target shared its color, thereby revealing that color was more discriminable than form in these displays and suggesting that monkeys perceptually grouped stimuli by proximity and similarity. Search performance also varied with the overall composition of the display. Most importantly, saccades were biased toward distractors sharing the target color when there were few of them within the display and away from those distractors when they were numerous. Last, the monkeys initiated saccades with a fixed latency, suggesting that their responses to the display were automatic and that search strategies did not involve attentional resources beyond those recruited for regulating saccades. We conclude that monkeys adapt their visual strategies, largely via bottom-up processes, to both the local and the global context of the search. These findings suggest that the visual behavior of monkeys is guided by strategies similar to those observed in humans.
A biophysical description of the axotomized rat sympathetic neuron is reported, obtained by the two-electrode voltage-clamp technique in mature, intact superior cervical ganglia in vitro. Multiple aspects of neuron functioning were tested. Synaptic conductance activated by the whole presynaptic input decreased to 29% of the control value (0.92 muS per neuron) 1 day after axotomy and to 18% after 3 days. Despite the decrease in amplitude of the macroscopic current, miniature excitatory postsynaptic current (mEPSC) mean conductance, acetylcholine (ACh) equilibrium potential, and EPSC decay time constant were unaffected. Synaptic efficacy was tested during paired-pulse or maintained stimulation (5, 10, and 15 Hz, 10-s duration). Quantal release in axotomized neurons was preserved during the tetanus despite the reduction of the initial EPSC amplitude, suggesting that ACh secretion depended on the number of surviving synapses; each of them exhibited dynamic behavior during trains similar to that of normal synapses. Facilitation of EPSC amplitude was noted in 2-day axotomized neurons during the first few impulses in the train. Voltage-dependent potassium currents (the delayed I(KD) and the transient I(A)) exhibited an early drastic decrease in peak amplitude; these effects persisted 7 days after axotomy. Marked changes in I(A) kinetics occurred after injury: the steady-state inactivation curve shifted by up to +17 mV toward positive potentials and the voltage sensitivity of inactivation removal became steeper. I(A) impairment was reflected in a reduced inward threshold charge for discharge and reduced spike repolarization rate. Synaptic and somatic data were applied in a mathematical model to describe the progressive decrease in the safety factor, and the eventual failure of ganglionic transmission after axotomy.
Functionally, gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor (GABAR)-mediated inhibition can be classified as phasic (synaptic) and tonic (extrasynaptic). The GABARs underlying tonic inhibition assemble from subunits different from those responsible for phasic inhibition. We wanted to assess the excitability of hippocampal pyramidal cell (PC) networks following a selective impairment of tonic inhibition. This is difficult to accomplish by pharmacological means. Because the GABAR alpha5 subunits mostly mediate the tonic inhibition in CA1 and CA3 PCs, we quantified changes in tonic inhibition and examined network excitability in slices of adult gabra5-/- mice. In gabra5-/- CA1 and CA3 PCs tonic inhibitory currents were 60 and 53%, respectively, of those recorded in wild type (WT), with no alterations in phasic inhibition. The amount of tonic inhibition recorded in slices was significantly affected by the method of slice storage (interface or submerged chamber). Field recordings in gabra5-/- CA3 pyramidal layer showed an increased network excitability that was decreased by the GABAR agonist muscimol at a concentration that restored the tonic inhibition of gabra5-/- PCs to the WT level without altering phasic inhibition. Through a battery of pharmacological experiments, we have identified delta subunit-containing GABARs as the mediators of the residual tonic inhibition in gabra5-/- PCs. Our study is consistent with an important role of tonic inhibition in the control of hippocampal network excitability and highlights selective enhancers of tonic inhibition as promising therapeutic approaches for diseases involving network hyperexcitability.
The medial septum/vertical limb of diagonal band complex (MS/vDB) consists of cholinergic, GABAergic, and glutamatergic neurons that project to the hippocampus and functionally regulate attention, memory, and cognitive processes. Using tyrosine hydroxlase (TH) immunocytochemistry and dark-field light microscopy, we found that the MS/vDB is innervated by a sparse network of TH-immunoreactive (putative catecholaminergic) terminals. MS/vDB neurons are known to fire in rhythmic theta burst frequency of 3-7 Hz to pace hippocampal theta rhythm. Extracellular single-unit recording in theta and non-theta firing MS/vDB neurons and antidromically identified MS/vDB-hippocampal neurons were made in urethan-anesthetized rats. Tail-pinch noxious stimuli and ventral tegmental area (VTA) stimulation (20 Hz) evoked spontaneous theta burst firing in MS/vDB neurons. Systemic D1/5 antagonists SCH23390 or SCH39166 (0.1 mg/kg iv) alone suppressed the spontaneous theta bursts, suggesting a tonic facilitatory endogenous dopamine D1 &quot;tone&quot; that modulates theta bursts in vivo. Activation of D1/5 receptor by dihydrexidine (10 mg/kg iv) led to an increase in mean firing rate in 60% of all theta and non-theta MS/vDB neurons with an increase in the number of theta bursts and spikes/burst in theta cells. In strong theta firing MS/vDB neurons, D1/5 receptor stimulation suppressed the occurrence of theta burst firing, whereas the overall increase in spontaneous mean firing rate remained. In low baseline theta MS/vDB neurons D1/5 receptor stimulation increases the occurrence of theta bursts along with a net increase in mean firing rate. Atropine injection consistently disrupts theta burst pattern and reduced the time spent in theta firing. Collectively, these data suggest that dopamine D1/5 stimulation enhances the mean firing rate of most MS/vDB neurons and also provides a state-dependent bidirectional modulation of theta burst occurrence. Some of these MS/vDB neurons may be cholinergic or GABAergic that may indirectly regulate theta rhythm in the hippocampus.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS), a form of human mental retardation, is caused by loss of function mutations in the fragile X mental retardation gene (FMR1). The protein product of FMR1, fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) is an RNA-binding protein and may function as a translational suppressor. Metabotropic glutamate receptor-dependent long-term depression (mGluR-LTD) in hippocampal area CA1 is a form of synaptic plasticity that relies on dendritic protein synthesis. mGluR-LTD is enhanced in the mouse model of FXS, Fmr1 knockout (KO) mice, suggesting that FMRP negatively regulates translation of proteins required for LTD. Here we examine the synaptic and cellular mechanisms of mGluR-LTD in KO mice and find that mGluR-LTD no longer requires new protein synthesis, in contrast to wild-type (WT) mice. We further show that mGluR-LTD in KO and WT mice is associated with decreases in AMPA receptor (AMPAR) surface expression, indicating a similar postsynaptic expression mechanism. However, like LTD, mGluR-induced decreases in AMPAR surface expression in KO mice persist in protein synthesis inhibitors. These results are consistent with recent findings of elevated protein synthesis rates and synaptic protein levels in Fmr1 KO mice and suggest that these elevated levels of synaptic proteins are available to increase the persistence of LTD without de novo protein synthesis.
To gain insight into the neural basis of visual attention, we combined transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and event-related potentials (ERPs) during a visual search task. Single-pulse TMS over right posterior parietal cortex (rPPC) delayed response times to targets during conjunction search, and this behavioral effect had a direct ERP correlate. The early phase of the N2pc component that reflects the focusing of attention onto target locations in a search display was eliminated over the right hemisphere when TMS was applied there but was present when TMS was delivered to a control site (vertex). This finding demonstrates that rPPC TMS interferes with attentional selectivity in remote visual areas.
We studied prefrontal cortex activity during a saccade task. On each trial, one of three delay periods elapsed between the onset of a visual stimulus and its offset, which triggered a saccade. After stimulus offset, many neurons showed phasic increases in activity that depended on the duration of the preceding delay period. This delay-dependent activity varied only weakly with reaction time and instead appeared to reflect a more general aspect of elapsed time.
We explore the world around us by making rapid eye movements to objects of interest. Remarkably, these eye movements go unnoticed, and we perceive the world as stable. Spatial updating is one of the neural mechanisms that contributes to this perception of spatial constancy. Previous studies in macaque lateral intraparietal cortex (area LIP) have shown that individual neurons update, or &quot;remap,&quot; the locations of salient visual stimuli at the time of an eye movement. The existence of remapping implies that neurons have access to visual information from regions far beyond the classically defined receptive field. We hypothesized that neurons have access to information located anywhere in the visual field. We tested this by recording the activity of LIP neurons while systematically varying the direction in which a stimulus location must be updated. Our primary finding is that individual neurons remap stimulus traces in multiple directions, indicating that LIP neurons have access to information throughout the visual field. At the population level, stimulus traces are updated in conjunction with all saccade directions, even when we consider direction as a function of receptive field location. These results show that spatial updating in LIP is effectively independent of saccade direction. Our findings support the hypothesis that the activity of LIP neurons contributes to the maintenance of spatial constancy throughout the visual field.
Brain injury and neuroinflammation are pathophysiologic contributors to acute and chronic neurologic disorders, which are progressive diseases not fully understood. Mammalian metallothioneins I and II (MT-I&amp;II) have significant neuroprotective functions, but the precise mechanisms underlying these effects are still unknown. To gain insight in this regard, we have evaluated whether a distant, most likely single-domain MT (Drosophila MTN) functions similarly to mammalian MT-I&amp;II (recombinant mouse MT-I and human MT-IIa and native rabbit MT-II) after cryogenic injury to the cortex in Mt1&amp;2 KO mice. All the recombinant proteins showed similar neuroprotective properties to native MT-II, significantly reducing brain inflammation (macrophages, T cells, and pro-inflammatory cytokines), oxidative stress, neurodegeneration, and apoptosis. These results in principle do not support specific protein-protein interactions as the mechanism underlying the neuroprotective effects of these proteins because a non-homologous and structurally unrelated MT such as Drosophila MTN functions similarly to mammalian MTs. We have also evaluated for the first time the neurobiologic effects of exogenous MT-III, a major CNS MT isoform. Human rMT-III, in contrast to human nMT-IIa, did not affect inflammation, oxidative stress, and apoptosis, and showed opposite effects on several growth factors, neurotrophins, and markers of synaptic growth and plasticity. Our data thus highlight specific and divergent roles of exogenous MT-III vs. the MT-I&amp;II isoforms that are consistent with those attributed to the endogenous proteins, and confirm the suitability of recombinant synthesis for future therapeutic use that may become relevant to clinical neurology.
Although primary neuronal cell cultures, usually obtained from embryonic or early postnatal rodents, have been used in vitro to study the neural cannabinoid signalling system, development of cell lines with neural properties exhibiting native expression of cannabinoid receptors is desirable. This study was undertaken to investigate the expression of CB1 and CB2 cannabinoid receptors in neurons that develop from retinoic acid (RA)-primed mouse P19 embryonal carcinoma cells. Both undifferentiated P19 cells and RA-treated P19 neurons were positive, by using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), for CB1 (but not CB2) mRNA. Neuronal differentiation increased the CB1 mRNA expression, and Western blotting with a CB1 receptor antibody showed a strong immunoreactive band at approximately 62 kDa in membranes from P19-derived neurons. The cannabinoid receptor agonists CP 55,940 and HU-210 produced concentration-dependent inhibition of forskolin-induced (3 microM) cyclic AMP production in the P19-derived neurons (29% at 1 microM CP 55,940 and 34% at 1 microM HU-210), which could be blocked by the CB1-selective receptor antagonist AM251, but not by the CB2-selective antagonist AM630. Furthermore, glutamate (100 microM) induced a sustained increase in [Ca2+]i in P19-derived neurons that could be concentration-dependently blocked by the cannabinoid receptor agonists WIN 55,212-2. Thus, the protocol used provides an in vitro model system expressing CB1 cannabinoid receptors at the level of mRNA, protein, and AM251-sensitive agonist-induced inhibition of intracellular cyclic AMP accumulation, which may be useful to investigate the developmental regulation, expression and function of neuronal cannabinoid receptors.
Early experiences affect brain function and behavior at adulthood. Being reared in a communal nest (CN), consisting of a single nest where three mothers keep their pups together and share care-giving behavior from birth to weaning (postnatal day [PND] 25), provides an highly socially stimulating environment to the developing pup. Communal nest characterizes the natural ecologic niche of many rodent species including the mouse. At adulthood, CN reared mice, compared to mice reared in standard nesting laboratory condition (SN), show an increase in BDNF protein levels and longer survival of BrdU-positive cells in the hippocampus. Open field and elevated plus maze results indicate that CN mice, although showing levels of exploratory and locomotor activity similar to those of SN mice, displayed increased anxiety-like behavior, performing more thigmotaxis in the open field and spending less time in the open arms of the plus maze. Furthermore, CN mice displayed higher levels of immobility behavior in the forced swim test. Overall, these findings show that CN, an highly stimulating early social environment, increases adult neuronal plasticity, as suggested by high BDNF levels and augmented number of newly generated cells in the hippocampus, which is associated to an increased anxiety- and &quot;depression&quot;-like behavior. These findings are discussed in the framework of the neurotrophin hypothesis of depression.


In this study, we focused on a preclinical model of brain compression injury that has relevance to pathological conditions such as tumor, hematoma, blood clot, and intracerebral bony fragment. We investigated behavioral impairment as a result of rapid-onset small mass, and the factors involved in lesion formation and neuroplasticity. An epidural bead implantation method was adopted. Two sizes (1.5 mm and 2.0 mm thick) of hemisphere-shaped beads were used. The beads were implanted into various locations over the sensorimotor cortex (SMC--anterior, middle and posterior). The effects of early versus delayed bead removal were examined to model clinical neurosurgical or other treatment procedures. Forelimb and hind-limb behavioral deficits and recovery were observed, and histological changes were quantified to determine brain reaction to focal compression. Our results showed that the behavioral deficits of compression were influenced by the location, timing of compression release, and magnitude of compression. Even persistent compression by the thicker bead (2.0 mm) caused only minor behavioral deficits, followed by fast recovery within a week in most animals, suggesting a mild lesion pattern for this model. Brain tissue was compressed into a deformed shape under pressure with slight tissue damage, evidenced by pathological evaluation on hematoxylin and eosin (H&amp;E)- and TUNEL-stained sections. Detectable but not severe behavioral dysfunction exhibited by this model makes it particularly suitable for direct assessment of adverse effects of interventions on neuroplasticity after brain compression injury. This model may permit development of treatment strategies to alleviate brain mass effects, without disrupting neuroplasticity.
The adult central nervous system is capable of considerable anatomical reorganization and functional recovery after injury. Functional outcomes, however, vary greatly, depending upon size and location of injury, type and timing of intervention, and type of recovery and plasticity evaluated. The present study was undertaken to assess the recovery of skilled and unskilled forelimb function in adult rats after a C5/C6 spinal cord over-hemisection and delayed intervention with fetal spinal cord transplants and neurotrophins. Recovery of forelimb function was evaluated during both target reaching (a skilled behavior) and vertical exploration (an unskilled behavior). Anatomical tracing and immunohistochemistry were used to assess the growth of descending raphespinal, corticospinal, and rubrospinal fibers at the injury site, tracts that normally confer forelimb function. Delayed intervention with transplants and either brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) or neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) restored skilled left forelimb reaching to pre-injury levels. Animals showed recovery of normal reaching movements rather than compensation with abnormal movements. Transplants and NT-3 also improved right forelimb use during an unskilled vertical exploration, but not skilled right reaching. Intervention with fetal transplant tissue supported the growth of descending serotonergic, corticospinal, and rubrospinal fibers into the transplant at the lesion site. The addition of neurotrophins, however, did not significantly increase axonal growth at the lesion site. These studies suggest that the recovery of skilled and unskilled forelimb use is possible after a large cervical spinal cord injury following delayed intervention with fetal spinal cord and neurotrophins. Plasticity of both spared and axotomized descending pathways likely contributes to the functional recovery observed.
Plaques in the parenchyma of the brain containing Abeta peptides are one of the hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease. These Abeta peptides are produced by the final proteolytic cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein by the intramembraneous aspartyl protease gamma-secretase. Thus, one approach to lowering levels of Abeta has been via the inhibition of the gamma-secretase enzyme. Here, we report a novel, bioavailable gamma-secretase inhibitor, N-[cis-4-[(4-chlorophenyl)sulfonyl]-4-(2,5-difluorophenyl)cyclohexyl]-1,1,1-trifluoromethanesulfonamide (MRK-560) that displayed oral pharmacokinetics suitable for once-a-day dosing. It was able to markedly reduce Abeta in the brain and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in the rat, with ED(50) values of 6 and 10 mg/kg, respectively. Time-course experiments using MRK-560 demonstrated these reductions in Abeta could be maintained for 24 h, and comparable temporal reductions in rat brain and CSF Abeta(40) further suggested that these two pools of Abeta are related. This relationship between the brain and CSF Abeta was maintained when MRK-560 was dosed once a day for 2 weeks, and accordingly, when all the data for the dose-response curve and time courses were correlated, a strong association was observed between the brain and CSF Abeta levels. These results demonstrate that MRK-560 is an orally bioavailable gamma-secretase inhibitor with the ability to markedly reduce Abeta peptide in the brain and CSF of the rat and confirm the utility of the rat for assessing the effects of gamma-secretase inhibitors on central nervous system Abeta(40) levels in vivo.
Adolescent users of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, Ecstasy) may escalate their dose because of the development of tolerance. We examined the influence of intermittent adolescent MDMA exposure on the behavioral, physiological, and neurochemical responses to a subsequent MDMA &quot;binge&quot; or to a 5-hydroxytryptamine(1A) (5-HT(1A)) receptor challenge. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were given MDMA (10 mg/kg b.i.d.) or saline every 5th day on postnatal days (PDs) 35 to 60. One week later on PD 67, animals were challenged with either multiple doses of MDMA (four 5 or 10 mg/kg doses) or a single dose of the 5-HT(1A) agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) (0.1 or 0.5 mg/kg). Adolescent MDMA exposure partially attenuated the hyperthermic effects of the PD 67 MDMA challenge, completely blocked the locomotor hypoactivity otherwise observed on the day after the challenge, and also prevented MDMA-induced serotonin neurotoxicity assessed on PD 74 by measuring regional [(3)H]citalopram binding to the serotonin transporter (SERT). Adolescent MDMA-treated animals also showed a partial attenuation of the serotonin syndrome but not the hypothermic response to the high dose of 8-OH-DPAT. However, there was no effect of MDMA administration on regional [(3)H]N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl)cyclohexanecarboxamide trihydrochloride (WAY-100635) binding to 5-HT(1A) receptors in the brain or spinal cord. These results suggest that chronic, intermittent MDMA exposure during adolescence induces neuroadaptive changes that can protect against the adverse consequences of a subsequent dose escalation. On the other hand, the same exposure pattern appears to produce a partial 5-HT(1A) receptor desensitization, which may negatively influence the therapeutic responses of chronic MDMA users treated with serotonergic agents for various affective or anxiety disorders.
The ability of the lysophospholipids sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) and lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) to promote the release of the organic osmolyte taurine in response to hypoosmotic stress has been examined. Incubation of SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells under hypoosmotic conditions (230 mOsM) resulted in a time-dependent release of taurine that was markedly enhanced (3-7-fold) by the addition of micromolar concentrations of either S1P or LPA. At optimal concentrations, the effects of S1P and LPA on taurine efflux were additive and mediated via distinct receptors. Inclusion of 1,9-dideoxyfoskolin, 5-nitro-2-(3-phenylpropylamino benzoic acid, or 4-[(2-butyl-6,7-dichloro-2-cyclopentyl-2,3-dihydro-1-oxo-1H-inden-5-yl)oxy]-butanoic acid blocked the ability of both lysophospholipids to enhance taurine release, indicating the mediation of a volume-sensitive organic osmolyte and anion channel. Both S1P and LPA elicited robust increases in intracellular calcium concentration that were attenuated by the removal of extracellular calcium, abolished by the depletion of intracellular calcium with thapsigargin, and were independent of phosphoinositide turnover. Taurine efflux mediated by S1P and LPA was unaffected by the removal of extracellular calcium but was attenuated by depletion of intracellular calcium (34-38%) and by inhibition of protein kinase C (PKC) with chelerythrine (38-72%). When intracellular calcium was depleted and PKC was inhibited, S1P- or LPA-stimulated taurine efflux was inhibited by 80%. Pretreatment of the cells with pertussis toxin, toxin B, or cytochalasin D had no effect on lysophospholipid-stimulated taurine efflux. The results indicate that both S1P and LPA receptors facilitate osmolyte release via a phospholipase C-independent mechanism that requires the availability of intracellular calcium and PKC activity.


Retinal bipolar cells convey light-evoked potentials from photoreceptors to ganglion cells and mediate the initial stages of visual signal processing. They do not fire Na(+)-dependent action potentials (APs) but the Mb1 class of goldfish bipolar cell exhibits Ca(2+)-dependent APs and regenerative potentials that originate in the axon terminal. I have examined the properties of Ca(2+)-dependent APs in isolated bipolar-cell terminals in goldfish retinal slices. All recorded terminals fired spontaneous or evoked APs at frequencies of up to 15 Hz. When an AP waveform was used as a voltage stimulus, exocytosis was evoked by single APs, maintained throughout AP trains and modulated by AP frequency. Furthermore, feedback inhibition of the Ca2+ current (I(Ca)) by released vesicular protons reduced depression of exocytosis during AP trains. In the absence of K+ current inhibition, step depolarizations and AP waveforms evoked a rapidly activated outward current that was dependent on Ca2+ influx I(K(Ca). I therefore investigated whether proton-mediated feedback inhibition of I(Ca) affected the activation of I(K(Ca)). A transient inhibition of I(K(Ca)) was observed that was dependent on exocytosis, blocked by high-pH extracellular buffer, of similar magnitude to inhibition of I(Ca) but occurred with a delay of 2.7 ms. In addition, the amplitude of APs evoked under current clamp was inhibited by the action of vesicular protons released by the APs. Protons released via exocytosis may therefore be a significant modulator of Ca(2+)-dependent currents and regenerative potentials in bipolar-cell terminals.
The oxygenation of endogenous cannabinoids (eCBs) 2-arachidonoyl glycerol (2-AG) and arachidonoyl ethanolamide by cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) produces novel types of prostanoids: prostaglandin glycerol esters (PG-Gs) and prostaglandin ethanolamides (PG-EAs). However, the physiological function of COX-2 oxidative metabolites of eCBs is still unclear. Here we demonstrate that PGE2-G, a COX-2 oxidative metabolite of 2-AG, induced a concentration-dependent increase in the frequency ofminiature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) in primary cultured hippocampal neurons, an effect opposite to that of 2-AG. This increase was not inhibited by SR141716, a CB1 receptor antagonist, but was attenuated by an IP3 or MAPK inhibitor. In addition, we also examined the effects of other prostanoids derived from COX-2 oxygenation of eCBs on mIPSCs. PGD2-G, PGF2alpha-G and PGD2-EA, but not PGE2-EA or PGF2alpha-EA, also increased the frequency of mIPSCs. The eCB-derived prostanoid-induced responses appeared to be different from those of corresponding arachidonic acid-derived prostanoids, implying that these effects are not mediated via known prostanoid receptors. We further discovered that the inhibition of COX-2 activity reduced inhibitory synaptic activity and augmented depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition (DSI), whereas the enhancement of COX-2 augmented the synaptic transmission and abolished DSI. Our results, which show that COX-2 oxidative metabolites of eCBs exert opposite effects to their parent molecules on inhibitory synaptic transmission, suggest that alterations in COX-2 activity will have significant impact on endocannabinoid signalling in hippocampal synaptic activity.
The xylem of higher plants offers support to aerial portions of the plant body and serves as conduit for the translocation of water and nutrients. Terminal differentiation of xylem cells typically involves deposition of thick secondary cell walls. This is a dynamic cellular process accompanied by enhanced rates of cellulose deposition and the induction of synthesis of specific secondary-wall matrix polysaccharides and lignin. The secondary cell wall is essential for the function of conductive and supportive xylem tissues. Recently, significant progress has been made in identifying the genes responsible for xylem secondary cell wall formation. However, our present knowledge is still insufficient to account for the molecular processes by which this complex system operates. To acquire further information about xylem secondary cell walls, we initially focused our research effort on a set of genes specifically implicated in secondary cell wall formation, as well as on loss-of-function mutants. Results from two microarray screens identified several key candidate genes responsible for secondary cell wall formation. Reverse genetic analyses led to the identification of a glycine-rich protein involved in maintaining the stable structure of protoxylem, which is essential for the transport of water and nutrients. A combination of expression analyses and reverse genetics allows us to systematically identify new genes required for the development of physical properties of the xylem secondary wall.
Although 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA or ecstasy) has been shown to damage brain serotonin (5-HT) neurons in animals and possibly humans, little is known about the long-term consequences of MDMA-induced 5-HT neurotoxic lesions on functions in which 5-HT is involved, such as cognitive function. Because 5-HT transporters play a key element in the regulation of synaptic 5-HT transmission it may be important to control for the potential covariance effect of a polymorphism in the 5-HT transporter promoter gene region (5-HTTLPR) when studying the effects of MDMA as well as cognitive functioning. The aim of the study was to investigate the effects of moderate and heavy MDMA use on cognitive function, as well as the effects of long-term abstention from MDMA, in subjects genotyped for 5-HTTLPR. A second aim of the study was to determine whether these effects differ for females and males. Fifteen moderate MDMA users (&lt;55 lifetime tablets), 22 heavy MDMA+ users (&gt;55 lifetime tablets), 16 ex-MDMA+ users (last tablet &gt; 1 year ago) and 13 controls were compared on a battery of neuropsychological tests. DNA from peripheral nuclear blood cells was genotyped for 5-HTTLPR using standard polymerase chain reaction methods.A significant group effect was observed only on memory function tasks (p = 0.04) but not on reaction times (p = 0.61) or attention/executive functioning (p = 0.59). Heavy and ex-MDMA+ users performed significantly poorer on memory tasks than controls. In contrast, no evidence of memory impairment was observed in moderate MDMA users. No significant effect of 5-HTTLPR or gender was observed. While the use of MDMA in quantities that may be considered &quot;moderate&quot; is not associated with impaired memory functioning, heavy use of MDMA use may lead to long lasting memory impairments. No effect of 5-HTTLPR or gender on memory function or MDMA use was observed.
In recent years working memory deficits have been reported in users of MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine, ecstasy). The current study aimed to assess the impact of MDMA use on three separate central executive processes (set shifting, inhibition and memory updating) and also on &quot;prefrontal&quot; mediated social and emotional judgement processes. Fifteen polydrug ecstasy users and 15 polydrug non-ecstasy user controls completed a general drug use questionnaire, the Brixton Spatial Anticipation task (set shifting), Backward Digit Span procedure (memory updating), Inhibition of Return (inhibition), an emotional intelligence scale, the Tromso Social Intelligence Scale and the Dysexecutive Questionnaire (DEX). Compared with MDMA-free polydrug controls, MDMA polydrug users showed impairments in set shifting and memory updating, and also in social and emotional judgement processes. The latter two deficits remained significant after controlling for other drug use. These data lend further support to the proposal that cognitive processes mediated by the prefrontal cortex may be impaired by recreational ecstasy use.


We studied the endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS or NOS-3) gene as a potential modifier of the cerebral response to ischemia by investigating the association of two common polymorphisms with ischemic stroke volume. We genotyped an intronic variable number tandem repeat and a single nucleotide polymorphism, G894T, in 132 patients with nonlacunar ischemic strokes in whom clinical data and stroke lesion volume were recorded. Our results show that all genotypes are in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. After adjustment of covariates, neither of the NOS-3 polymorphisms showed significant differences comparing the genotypes and mean stroke volume (analysis of variance). Our results do not suggest a major gene effect of the NOS-3 gene as a modifier of the cerebral response to ischemia.



Dendritic cells (DC) are suspected to be involved in transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, including bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE). We detected the disease-specific, protease-resistant prion protein (PrP(bse)) in splenic DC purified by magnetic cell sorting 45 days after intraperitoneal inoculation of BSE prions in immunocompetent mice. We showed that bone marrow-derived DC (BMDC) from wild-type or PrP-null mice acquired both PrP(bse) and prion infectivity within 2 h of in vitro culture with a BSE inoculum. BMDC cleared PrP(bse) within 2 to 3 days of culture, while BMDC infectivity was only 10-fold diminished between days 1 and 6 of culture, suggesting that the infectious unit in BMDC is not removed at the same rate as PrP(bse) is removed from these cells. Bone marrow-derived plasmacytoid DC and bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMM) also acquired and degraded PrP(bse) when incubated with a BSE inoculum, with kinetics very similar to those of BMDC. PrP(bse) capture is probably specific to antigen-presenting cells since no uptake of PrP(bse) was observed when splenic B or T lymphocytes were incubated with a BSE inoculum in vitro. Lipopolysaccharide activation of BMDC or BMM prior to BSE infection resulted in an accelerated breakdown of PrP(bse). Injected by the intraperitoneal route, BMDC were not infectious for alymphoid recombination-activated gene 2(0)/common cytokine gamma chain-deficient mice, suggesting that these cells are not capable of directly propagating BSE infectivity to nerve endings.
Replication of poliovirus (PV) is restricted to a few sites, including the brain and spinal cord. However, this neurotropism is not conserved in cultured cells. Monkey kidney cells become susceptible to PV infection after cultivation in vitro, and cell lines of monolayer cultures from almost any tissue of primates are susceptible to PV infection. These observations suggest that cellular changes during cultivation are required for acquisition of susceptibility. The molecular basis for the cellular changes during this process is not known. We investigated the relationship between PV susceptibility and interferon (IFN) response in primary cultured kidney and liver cells derived from transgenic mice expressing human PV receptor and in several primate cell lines. Both kidneys and liver in vivo showed rapid IFN response within 6 h postinfection. However, monkey and mouse kidney cells in culture and primate cell lines, which were susceptible to PV, did not show such rapid response or showed no response at all. On the other hand, primary cultured liver cells, which were partially resistant to infection, showed rapid IFN induction. The loss of IFN inducibility in kidney cells was associated with a decrease in expression of IFN-stimulated genes involved in IFN response. Mouse kidney cells pretreated with a small dose of IFN, in turn, restored IFN inducibility and resistance to PV. These results strongly suggest that the cells in culture acquire PV susceptibility during the process of cultivation by losing rapid IFN response that has been normally maintained in extraneural tissues in vivo.

Procedural and declarative memory systems are postulated to interact in either a synergistic or a competitive manner, and memory consolidation appears to be a highly critical stage for this process. However, the precise cellular mechanisms subserving these interactions remain unknown. To investigate this issue, 24-h retention performances were examined in mice given post-training intrahippocampal injections of forskolin (FK) aiming at stimulating hippocampal adenylyl cyclases (ACs). The injection was given at different time points over a period of 9 h following acquisition in either an appetitive bar-pressing task or water-maze tasks challenging respectively &quot;response memory&quot; and &quot;place memory.&quot; Retention testing (24 h) showed that FK injection altered memory formation only when given within a 3- to 6-h time window after acquisition but yielded opposite memory effects as a function of task demands. Retention of the spatial task was impaired, whereas retention of both the cued-response in the water maze and the rewarded bar-press response were improved. Intrahippocampal injections of FK produced an increase in pCREB immunoreactivity, which was strictly limited to the hippocampus and lasted less than 2 h, suggesting that early effects (0-2 h) of FK-induced cAMP/CREB activation can be distinguished from late effects (3-6 h). These results delineate a consolidation period during which specific cAMP levels in the hippocampus play a crucial role in enhancing memory processes mediated by other brain regions (e.g., dorsal or ventral striatum) while eliminating interference by the formation of hippocampus-dependent memory.
Long-term memory formation is regulated by many distinct molecular mechanisms that control gene expression. An emerging model for effecting a stable, coordinated pattern of gene transcription involves epigenetic tagging through modifications of histones or DNA. In this study, we investigated the regulation of histone phosphorylation in the hippocampus by the ERK/MAPK (extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase) pathway. We found that activation of ERK/MAPK in vitro significantly increased histone H3 phosphorylation in hippocampal area CA1. Furthermore, we found that contextual fear conditioning in vivo leads to a rapid time-dependent increase in histone H3 phosphorylation in area CA1. This increase paralleled the time course of contextual fear-dependent activation of ERK, and was inhibited in vivo by a latent inhibition paradigm as well as by injection of an N-methyl-d-aspartic acid receptor (NMDA-R) antagonist. Finally, injection of an inhibitor of MEK (MAP kinase/ERK kinase), the unique dual-specificity kinase upstream of ERK, blocked the increase in histone H3 phosphorylation seen after contextual fear conditioning. These results demonstrate that changes in histone phosphorylation in the hippocampus are regulated by ERK/MAPK following a behavioral fear conditioning paradigm.
Visual discrimination tasks are increasingly used to explore the neurobiology of vision in rodents, but it remains unclear how the animals solve these tasks: Do they process shapes holistically, or by using low-level features such as luminance and angle acuity? In the present study we found that when discriminating triangles from squares, rats did not use shape but instead relied on local luminance differences in the lower hemifield. A second experiment prevented this strategy by using stimuli-squares and rectangles-that varied in size and location, and for which the only constant predictor of reward was aspect ratio (ratio of height to width: a simple descriptor of &quot;shape&quot;). Rats eventually learned to use aspect ratio but only when no other discriminand was available, and performance remained very poor even at asymptote. These results suggest that although rats can process both dimensions simultaneously, they do not naturally solve shape discrimination tasks this way. This may reflect either a failure to visually process global shape information or a failure to discover shape as the discriminative stimulus in a simultaneous discrimination. Either way, our results suggest that simultaneous shape discrimination is not a good task for studies of visual perception in rodents.
Fear conditioning is a popular model for investigating physiological and cellular mechanisms of memory formation. In this paradigm, a footshock is either systematically associated to a tone (paired conditioning) or is pseudorandomly distributed (unpaired conditioning). In the former procedure, the tone/shock association is acquired, whereas in the latter procedure, the context/shock association will prevail. Animals with chronically implanted recording electrodes show enhanced amplitude of the extracellularly recorded field EPSP in CA1 pyramidal cells for up to 24 h after unpaired, but not paired, fear conditioning. This is paralleled by a differential activation of the ERK/CREB pathway in CA1, which is monophasic in paired conditioning (0-15 min post-conditioning), but biphasic (0-1 h and 9-12 h post-conditioning) in unpaired conditioning as revealed by immunocytochemistry and Western blotting. Intrahippocampal injection of the MEK inhibitor U0126 prior to each phase prevents the activation of both ERK1/2 and CREB after unpaired conditioning. Block of any activation phase leads to memory impairment. We finally reveal that the biphasic activation of ERK/CREB activity is independently regulated, yet both phases are critically required for the consolidation of long-term memories following unpaired fear conditioning. These data provide compelling evidence that CA1 serves different forms of memory by expressing differential cellular mechanisms that are dependent on the training regime.
Although the Morris water task has been used in hundreds of studies of place learning, there have been no systematic studies of retention of the place memory. We report that retention, as measured by selective search behavior on a probe trial, is excellent when the retention interval is short (5-10 min). However, performance rapidly deteriorates, so that by approximately 4 h the search is no longer selective. Additional experiments revealed that selective search at longer retention intervals was improved by inserting gaps between blocks of training trials, but this effect was a non-monotonic function of the interval separating trial blocks. Our experiments also revealed that the location of the first block of trials (Room A or Room B) was irrelevant to long-term retention. A memory modulation theoretical framework may provide a useful way to understand these findings.
In area CA1 of hippocampal slices which are allowed to recover from slicing &quot;in interface&quot; and where recordings are carried out in interface, a single 1-sec train of 100-Hz stimulation triggers a short-lasting long-term potentiation (S-LTP), which lasts 1-2 h, whereas multiple 1-sec trains induce a long-lasting LTP (L-LTP), which lasts several hours. Moreover, the threshold and the features of these LTP depend on the history of the neurons, a phenomenon known as metaplasticity. Here, where all recordings were performed in interface, we found that allowing the slices to recover &quot;in submersion&quot; had dramatic metaplastic effects. In these conditions, a single 1-sec train at 100 Hz induced an L-LTP which lasted at least 4 h and was dependent on protein synthesis. Interestingly, this type of metaplasticity was observed when the concentration of Mg(++) used was 1.0 mM but not when it was 1.3 mM. The LTP induced by four 1-sec trains at 100 Hz was similar whatever the incubation method. However, the signaling cascades recruited to achieve that pattern were different. In the interface-interface paradigm (recovery and recording both in interface) the four-train induced LTP recruited the PKA signaling pathway but not that of the p42/44MAPK. On the contrary, in the submersion-interface paradigm the four-train induced LTP recruited the p42/44MAPK signaling pathway but not that of the PKA. To our knowledge this is the first example of metaplasticity involving the recruitment of signaling cascades in LTP.
Studying the intersection of brain structure and function is an important aspect of modern neuroscience. The development of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) over the last 25 years has provided new and powerful tools for the study of brain structure and function. Two tools in particular, diffusion imaging and functional MRI (fMRI), are playing increasingly important roles in elucidating the complementary aspects of brain structure and function. In this work, we review basic technical features of diffusion imaging and fMRI for studying the integrity of white matter structural components and for determining the location and extent of cortical activation in gray matter, respectively. We then review a growing body of literature in which the complementary aspects of diffusion imaging and fMRI, applied as separate examinations but analyzed in tandem, have been exploited to enhance our knowledge of brain structure and function.
Neurotrauma in the form of traumatic brain injury (TBI) afflicts more Americans annually than Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease combined, yet few researchers have used neuroproteomics to investigate the underlying complex molecular events that exacerbate TBI. Discussed in this review is the methodology needed to explore the neurotrauma proteome-from the types of samples used to the mass spectrometry identification and quantification techniques available. This neuroproteomics survey presents a framework for large-scale protein research in neurotrauma, as applied for immediate TBI biomarker discovery and the far-reaching systems biology understanding of how the brain responds to trauma. Ultimately, knowledge attained through neuroproteomics could lead to clinical diagnostics and therapeutics to lessen the burden of neurotrauma on society.
Most organisms experience progressive declines in physiological function as they age. Since this senescence of function is thought to underlie the decrease in quality of life in addition to the increase in susceptibility to disease and death associated with aging, identifying the mechanisms involved would be highly beneficial. One of the leading mechanistic theories for aging is the oxidative damage hypothesis. A number of studies in a variety of species support a strong link between oxidative damage and life span determination. The role of oxidative damage in functional senescence has also been investigated, albeit not as comprehensively. Here, we review these investigations. Several studies show that the age-related loss of a number of functions is associated with an accrual of oxidative damage in the tissues mediating those functions. Additionally, treatments that increase the accumulation of oxidative damage with age frequently exacerbate functional losses. Moreover, treatments that reduce the accumulation of oxidative damage often attenuate or delay the loss of function associated with aging. These data provide the foundation for a link between oxidative damage and functional senescence, thereby supporting the oxidative damage hypothesis of aging within the context of age-related functional decline.
This study evaluated and compared the effect of insulin treatment on the status of brain, heart and kidney mitochondria isolated from 12-week streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats versus STZ-diabetic animals treated with insulin during a period of 4 weeks. Mitochondria isolated from 12-week citrate (vehicle)-treated rats were used as control. Several mitochondrial parameters were evaluated: respiratory indexes (state 3 and 4 of respiration, respiratory control and ADP/O ratios), transmembrane potential, depolarization and repolarization levels, ATP, glutathione and coenzyme Q contents, production of hydrogen peroxide, superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase activities and the ability of mitochondria to accumulate calcium. We observed that diabetes promoted a significant decrease in kidney and brain mitochondrial coenzyme Q9 content while this parameter was increased in heart mitochondria. Furthermore, diabetes induced a significant increase in hydrogen peroxide production in kidney mitochondria this effect being accompanied by a significant increase in glutathione peroxidase and reductase activities. Furthermore, brain mitochondria isolated from diabetic animals presented a lower ATP content and ability to accumulate calcium. In contrast, heart and kidney mitochondria presented a slight higher capacity to accumulate calcium. Insulin treatment normalized the levels of coenzyme Q9 and glutathione peroxidase and reductase activities and increased ATP content and the ability to accumulate calcium. Altogether these results suggest that insulin treatment attenuates diabetes-induced mitochondrial alterations protecting against the increase in oxidative stress and improving oxidative phosphorylation efficiency. In this line, insulin therapy, besides its well-known importance in the maintenance of glycemic control, may help to protect against mitochondrial dysfunction associated to several age-related disorders such as diabetes.



The target site for the anthelmintic action of ivermectin is a family of nematode glutamate-gated chloride channel alpha subunits (GluClalpha) that bind the drug with high affinity and mediate its potent paralytic action. Whilst the action of ivermectin on the pharyngeal muscle of nematodes is relatively well understood, its effect on locomotor activity is less clear. Here we use RNAi and gene knockouts to show that four GluClalpha subunits are involved in regulating the pattern of locomotor activity in Caenorhabditis elegans. A Haemonchus contortus orthologue of these subunits, HcGluClalpha3, has been shown to be expressed in the motor nervous system and here we have shown that it is a functional, as well as a structural, orthologue by virtue of the observation that it can restore normal motor movement in the C. elegans GluClalpha mutant, avr-14(ad1032), when expressed under the control of the avr-14 promoter. This supports the contention that ivermectin exerts its paralytic action on parasitic nematodes through activation of GluCl channels in the motor nervous system. Furthermore, functional complementation in C. elegans provides a method to further the understanding of this important class of anthelmintic targets.
Neuromuscular synapses differ markedly in their plasticity. Motor nerve terminals innervating slow muscle fibers sprout vigorously following synaptic blockage, while those innervating fast-fatigable muscle fibers fail to exhibit any sprouting. Here, we show that the axon repellent Semaphorin 3A is differentially expressed in terminal Schwann cells (TSCs) on different populations of muscle fibers: postnatal, regenerative and paralysis induced remodeling of neuromuscular connections is accompanied by increased expression of Sema3A selectively in TSCs on fast-fatigable muscle fibers. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of a molecular difference between TSCs on neuromuscular junctions of different subtypes of muscle fibers. Interestingly, also in a mouse model for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Sema3A is expressed at NMJs of fast-fatigable muscle fibers. We propose that expression of Sema3A by TSCs not only suppresses nerve terminal plasticity at specific neuromuscular synapses, but may also contribute to their early and selective loss in the motor neuron disease ALS.
Genetic deficiency of the mRNA binding protein FMRP results in the most common inherited form of mental retardation, Fragile X syndrome. We investigated the localization and function of FMRP during development of hippocampal neurons in culture. FMRP was distributed within granules that extended into developing axons and growth cones, detectable at distances over 300 microm from the cell body. In mature cultures, FMRP granules were present in both axons and dendrites, with pockets of higher concentrations appearing intermittently, along distal axon segments and near synapses. MAP1b mRNA, a known FMRP target, was also localized to axon growth cones. Morphometric analysis of growth cones from the FMR1 KO revealed both excess filopodia and reduced motility. At later stages during synapse formation, FMR1 KO neurons exhibited excessive filopodia and long spines along dendrites, yet there was a marked decrease in the density of spine-like protrusions juxtaposed to presynaptic terminals. In contrast, there was no difference in the density of shaft synapses between FMR1 KO and WT. Brief depolarization of WT neurons resulted in increased numbers of filopodia and spine synapses, whereas no additional morphologic changes were observable in dendrites of FMR1 KO neurons that already had increased density of filopodia-spines. These findings suggest that alterations in the regulation of axonal growth and innervation in FMR1 KO neurons may contribute to the dendritic and spine pathology in Fragile X syndrome. This work has broader implications for understanding the role of mRNA binding proteins in developmental and protein-synthesis-dependent plasticity.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus plays a key role in the circadian secretion of adrenocortical hormones. However, there is evidence from mouse studies that components of the circadian clock are also expressed within the adrenal gland itself. In the present study we performed genome-wide expression profiling to determine whether the adrenal gland of rhesus monkeys shows temporal gene expression across a 24-h period. We identified 322 transcripts with rhythmic patterns of expression and found that the phase distribution of cycling transcripts varied across the day, with more genes showing activation during the night. We classified the transcripts by their function and clustered them according to their participation in common biochemical pathways: 1) catecholamine synthesis and reuptake; 2) cholesterol cleavage and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate synthesis; 3) protein synthesis and turnover; and 4) the circadian clock mechanism. In an additional experiment, we assessed the expression of various clock genes at two time points, 12 h apart. We found that expression of Bmal1 and Cry1 was higher at 1300 h, or zeitgeber time 6, whereas expression of Per1 was higher at 0100 h (zeitgeber time 18). Expression levels of Rev-erbalpha were higher at 0100 h than at 1300 h (P&lt;0.05), and immunohistochemistry revealed a strong expression of this transcription factor specifically in chromaffin cells of the adrenal medulla. Taken together, the data indicate that the primate adrenal gland shows rhythmic expression of genes associated with cell biology and synthesis of steroids and catecholamines. Moreover, they strongly imply the existence of an intrinsic circadian clock.
This study provides the first comprehensive evidence that the second intracellular loop C-terminal domain (Ci2) is critical for receptor-G protein coupling to multiple responses. Although Ci2 is weakly conserved, its role in 5-hydroxytryptamine-1A (5-HT1A) receptor function was suggested by the selective loss of Gbetagamma-mediated signaling in the T149A-5-HT1A receptor mutant. More than 60 point mutant 5-HT1A receptors in the alpha-helical Ci2 sequence (143DYVNKRTPRR152) were generated. Most mutants retained agonist binding and were tested for Gbetagamma signaling to adenylyl cyclase II or phospholipase C and Galphai coupling to detect constitutive and agonist-induced Gi/Go coupling. Remarkably, most point mutations markedly attenuated 5-HT1A signaling, indicating that the entire Ci2 domain is critical for receptor G-protein coupling. Six signaling phenotypes were observed: wild-type-like, Galphai-coupled/weak Gbetagamma-coupled, Gbetagamma-uncoupled, Gbetagamma-selective coupled, uncoupled, and inverse coupling. Our data elucidate specific roles of Ci2 residues consistent with predictions based on rhodopsin crystal structure. The absolute coupling requirement for lysine, arginine, and proline residues is consistent with a predicted amphipathic alpha-helical Ci2 domain that is kinked at Pro150. Polar residues (Thr149, Asn146) located in the externally oriented positively charged face were required for Gbetagamma but not Galphai coupling, suggesting a direct interface with Gbetagamma subunits. The hydrophobic face includes the critical Tyr144 that directs the specificity of coupling to both Gbetagamma and Galphai pathways. The key coupling residues Tyr144/Lys147 (Ci2) are predicted to orient internally, forming hydrogen and ionic bonds with Asp133/Arg134 (Ni2 DRY motif) and Glu340 (Ci3) to stabilize the Gprotein coupling domain. Thus, the 5-HT1A receptor Ci2 domain determines Gbetagamma specificity and stabilizes Galphai-mediated signaling.
In the past few years, an increasing number of dystonic patients, of both sexes, have undergone insertion of deep brain stimulators (DBS) with consistent improvement of their symptoms and enhancement of their quality of life. We describe 3 women with dystonia who, after insertion of bilateral globus pallidus internus stimulators, succeeded in conceiving and completing pregnancies, 2 of them having married. These histories illustrate the significant positive impact that DBS can have on women's social relationships. Based on this experience, we also provide an overview of some of the issues that might arise in pregnancy and during delivery in dystonic women with an in situ deep brain stimulator.
A 71-year-old woman with a family history of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) was investigated for symmetrical, proximal limb and abdominal muscle weakness. Initial examination showed mild proximal muscle weakness in the arms and legs, slightly elevated serum creatine kinase (CK) level, and normal electromyographic (EMG) findings. A myopathy was the presumed diagnosis. Over the next year, weakness became severe and tendon reflexes became unelicitable; no upper motor signs were present. EMG then showed acute and chronic denervation and a muscle biopsy showed target fibers and grouped atrophy. DNA analysis revealed a G72C CuZn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) mutation. Fasciculations were absent throughout the disease. The patient died 53 months after symptom onset and autopsy revealed loss of lower motor neurons (LMN) and SOD1-positive inclusions. This case expands the phenotypic spectrum of ALS associated with SOD1 mutations to include presenting features that mimic a myopathy.
The causes of motor neuron death in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are still unknown. Several lines of evidence suggest that mitochondrial dysfunction may be involved in the pathogenesis of ALS. Biochemical and morphological mitochondrial abnormalities have been demonstrated in postmortem spinal cords of ALS patients. Furthermore, in transgenic mice expressing mutant Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1), the antioxidant enzyme associated with familial ALS (FALS), mitochondrial abnormalities precede the disease onset, suggesting that mitochondrial dysfunction is causally involved in the pathogenesis of SOD1-FALS. Despite this evidence, it is not yet fully understood how mutant SOD1 damages mitochondria. Recent work has demonstrated that a portion of mutant SOD1 is localized in mitochondria, both in transgenic mice and in FALS patients, where it forms proteinaceous aggregates. These findings have opened new avenues of investigation addressing the hypothesis that mutant SOD1 may directly damage mitochondria. Major future challenges will be to better understand the mechanisms and the consequences of mitochondrial dysfunction in ALS. If mitochondrial dysfunction is convincingly involved in ALS pathogenesis, either as a primary cause or as contributing factor, it is likely to become a novel target for therapeutic intervention.
The neural mechanism underlying the relapse to drug use after drug withdrawal is largely unknown. We found that after withdrawal from repeated cocaine exposure, excitatory synapses onto dopamine neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of the rat midbrain became highly susceptible to potentiation by weak presynaptic stimuli, an effect requiring endogenous brain-derived neurotrophic factor-tyrosine kinase B (BDNF-TrkB) signaling. The elevated BDNF expression in the VTA after cocaine withdrawal may prime these synapses for potentiation by cue-associated activity, triggering drug craving and relapse.
A central goal of cognitive neuroscience is to elucidate the neural mechanisms underlying decision-making. Recent physiological studies suggest that neurons in association areas may be involved in this process. To test this, we measured the effects of electrical microstimulation in the lateral intraparietal area (LIP) while monkeys performed a reaction-time motion discrimination task with a saccadic response. In each experiment, we identified a cluster of LIP cells with overlapping response fields (RFs) and sustained activity during memory-guided saccades. Microstimulation of this cluster caused an increase in the proportion of choices toward the RF of the stimulated neurons. Choices toward the stimulated RF were faster with microstimulation, while choices in the opposite direction were slower. Microstimulation never directly evoked saccades, nor did it change reaction times in a simple saccade task. These results demonstrate that the discharge of LIP neurons is causally related to decision formation in the discrimination task.
Acetylcholine, a major excitatory neurotransmitter in Caenorhabditis elegans, is transported into synaptic vesicles by the vesicular acetylcholine transporter encoded by unc-17. The abnormal behavior of unc-17(e245) mutants, which have a glycine-to-arginine substitution in a transmembrane domain, is markedly improved by a mutant synaptobrevin with an isoleucine-to-aspartate substitution in its transmembrane domain. These results suggest an association of vesicular soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive-factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) components with vesicular neurotransmitter transporters.
MARCM (mosaic analysis with a repressible cell marker) involves specific labeling of GAL80-minus and GAL4-positive homozygous cells in otherwise heterozygous tissues. Here we demonstrate how the concurrent use of two independent binary transcriptional systems may facilitate complex MARCM studies in the Drosophila nervous system. By fusing LexA with the VP16 acidic activation domain (VP16) or the GAL4 activation domain (GAD), we obtained both GAL80-insensitive and GAL80-suppressible transcriptional factors. LexA::VP16 can mediate MARCM-independent binary transgene induction in mosaic organisms. The incorporation of LexA::GAD into MARCM, which we call dual-expression-control MARCM, permits the induction of distinct transgenes in different patterns among GAL80-minus cells in mosaic tissues. Lineage analysis with dual-expression-control MARCM suggested the presence of neuroglioblasts in the developing optic lobes but did not indicate the production of glia by postembryonic mushroom body neuronal precursors. In addition, dual-expression-control MARCM with a ubiquitous LexA::GAD driver revealed many unidentified cells in the GAL4-GH146-positive projection neuron lineages.
Drugs of abuse induce long-lasting changes in neural circuits that may underlie core components of addiction. Here we focus on glutamatergic synapses onto dopamine (DA) neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Using an 'ex vivo' approach in mice, we show that a single injection of cocaine caused strong rectification and conferred sensitivity to the polyamine Joro spider toxin (JST) of AMPAR-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (AMPAR EPSCs), indicating the recruitment of receptors that lack GluR2. This qualitative change in transmission was paralleled by an increase in the AMPAR:NMDAR ratio and was prevented by interfering with the protein interacting with C kinase-1 (PICK1) in vivo. Activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR1s) by intraperitoneal injection of a positive modulator depotentiated synapses and abolished rectification in slices of cocaine-treated mice, revealing a mechanism to reverse cocaine-induced synaptic plasticity in vivo.
Williams syndrome, a rare disorder caused by hemizygous microdeletion of about 28 genes on chromosome 7q11.23, has long intrigued neuroscientists with its unique combination of striking behavioural abnormalities, such as hypersociability, and characteristic neurocognitive profile. Williams syndrome, therefore, raises fundamental questions about the neural mechanisms of social behaviour, the modularity of mind and brain development, and provides a privileged setting to understand genetic influences on complex brain functions in a 'bottom-up' way. We review recent advances in uncovering the functional and structural neural substrates of Williams syndrome that provide an emerging understanding of how these are related to dissociable genetic contributions characterized both in special participant populations and animal models.
Attention is a central theme in cognitive science - it exemplifies the links between the brain and behaviour, and binds psychology to the techniques of neuroscience. A visionary model suggested by Michael Posner described attention as a set of independent control networks. This challenged the previously held view of attention as a uniform concept. The idea that disparate attentional networks correlate with discrete neural circuitry and can be influenced by focal brain injuries, mental state and specific drugs has since been supported by converging data from several modern methodologies. Given the recent explosion in empirical data, attentional typologies provide powerful conceptual tools with which to contextualize and integrate these findings.
How the brain encodes information in population activity, and how it combines and manipulates that activity as it carries out computations, are questions that lie at the heart of systems neuroscience. During the past decade, with the advent of multi-electrode recording and improved theoretical models, these questions have begun to yield answers. However, a complete understanding of neuronal variability, and, in particular, how it affects population codes, is missing. This is because variability in the brain is typically correlated, and although the exact effects of these correlations are not known, it is known that they can be large. Here, we review studies that address the interaction between neuronal noise and population codes, and discuss their implications for population coding in general.
Cognitive neuroscience is making rapid strides in areas highly relevant to education. However, there is a gulf between current science and direct classroom applications. Most scientists would argue that filling the gulf is premature. Nevertheless, at present, teachers are at the receiving end of numerous 'brain-based learning' packages. Some of these contain alarming amounts of misinformation, yet such packages are being used in many schools. What, if anything, can neuroscientists do to help good neuroscience into education?

Memory rehabilitation in dementia patients is gaining importance. Among the increasing number of people affected by Alzheimer's dementia (AD), the number detected in early stages of the disease is growing disproportionately quickly. The reasons are obvious: improved clinical assessment in the initial disease stage, increased sensitization of the elderly towards cognitive deficits, and the prescription of drugs retarding cognitive decline. Given the limited success of early training programs in the 1980s, skepticism towards cognitive training in dementia is still common among clinicians. However, recent international studies in the field give reason for cautious optimism. Memory therapy in the early-to-moderate stages of AD can be successful, if it is tailored to patients' individual daily problems and based on their residual cognitive capacities. The present paper gives an overview of recent findings in clinical and cognitive neuroscience which have led to a conceptual change in the memory rehabilitation of patients with dementia. Based on a review of general principles and rehabilitation techniques proven successful in recent research, recommendations are formulated for future studies evaluating cognitive therapy in dementia.
Hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA)-axis hyperactivity is well established in a large proportion of both Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and idiopathic depression patients, resulting in, e.g. increased cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cortisol levels. We hypothesized that HPA-axis activity in depressed AD patients is even more increased than in non-depressed AD patients, resulting in higher CSF cortisol levels. Cortisol levels were measured in post mortem CSF of depressed and non-depressed AD patients and in controls. Cortisol levels in AD patients were more than double those of controls, while no significant differences were found between depressed and non-depressed AD patients. These results suggest a different pathogenetic mechanism in depression in AD than in idiopathic depression.
Abnormal neuronal aggregates of alpha-internexin and the three neurofilament (NF) subunits, NFL, NFM, and NFH have recently been identified as the signature lesions of neuronal intermediate filament (IF) inclusion disease (NIFID), a novel neurological disease of early onset with a variable clinical phenotype including frontotemporal dementia, pyramidal and extrapyramidal signs. In other neurodegenerative diseases in which protein aggregates contribute to disease pathogenesis, mutations in the encoding protein cause the hereditary variant of the disease. To determine the molecular genetic contribution to this disease we performed a mutation analysis of all type IV neuronal IF, SOD1 and NUDEL genes in cases of NIFID and unaffected control cases. We found no pathogenic variants.
Cytoplasmic RNA oxidation is a prominent feature of vulnerable neurons in the brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. We previously demonstrated that messenger RNAs (mRNA) are oxidized in AD brains. However, the magnitude of the mRNA oxidation is unclear. In the present study, we separated oxidized mRNAs from non-oxidized mRNAs by immunoprecipitation and then quantitatively analyzed both mRNA fractions. Surprisingly, 30-70% of the mRNAs isolated from AD frontal cortices were oxidized while the abundance of oxidized mRNAs was low in age-matched normal controls. Furthermore, we previously showed that some mRNA species are more susceptible to oxidative damage. Here, we quantified the degree of oxidation for individual mRNA species that were previously found to be oxidized in AD. Quantitative analysis revealed that the relative amounts of oxidized transcripts reach 50-70% for some mRNA species. These high abundances implicate the potential contribution of mRNA oxidation to the pathogenesis of AD.
We recently, characterized a novel peptide of the egg-laying controlling caudodorsal cells (CDC) of Lymnaea stagnalis. Here, we show that the novel peptide has autoinhibitory actions and its expression is significantly up-regulated in reproductively senescent animals. Intracellular recordings show that when bath-applied to the central nervous system in vitro, the peptide reduces the depolarizing after potential (DAP) in CDCs without affecting the action potential-threshold and -amplitude and the resting membrane potential. Moreover, peptide application can terminate an ongoing after discharge in the CDCs or, when electrical stimulation fails to induce an after discharge, can terminate the long-lasting depolarization. Semiquantitative peptide profiling by mass spectrometry demonstrated correct processing and targeting of peptides in the CDC somata and axon terminals of reproductively senescent animals. Interestingly, the level of the autoinhibitory peptide was selectively increased in the CDCs of reproductively senescent animals. Our results indicate that a shift in balance between excitatory and inhibitory auto-transmitter peptides in the CDC system of old non-egg-laying animals, plays a role in after discharge failure in CDCs of reproductively senescent Lymnaea.
We report that a peripheral injection of Escherichia coli produces both anterograde and retrograde amnesia in 24 month old, but not 3 month old rats for memories that depend on the hippocampus, that is, memory of context, contextual fear, and place learning. The anterograde effect was restricted to measures of long-term memory. Short-term memory was not affected, nor did E. coli produce amnesia for auditory-cue fear conditioning. There were no age related effects on memory in vehicle-treated rats. In addition to these age-related cognitive effects of E.coli, we report that it produced a marked increased in IL-1beta levels in the hippocampus, but not in parietal cortex or serum. These findings support the hypothesis that age is a vulnerability factor that increases the likelihood that an immune challenge will produce a cognitive impairment. It is possible that this cognitive vulnerability is mediated by age-related changes in the glial environment that results in an exaggerated brain pro-inflammatory response to infection.
In normal brain aging, CNS resident macrophages exhibit increased expression of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) II expression. However, the transcriptional basis for this observation has not been clarified nor have age-related alterations in pivotal pro-inflammatory genes been characterized. Age-related mRNA alterations in MHC II, MHC II accessory molecules and several pro-inflammatory mediators were measured in older (24 months) and younger (3 months) male F344xBN F1 rats. Real time RT-PCR was utilized to measure steady state mRNA levels in hippocampus. Older as compared to younger animals exhibited increased mRNA levels of MHC II, CD86, CIITA and IFN-gamma. Furthermore, IL-10 and CD200 mRNA, molecules that down-regulate macrophage activation, was decreased in older animals. The present results indicate that normal brain aging is characterized by a shift towards a pro-inflammatory microenvironment in the CNS.
We report here the genetic analysis of a newly ascertained kindred in which frontotemporal dementia occurs in an apparent autosomal dominant fashion, and in which a novel MAPT gene mutation co-segregates with disease. Sequencing the MAPT gene in affected individuals revealed a change in intron 9. This finding supports earlier studies on the effect of a splice-accepting element in inclusion of exon 10 in the MAPT transcript. This mutation sheds light on a novel mechanism by which over-expression of 4-repeat tau leads to disease. Based on our current findings, we propose a novel mechanism by which intronic mutations can lead to frontotemporal dementia.
The frequently observed superior memory for the first items on a list is referred to as primacy. The aetiology of this effect in terms of cognitive processes and their neural substrate is subject to an ongoing debate. However, the brain areas generally involved in successful encoding are well described by subsequent memory studies in which activity during encoding is correlated with memory performance. We employed an object-location association paradigm to differentiate the neural correlate of the primacy from the subsequent memory effect. Activity in the intraparietal sulcus predicted memory performance across all encoding positions. Increased activity in the inferior parietal lobe and angular gyrus resulted exclusively in a more efficient encoding of the first item presented. These areas are part of the ventral frontoparietal network involved in stimulus driven attention. Our results implicate the relatively elevated attention to the first item probably due to its contextual distinctiveness, as a major contributor to the primacy effect.
In two experiments we investigated the effects of elevated dopaminergic tone on instrumental learning and performance using dopamine transporter knockdown (DAT KD) mice. In Experiment 1, we showed that both DAT KD mice and wild-type controls were similarly sensitive to outcome devaluation induced by sensory specific satiety, indicating normal action-outcome learning in both groups. In Experiment 2, we used a Pavlovian-to-instrumental transfer procedure to assess the potentiation of instrumental responding by Pavlovian conditional stimuli (CS). Although during the Pavlovian training phase the DAT KD mice entered the food magazine more frequently in the absence of the CS, when tested later both groups showed outcome-selective PIT. These results suggest that the elevated dopaminergic tone reduced the selectivity of stimulus control over conditioned behavior, but did not affect instrumental learning.
Chronic restraint stress produces retraction of apical dendrites of pyramidal neurons in medial prefrontal cortex. To begin to examine the functional significance of this dendritic reorganization, we assessed the effects of chronic restraint stress on a prefrontally mediated behavior, extinction of conditioned fear. After bar press training to obtain a baseline of activity against which to measure freezing, rats were either unstressed or stressed via placement in a plastic restrainer (3 h/day for 1 week). After an additional day of bar press training, rats underwent fear conditioning and extinction. Rats received five habituation trials to a 30-s tone (4.5 kHz, 80 db) followed by seven pairings of tone and footshock (500 ms, 0.5 mA). One hour later, rats received tone-alone extinction trials to criterion. The next day, rats received 15 additional extinction trials. Percent freezing was assessed during all phases of training. Stress did not significantly affect unconditioned responding to tone, acquisition of conditioned fear, or initial extinction, but significantly increased freezing on extinction day 2. Thus, consistent with the regressive dendritic changes seen in medial prefrontal cortex, one week of restraint stress specifically impaired recall of extinction, a pattern of deficits typical of animals with impaired medial prefrontal function.
Molecular biological approaches continue to lead to the identification of alterations in expression of genes coding for key central nervous system proteins involved in water homeostasis, energy metabolism and neurotransmitter regulation in acute liver failure (ALF). However, studies aimed at elucidating the pathophysiological consequences of these changes in gene expression are impeded by the lack of a suitable mouse model of ALF. A previous report described hepatic pathology characteristic of ALF resulting from the administration of azoxymethane (AOM) in mice [Matkowskyj, K.A., Marrero, J.A., Carroll, R.E., Danilkovich, A.V., Green, R.M., Benya, R.V., 1999. Azoxymethane-induced fulminant hepatic failure in C57BL/6J mice: characterization of a new animal model. Am. J. Physiol. 277, G455-G462]. In a series of experiments to further assess this treatment as an effective model of ALF, the effects of administration of AOM to male C57BL mice on hepatic and cerebral function were studied. With maintenance of body temperature at 37 degrees C and control of hypoglycemia, mice developed signs of encephalopathy (decreased locomotor activity followed by loss of righting and corneal reflexes) within 16 h of AOM treatment. AOM-treated mice were hyperammonemic, developed spontaneous hypothermia and brain edema. Brain ammonia concentrations were increased to 0.98+/-0.12 mM at coma stages of encephalopathy. Brain amino acid profiles determined by HPLC were typical of ALF in other species including humans. Mild hypothermia (35 degrees C) led to significant attenuation of brain edema, ammonia, and amino acid changes. These findings demonstrate that AOM treatment affords a simple, reproducible mouse model of ALF which may be suitable for the study of the effects of gene manipulation on the cerebral complications of ALF.
The functional balance of glutamatergic and GABAergic signaling in neuronal cortical circuits is under homeostatic control. That is, prolonged alterations of global network activity leads to opposite changes in quantal amplitude at glutamatergic and GABAergic synapses. Such scaling of excitatory and inhibitory transmission within cortical circuits serves to restore and maintain a constant spontaneous firing rate of pyramidal neurons. Our recent work shows that this includes alterations in the levels of expression of vesicular glutamate (VGLUT1 and VGLUT2) and GABA (VIAAT) transporters. Other vesicle markers, such as synaptophysin or synapsin, are not regulated in this way. Endogenous regulation at the level of mRNA and synaptic protein controls the number of transporters per vesicle and hence, the level of vesicle filling with transmitter. Bidirectional and opposite activity-dependent regulation of VGLUT1 and VIAAT expression would serve to adjust the balance of glutamate and GABA release and therefore the level of postsynaptic receptor saturation. In some excitatory neurons and synapses, co-expression of VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 occurs. Bidirectional and opposite changes in the levels of two excitatory vesicular transporters would enable individual neocortical neurons to scale up or scale down the level of vesicular glutamate storage, and thus, the amount available for release at individual synapses. Regulated vesicular transmitter storage and release via selective changes in the level of expression of vesicular glutamate and GABA transporters indicates that homeostatic plasticity of synaptic strength at cortical synapses includes presynaptic elements.
Glucose is the preferred energy substrate for the adult brain. However, during periods of fasting and consumption of a high fat, low carbohydrate (ketogenic) diet, ketone bodies become major brain fuels. The present study was conducted to investigate how the ketogenic diet influences neuronal-glial interactions in amino acid neurotransmitter metabolism. Rats were kept on a standard or ketogenic diet. After 21 days all animals received an injection of [1-(13)C]glucose plus [1,2-(13)C]acetate, the preferential substrates of neurons and astrocytes, respectively. Extracts from cerebral cortex and plasma were analyzed by (13)C and (1)H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and HPLC. Increased amounts of valine, leucine and isoleucine and a decreased amount of glutamate were found in the brains of rats receiving the ketogenic diet. Glycolysis was decreased in ketotic rats compared with controls, evidenced by the reduced amounts of [3-(13)C]alanine and [3-(13)C]lactate. Additionally, neuronal oxidative metabolism of [1-(13)C]glucose was decreased in ketotic rats compared with controls, since amounts of [4-(13)C]glutamate and [4-(13)C]glutamine were lower than those of controls. Although the amount of glutamate from [1-(13)C]glucose was decreased, this was not the case for GABA, indicating that relatively more [4-(13)C]glutamate is converted to GABA. Astrocytic metabolism was increased in response to ketosis, shown by increased amounts of [4,5-(13)C]glutamine, [4,5-(13)C]glutamate, [1,2-(13)C]GABA and [3,4-(13)C]-/[1,2-(13)C]aspartate derived from [1,2-(13)C]acetate. The pyruvate carboxylation over dehydrogenation ratio for glutamine was increased in the ketotic animals compared to controls, giving further indication of increased astrocytic metabolism. Interestingly, pyruvate recycling was higher in glutamine than in glutamate in both groups of animals. An increase in this pathway was detected in glutamate in response to ketosis. The decreased glycolysis and oxidative metabolism of glucose as well as the increased astrocytic metabolism, may reflect adaptation of the brain to ketone bodies as major source of fuel.
The &quot;glutamate-glutamine&quot; cycle appears to have an important, albeit not exclusive role, in the recycling of glutamate (Glu) between neurons and astrocytes. Recent studies show that the efflux of glutamine (Gln) from astrocytes is mediated by SNAT3 (formerly SN1), a system N amino acid transporter localized to perisynaptic astrocytes, whereas its influx into neurons is thought to be mediated by transporters of the system A family, specifically SNAT1 and SNAT2. However, the results of our confocal and electron microscopy immunocytochemical studies of the localization of these transporters in the cerebral cortex show that SNAT1 and SNAT2 are robustly expressed in the somatodendritic domain of cortical neurons, but rarely to axon terminals. To rule out a possible influence of fixation and procedural variables on detection of SNAT1 and SNAT2 immunoreactivity in axon terminals, we used non-conventional immunocytochemical methods, which, in certain cases, improve antigen detection. Though evidencing a slightly increased percentage of axon terminals expressing the two transporters, these techniques demonstrated that SNAT1 and SNAT2 are indeed rarely localized to axon terminals. Our data thus suggest that neither SNAT1 nor SNAT2 meet the criteria for their postulated role in the &quot;glutamate-glutamine&quot; cycle, and indicate that other Gln transporters (either orphan or yet to be identified) must be expressed at axon terminals and sustain the Glu (and gamma-aminobutyric acid) neurotransmitter pool (s).
Glutamate-induced neurotoxicity plays an important role in neurological and psychiatric diseases. Thus, much attention has been given to the potential neuroprotective role of glutamate receptor antagonists, especially to those acting on the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) subtype. However, in addition to their neuroprotective potential, these compounds have also neurotoxic and psychotogenic properties. In the present study we used repeated injections of MK801 to examine if this non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist could be used to produce schizophrenia-like alterations in behavior and brain metabolism in animals. Rats were given injections of MK801 (0.1 mg/kg) on six consecutive days, the last dose together with [1-(13)C]glucose and [1,2-(13)C]acetate, to probe neuronal and astrocytic metabolism, respectively. Analyses of extracts from parts of the frontal cortex plus cingulate and retrosplenial cortices and temporal lobes were performed using (13)C and (1)H magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Changes in glutamate and glutamine were restricted to the temporal lobe, in which amounts and labeling from [1-(13)C]glucose and [1,2-(13)C]acetate were increased compared to control. Locomotor activity was slightly higher in rats treated with MK801 compared to untreated animals. Metabolic changes did not resemble the alterations occurring in schizophrenia and those after repeated high dose (0.5 mg/kg) [Kondziella, D., Brenner, E., Eyjolfsson, E.M., Markinhuhta, K.R., Carlsson, M., Sonnewald, U., 2005. Glial-neuronal interactions are impaired in the schizophrenia model of repeated MK801 exposure. Neuropsychopharmacology, Epub ahead of print] but rather those caused by MK801 seen after a single high dose (0.5 mg/kg) [Brenner, E., Kondziella, D., Haberg, A., Sonnewald, U., 2005. Impaired glutamine metabolism in NMDA receptor hypofunction induced by MK801. J. Neurochem. 94, 1594-1603.].
Cultures of dissociated cerebella from 7-day-old mice were maintained in vitro for 1-13 days. GABA biosynthesis and degradation were studied during development in culture and pharmacological agents were used to identify the enzymes involved. The amount of GABA increased, whereas that of glutamate was unchanged during the first 5 days and both decreased thereafter. The presence of aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA, 10 microM) which inhibits transaminases and other pyridoxal phosphate dependent enzymes including GABA-transaminase (GABA-T), in the culture medium caused an increase in the intracellular amount of GABA and a decrease in glutamate. The GABA content was also increased following exposure to the specific GABA-T inhibitor gamma-vinyl GABA. From day 6 in culture (day 4 when cultured in the presence of AOAA) GABA levels in the medium were increased compared to that in medium from 1-day-old cultures. Synthesis of GABA during the first 3 days was demonstrated by the finding that incubation with either [1-(13)C]glucose or [U-(13)C]glutamine led to formation of labeled GABA. Synthesis of GABA after 1 week in culture, when the enzymatic machinery is considered to be at a more differentiated level, was shown by labeling from [U-(13)C]glutamine added on day 7. Altogether the findings show continuous GABA synthesis and degradation throughout the culture period in the cerebellar neurons. At 10 microM AOAA, GABA synthesis from [U-(13)C]glutamine was not affected, indicating that transaminases are not involved in GABA synthesis and thus excluding the putrescine pathway. At a concentration of 5 mM AOAA GABA labeling was, however, abolished, showing that glutamate decarboxylase, which is inhibited at this level of AOAA, is responsible for GABA synthesis in the cerebellar cultures. In conclusion, the present study shows that GABA synthesis is taking place via GAD in a subpopulation of the cerebellar neurons, throughout the culture period.
Several evidences suggest that glutamate may be involved in retinal neurodegeneration in diabetic retinopathy (DR). For that reason, we investigated whether high glucose or diabetes affect the accumulation and the release of [(3)H]-D-aspartate, which was used as a marker of the glutamate transmitter pool. The accumulation of [(3)H]-D-aspartate did not change in cultured retinal neural cells treated with high glucose (30 mM) for 7 days. However, the release of [(3)H]-D-aspartate, evoked by 50 mM KCl, significantly increased in retinal cells exposed to high glucose. Mannitol, which was used as an osmotic control, did not cause any significant changes in both accumulation and release of [(3)H]-D-aspartate. In the retinas, 1 week after the onset of diabetes, both the accumulation and release of [(3)H]-D-aspartate were unchanged comparing to the retinas of age-matched controls. However, after 4 weeks of diabetes, the accumulation of [(3)H]-D-aspartate in diabetic retinas decreased and the release of [(3)H]-D-aspartate increased, compared to age-matched control retinas. These results suggest that high glucose and diabetes increase the evoked release of D-aspartate in the retina, which may be correlated with the hypothesis of glutamate-induced retinal neurodegeneration in DR.
There is a need to have predictive biomarkers to test novel experimental medicines in functional gastrointestinal disorders. The human pharmacodynamic models and biomarkers pertaining to two important conditions are reviewed in a two-part article: functional dyspepsia (part I) and visceral pain (part II). With visceral pain models, the large coefficient of variation in sensation end points in human studies precludes definitive conclusions such as go/no go decisions or dose selection for phase IIb or III studies, unless very large numbers of patients are evaluated in phase IIA pharmacodynamic studies. This renders such pharmacological studies ambitious, or unachievable in a timely fashion. Moreover, the results of tests and clinical trials should be interpreted with greater knowledge of the drug pharmacokinetics, including the influence of CYP metabolism and potential drug interactions. Thus, it is important to identify valid biomarkers of visceral pain for the assessment of treatment response in pharmacodynamic studies. In this second part of a two-part article, we shall discuss the special challenges in developing medications for visceral pain and the general importance of including pharmacokinetic and pharmacogenomic studies in drug development programmes.
There is a need to have predictive biomarkers to test novel experimental medicines in functional gastrointestinal disorders (FGID). The human pharmacodynamic models and biomarkers in functional dyspepsia (part I) and visceral pain (part II) are reviewed, including the general challenges of these two disorders (part I). Part II will also discuss the importance of drug pharmacokinetics and potential of pharmacogenomics, including the influence of CYP metabolism and potential drug interactions. The great heterogeneity of mechanisms potentially responsible for dyspeptic symptoms adds a significant complexity to this FGID. Strategies are needed to identify subgroups most likely to benefit from a specific pharmacological action targeted to one or more mechanisms. Thus, while there are significant challenges in drug development for functional dyspepsia, there is still an important role for pharmacodynamic studies. It remains to be demonstrated that identifying subgroups enhances the response to the pharmacological drug effect. This is feasible as the end points and performance of each test of gastric emptying, accommodation and sensitivity are well characterized. Of these, gastric emptying appears best validated at present, though responsiveness to this biomarker has not yet been translated into positive phase III trials. Eligibility criteria are proposed for selection of patients for functional dyspepsia trials.
The 5-HT4 receptor agonist tegaserod is an effective prokinetic agent that increases gastrointestinal secretion and reduces visceral sensitivity. Tegaserod has both 5-HT4 receptor agonist and 5-HT2B receptor antagonist activity, the latter being a less potent effect of the drug. In a rat model of colonic hypersensitivity, selective 5-HT4 receptor antagonists only partially reversed the antihyperalgesic effect of tegaserod suggesting that non-5-HT4 receptor-mediated mechanisms may also be involved in its overall antihyperalgesic action. The objective of this study was to determine whether 5-HT2B receptors play a role in colonic hypersensitivity. A visceromotor response (VMR) in acutely sensitized animals (intracolonic acetic acid, 0.6%, 1.5 mL) quantified colonic hypersensitivity. Acetic acid produced an increase in the VMR at all distension pressures. However, neither the 5-HT2B receptor agonist BW 723C86, the 5-HT2B antagonist SB204741 or the 5-HT2B/2C antagonist SB 206553 caused any significant inhibition of the VMR. In summary, in the same rodent model in which tegaserod has previously been shown to produce a potent antihyperalgesic effect, 5-HT2B receptors do not appear to mediate colonic hypersensitivity. We conclude that 5-HT2B receptor-mediated mechanisms are unlikely to play a role in the antihyperalgesic action of tegaserod in man.
In this critique, we review the usefulness of functional localising scans in functional MRI studies. We consider their conceptual motivations and the implications for experimental design and inference. Functional localisers can often be viewed as acquiring data from cells that have been removed from an implicit factorial design. This perspective reveals their potentially restrictive nature. We deconstruct two examples from the recent literature to highlight the key issues. We conclude that localiser scans can be unnecessary and, in some instances, lead to a biased and inappropriately constrained characterisation of functional anatomy.
Dynamical causal modeling (DCM) of evoked responses is a new approach to making inferences about connectivity changes in hierarchical networks measured with electro- and magnetoencephalography (EEG and MEG). In a previous paper, we illustrated this concept using a lead field that was specified with infinite prior precision. With this prior, the spatial expression of each source area, in the sensors, is fixed. In this paper, we show that using lead field parameters with finite precision enables the data to inform the network's spatial configuration and its expression at the sensors. This means that lead field and coupling parameters can be estimated simultaneously. Alternatively, one can also view DCM for evoked responses as a source reconstruction approach with temporal, physiologically informed constraints. We will illustrate this idea using, for each area, a 4-shell equivalent current dipole (ECD) model with three location and three orientation parameters. Using synthetic and real data, we show that this approach furnishes accurate and robust conditional estimates of coupling among sources and their orientations.
Neuronally plausible, generative or forward models are essential for understanding how event-related fields (ERFs) and potentials (ERPs) are generated. In this paper, we present a new approach to modeling event-related responses measured with EEG or MEG. This approach uses a biologically informed model to make inferences about the underlying neuronal networks generating responses. The approach can be regarded as a neurobiologically constrained source reconstruction scheme, in which the parameters of the reconstruction have an explicit neuronal interpretation. Specifically, these parameters encode, among other things, the coupling among sources and how that coupling depends upon stimulus attributes or experimental context. The basic idea is to supplement conventional electromagnetic forward models, of how sources are expressed in measurement space, with a model of how source activity is generated by neuronal dynamics. A single inversion of this extended forward model enables inference about both the spatial deployment of sources and the underlying neuronal architecture generating them. Critically, this inference covers long-range connections among well-defined neuronal subpopulations. In a previous paper, we simulated ERPs using a hierarchical neural-mass model that embodied bottom-up, top-down and lateral connections among remote regions. In this paper, we describe a Bayesian procedure to estimate the parameters of this model using empirical data. We demonstrate this procedure by characterizing the role of changes in cortico-cortical coupling, in the genesis of ERPs. In the first experiment, ERPs recorded during the perception of faces and houses were modeled as distinct cortical sources in the ventral visual pathway. Category-selectivity, as indexed by the face-selective N170, could be explained by category-specific differences in forward connections from sensory to higher areas in the ventral stream. We were able to quantify and make inferences about these effects using conditional estimates of connectivity. This allowed us to identify where, in the processing stream, category-selectivity emerged. In the second experiment, we used an auditory oddball paradigm to show that the mismatch negativity can be explained by changes in connectivity. Specifically, using Bayesian model selection, we assessed changes in backward connections, above and beyond changes in forward connections. In accord with theoretical predictions, there was strong evidence for learning-related changes in both forward and backward coupling. These examples show that category- or context-specific coupling among cortical regions can be assessed explicitly, within a mechanistic, biologically motivated inference framework.
Recent models of morality have suggested the importance of affect-based automatic moral attitudes in moral reasoning. However, previous investigations of moral reasoning have frequently relied upon explicit measures that are susceptible to voluntary control. To investigate participant's automatic moral attitudes, we used a morality Implicit Association Test (IAT). Participants rated the legality of visually depicted legal and illegal behaviors of two different intensity levels (e.g., high intensity illegal = interpersonal violence; low intensity illegal = vandalism) both when the target concept (e.g., illegal) was behaviorally paired with an associated attribute (e.g., bad; congruent condition) or an unassociated attribute (e.g., good; incongruent condition). Behaviorally, an IAT effect was shown; RTs were faster in the congruent rather than incongruent conditions. At the neural level, implicit moral attitude, as indexed by increased BOLD response as a function of stimulus intensity, was associated with increased activation in the right amygdala and the ventromedial orbitofrontal cortex. In addition, performance on incongruent trials relative to congruent trials was associated with increased activity in the right ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (BA 47), left subgenual cingulate gyrus (BA 25), bilateral premotor cortex (BA 6) and the left caudate. The functional contributions of these regions in moral reasoning are discussed.
Previous work identified bilateral regions in the occipitoparietal lobe sensitive to the complexity of relational information [Phillips, S., Niki, K., 2003. Increased bilateral occipitoparietal activity for retention of binary versus unary indexed lists in pair recognition. NeuroImage 20 (2), 1226-1235]. Here, we investigate the effect of learning on sensitivity to relational complexity. Eight subjects were scanned on a pair recognition task before, during and after a 2-week training period when subjects learned to recognize a set of shape pairs. For each trial of the pair recognition task, subjects determined whether a probe pair appeared in a list of learned or novel pairs. In the low/high relational complexity condition, every pair in list AB CD EF/AB AD CB was uniquely identifiable by an item in either/both the first or/and second position. Whole-brain and region of interest contrasts revealed a significant interaction between complexity and learning in the occipitoparietal lobe. The increase in activity for the retention of high versus low complexity lists was greater for learned than novel pair lists. Subjects were more likely to respond to low complexity lists as though they were high complexity prior to training. The results suggest that this region provides a window into effective relational complexity, that is, complexity of relational information as processed by the subject, not as presumed by task design.
Schizophrenia has been suggested to be the result of both macroscopic and microscopic abnormalities in the brain. Although no definitive clinico-pathological correlations have been found to reconcile the many facets inherent in this disorder, the recent development of the magnetic resonance diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) has allowed us to gather useful information regarding the microcircuitry of the brain. Specifically, the apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) reflects the degree of diffusion barriers and heterosynaptic communication for the brain neurotransmitter. Nineteen patients with DSM-IV schizophrenia and 21 age- and sex-matched control subjects participated in DTI, and the severity of the patients' symptoms was evaluated according to the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS). The ADC values were determined and compared between patients and control subjects via voxel-based morphometry. The results show an increased ADC in the bilateral fronto-temporal regions of the schizophrenic patients, as compared with those of the control subjects. In addition, the ADC values in the area of the right insular were correlated with the negative syndromes from the PANSS. Our findings of increased water diffusivity in the fronto-temporal regions of schizophrenic patients and the correlation between negative symptom scales and the ADC in the right insular region indicate that damaged brain microcircuitry might contribute to the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. These findings contribute towards integrating micro and macrostructural abnormalities and syndromes of schizophrenia.
Appraisal refers to the evaluation of the meaning of emotional stimuli and is considered causal in the generation of an emotional response. Cognitive neuroscience has paid little attention to a theoretical distinction between low-level appraisal, considered to be automatic and preattentive, and high-level appraisal that requires attentional and working memory resources. To disentangle low-level from high-level appraisal, we varied cognitive load in a concurrent, unrelated working memory task, while anxiety was induced through anticipation of impending pain. Confirming theoretical predictions, we show that anxiety-related activity in dorsal medial prefrontal/rostral anterior cingulate cortex (dorsal MPFC/ACC) is attenuated under high, relative to low, cognitive load. Lateral prefrontal regions previously implicated in reappraisal and cognitive emotion regulation show a similar interaction between anxiety and cognitive load. Critically, there were no changes in physiological and subjective measures of low-level appraisal outcome and emotional response generation as a function of load, allowing us to conclude that MPFC/ACC and lateral PFC activity during anticipatory anxiety reflects high-level appraisal. Our data provide neurobiological evidence for a distinction between low-level and high-level appraisal mechanisms.
Dynamic causal modelling (DCM) is a method for estimating and making inferences about the coupling among small numbers of brain areas, and the influence of experimental manipulations on that coupling [Friston, K.J., Harrison, L., Penny, W., 2003 Dynamic causal modelling. Neuroimage 19, 1273-1302]. Large-scale neural modelling aims to construct neurobiologically grounded computational models with emergent behaviours that inform our understanding of neuronal systems. One such model has been used to simulate region-specific BOLD time-series [Horwitz, B., Friston, K.J., Taylor, J.G., 2000. Neural modeling and functional brain imaging: an overview. Neural Netw. 13, 829-846]. DCM was used to make inferences about effective connectivity using data generated by a model implementing a visual delayed match-to-sample task [Tagamets, M.A., Horwitz, B., 1998. Integrating electrophysiological and anatomical experimental data to create a large-scale model that simulates a delayed match-to-sample human brain imaging study. Cereb. Cortex 8, 310-320]. The aim was to explore the validity of inferences made using DCM about the connectivity structure and task-dependent modulatory effects, in a system with a known connectivity structure. We also examined the effects of misspecifying regions of interest. Models with hierarchical connectivity and reciprocal connections were examined using DCM and Bayesian Model Comparison [Penny, W.D., Stephan, K.E., Mechelli, A., Friston, K.J., 2004. Comparing dynamic causal models. Neuroimage 22, 1157-1172]. This approach revealed strong evidence for those models with correctly specified anatomical connectivity. Furthermore, Bayesian model comparison favoured those models when bilinear effects corresponded to their implementation in the neural model. These findings generalised to an extended model with two additional areas and reentrant circuits. The conditional uncertainty of coupling parameter estimates increased in proportion to the number of incorrectly specified regions. These results highlight the role of neural models in establishing the validity of estimation and inference schemes. Specifically, Bayesian model comparison confirms the validity of DCM in relation to a well-characterised and comprehensive neuronal model.
The following interesting and uncommon headache disorders are presented through case studies: exploding head syndrome, hypnic headache, neck-tongue syndrome, &quot;Alice in Wonderland&quot; syndrome, nummular headache, red ear syndrome, burning mouth syndrome, spontaneous intracranial hypotension syndrome, and cardiac cephalalgia.

Migraine with aura is a common disorder in industrialised countries, affecting up to 5% of the adult population. Although migraine aura is usually a benign disorder, in rare instances it can be the cause of serious neurologic complications. The most common is migrainous stroke, defined as a persistent neurologic deficit following the aura with evidence of brain infarction at neuroimaging and lack of alternative explanations. The most likely pathogenic mechanism is brain ischaemia induced by cortical spreading depression, but other possibilities, such as intracranic arterial dissection or embolism through patent foramen ovale need to be considered. Other complications are migraine-related seizures, which are probably caused by neuronal hyperexcitability in migraineurs, and persistent auras without infarction. These disorders are of both clinical and scientific interest, as they throw light on the complex and not yet fully understood relationship between migraine with aura, stroke and epilepsy.
General population studies suggest a non-casual association (comorbidity) between migraine, major depression and anxiety disorders (panic attack disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, generalised anxiety disorder). The risk of developing affective and anxiety disorders is not increased uniformly in the different migraine subtypes, but it is more elevated in migraine with aura patients. The relationship between migraine and depression is &quot;bi-directional&quot; (i. e., migraineurs have a more than three-fold risk of developing depression compared with non-migraine patients, while depression patients that have never suffered from migraine before have a more than three-fold risk of developing migraine compared with nondepressed patients) and specific (i. e., the presence of migraine or severe non-migraine headache increases a patient's risk of developing depression or panic attack disorder, whereas the presence of depression or panic attack disorder is associated with a greater risk of developing migraine, but not severe non-migraine headache). Comorbidity with psychiatric disorders has also been described for chronic tension-type headache and for chronic daily headache, although these findings are based only on clinical population data.
The need for novel therapeutic strategies for the treatment of migraine and other primary headaches is well recognised. Although the underlying mechanism(s) and the molecular targets that should be tackled by novel medicines are still uncertain, significant improvements have been made in the last decade in the treatment of migraine. Strong evidence in experimental animal models and clinical investigation focus on drugs that limit the phenomena promoted by activation of neurons of the trigeminal ganglion at the level of both their central and peripheral perivascular endings. Identification of compounds that abort the migraine attack by precisely targeting different mechanisms should also help to recompose the puzzle of migraine pathogenesis.
The pathogenesis of migraine is still unclear, but much evidence suggests a role of inflammation in pain generation. Calcitonin gene related peptide, nitric oxide and cytokines are all molecules shown to be involved both in animal and human studies. The glutamatergic system is also described as a possible mechanism leading to neuronal hyperexcitability and cortical spreading depression (CSD). Excitotoxic neural death, due to excessive release of the amino acid in the extracellular space, may represent a consequence of protracted CSD and oligaemia and may be involved in migrainous infarction and aspecific lesions seen on T2-weighted NMR imaging.
Functional neuroimaging in headache patients has revolutionised our understanding of these syndromes and provided unique insights into some of the commonest maladies in man, suggesting that at least migraine and cluster headache are primarily driven from the brain. Repeated and independent findings reinforce the crucial role for the brain stem in acute and probably also in chronic migraine, and the hypothalamic grey in several trigemino- autonomic headaches. If further studies confirm these findings, a better understanding will be gained of where and how acute and preventative therapy can be targeted. Given the rapid advances in functional neuroimaging, in particular newer techniques, such as voxel-based morphometry and magnetic resonance spectrometry, functional imaging continues to play a significant role and opens new avenues in targeting the neural substrates in individual primary headache syndromes.
The placebo effect is the effect that follows the administration of an inert treatment (the placebo), be it pharmacological or not. It is important to understand that a placebo procedure simulates a therapy through the surrounding psychosocial context. Therefore, the study of the placebo effect is the study of the psychosocial context around the patient and its effects on the patient's brain. The real placebo response is a psychobiological phenomenon that can be due to different mechanisms, for example expectation and conditioning. Thus, there is not a single placebo effect but many, so that we have to look for different mechanisms in different conditions and in different systems and apparatuses. Today we are beginning to understand some of the neurobiological mechanisms of the placebo response, and this knowledge may help better understand the top-down control of the incoming sensory input, like pain, and the intricate interaction between mind and body.
Early regeneration of injured peripheral nerves involves a series of events that are important in the success of eventual reconnection. In many nerve injuries, such as transections with gaps, axons and Schwann cells (SCs) penetrate into new microenvironments de novo, not involving zones of Wallerian degeneration. We studied unexplored axon-SC interactions by sampling of newly forming connections through a silicone conduit across transected rat sciatic peripheral nerve gaps. Axon and SC participation in bridge formation was addressed by light microscopy, electron microscopy and by double-labeling immunohistochemistry,including confocal imaging, and several, less appreciated aspects of early regrowth were identified. There are limitations to early and widespread regeneration of axons and SCs into bridges initially formed from connective tissue and blood vessels.Regrowth is 'staggered' such that only a small percentage of parent axons sampled the early bridge. There is an intimate, almost invariable relationship between SCs and extension of axons, which challenges the concept that axons lead and SCs follow.'Naked' axons were infrequent and limited in scope. Axons did not seek out and adhere to vascular laminin but intimately followed laminin deposits associated with apposed SCs. Growth cones identified by labeling of beta III tubulin, PGP(9 x 5) and GAP(43)/B(50) were complex, implying a pause in their regrowth, and were most prominent at the proximal stump-regenerative bridge interface. There is surprising and substantial hostility to local regrowth of axons into newly forming peripheral nerve bridges.Early axon outgrowth, associated with apposed Schwann cell processes, is highly constrained even when not exposed to adjacent myelin and products of Wallerian degeneration.
Action potential conduction velocity increases dramatically during early development as axons become myelinated. Integral to this process is the clustering of voltage-gated Na(+) (Nav) channels at regularly spaced gaps in the myelin sheath called nodes of Ranvier. We show here that some aspects of peripheral node of Ranvier formation are distinct from node formation in the CNS. For example, at CNS nodes, Nav1.2 channels are detected first, but are then replaced by Nav1.6. Similarly, during remyelination in the CNS, Nav1.2 channels are detected at newly forming nodes. By contrast, the earliest Nav-channel clusters detected during developmental myelination in the PNS have Nav1.6. Further, during PNS remyelination, Nav1.6 is detected at new nodes. Finally, we show that accumulation of the cell adhesion molecule neurofascin always precedes Nav channel clustering in the PNS. In most cases axonal neurofascin (NF-186) accumulates first, but occasionally paranodal neurofascin is detected first. We suggest there is heterogeneity in the events leading to Nav channel clustering, indicating that multiple mechanisms might contribute to node of Ranvier formation in the PNS.
Previous experiments have demonstrated that serotonin (5-HT) 2A receptor antagonists suppress hyperkinetic behaviors associated with dopamine (DA) D1 receptor supersensitivity in rats with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions. Since l-DOPA induced dyskinesia (LID) may be mediated by over-sensitive D1-mediated signaling, the present study examined the effects of the selective 5-HT2A antagonist M100907 on LID behaviors in DA-depleted rats. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats with unilateral 6-OHDA lesions received daily l-DOPA treatments to produce dyskinetic behaviors as measured by abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) testing. In these animals, M100907 (0.01, 0.1 or 1.0mg/kg, ip) given 30 min before l-DOPA did not alter the appearance or intensity of AIMs behaviors. Because l-DOPA induced AIMs in rats are dependent upon D1 and D2 receptor activation, a second study was performed to determine if M100907 could suppress D1- or D2-mediated rotational behaviors. Contralateral rotations induced by the D1 agonist SKF82958 were significantly reduced by pre-treatment with M100907. However, M100907 was ineffective in reducing rotations induced by the D2 agonist quinpirole. The finding that M100907 suppresses rotations induced by D1, but not D2, agonists may provide a partial explanation for the lack of effect of a selective 5-HT2A antagonist on l-DOPA-induced AIMs behaviors.
The cyclopyrrolone pagoclone binds with roughly equivalent high affinity (0.7-9.1nM) to the benzodiazepine binding site of human recombinant GABA(A) receptors containing either an alpha1, alpha2, alpha3 or alpha5 subunit. However, whereas it was a partial agonist at alpha1-, alpha2- and alpha5-containing GABA(A) receptors, pagoclone was a full agonist at receptors containing an alpha3 subunit. In the rat elevated plus maze assay pagoclone (3mg/kg) had significant anxiolytic-like activity but at all three doses tested (0.3, 1 and 3mg/kg p.o.) it produced a significant reduction in the total distance travelled. This sedative-like effect was confirmed in rat chain-pulling and spontaneous locomotor assays. Surprisingly, in the plasma and brain samples derived from the elevated plus maze assay, the major metabolite of pagoclone, 5'-hydroxy pagoclone, was present at 10-20-fold higher concentrations relative to the parent compound. In order to establish whether this metabolite might have pharmacological activity, we measured its affinity and efficacy profile and found that both were comparable to those of pagoclone with the exception that efficacy at the alpha1 subtype was considerably greater for 5'-hydroxy pagoclone compared with the parent. This metabolite had significant anxiolytic-like activity in the elevated plus maze but at these same doses (0.3-3mg/kg p.o.) also produced sedation. It is therefore likely that in rats 5'-hydroxy pagoclone mediates the majority of the pharmacological actions following pagoclone administration.
Presynaptic terminals of cerebellar granule neurons are primary targets of cannabinoids, which act through type 1 G alpha(i/o)-coupled cannabinoid receptors (CB1) to modulate glutamate release. To study CB1 signaling investigators use primary cultures of granule neurons, typically grown in medium supplemented with elevated KCl to improve long-term survival. Herein, we demonstrate that CB1 expression and signaling are perturbed under these conditions. Specifically, immunochemical and RT-PCR assays indicate that depolarizing growth conditions decrease CB1 protein, mRNA and CB1-mediated inhibition of adenylyl cyclase compared to cultures grown in physiologic medium containing 5mM KCl. Depolarization-dependent downregulation of CB1 mRNA, like survival, is attenuated by L-type VDCC antagonists but not the Na(+)-channel antagonist, tetrodotoxin. Comparison of oligonucleotide microarrays from cultures grown in 5mM versus 25 mM KCl confirms that depolarization reduces CB1 mRNA, but not mRNAs encoding several G-protein subunits or adenylyl cyclases. However, significant alterations in synaptic signaling proteins that likely lie downstream of CB1 are observed, including K(+) channels, alpha-neurexins, cAMP-GEFII, Munc13-3, secretogranin and synaptotagmin. These findings make a compelling argument to adopt cultures grown in 5mM KCl for future study of CB1 signaling in granule neurons. Further, they suggest that a depolarization and Ca(2+)-dependent signaling pathway represses CB1 gene transcription.
The neuropsychological substrate of scripts, routines which guide much of human behavior, is unclear. We propose a model of script comprehension characterized by the interaction of semantic knowledge for script content, and executive resources that organize this knowledge into goal directed behavior. We examined these neuropsychological components by asking participants with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal dementia (behavioral disorder/dysexecutive syndrome (BDD) and semantic dementia (SD) subtypes), to judge the coherence of four-phrase scripts. The BDD group detected significantly fewer sequencing errors than semantic errors; the AD and SD groups detected these errors with equal frequency. Independent semantic measures predicted both semantic and sequencing script errors, while executive measures predicted sequencing errors only. Findings support a multi-component model of script comprehension.
Research has suggested that semantic processing deficits in Parkinson's disease (PD) are related to striatal dopamine deficiency. As an investigation of the influence of dopamine on semantic activation in PD, 7 participants with PD performed a lexical-decision task when on and off levodopa medication. Seven healthy controls matched to the participants with PD in terms of sex, age, and education also participated in the study. By use of a multipriming paradigm, whereby 2 prime words were presented prior to the target word, semantic priming effects were measured across stimulus onset asynchronies (SOAs) of 250 ms and 1,200 ms. The results revealed a similar pattern of priming across SOAs for the control group and the PD participants on medication. In contrast, within-group comparisons revealed that automatic semantic activation was compromised in PD participants when off medication. The implications of these results for the neuromodulatory influence of dopamine on semantic processing in PD are discussed.
Although it might seem that people with schizophrenia would perform poorly on measures of emotion-based learning, several studies have shown normal levels of performance on the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT; C. E. Y. Evans, C. H. Bowman, &amp; O. H. Turnbull, 2005; L. M. Ritter, J. H. Meador-Woodruff, &amp; G. W. Dalack, 2004; B. Shurman, W. P. Horan, &amp; K. H. Nuechterlein, 2005; K. E. Wilder, D. R. Weinberger, &amp; T. E. Goldberg, 1998). The present article describes a newly developed modification of the IGT involving initial familiarization with the basic contingency pattern then 3 periods of contingency shift. Control participants showed substantial gains during the later trials of each shift period. Analyzed in terms of positive symptoms, those with schizophrenia were little different from control participants. Those high in negative symptoms could perform the basic task but showed remarkably poor performances (no better than chance) in the shift phases, retaining a preference for decks that had previously been &quot;good,&quot; even when they experienced substantial losses.

There is considerable evidence that people are especially sensitive to emotionally negative materials. However, the temporal course of the negativity bias is still unclear. To address this issue, we observed the changes of P2, late positive components (LPC) and lateralized readiness potential (LRP) under positive, negative and neutral conditions, with International Affective Picture System (IAPS) pictures as emotional stimuli. We found that the amplitude of P2 in the negative block was significantly larger than that in the positive block, indicating that the attentional negativity bias occured very early in emotion perception. The LPC amplitude evoked by negative pictures was larger than that by positive and neutral pictures, suggesting that the negativity bias also occurred in a later evaluation stage of emotion processing. The response-locked LRP interval was shortest in the block of negative pictures, indicating that the negative contents elicited a reaction priming effect. Above all, this research showed that emotional negativity bias could occur in several temporal stages distinguished by attention, evaluation and reaction readiness periods.
It was reported in 1995 that a large Danish family with familial frontotemporal dementia (FTD) was linked to the pericentromeric region of chromosome 3. It has since been claimed that a mutation in the splice acceptor site of exon 6 of CHMP2B is the pathogenic variant in this family. In order to determine whether CHMP2B mutations are a common cause of disease in patients with frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) we sequenced all exons and flanking regions of CHMP2B in 141 familial FTLD probands from the USA and UK. We failed to find a single pathogenic variant in any case. Polymorphisms were detected but were present in control samples. We conclude that mutations in CHMP2B are a rare cause of familial FTLD and may be specific to the Danish pedigree.
We describe the genetic analysis of an Alzheimer's disease (AD) sample derived from a genetically isolated population. Genetic assessment included the analysis of genes involved in AD, such as the genes for amyloid precursor protein (APP), presenilin 1 (PSEN1) and presenilin 2 (PSEN2). We also assessed genes for some proteins that constitute the gamma-secretase complex: nicastrin (NCSTN), presenilin enhancer-2 (PEN2), in addition to the AD risk factor apolipoprotein E (APOE). Using polymerase chain reaction and single strand conformational polymorphism method, screens for APP, PSEN1 and PSEN2 genes revealed one mutation in PSEN1. Furthermore, we found an intronic +17G&gt;C polymorphism in PEN2 which, in homozygous form, was greater in early onset Alzheimer's disease (EOAD) compared to controls, and one haplotype in the NCSTN gene which was linked to EOAD and familial AD (FAD). Finally, the genotyping of APOE confirmed that the varepsilon4 allele could be a risk factor for the onset of AD, in particular for FAD subjects. In conclusion, these results show the existence of Sardinian genetic peculiarities, essential in studies regarding genetically inherited and multifactorial disorders, as AD.
Recent studies showed the therapeutic effect of bone marrow stromal cells (BMSC) after spinal cord injury (SCI). In the present study, we compared the effect of systemic and local administration of BMSC in adult Wistar rats suffering chronic paraplegia as consequence of severe SCI. Adult Wistar rats were subjected to a weight-drop impact causing complete paraplegia, and 3 months later, all the animals remained without signs of functional recovery. At this moment, 3 x 10(6) BMSC were injected intravenously (n: 20) or into traumatic spinal cord cavity (n: 20). Outcome was evaluated until sacrifice of the animals, 6 months later, using the Basso-Beattie-Bresnehan (BBB) score, the cold spray test, and measuring the thigh perimeter. After sacrifice, samples of spinal cord tissue were studied histologically. The results showed that intravenous administration of BMSC achieves some degree of functional recovery when compared to controls. Nevertheless, administration of BMSC into postraumatic spinal cord cavity promotes a clear and progressive functional recovery, significantly superior to the recovery obtained by means of the intravenous administration. This effect is associated to long-term presence of BMSC in the injured spinal cord tissue, with images suggesting neuronal differentiation and spinal cord reconstruction.
Neurotrophic factors, which support neuronal survival and growth during development of the nervous system, have been shown to play significant roles in the transmission of physiologic and pathologic pain. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), synthesized in the primary sensory neurons, is anterogradely transported to the central terminals of the primary afferents in the spinal dorsal horn, where it is involved in the modulation of painful stimuli. In models of inflammatory and neuropathic pain, BDNF synthesis is greatly increased in different populations of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Furthermore, it is now known that the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases occurs in these sensory neurons and contributes to persistent inflammatory and neuropathic pain by regulating BDNF expression. The recent discovery that BDNF upregulation in the DRG and spinal cord contributes to chronic pain hypersensitivity indicates that blocking BDNF in sensory neurons could provide a fruitful strategy for the development of novel analgesics.

Recent studies suggest that reactive oxygen species (ROS) are critically involved in neuropathic pain. Although vitamin E is a well-known antioxidant, its efficacy on chronic pain is not known. This study investigated the efficacy and mechanisms of vitamin E analgesia in a rat model of neuropathic pain produced by spinal nerve ligation. The effects of vitamin E were investigated using behavioral testing, electrophysiological recording of dorsal horn neurons, and determinations of phosphorylated NMDA receptor subunit 1 (pNR1) levels in the spinal dorsal horn. Results showed that a systemic single injection of a high dose or repetitive daily injections of low doses of vitamin E significantly reduced neuropathic pain behaviors. Vitamin E was also effective in producing analgesia by intrathecal injection, suggesting the importance of spinal mechanisms. In spinal dorsal horn neurons, vitamin E reduced evoked responses to mechanical stimuli as well as the sizes of their receptive fields. In addition, levels of pNR1 in neuropathic rats were also reduced by vitamin E injection. These data suggest that vitamin E produces analgesia in neuropathic rats that is, at least in part, mediated by reducing central sensitization which, in turn, is induced by peripheral nerve injury.
Most pain patients are treated in an outpatient setting and are engaged in daily activities including driving. Since several studies showed that cognitive functioning may be impaired in chronic nonmalignant pain, the question arises whether or not chronic nonmalignant pain affects driving performance. Therefore, the objective of the present study was to determine the effects of chronic nonmalignant pain on actual highway driving performance during normal traffic. Fourteen patients with chronic nonmalignant pain and 14 healthy controls, matched on age, educational level, and driving experience, participated in the study. Participants performed a standardized on-the-road driving test during normal traffic, on a primary highway. The primary parameter of the driving test is the Standard Deviation of Lateral Position (SDLP). In addition, driving-related skills (tracking, divided attention, and memory) were examined in the laboratory. Subjective assessments, such as pain intensity, and subjective driving quality, were rated on visual analogue scales. The results demonstrated that a subset of chronic nonmalignant pain patients had SDLPs that were higher than the matched healthy controls, indicating worse highway driving performance. Overall, there was a statistically significant difference in highway driving performance between the groups. Further, chronic nonmalignant pain patients rated their subjective driving quality to be normal, although their ratings were significantly lower than those of the healthy controls. No significant effects were found on the laboratory tests.
Rotenone has been reported to induce various degrees of Parkinsonism in rats. We tested whether advancing age alters the sensitivity of dopaminergic neurons to rotenone. A low, systemic dose of rotenone had no effect on young rats, but led to a 20-30% reduction of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the substantia nigra of older rats. The effect was specific to nigral dopaminergic neurons and may be associated with the increase of glial cell activation in older rats. These data suggest that age enhances the sensitivity of dopaminergic neurons to rotenone and should be considered when assessing models of Parkinson's disease.
We examined whether coordination between movement components during trunk-assisted prehension was compromised in PD patients in response to varying constraints (experiment 1: reach speed, object size, movement amplitude; experiment 2: movement sequence). In general, both PD patients and controls responded similarly to the changes in these three variables. PD patients, however, demonstrated less synchronized movements in terms of timing between onsets and offsets of aperture formation, endpoint motion and trunk motion. In addition, PD patients used a pattern different from that of controls in specifying the relative contribution of trunk and arm to the endpoint motion. A significant group difference was observed in that controls tended to synchronize the involved movement components together, whereas PD patients did not show such a trend. These data suggest that PD patients have intact parameterization capabilities, although they have a reduced capability to coordinate multiple neuromotor synergies as a single unit.
Cholestasis is associated with increased tonus and activity of opioidergic system. Opioid peptides have also immunomodulatory effects through stimulation of specific opioid receptors on the immune cells, or in an indirect fashion via the central nervous system. The combination of immunofluorescent technique and flow cytometry has proven to be sensitive method for the detection of leukocyte opioid receptors. This study was designed to examine the effect of cholestasis on the opioid-receptor labeling on the leukocytes from bile duct-ligated rats. Seven days after surgery, leukocytes were isolated from the peripheral blood of bile duct-ligated or sham-operated rats. The cells were incubated with naltrexone-fluorescein, in the absence or presence of unlabeled naltrexone, as a competitor and analysed by flow cytometry. Monocytes and granulocytes from bile duct-ligated rats showed an increase in the percentage of opioid-receptor labeling (29.6+/-2.08 for cholestatic versus 23+/-1.9 for sham, p&lt;0.001; 50.6+/-3.18 for cholestatic versus 39.6+/-1.7 for sham, p&lt;0.05; respectively). Furthermore, there was a decrease in the expression of opioid receptors on leukocytes due to cholestasis. In conclusion, changes in specific opioid-receptor labeling and percent of labeled leukocytes indicate that endogenous opioid-receptor interaction may be altered in peripheral blood leukocytes in acute cholestasis.
Topiramate is an antiepileptic drug with a beneficial clinical effect on various seizure types. Topiramate does not seem to be associated with serious adverse effects and is also well tolerated in pediatric patients. Only few cases of hypohidrosis have been described. This report presents one young patient with complex partial seizures who was medicated with topiramate when she developed fatigue, headache, intermittent hyperthermia, inability to produce sweat secretion, and dryness of the skin. Reduced sweat response was determined using the Wescor Macroduct collection procedure. Topiramate was discontinued, and within 3 weeks a repeat sweat test was completely normal. At that time, clinical signs had also disappeared. Hypohidrosis is an uncommon and reversible side effect reported in association with topiramate therapy. It is rare in patients on monotherapy. Although a definite causal relationship still needs to be established, this side effect might be attributed to an autonomic dysfunction by inhibition of isoenzymes of carbonic anhydrase localized in human eccrine sweat glands.

Neuropeptide FF (NPFF) is an octapeptide belonging to an extended family of RF amide peptides that have been implicated in a wide variety of physiological functions in the brain. NPFF and its receptors are abundantly expressed in the rat brain and spinal cord including the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), an autonomic nucleus critical for the secretion of neurohormones and the regulation of sympathetic outflow. In this study, we sought to examine the effects of NPFF on GABAergic inhibitory synaptic input to magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) of the PVN, which secrete the neurohormones, vasopressin and oxytocin from their terminals in the neurohypophysis. Whole cell patch clamp recordings under voltage clamp conditions were performed from PVN MNCs in the brain slice. Bicuculline-sensitive inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) were isolated in the presence of glutamate receptor blockers. In tetrodotoxin, NPFF (5 microM) caused an increase in frequency, but not amplitude of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) in MNCs indicating a presynaptic locus of action for this peptide. Intracerebroventricular application of NPFF resulted in an activation of GABAergic neurons located adjacent to the PVN as revealed by immunohistochemistry for Fos protein and in situ hybridization for glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD67) mRNA. Based on these observations we conclude that NPFF facilitates inhibitory input to MNCs of the PVN via GABAergic interneurons located in immediate vicinity of the nucleus. These findings provide a cellular and anatomic basis for the NPFF-induced inhibition of vasopressin release has been reported consequent to hypovolemia and hyperosmolar stimulation.
An increasing demand of the pharmaceutical industry for automated electrophysiological stations for ion channel drug discovery has recently resulted in the development of several commercial platforms for secondary and safety screening of ion channel modulators. These commercial systems have demonstrated an enhanced throughput, however, often at the expense of some quality-sensitive aspects of traditional patch-clamp recordings. To improve data quality and content, we have developed a patch-clamp robot that fully automates manual patch-clamp recordings, including patch pipette handling, gigaseal formation, obtaining whole-cell or perforated-cell configuration, drug application, and data acquisition. Utilization of glass micropipettes results in high-quality electrophysiological recordings with an overall success rate of about 30% in perforated-cell mode. A fast drug application system with low volume requirements (1-1.5 ml) allows the study of ligand-gated ion channels on a millisecond scale. As proof-of-concept, we present two assays developed for voltage-gated human ether-a-go-go-related and ligand-gated alpha(7) nicotinic receptor ion channels. The system throughput was a single concentration-response curve every 30-40 min or 12-17 6-point concentration-response curves daily, representing a significant improvement of typical manual patch-clamp throughput. This system represents an efficient method for patch-clamp automation without the need for a complex and expensive electrophysiological set-up for cell visualization.
Behavioral effects of genetic manipulations are influenced by the background genetics of mouse strains used for the creation of transgenic mice. One strategy to address whether background genes may compromise interpretation of phenotype is the production of congenics. 5-HT3 receptor over-expressing mice have been behaviorally characterized on a B6SJL/F2 background (B6SJL/F2-OE mice), and were found to consume less ethanol failed to develop conditioned place preference to moderate doses of cocaine and demonstrate improved hippocampal-dependent learning. To assess the contribution of parental strain genetics to these behaviors, we bred the transgene onto two well-defined backgrounds that differ in ethanol consumption and contextual fear conditioning, C57Bl/6J (B6) and DBA/2J (D2) strains. The behavioral phenotype of B6SJL/F2-OE was recapitulated in C57Bl/6J-OE mice. However, the effect of transgene over-expression on behavior was only apparent for one aspect of the novelty test using DBA/2J-OE mice. Results underscore the need to consider the genetic environment conferred by strain selection on the effects of genetic manipulation in mice.
MPTP treatment has been used in mice to cause dopaminergic neuronal cell loss and subsequent behavioral abnormalities. As such, this animal model is often used as a method for the characterization of putative novel therapeutics for disease states characterized by dopamine loss, such as Parkinson's disease. Previous reports of behavioral abnormalities in mice following MPTP intoxication, however, have been conflicting. For example, open field spontaneous activity has been reported to increase, decrease or not change in MPTP treated mice. Accordingly, a more robust and direct functional measure of MPTP-induced central dopamine depletion is needed. In the present manuscript, we report on the characterization of amphetamine-induced locomotor activity as a sensitive functional endpoint for dopamine loss following MPTP treatment. We found that the amphetamine-induced locomotor activity of C57BL/6 mice was reduced in a dose-dependent manner following treatment with MPTP. This reduction of activity was associated with decreases in central dopamine levels. Further, the potential for use of this endpoint to evaluate putative therapeutics is exemplified by the amelioration of these effects following pre-treatment with the MAO-B inhibitor selegiline.
A neuron that is stimulated repeatedly by the same time-dependent stimulus exhibits slightly different spike timing at each trial. We compared the exact solution of the time-dependent firing rate for a stochastically spiking neuron model with refractoriness (spike response model) with that of an inhomogeneous Poisson process subject to the same stimulus. To arrive at a mapping between the two models we used alternatively (i) a systematic parameter-free Volterra expansion of the exact solution or (ii) a linear filter combined with nonlinear Poisson rate model (linear-nonlinear Poisson cascade model) with a single free parameter. Both the cascade model and the second-order Volterra model showed excellent agreement with the exact rate dynamics of the spiking neuron model with refractoriness even for strong and rapidly changing input. Cascade rate models are widely used in systems neuroscience. Our method could help to connect experimental rate measurements to the theory of spiking neurons.
The replica method has played a key role in analyzing systems with disorder, e.g., the Sherrington-Kirkpatrick (SK) model, and associative neural networks. Here we study the influence of disorder in the lateral inhibition type interactions on the cooperative and uncooperative behavior of recurrent neural networks by using the replica method. Although the interaction between neurons has a dependency on distance, our model can be solved analytically. Bifurcation analysis identifies the boundaries between paramagnetic, ferromagnetic, spin-glass, and localized phases. In the localized phase, the network shows a bump like activity, which is often used as a model of spatial working memory or columnar activity in the visual cortex. Simulation results show that disordered interactions can stabilize the drift the of bump position, which is commonly observed in conventional lateral inhibition type neural networks.
Complex goal-directed behaviors extend over time and thus depend on the ability to serially order memories and assemble compound, temporally coordinated movements. Theories of sequential processing range from simple associative chaining to hierarchical models in which order is encoded explicitly and separately from sequence components. To examine how short-term memory and planning for sequences might be coded, we used microstimulation to perturb neural activity in the supplementary eye field (SEF) while animals held a sequence of two cued locations in memory over a short delay. We found that stimulation affected the order in which animals saccaded to the locations, but not the memory for which locations were cued. These results imply that memory for sequential order can be dissociated from that of its components. Furthermore, stimulation of the SEF appeared to bias sequence endpoints to converge toward a location in contralateral space, suggesting that this area encodes sequences in terms of their endpoints rather than their individual components.
Acquisition of food in many animal species depends on the pursuit and capture of moving prey. Among modern humans, the pursuit and interception of moving targets plays a central role in a variety of sports, such as tennis, football, Frisbee, and baseball. Studies of target pursuit in animals, ranging from dragonflies to fish and dogs to humans, have suggested that they all use a constant bearing (CB) strategy to pursue prey or other moving targets. CB is best known as the interception strategy employed by baseball outfielders to catch ballistic fly balls. CB is a time-optimal solution to catch targets moving along a straight line, or in a predictable fashion--such as a ballistic baseball, or a piece of food sinking in water. Many animals, however, have to capture prey that may make evasive and unpredictable maneuvers. Is CB an optimum solution to pursuing erratically moving targets? Do animals faced with such erratic prey also use CB? In this paper, we address these questions by studying prey capture in an insectivorous echolocating bat. Echolocating bats rely on sonar to pursue and capture flying insects. The bat's prey may emerge from foliage for a brief time, fly in erratic three-dimensional paths before returning to cover. Bats typically take less than one second to detect, localize and capture such insects. We used high speed stereo infra-red videography to study the three dimensional flight paths of the big brown bat, Eptesicus fuscus, as it chased erratically moving insects in a dark laboratory flight room. We quantified the bat's complex pursuit trajectories using a simple delay differential equation. Our analysis of the pursuit trajectories suggests that bats use a constant absolute target direction strategy during pursuit. We show mathematically that, unlike CB, this approach minimizes the time it takes for a pursuer to intercept an unpredictably moving target. Interestingly, the bat's behavior is similar to the interception strategy implemented in some guided missiles. We suggest that the time-optimal strategy adopted by the bat is in response to the evolutionary pressures of having to capture erratic and fast moving insects.
Recent evidence from human research has indicated that discrete regions of the brain control different basic emotions. Whether the recognition and formulation of emotions truly stem from compartmentalized systems or arise from a multidimensional framework has yet to be elucidated, however. Disgust is a basic emotion that has been hypothesized to constitute an evolutionary function of contamination and disease avoidance. Disgust involves the appraisal of objects and events for their potential role in contamination, and OCD conceivably involves a dysfunction of this appraisal process. Disgust sensitivity has been shown to be positively correlated with OCD and to significantly predict contamination fear. Likewise, functional imaging studies of OCD patients with contamination concerns demonstrate activation of the same neural regions with disgust-inducing pictures as symptom relevant stimuli. Therefore, the neurocircuits involved in disgust processing may be relevant to OCD and, in particular, the contamination subtype. This review focuses on describing what is known to date concerning the neurocircuitry of disgust, and its relevance to the apparent neurocircuitry of OCD.
In the second half of the 19th century new drugs introduced by the pharmaceutical industry helped lead to the establishment of academic departments in psychiatry. Causal treatment of cerebral pellagra by nicotinic acid and cerebral syphilis by penicillin in the first half of the 20th century led to major changes in the diagnostic distribution of psychiatric patients. In the second half of the 20th century with the introduction of a rapidly growing number of psychotropic drugs, pharmacotherapy became the primary form of treatment in mental illness. Psychiatrists today perceive neuropharmacology as one of the basic sciences of psychiatry and psychopharmacology as the bridge between the mode of action and the clinical indications of psychotropic drugs. Pharmacotherapy with psychotropic drugs focused attention on the differential responsiveness to the same drug within the same diagnostic category. Yet, instead of re-evaluating psychiatric nosology and conducting research in psychopathology, a statistical methodology was adopted for the demonstration of therapeutic effectiveness in pharmacologically heterogeneous populations. Employment of consensus-based classifications and psychiatric rating scales in the clinical development of psychotropic drugs led to semi-finished products, which are prescribed indiscriminately. Replacement of single-center clinical trials by multi-center centrally coordinated clinical investigations led to the control of education in pharmacotherapy by the pharmaceutical industry. To separate education from marketing, the identification of the treatment-responsive forms of illness and the delineation of the therapeutic profile of psychotropic drugs are proposed with the employment of a new methodology, the &quot;Composite Diagnostic Evaluation System.&quot; It is postulated that development of a pharmacologically valid psychiatric nosology with the employment of a &quot;nosologic matrix&quot; would provide the pharmaceutical industry with the necessary feedback to develop clinically selective drugs in mental illness and to break the impasse of progress in &quot;translational research&quot; in psychiatry.
In order to study the gene-environment interaction as well as investigate prophylactic/ameliorative effects of early intervention on development of adult life psychopathology, we superimposed maternal separation on an animal model of depression the Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL) rats and their controls the Flinders Resistant Line (FRL) rats and studied behavior following treatment with escitalopram. Animals were maternally separated for 180 min/day from postnatal day 2 (PND 2) to 14. The control groups were left undisturbed. Treatment with escitalopram or vehicle admixed to food pellets was commenced on PND 43 and continued until PND 73. The Porsolt swim test was carried out on PND 65. Baseline FRL/FSL differences in body weight and swim duration, considered to be an inverse index of depression, were found (p's&lt;0.001). In the FSL, maternal separation further decreased swim duration (p&lt;0.001) while the FRL strain was unaffected. Escitalopram had no effect in FRL, but increased swim duration in both maternally non-separated and separated FSL (p&lt;0.05 and p=0.001; respectively). These results confirm the strain differences between the FSL and FRL and demonstrate that the long-term effects of early life adverse experience will to a significant degree depend on the genetic make-up of an individual. Finally, antidepressant treatment reversed behavioral abnormalities caused by genetic and environmental factors. This study highlights the importance of genetic factors in susceptibility to early life adverse events, and demonstrates the efficiency of early antidepressant treatment in reversing behavioral abnormalities, both those caused by genetic factors and by environmental factors.
Cognitive dysfunction plays an important role in mental disorders like schizophrenia and may involve inadequate glutamatergic signalling in different regions of the brain, mediated by e.g. glutamatergic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. In rodents, NMDA receptor antagonists often increase motor activity; in addition they induce a more primitive and undifferentiated behavioural pattern, which we believe may correspond to some of the cognitive defects seen in schizophrenia. In the present study, the movement pattern of mice treated with the uncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 in conjunction with six antipsychotic agents, some with reported clinical effects on cognition, was characterised and quantified. The classical neuroleptic drugs chlorpromazine and trifluoperazine, the atypical antipsychotic agents ziprasidone and olanzapine, the gamma-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA)-receptor potentiator CX516 and the serotonin (5-HT)2A-antagonist M100907 were tested. In accordance with previous observations, MK-801 was found to induce a primitive and monotonous behavioural pattern dominated by forward locomotion; spatial movements, the number of switches between the states moving and stationary, and rearing frequency were reduced. All test substances counteracted MK-801-induced hyperactivity, but differed in their ability to improve behavioural quality. Chlorpromazine and trifluoperazine were unable to restore behavioural diversity while ziprasidone, olanzapine, CX516 and M100907 restored it to varying degrees. A striking similarity in movement pattern was seen between the hypoglutamatergic mice treated with the AMPA-receptor agonist CX516, and those receiving the 5HT2A-antagonist M100907.
Patients with schizophrenia have in different studies shown reduced niacin sensitivity and lower electrodermal activity (EDA) after auditory stimulation. Peripheral mediation of prostaglandins may have a physiological role in both responses. This motivates study of both niacin response and electrodermal responding in the same patients with schizophrenia. Thirty patients with schizophrenia and 17 controls were investigated with EDA and thereafter given 200mg niacin orally with continuous assessment of skin temperature. The patients showed a delayed temperature increase after niacin ingestion (P=0.002) and a higher frequency of electrodermal non-responding (P&lt;0.05). Response/non-response for niacin correlated with EDA response/non-response in the patient group (P=0.009). The niacin test revealed a slower vasodilation reaction in the patients. The association between response patterns for the niacin test and EDA suggests that a common aberration in skin physiology may be of importance for both reactions in schizophrenia.
A set of ligation-independent expression vectors system has been developed for co-expression of proteins in Escherichia coli. These vectors contain a strong T7 promoter, different drug resistant genes, and an origin of DNA replication from a different incompatibility group, allowing combinations of these plasmids to be stably maintained together. In addition, these plasmids also contain the lacI gene, a transcriptional terminator, and a 3' polyhistidine (6x His) affinity tag (H6) for easy purification of target proteins. All of these vectors contain an identical transportable cassette flanked by suitable restriction enzyme cleavage sites for easy cloning and shuttling among different vectors. This cassette incorporates a ligation-independent cloning (LIC) site for LIC manipulations, an optimal ribosome binding site for efficient protein translation, and a 6x His affinity tag for protein purification Therefore, any E. coli expression vector of choice can be easily converted to LIC type expression vectors by shuttling the cassette using the restriction enzyme cleavage sites at the ends. We have demonstrated the expression capabilities of these vectors by co-expressing three bacterial (dsbA, dsbG, and Trx) and also two other mammalian proteins (KChIP1 and Kv4.3). We further show that co-expressed KChIP1/Kv4.3 forms soluble protein complexes that can be purified for further studies.

In 1994, R. G. Lord and P. E. Levy proposed a variant of control theory that incorporated human information processing principles. The current article evaluates the empirical evidence for their propositions and updates the theory by considering contemporary research on information processing. Considerable support drawing from diverse literatures was found for propositions concerning the activation of goal-relevant information, the inhibition of goal-irrelevant information, and the consequences of goal completion. These effects were verified by meta-analytic analyses, which also supported the meaningfulness of such effects on the basis of their unstandardized magnitudes. The authors conclude by proposing new directions for this version of control theory by invoking recent theorizing on goal emergence and the importance of velocity and acceleration information for goal striving and by reviewing research in cognitive neuroscience.
Although caffeine is the most consumed psychoactive substance in the world, the extents of many of its effects are unknown. High doses of caffeine have been shown to activate the HPA axis while the effects of low to moderate doses have usually not been described in detail. Moreover, although several lines of evidence suggest that low doses of caffeine may restrain some negative affective states, the possible modulatory role of caffeine on HPA axis activation induced by a stressful stimulus has not been described. Thus, the present studies investigated the possible modulatory effects of low to moderate doses of caffeine on moderate to high HPA axis activation induced by different intensities of loud noise. First, in order to test this modulation, time courses for adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone responses to loud noise stress and to caffeine were defined, in rats. Plasma ACTH and corticosterone levels peaked 30 min from the onset of noise presentation, and rapidly declined after noise termination. A low caffeine dose of 2 mg/kg significantly increased plasma corticosterone and ACTH levels 30 min following injections, but levels returned to baseline 60 min following injections. Caffeine doses of 30 mg/kg and higher elevated plasma hormone levels for at least 2h. Doses of 2 or 10mg/kg, however, did not modulate endocrine responses to loud noise presentation. It is concluded that although caffeine activates the HPA axis, low to moderate doses do not modulate HPA axis responses to stressful stimuli.
Hypothalamic pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis and subjective stress response to a cold-water immersion task, the cold pressor task (CPT), in individuals (N=89) with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) were examined. All tests were conducted at 08:00h after an overnight hospital stay. Plasma adrenocorticotrophin hormone (ACTH), cortisol, and subjective stress were examined at baseline and five post-task time points in controls (n=31), subjects with PTSD as a result of an index trauma during childhood (i.e. before age 18; n=25), and subjects with PTSD as a result of an index trauma as an adult (n=33). Approximately, 50% of individuals in both trauma groups were alcohol dependent, and the impact of this comorbidity was also examined. Subjects with PTSD, regardless of age of index trauma, had a less robust ACTH response as compared to controls. Regardless of the presence or absence of comorbid alcohol dependence, subjects with childhood trauma had lower cortisol at baseline and at all post-task measurement points and did not demonstrate the decrease in cortisol over the course of the 2h monitoring period seen in subjects with adult index trauma and controls. The findings reveal differences in the neuroendocrine response to the CPT in individuals with PTSD compared to control subjects, and differences in PTSD subjects when examined by age of index trauma.



This experiment aimed at testing whether 8 weeks of musical training affect the ability of 8-year-old children to detect pitch changes in language. Twenty nonmusician children listened to linguistic phrases that ended with prosodically congruous words or with weak or strong pitch incongruities. We recorded reaction times, error rates, and event-related brain potentials to the final words. Half of the children followed music training and the other half painting training, and all children were retested following training. For both groups, the weak incongruity was the most difficult to detect, but performance was not significantly different between groups. However, the amplitude of a late positive component was largest to strong incongruities and was reduced after training only in the music group. These results suggest that a relatively short exposure to pitch processing in music exerts some influence on pitch processing in language.


Eating disorders and alcohol/drug abuse are frequently comorbid. Eating-disordered patients are already at an increased risk for morbidity and mortality, so alcohol and drug use pose additional dangers for these patients. Restricting anorexics, binge eaters, and bulimics appear to be distinct subgroups within the eating-disordered population, with binge eaters and bulimics more prone to alcohol and drug use. Personality traits such as impulsivity have been linked to both bulimia nervosa and substance abuse. Many researchers have proposed that an addictive personality is an underlying trait that predisposes individuals to both eating disorders and alcohol abuse. Interviewing is generally the most useful tool in diagnosing alcohol and substance abuse disorders in individuals with eating disorders. It is essential for the physician to be non-judgmental when assessing for substance abuse disorders in this population. We discuss interviewing techniques, screening instruments, physical examination, and biological tests that can be used in evaluating patients with comorbid eating disorders and substance abuse. More studies are needed to understand psychobiological mechanisms of this comorbidity, and to develop treatments for individuals with comorbid eating disorders and substance misuse.
Configural visual abilities in thirteen children with Williams syndrome (WS) compared to 13 children matched on mental age and 13 children matched on chronological age. Configural abilities were tested through four tasks (1) Silhouette (2) Fragmented (3) Mooney and (4) overlapping figures. In the first three tasks, it was necessary to take into account the global information, as the identification of the figures could not be established through a local analysis. In the fourth task, the global configuration of the display had to be ignored. Configural skills seem appropriate in the WS population. A possible dissociation between perceptual and visuo-constructive configural competences is discussed.
This study tested the hypothesis that during hypercapnia or hypoxia, airway-related vagal preganglionic neurons (AVPNs) of the nucleus ambiguus (NA) release acetylcholine (ACh), which in a paracrine fashion, activates ACh receptors expressed by inspiratory rhythm generating cells. AVPNs in the NA were ablated by injecting a saporin- (SA) cholera toxin b subunit (CTb-SA) conjugate into the extra-thoracic trachea (n=6). Control animals were injected with free CTb (n=6). In CTb treated rats, baseline ventilation and ventilatory responses to hypercapnia (5 and 12% CO(2) in O(2)) or hypoxia (8% O(2) in N(2)) were similar (p&gt;0.05) prior to and 5 days after injection. CTb-SA injected rats maintained rhythmic breathing patterns 5 days post injection, however, tachypneic responses to hypercapnia or hypoxia were significantly reduced. The number of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) immunoreactive cells in the NA was much lower (p&lt;0.05) in CTb-SA rats as compared to animals receiving CTb only. These results suggest that AVPNs participate in the respiratory frequency response to hypercapnia or hypoxia.
Autism and Asperger syndrome are diagnostic entities in a family of neurodevelopmental disorders disrupting fundamental processes of socialization, communication and learning, collectively known as pervasive developmental disorders. This group of conditions is among the most common developmental disorders, affecting 1 in every 200 or so individuals. They are also the most strongly genetically related among developmental disorders, with recurrence risks within sibships of the order of 2 to 15% if a broader definition of affectedness is adopted. Their early onset, symptom profile, and chronicity implicate fundamental biological mechanisms involved in social adaptation. Advances in their understanding are leading to a new social neuroscience perspective of normative socialization processes and specific disruptions thereof. These processes may lead to the emergence of the highly heterogeneous phenotypes associated with autism, the paradigmatic pervasive developmental disorder, and its variants. This overview focuses on the history, nosology, and the clinical and associated features of the two most well-known pervasive developmental disorders - autism and Asperger syndrome.





Mucopolysaccharidosis type VII (MPSVII) is a lysosomal storage disease resulted from a deficiency of the enzyme beta-glucuronidase (GUSB), which is necessary for degradation of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). The deficiency of GUSB causes progressive accumulation of GAGs and subsequent lysosomal distension in multiple tissues, including the central nervous system (CNS). In murine experiments, bone marrow transplant, enzyme replacement, viral vectors, and genetically modified cells were successfully used for correction of the visceral accumulation of GAGs, but little improvement was seen in the brain, because these therapeutic agents cannot cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Although direct intracerebral injection of GUSB-encoding viral vectors has been developed to bypass the BBB, the possibility of tumor formation and the toxicity of over-expressed GUSB have been reported. In this study, we generated immortalized human amniotic epithelial (IHAE) cells to maintain the effect of implantation, and encapsulated these cells to prevent harmful immunological response and tumor formation and to regulate the level of GUSB expression within the host. Moreover, we generated IHAE cells that over-express and secrete human GUSB following transduction with an adenoviral vector encoding human GUSB. Therapeutic efficacy for MPSVII was evaluated in and ex vivo experiments using these encapsulated genetically engineered GUSB-encoding IHAE cells. We confirmed that encapsulated genetically engineered IHAE cells could secrete significant amounts of GUSB outside the capsule in vitro and into the cerebral parenchyma of C3H mice seven days after the capsule implantation. Thus, encapsulation cell therapy using genetically engineered IHAE cells is an effective armamentarium for the treatment of MPSVII.
In the past few years connectionist models have greatly contributed to formulating theories of cognitive development. Some of these models follow the approach of developmental cognitive neuroscience in exploring interactions between brain development and cognitive development by integrating structural change into learning. We describe two classes of these models. The first focuses on experience-dependent structural elaboration within a brain region by adding or deleting units and connections during learning. The second models the gradual integration of different brain areas based on combinations of experience-dependent and maturational factors. These models provide new theories of the mechanisms of cognitive change in various domains and they offer an integrated framework to study normal and abnormal development, and normal and impaired adult processing.
In the 'generalist genes' hypothesis, it is suggested that the same genes affect most cognitive abilities and disabilities. This recently proposed hypothesis is based on considerable multivariate genetic research showing that there is substantial genetic overlap between such broad areas of cognition as language, reading, mathematics and general cognitive ability. We assume that the hypothesis is correct and consider here its implications for cognitive neuroscience. In our opinion, the two key genetic concepts of pleiotropy (in which one gene affects many traits) and polygenicity (in which many genes affect a trait) that underlie the generalist genes hypothesis imply a 'generalist brain'. That is, the genetic input into brain structure and function is general not specific.
It has been over a decade since the first Alzheimer's disease (AD) transgenic mouse models were reported. These models have enabled dramatic advances in our understanding of the pathogenic mechanism in AD and of potential therapeutic approaches to tackling the inexorable clinical progression of the disease. In this article, we discuss the current status of AD mouse models and focus on recent work that has examined the development of the neuropathological lesions observed in AD (plaques and tangles). The relationship between these lesions, neurodegeneration and development of the clinical syndrome will be explored.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the most common motor neurodegenerative disease. Mutations in the gene encoding leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) have been linked recently with autosomal-dominant parkinsonism that is clinically indistinguishable from typical, idiopathic, late-onset PD. Thus, the protein LRRK2 has emerged as a promising therapeutic target for treatment of PD. LRRK2 is extraordinarily large and complex, with multiple enzymatic and protein-interaction domains, each of which is targeted by pathogenic mutations in familial PD. This review places the PD-associated mutations of LRRK2 in a structural and functional framework, with the ultimate aim of deciphering the molecular basis of LRRK2-associated pathogenesis. This, in turn, should advance our understanding and treatment of familial and idiopathic PD.
Recent data have provided important clues about the molecular mechanisms underlying certain retinal degenerative diseases, including retinitis pigmentosa and age-related macular degeneration. Photoreceptor cell degeneration is a feature common to these diseases, and the death of these cells in many instances seems to involve the closely associated retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells. Under normal circumstances, both cell types are subject to potentially damaging stimuli (e.g. sunlight and high oxygen tension). However, the mechanism or mechanisms by which homeostasis is maintained in this part of the eye, which is crucial for sight, are an unsolved riddle. The omega-3 fatty acid family member docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), which is enriched in these cells, is the precursor of neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1). NPD1 inhibits oxidative-stress-mediated proinflammatory gene induction and apoptosis, and consequently promotes RPE cell survival. This enhanced understanding of the molecular basis of endogenous anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective signaling in the RPE presents an opportunity for the development of therapies for retinal degenerative diseases.
Cerebral deposition of amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) within neuritic plaques is a hallmark pathology of Alzheimer's disease. It is now generally believed that the development of this pathology is central to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. As such, inhibiting Abeta deposition or removing Abeta deposits once they are formed represent therapeutic targets for Alzheimer's disease. Abeta is derived from a precursor, the amyloid precursor protein (APP), and APP binds to the X11 family of adaptor proteins. Studies from several laboratories have now shown that X11alpha and X11beta (the two neuronal X11s) inhibit APP processing and Abeta production. Exactly how this is achieved is not yet known but recent studies in which other X11 binding partners have been identified are beginning to reveal potential mechanisms.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging adaptation (fMRIa) is an increasingly popular method that aims to provide insight into the functional properties of subpopulations of neurons within an imaging voxel. The technique relies on the assumption that neural adaptation reduces activity when two successive stimuli activate the same subpopulation but not when they stimulate different subpopulations. Here, we assess the validity of fMRIa by comparing single-cell recordings with functional imaging of orientation, motion and face processing. We find that fMRIa provides novel insight into neural representations in the human brain. However, network responses in general and adaptation in particular are more complex than is often assumed, and an unequivocal interpretation of fMRIa results can be achieved only with great care.
Computational approaches that adopt dynamical models are widely accepted in basic and clinical neuroscience research as indispensable tools with which to understand normal and pathological neuronal mechanisms. Although computer-aided techniques have been used in pharmaceutical research (e.g. in structure- and ligand-based drug design), the power of dynamical models has not yet been exploited in drug discovery. We suggest that dynamical system theory and computational neuroscience--integrated with well-established, conventional molecular and electrophysiological methods--offer a broad perspective in drug discovery and in the search for novel targets and strategies for the treatment of neurological and psychiatric diseases.
The existence of U-shaped dose dependencies has been known for a long time. With regard to corticosteroid action in brain cells, a dual receptor system that works in opposing directions can explain the occurrence of a U-shaped dose dependency. However, recent evidence indicates that many cell- and tissue-specific factors (e.g. the local availability of corticosterone, the expression of receptor variants and the cellular content of other proteins and molecules) also determine the effectiveness of the hormone. This could result in dose dependencies with a different shape, despite the local presence of two receptor types.
Exposure to high pressures (HP) has been associated with the development of the high pressure neurological syndrome (HPNS) in deep-divers and experimental animals. In contrast, many diving mammals are naturally able to withstand very high pressures. Although at a certain pressure range humans are also able to perform to some extent, the severe signs of HPNS at higher pressures motivated the research on the pathophysiology underlying this syndrome rather than on possible adaptive mechanisms. Thermodynamically, high pressure resembles cooling. Both conditions usually involve reduction in the entropy and slowing down of kinetic rates. We have observed in rat corticohippocampal brain slices that high pressure slows and reduces excitatory synaptic activity. However, this was associated with increased gain of the system, allowing the depressed inputs to elicit regular firing in their target cells. This increased gain was partially mediated by elevated excitability of their dendrites and reduction in the background inhibition. This compensation is efficient at low-medium frequencies. However, it induces abnormal spike reverberation at the high frequency band (&gt; 50 Hz). Synaptic depression that requires less vesicles/transmitter turn over may serve as an energy-saving mechanism when enzymes and membrane pumps activity are slowed down at pressure. It is even more efficient if a similar reduction is induced in inhibitory synaptic activity. Unfortunately, the frequency response characteristics at this mode of operation may make the system vulnerable to external signals (noise, auditory, visual, etc) at frequencies that elicit 'resonance' responses. Therefore, it is expected that humans exposed to pressures above 1.5 MPa display lethargy and fatigue, certain reduction in cognitive and memory functions when the system is working in an 'economic' mode. The more serious signs of HPNS such as nausea, vomiting, severe tremor, disturbance of motor coordination, and seizures, may be the consequence of an interaction between the 'economic' mode of operation and resonance-inducing environmental disturbances.
Inhibitory effects have been reported when a target is preceded by a cue of the same color and location. Color-based inhibition was found using red and blue nonisoluminant stimuli (Law et al., 1995). Here we investigate whether this phenomenon depends on the chromatic subsystem involved by employing isoluminant colors varying along either the violet-yellow or purple-turquoise cardinal axis. Experiment 1 replicated Law et al.'s study: After fixating magenta, either a red or blue cue was presented, followed by a magenta &quot;neutral attractor,&quot; and, finally, by a red or blue target. In Experiment 2, violet and yellow, cue or target, varied along a tritan confusion line in the CIE 1976 chromaticity diagram. In Experiment 3, purple and turquoise, cue or target, varied along a deutan confusion line in the CIE 1976 chromaticity diagram. Normal trichromats (n = 19) participated in all three experiments. In Experiment 1, color repetition indeed resulted in longer reaction times (RTs) (4.7 ms, P = 0.038). In Experiment 2, however, no significant color repetition effect was found; RTs to violet and yellow were not significantly different, though tending toward slower responses (2 ms) for violet repetition but faster (5 ms) for yellow. Experiment 3 also showed no color repetition effect (P = 0.58); notably, RTs were overall faster for purple than for turquoise (22 ms, P 0.05), but faster for turquoise (7 ms, P &gt; 0.05). These findings demonstrate that color repetition is not always inhibitory but may turn facilitatory depending on the colors employed. The results indicate that disengagement of attention is an unlikely mechanism to be the sole explanation of previously reported color-based inhibition of return. We suggest a complementary, perceptual explanation: response (dis)advantage depends on whether the stimuli are isoluminant and on the opponent chromatic subsystem involved. The choice of the colors employed and the cue-attractor-target constellation also may be of significance.
A model of the development of L/M cone ratios in the Old World primate retina is presented. It is supposed that during gestation, the cone cycles randomly between states in which it transcribes either L or M opsin. The current state determines and increases the probability that it will transcribe the same opsin in future cycles. These assumptions are sufficient to formalize the process as a Markov chain that can be modeled as an urn containing two types of balls, L and M. Drawing one ball results in the increase of its species and the decrease of the other. Over the long run, the urn will become populated with a single type of ball. This state corresponds to the photoreceptor adopting a fixed identity for its lifetime. We investigate the effect of the number of states and the rule that regulates the advantage of transition toward one cone type or another on the relation between fetal and adult L/M cone ratios. In the range of 100 to 1000 states, small variations of the initial L/M ratio or the transition advantage can each generate large changes in the final L/M ratio, in qualitative accord with the variation seen in human adult retinas. The time course to attain stable L/M ratios also varies with these parameters. If it is believed that the cycling follows a circadian rhythm, then final L/M cone ratios would be expected to stabilize shortly after birth in the human being and the macaque.
Platyrrhine monkeys typically have only a single X-chromosome opsin gene. Alleles of this gene code for multiple versions of middle- to long-wavelength cone photopigments. X-chromosome inactivation provides heterozygous females with a retinal mosaic of cones containing either of two types of M and L pigment, thus establishing the photopigment basis for trichromatic color vision. This study examined the proportions of L and M cones created by this process. For that purpose, electroretinogram flicker photometry was used to obtain complete spectral sensitivity functions from 60 heterozygous female monkeys drawn from seven genera of platyrrhine monkeys. To obtain estimates of cone proportions, these functions were subsequently fit with linear combinations of L and M cone fundamentals that were derived from similar recordings made on conspecific animals having only one type of M/L pigment. Consistent with a random X-chromosome inactivation process, the average L:M cone weighting across the sample was close to unity. At the same time, there were significant individual variations in L:M cone proportions. The genesis of this variation and its implications for seeing are discussed.
Several treatment strategies have been proposed for the management of depression in women. The occurrence of depression among females is often associated with periods of intense hormonal fluctuations, as observed in cases of premenstrual dysphoria, perinatal depression and with the development of depressive symptoms during the perimenopause. Various hormones including estrogen, progesterone, testosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone and thyroid hormones may exert modulatory effects on neurotransmitter pathways in the CNS. It has been postulated that abrupt changes in these hormones may negatively affect mood; conversely, hormonal interventions could potentially improve such symptoms. This article reviews the current literature on the impact of hormonal treatments for mood symptoms in women and preventative strategies for depression in women during the reproductive lifecycle.



Information about the conditions of all tissues in the body is conveyed to the central nervous system through afferent neurons. Uniquely amongst peripheral organs, the intestine has numerous additional afferent neurons, intrinsic primary afferent neurons that have their cell bodies and processes in the enteric plexuses and do not project to the central nervous system. They detect conditions within the gut and convey that information to intrinsic reflex pathways that are also entirely contained inside the gut wall. Intrinsic primary afferent neurons respond both to the presence of material in the gut lumen and to distension of the gut wall and initiate reflex changes in contractile activity, fluid transport across the mucosa and local blood flow. They also function as nociceptors that initiate tissue-protective propulsive and secretory reflexes to rid the gut of pathogens. The regulation of excitability of intrinsic primary afferent neurons is through multiple ion channels and ion channel regulators, and their excitability is critical to setting the strength of enteric reflexes. The intestine also provides afferent signals to sympathetic pre-vertebral ganglia. The signals are conveyed from the gut by intestinofugal neurons that have their cell bodies within enteric ganglia and form synapses in the sympathetic ganglia. Intestinofugal neurons form parts of the afferent limbs of entero-enteric inhibitory reflexes. Because the unusual afferent neurons of the small intestine and colon make their synaptic connections outside the central nervous system, the neurons and the reflex centres that they affect are potential targets for non-central penetrant therapeutic compounds.
Major antidepressant agents increase synaptic levels of monoamines. Although the monoamine hypothesis of depression remains a cornerstone of our understanding of the pathophysiology of depression, emerging data has suggested that the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor subtype of glutamate receptor may also play a pivotal role in depression. Positive allosteric modulators of AMPA receptors increase brain levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) that impacts the viability and generation of neurons in key brain structures. AMPA receptor potentiators are active in rodent models predictive of antidepressant efficacy. The mechanisms by which AMPA receptor potentiators produce these biological effects, however, are uncertain. Current evidence points to an antidepressant mechanism that is independent of monoaminergic facilitation that is driven by neurogenesis, a process facilitated by increased BDNF expression. However, alternative hypotheses need to be considered given uncertainties in the relationship between BDNF increases and the effects of conventional antidepressant medications. Electrophysiological and protein conformational data indicate that structural variants of AMPA receptor potentiators can differentially modulate AMPA receptor-mediated currents, although the manner in which this impacts antidepressant efficacy is yet to be understood. Conventional antidepressants such as fluoxetine positively modulate AMPA receptors. This potentiation is engendered by specific phosphorylation pathways activated through the dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of Mr 32,000 (DARPP-32). Other novel compounds with antidepressant-like effects in rodents may also produce their in vivo effects through potentiation of AMPA receptors. Thus, AMPA receptor potentiation might be a general mechanism through which the clinical outcome of antidepressant efficacy is achieved.
Small conductance, Ca2+-activated voltage-independent potassium channels (SK channels) are widely expressed in diverse tissues; however, little is known about the molecular regulation of SK channel subunits. Direct alteration of ion channel subunits by kinases is a candidate mechanism for functional modulation of these channels. We find that activation of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) with forskolin (50 microm) causes a dramatic decrease in surface localization of the SK2 channel subunit expressed in COS7 cells due to direct phosphorylation of the SK2 channel subunit. PKA phosphorylation studies using the intracellular domains of the SK2 channel subunit expressed as glutathione S-transferase fusion protein constructs showed that both the amino-terminal and carboxyl-terminal regions are PKA substrates in vitro. Mutational analysis identified a single PKA phosphorylation site within the amino-terminal of the SK2 subunit at serine 136. Mutagenesis and mass spectrometry studies identified four PKA phosphorylation sites: Ser465 (minor site) and three amino acid residues Ser568, Ser569, and Ser570 (major sites) within the carboxyl-terminal region. A mutated SK2 channel subunit, with the three contiguous serines mutated to alanines to block phosphorylation at these sites, shows no decrease in surface expression after PKA stimulation. Thus, our findings suggest that PKA phosphorylation of these three sites is necessary for PKA-mediated reorganization of SK2 surface expression.
Phospholipase C (PLC)-gamma is unique among the PLC enzymes because each PLC-gamma isozyme contains a split pleckstrin homology (PH) domain with an SH2SH2SH3 tandem repeat insertion (where SH indicates Src homology domain) in the middle of its sequence. Split PH domains exist in a number of other proteins that play crucial signaling roles. However, little is known about the structure and function of split PH domains. The C-terminal half of the PLC-gamma split PH domain has been implicated to interact directly with the TRPC3 calcium channel, thereby providing a direct coupling mechanism between PLC-gamma and agonist-induced calcium entry. However, this interaction has not been proved by direct biochemical or structural studies. Here we determined the three-dimensional structure of the split PH domain of PLC-gamma1, and we found that the split PH domain of the enzyme folds into a canonical PH domain fold with high thermostability. The SH2SH2SH3 insertion between the beta3 and beta4 strands does not change the structure of the split PH domain. In contrast to the majority of phospholipid-binding PH domains, the PLC-gamma1 split PH domain lacks the signature lipid-binding motif located between the beta1 and beta2 strands. Consistent with this structural feature, the split PH domain of PLC-gamma1 does not bind to phospholipids. Multiple biochemical and biophysical experiments have argued against a direct interaction between TRPC3 and the C-terminal half of the PLC-gamma1 split PH domain. Our data pointed to the existence of a yet to be elucidated interaction mechanism between TRPC3 and PLC-gamma1.
The neural microtubule-associated protein Tau binds directly to microtubules and regulates their dynamic behavior. In addition to being required for normal development, maintenance, and function of the nervous system, Tau is associated with several neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer disease. One group of neurodegenerative dementias known as FTDP-17 (fronto-temporal dementia with Parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17) is directly linked genetically to mutations in the tau gene, demonstrating that Tau misfunction can cause neuronal cell death and dementia. These mutations result either in amino acid substitutions in Tau or in altered Tau mRNA splicing that skews the expression ratio of wild-type 3-repeat and 4-repeat Tau isoforms. Because wild-type Tau regulates microtubule dynamics, one possible mechanism underlying Tau-mediated neurodegeneration is aberrant regulation of microtubule behavior. In this study, we microinjected normal and mutated Tau protein into cultured cells expressing fluorescent tubulin and measured the effects on the dynamic instability of individual microtubules. We found that the FTDP-17 amino acid substitutions G272V (in both 3-repeat and 4-repeat Tau contexts), DeltaK280, and P301L all exhibited markedly reduced abilities to regulate dynamic instability relative to wild-type Tau. In contrast, the FTDP-17 R406W mutation (which maps in a regulatory region outside the microtubule binding domain of Tau) did not significantly alter the ability of 3-repeat or 4-repeat Tau to regulate microtubule dynamics. Overall, these data are consistent with a loss-of-function model in which both amino acid substitutions and altered mRNA splicing in Tau lead to neurodegeneration by diminishing the ability of Tau to properly regulate microtubule dynamics.
Rat (r) PDZRhoGEF, initially identified as a glutamate transporter EAAT4-associated protein, is a member of a novel RhoGEF subfamily. The N terminus of the protein contains a PDZ and a proline-rich domain, two motifs known to be involved in protein-protein interactions. By using the yeast two-hybrid approach, we screened for proteins that interact with the N terminus of rPDZRhoGEF. The light chain 2 of microtubule-associated protein 1 (LC2) was the only protein identified from the screen that does not contain a type I PDZ-binding motif at its extreme C terminus (-(S/T)Xphi-COOH, where phi is a hydrophobic amino acid). However, the C terminus does conform to a type II-binding motif (-phiXphi). We report here that rPDZRhoGEF interacts with LC2 via the PDZ domain, and the interaction is abolished by mutations in the carboxylate-binding loop. The specificity of the interaction was confirmed using GST fusion protein pull-down assays and coimmunoprecipitations. Expression of rPDZRhoGEF mutants that are unable to interact with proteins via the carboxylate-binding loop induced changes in cell morphology and actin organization. These mutants alter the activation of RhoGTPases, and coexpression of dominant-negative RhoGTPases prevent the morphological changes. Furthermore, in cells expressing wild type rPDZRhoGEF, drug-induced microtubule depolymerization produces changes in cell morphology that are similar to those induced by rPDZRhoGEF mutants. These results indicate that modulation of the guanine nucleotide exchange activity of rPDZRhoGEF through interaction with microtubule-associated protein light chains may coordinate microtubule integrity and the reorganization of actin cytoskeleton. This coordinated action of the actin and microtubular cytoskeletons is essential for the development and maintenance of neuronal polarity.
We describe an information-theoretic framework for fitting neural spike responses with a Linear-Nonlinear-Poisson cascade model. This framework unifies the spike-triggered average (STA) and spike-triggered covariance (STC) approaches to neural characterization and recovers a set of linear filters that maximize mean and variance-dependent information between stimuli and spike responses. The resulting approach has several useful properties, namely, (1) it recovers a set of linear filters sorted according to their informativeness about the neural response; (2) it is both computationally efficient and robust, allowing recovery of multiple linear filters from a data set of relatively modest size; (3) it provides an explicit &quot;default&quot; model of the nonlinear stage mapping the filter responses to spike rate, in the form of a ratio of Gaussians; (4) it is equivalent to maximum likelihood estimation of this default model but also converges to the correct filter estimates whenever the conditions for the consistency of STA or STC analysis are met; and (5) it can be augmented with additional constraints on the filters, such as space-time separability. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the method by applying it to simulated responses of a Hodgkin-Huxley neuron and the recorded extracellular responses of macaque retinal ganglion cells and V1 cells.
There are a number of ways one can hope to describe and explain cognitive abilities, each of them contributing a unique and valuable perspective. Cognitive psychology tries to develop and test functional accounts of cognitive systems that explain the capacities and properties of cognitive abilities as revealed by empirical data gathered by a range of behavioral experimental paradigms. Much of the research in the cognitive psychology of working memory has been strongly influenced by the multi-component model of working memory [Baddeley AD, Hitch GJ (1974) Working memory. In: Recent advances in learning and motivation, Vol. 8 (Bower GA, ed), pp 47-90. New York: Academic Press; Baddeley AD (1986) Working memory. Oxford, UK: Clarendon Press; Baddeley A. Working memory: Thought and action. Oxford: Oxford University Press, in press]. By expanding the notion of a passive short-term memory to an active system that provides the basis for complex cognitive abilities, the model has opened up numerous questions and new lines of research. In this paper we present the current revision of the multi-component model that encompasses a central executive, two unimodal storage systems: a phonological loop and a visuospatial sketchpad, and a further component, a multimodal store capable of integrating information into unitary episodic representations, termed episodic buffer. We review recent empirical data within experimental cognitive psychology that has shaped the development of the multicomponent model and the understanding of the capacities and properties of working memory. Research based largely on dual-task experimental designs and on neuropsychological evidence has yielded valuable information about the fractionation of working memory into independent stores and processes, the nature of representations in individual stores, the mechanisms of their maintenance and manipulation, the way the components of working memory relate to each other, and the role they play in other cognitive abilities. With many questions still open and new issues emerging, we believe that the multicomponent model will continue to stimulate research while providing a comprehensive functional description of working memory.
Working memory is an important cognitive process dependent on a network of prefrontal and posterior cortical regions. In this study we tested the effects of the mixed D1-D2 dopamine receptor agonist pergolide on component processes of human working memory using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). An event-related trial design allowed separation of the effects on encoding, maintenance, and retrieval processes. Subjects were tested with spatial and object memoranda to investigate modality-specific effects of dopaminergic stimulation. We also measured baseline working memory capacity as previous studies have shown that effects of dopamine agonists vary with working memory span. Pergolide improved reaction time for high-span subjects and impaired reaction time for low-span subjects. This span-dependent change in behavior was accompanied by span-dependent changes in delay-related activity in the premotor cortex. We also found evidence for modality-specific effects of pergolide only during the response period. Pergolide increased activity for spatial memoranda and decreased activity for object memoranda in task-related regions including the prefrontal and parietal cortices.
This study investigated acquisition of a mirror-reading skill via imagery training, without the actual performance of a mirror-reading task. In experiment I, healthy volunteers simulated writing on an imaginary, transparent screen placed at eye level, which could be read by an experimenter facing the subject. Performance of this irrelevant motor task required the subject to imagine the letters inverted, as if seen in a mirror from their own point of view (imagery training). A second group performed the same imagery training interspersed with a complex, secondary spelling and counting task. A third, control, group simply wrote the words as they would normally appear from their own point of view. After training with 300 words, all subjects were tested in a mirror-reading task using 60 non-words, constructed according to acceptable letter combinations of the Portuguese language. Compared with control subjects, those exposed to imagery training, including those who switched between imagery and the complex task, exhibited shorter reading times in the mirror-reading task. Experiment II employed a 2 x 3 design, including two training conditions (imagery and actual mirror-reading) and three competing task conditions (a spelling and counting switching task, a visual working memory concurrent task, and no concurrent task). Training sessions were interspersed with mirror-reading testing sessions for non-words, allowing evaluation of the mirror-reading acquisition process during training. The subjects exposed to imagery training acquired the mirror-reading skill as quickly as those exposed to the actual mirror-reading task. Further, performance of concurrent tasks together with actual mirror-reading training severely disrupted mirror-reading skill acquisition; this interference effect was not seen in subjects exposed to imagery training and performance of the switching and the concurrent tasks. These results unequivocally show that acquisition of implicit skills by top-down imagery training is at least as efficient as bottom-up acquisition.
Memory for order information has been tied to the frontal lobes, however, parietal activation is observed in many functional neuroimaging studies. Here we report functional magnetic resonance findings from an event-related experiment involving working memory for order. Five letters were presented for storage, followed after a delay by two probe items. Probe items could be separated by zero to three positions in the memory set and subjects had to indicate whether the items were in the correct order. Analyses indicate that activation in left parietal cortex shows a systematic decrease in activation with increasing probe distance. This finding is consistent with an earlier study in which we suggested that parietal cortical regions mediate the representation of order information via magnitude codes.
Working memory for order information is mediated by different cognitive mechanisms that rely on different neural circuits. Here we discuss evidence that order memory involves mechanisms that range from general supervisory processes to process that maintenance fine-grained temporal position information. We suggest that neural regions-including the prefrontal cortex, motor cortex, parietal cortex and medial temporal structures-operate at different levels and processing stages to give rise to working memory for order information.
Studies of patients with focal brain lesions remain critical components of research programs attempting to understand human brain function. Whereas functional imaging typically reveals activity in distributed brain regions that are involved in a task, lesion studies can define which of these brain regions are necessary for a cognitive process. Further, lesion studies are less critical regarding the selection of baseline conditions needed in functional brain imaging research. Lesion studies suggest a functional subdivision of the visuospatial sketchpad of working memory with a ventral stream reaching from occipital to temporal cortex supporting object recognition and a dorsal stream connecting the occipital with parietal cortex enabling spatial operations. The phonological loop can be divided into a phonological short-term store in inferior parietal cortex and an articulatory subvocal rehearsal process relying on brain areas necessary for speech production, i.e. Broca's area, the supplementary motor association area and possibly the cerebellum. More uncertainty exists regarding the role of the prefrontal cortex in working memory. Whereas single cell studies in non-human primates and functional imaging studies in humans have suggested an extension of the ventral and dorsal path into different subregions of the prefrontal cortex, lesion studies together with recent single-cell and imaging studies point to a non-mnemonic role of the prefrontal cortex, including attentional control of sensory processing, integration of information from different domains, stimulus selection and monitoring of information held in memory. Our own data argue against a modulatory view of the prefrontal cortex and suggest that processes supporting working memory are distributed along ventral and dorsal lateral prefrontal cortex.
The prefrontal cortex has long been thought to subserve both working memory and &quot;executive&quot; function, but the mechanistic basis of their integrated function has remained poorly understood, often amounting to a homunculus. This paper reviews the progress in our laboratory and others pursuing a long-term research agenda to deconstruct this homunculus by elucidating the precise computational and neural mechanisms underlying these phenomena. We outline six key functional demands underlying working memory, and then describe the current state of our computational model of the prefrontal cortex and associated systems in the basal ganglia (BG). The model, called PBWM (prefrontal cortex, basal ganglia working memory model), relies on actively maintained representations in the prefrontal cortex, which are dynamically updated/gated by the basal ganglia. It is capable of developing human-like performance largely on its own by taking advantage of powerful reinforcement learning mechanisms, based on the midbrain dopaminergic system and its activation via the basal ganglia and amygdala. These learning mechanisms enable the model to learn to control both itself and other brain areas in a strategic, task-appropriate manner. The model can learn challenging working memory tasks, and has been corroborated by several important empirical studies.
Working memory dysfunction is a core component of schizophrenia, which likely contributes substantially to the pervasive and profound cognitive deficits observed in patients with this illness. Developments in functional imaging have facilitated the investigation of the neural basis of these cognitive deficits. A strong tradition within neuropsychology has been that circumscribed lesions provide observations which constrain theoretical models, and generate testable predictions on the basis of observed relationships between structural abnormalities and behavioral dysfunction. In this article, the extent to which the neuropsychological tradition can be applied to neuropsychiatry to advance understanding of the biological basis of working memory is addressed. Empirical studies in schizophrenia research are reviewed in relation to principles of normal brain function sub-serving working memory: the functional role of the lateral prefrontal cortex, physiological response capacity constraints, inter-regional functional integration, and compensatory adaptations. However, complex heterogeneous psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia cannot be considered akin to a pure lesion model, and there are considerable methodological challenges in interpreting disruptions of working memory in psychiatric conditions, resulting from clinical, treatment and performance related confounds. The increasing use of psychopharmacological models of disease in healthy human subjects is therefore considered as an attempt to address, or to some extent circumvent these issues.
Humans have an extraordinary ability to maintain and manipulate visual image information in the absence of perceptual stimulation. The neural substrates of visual working memory have been extensively researched, but there have been few attempts to integrate these findings into a model of how different cortical areas interact to form and maintain visual memories. In this paper, I review findings from neurophysiological, neuropsychological, and neuroimaging studies of visual working memory in human and nonhuman primates. These data support a model in which visual working memory operations rely on activation of object representations in inferior temporal cortex, via top-down feedback from neocortical areas in the prefrontal and medial temporal cortex, and also from the hippocampus.
Understanding the role of prefrontal cortex in delayed-response task performance has been a central focus of neuroimaging research. The first part of this review will emphasize consistent observations of memory-load-related effects on prefrontal cortex activity that have led me and my colleagues to propose a &quot;memory-organization hypothesis&quot; of prefrontal cortex function. The second part examines how predictions of this hypothesis have borne up to empirical testing. The final part of this review suggests that there is important information contained in between-study variance in the anatomical locus and temporal sequence of neural activity. I will examine how subtle variations in task-structure affect subjects' strategies, producing meaningful variability in neuroimaging data. Systematic manipulation of these variables in future research can assist in elucidating the role of prefrontal cortex in delayed response task performance.
Three experiments study the impact of symmetry on a sequential block tapping immediate memory task in human subjects. Experiment 1 shows an advantage from vertical symmetry over non-symmetrical sequences, while finding no effect of horizontal or diagonal symmetry. Experiment 2 tests the possible role of verbal labeling by means of a secondary task that prevents this by articulatory suppression. No evidence of verbalization was observed. A third study examines the effects of a concurrent executive load, finding an overall impairment, that did not differ between symmetrical and asymmetric patterns, suggesting that the effect of symmetry reflects automatic rather than executive processes. Implications for the episodic buffer component of working memory are discussed.
Working memory deficit in schizophrenia is a core cognitive feature of the disorder and is reliably associated with abnormalities of the prefrontal circuitry. Working memory deficits are also associated with impaired social functioning and present a major obstacle toward successful rehabilitation in schizophrenia. Although the role of prefrontal cortex in working memory has been extensively investigated, the intricate relations among the prefrontal circuitry, working memory and social behaviors are not clearly understood. In this study, we manipulated social context and observed its effects on spatial working memory. In experiment 1, the effects of social and asocial reinforcements on spatial working memory were examined in schizophrenic patients and healthy controls. The results show that social but not asocial reinforcements facilitated spatial working memory in schizophrenic patients. In experiment 2, the effects of human voice reinforcements (with or without affect) on working memory was investigated. Voice reinforcements did not facilitate working memory relative to the no-reinforcement condition. There was no difference between high-affect vs flat-affect voice conditions. In experiment 3, the effects of direct and indirect social interactions on spatial working memory were studied. Direct but not indirect social interaction facilitated working memory in schizophrenic patients. These results suggest that social context might facilitate working memory in schizophrenic patients perhaps by activating frontal lobe systems. In addition, the possibility of improving cognitive functions such as working memory using seemingly non-cognitive methods might lead to potential remediation strategies.
Persistent neural activity selective to features of an extinct stimulus has been identified as the neural correlate of working memory processes. The precise nature of the physiological substrate for this self-sustained activity is still unknown. In the last few years, this problem has gathered experimental together with computational neuroscientists in a quest to identify the cellular and network mechanisms involved. I introduce here the attractor theory framework within which current persistent activity computational models are built, and I then review the main physiological mechanisms that have been linked thereby to persistent activity and working memory. Open computational and physiological issues with these models are discussed, together with their potential experimental validation in current in vitro models of persistent activity.
The interference method transcranial magnetic stimulation has to be seen as a complimentary tool to the other noninvasive correlational techniques such as positron emission tomography, functional magnetic resonance imaging or electroencephalography in cognitive neuroscience. However, the combination of two methods e.g. transcranial magnetic stimulation and positron emission tomography seems to be the strongest approach to validate or postulate new hypotheses. In this review several studies using transcranial magnetic stimulation to disentangle working memory functions are presented. The conclusion is drawn that there exists a superordinated amodal central executive within the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex strongly connected with modality specific areas mainly within the prefrontal cortex.
It has long been known that storage of information in working memory suffers as a function of proactive interference. Here we review the results of experiments using approaches from cognitive neuroscience to reveal a pattern of brain activity that is a signature of proactive interference. Many of these results derive from a single paradigm that requires one to resolve interference from a previous experimental trial. The importance of activation in left inferior frontal cortex is shown repeatedly using this task and other tasks. We review a number of models that might account for the behavioral and imaging findings about proactive interference, raising questions about the adequacy of these models.
Experimental work based on single cell recordings supports the hypothesis that working memory representations are retained by sustained neuronal firing. While this hypothesis can account for the maintenance of a single memory item, it remains unclear how multiple working memory items are represented. This account will discuss the possible physiological mechanism responsible for the maintenance of multiple working memory items including mechanisms based on sustained firing and synaptic encoding. The focus will be on temporal segmentation by phase encoding, namely the idea that several working memory items are activated sequentially at different points in time. It has been proposed that a mechanism of nested gamma (30-80 Hz) and theta (4-8 Hz) oscillations is responsible for controlling the reactivation of the memory list. This mechanism has been shown to be compatible with multiple behavioral findings on working memory such as the data from the Sternberg experiment. The theta/gamma mechanism has also received support from a large set of electrophysiological findings, however, more experimental work is required to further substantiate or falsify the model.
Functional neuroimaging studies consistently implicate a widespread network of human cortical brain areas that together support spatial working memory. This review summarizes our recent functional magnetic resonance imaging studies of humans performing delayed-saccades. These studies have isolated persistent activity in dorsal prefrontal regions, like the frontal eye fields, and the posterior parietal cortex during the maintenance of positional information. We aim to gain insight into the type of information coded by this activity. By manipulating the sensory and motor demands of the working memory task, we have been able to modulate the frontal eye fields and posterior parietal cortex delay-period activity. These findings are discussed in the context of other neurophysiological and lesion-based data and some hypotheses regarding the differential contributions of frontal and parietal areas to spatial working memory are offered. Namely, retrospective sensory coding of space may be more prominent in the posterior parietal cortex, while prospective motor coding of space may be more prominent in the frontal eye fields.
Working memory has often been modeled and conceptualized as a kind of binary (bistable) memory switch, where stimuli turn on plateau-like persistent activity in subsets of cells, in line with many in vivo electrophysiological reports. A potentially related form of bistability, termed up- and down-states, has been studied with regard to its synaptic and ionic basis in vivo and in reduced cortical preparations. Also single cell mechanisms for producing bistability have been proposed and investigated in brain slices and computationally. Recently, however, it has been emphasized that clear plateau-like bistable activity is rather rare during working memory tasks, and that neurons exhibit a multitude of different temporally unfolding activity profiles and temporal structure within their spiking dynamics. Hence, working memory seems to be a highly dynamical neural process with yet unknown mappings from dynamical to computational properties. Empirical findings on ramping activity profiles and temporal structure will be reviewed, as well as neural models that attempt to account for it and its computational significance. Furthermore, recent in vivo, neural culture, and in vitro preparations will be discussed that offer new possibilities for studying the biophysical mechanisms underlying computational processes during working memory. These preparations have revealed additional evidence for temporal structure and spatio-temporally organized attractor states in cortical networks, as well as for specific computational properties that may characterize synaptic processing during high-activity states as during working memory. Together such findings may lay the foundations for highly dynamical theories of working memory based on biophysical principles.
The assumption that the deployment of executive processes invariably improves task performance is implicit to cognitive theory. In particular, working memory can be used to retain and update historical information about predictable trial sequences (foreknowledge) so that subjects can anticipate and prepare for the upcoming trial more effectively. We review the effects of different types of foreknowledge on response accuracy and latency, particularly in relation to experiments investigating saccadic eye movements in humans. While it is possible to make all aspects of an impending trial predictable, varying the predictability of different components of the trial independently can reveal which cognitive operations are potentially modifiable by foreknowledge. These operations include stimulus processing, retrieval of task-set rules, and response preparation, among others. The available data suggest that, while response preparation can be completed and the response even executed before the stimulus appears (i.e. anticipation) when the subject possesses complete task-foreknowledge (knowing both the stimulus to appear and the response required), foreknowledge of the task-set alone does not permit advance configuration of the task-set rules. A taxonomy for foreknowledge is proposed, including foreknowledge for timing, stimulus, set, response, and task. Work on differentiating these effects in neurophysiology, neuroimaging, and neuropsychology is still in the early stages.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the spatio-temporal characteristics of the neural correlates of declarative memory formation as assessed by the subsequent memory effect, i.e. the difference in encoding activity between subsequently remembered and subsequently forgotten items. Different operations could account for these effects. In particular, it has been proposed that successful memory formation depends on the organization of the information at the time of encoding, an operation accomplished by the working memory system. Consequently, functional magnetic resonance imaging studies have already shown that the very same regions that are involved in certain working memory processes are also involved in declarative memory formation. Here, we used magnetoencephalography to investigate whether the subsequent memory effects in these regions are present throughout picture stimulus presentation, postulating ongoing working memory operations as an effective factor. The results showed that subsequent memory effects began to appear after about 300 ms post stimulus onset over bilateral temporal areas and left parietal regions and were sustained throughout the recording epoch (1000 ms). Roughly parallel to these effects, we identified a left frontal subsequent memory effect, which, however, was less sustained than the other effects. In addition, we revealed a late subsequent memory effect over the right occipital region, which has not been described previously in the event-related potential literature. These sustained subsequent memory effects are suggestive of working memory processes that may enable deep semantic and perceptual processing. Additionally, contextually constrained visual perception after top-down modulation may account for a more efficient encoding of the complex scene.
Working memory is a mechanism for short-term active maintenance of information as well as for processing maintained information. The dorsolateral prefrontal cortex has been known to participate in working memory. The analysis of task-related dorsolateral prefrontal cortex activity while monkeys performed a variety of working memory tasks revealed that delay-period activity is a neural correlate of a mechanism for temporary active maintenance of information, because this activity persisted throughout the delay period, showed selectivity to a particular visual feature, and was related to correct behavioral performances. Information processing can be considered as a change of the information represented by a population of neural activities during the progress of the trial. Using population vectors calculated by a population of task-related dorsolateral prefrontal cortex activities, we demonstrated the temporal change of information represented by a population of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex activities during performances of spatial working memory tasks. Cross-correlation analysis using spike firings of simultaneously isolated pairs of neurons reveals widespread functional interactions among neighboring neurons, especially neurons having delay-period activity, and their dynamic modulation depending on the context of the trial. Functional interactions among neurons and their dynamic modulation could be a mechanism of information processing in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex.
Working memory can be defined as the ability to hold in mind information in the face of potentially interfering distraction in order to guide behavior. The experimental manipulation of working memory tasks has shed considerable light on the probable structure of the human working memory system, and, to a lesser extent, the specific processes captured by working memory paradigms. However, individual differences research has also had a crucial role to play in the development of theories of working memory. In particular, correlational approaches have been particularly informative in three areas of working memory research, each of which is reviewed here. These are, first, the importance of working memory measures as correlates of high-level cognitive skills such as reading, mathematics, reasoning, and fluid intelligence; second, the extent to which human working memory relies on domain-general or domain-specific component subsystems, and third, the precise reasons why working memory measures do relate to other important indices of human cognitive functioning. The findings from each of these areas suggest that working memory depends on a combination of domain-specific representational systems and domain-general processing and control systems, and that working memory measures capture individuals' ability to combine maintenance and processing demands in a manner that limits information loss from forgetting or distraction.
The present study aimed to investigate in humans whether similar neuronal mechanisms underlie the manipulation and active processing of visual and visuospatial stimuli. Simultaneous and successive mental rotation and identity judgment of 2-D matrices and 3-D cube figures were contrasted using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Results demonstrate that activation patterns during mental rotation with low working memory demands differ depending on stimulus type (2-D vs. 3-D). Comparison of simultaneous mental rotation of matrices and 3-D cubes resulted in activation of frontal as well as inferior and superior parietal cortices. The opposite contrast (mental rotation of 3-D cubes vs. 2-D matrices) yielded only frontal cortex activation. The findings also yield evidence for converging, overlapping activation patterns for 2-D and 3-D stimuli if working memory demands are increased. Results are discussed within the framework of current working memory models.
This article argues how dopamine controls working memory and how the dysregulation of the dopaminergic system is related to schizophrenia. In the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, which is the principal part of the working memory system, recurrent excitation is subtly balanced with intracortical inhibition. A potent controller of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortical circuit is the mesocortical dopaminergic system. To understand the characteristics of the dopaminergic control of working memory, the stability of the circuit dynamics under the influence of dopamine has been studied. Recent computational studies suggest that the hyperdopaminergic state is usually stable but the hypodopaminergic state tends to be unstable. The stability also depends on the efficacy of the glutamatergic transmission in the corticomesencephalic projections to dopamine neurons. When this cortical feedback is hypoglutamatergic, the circuit of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex tends to be unstable, such that a slight increase in dopamine releasability causes a catastrophic jump of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex activity from a low to a high level. This may account for the seemingly paradoxical overactivation of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex observed in schizophrenic patients. Given that dopamine transmission is abnormal in the brains of patients with schizophrenia and working memory deficit is a core dysfunction in schizophrenia, the concept of circuit stability would be useful not only for understanding the mechanisms of working memory processing but for developing therapeutic strategies to enhance cognitive functions in schizophrenia.
One of the main challenges in working memory research has been to understand the degree of separation and overlap between the neural systems involved in encoding and maintenance. In the current study we used a variable load version of the Sternberg item recognition test (two, four, six, or eight letters) and a functional connectivity method based on constrained principal component analysis to extract load-dependent neural systems underlying encoding and maintenance, and to characterize their anatomical overlap and functional interaction. Based on the pattern of functional connectivity, constrained principal component analysis identified a load-dependent encoding system comprising bilateral occipital (Brodmann's area (BA) 17, 18), bilateral superior parietal (BA 7), bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal (BA 46), and dorsal anterior cingulate (BA 24, 32) regions. For maintenance, in contrast, constrained principal component analysis identified a system that was characterized by both load-dependent increases and decreases in activation. The structures in this system jointly activated by maintenance load involved left posterior parietal (BA 40), left inferior prefrontal (BA 44), left premotor and supplementary motor areas (BA 6), and dorsal cingulate regions (BA 24, 32), while the regions displaying maintenance-load-dependent activity decreases involved bilateral occipital (BA 17, 18), posterior cingulate (BA 23) and rostral anterior cingulate/orbitofrontal (BA 10, 11, 32) regions. The correlation between the encoding and maintenance systems was strong and negative (Pearson's r = -.55), indicting that some regions important for visual processing during encoding displayed reduced activity during maintenance, while subvocal rehearsal and phonological storage regions important for maintenance showed a reduction in activity during encoding. In summary, our analyses suggest that separable and complementary subsystems underlie encoding and maintenance in verbal working memory, and they demonstrate how constrained principal component analysis can be employed to characterize neuronal systems and their functional contributions to higher-level cognition.
A considerable body of evidence supports the notion that the neurofunctional substrate of working memory is not only related to the integrity of the prefrontal cortex, but also to the concerted interplay of widespread interacting networks including the parietal cortex, subcortical regions and cerebellar areas. Modern functional brain imaging techniques such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) have provided a detailed picture of functional neuroanatomy subserving working memory functions. Most of the earlier functional studies were directed toward the identification of brain areas subserving specific cognitive domains in terms of a functional segregation. More recently, different multivariate techniques were employed to specifically address measures of functional or effective connectivity. Structural equation modeling (SEM) or path analysis is one of the most often used methods to model interactions among covarying brain areas in an explicitly model-based approach. The present review will focus on basic methodological issues of SEM for the analysis of fMRI datasets in studies of working memory. Aside from a discussion of previous studies and their essential findings, advanced methodological issues and caveats as well as future perspectives of the method will be addressed.
This review presents neuroimaging studies that have explored the cerebral substrates of executive functioning. These studies have demonstrated that different executive functions not only recruit various frontal areas but also depend upon posterior (mainly parietal) regions. These results are in accordance with the hypothesis that executive functioning relies on a distributed cerebral network that is not restricted to anterior cerebral areas. However, there exists an important heterogeneity in the cerebral areas associated with these different processes, and also between different tasks assessing the same process. Since these discrepant results could be due to the paradigms used (subtraction designs), recent results obtained with conjunction and interaction analyses are presented, which confirm the role of parietal areas in executive functioning and also demonstrate the existence of some specificity in the neural substrates of the executive processes of updating, shifting and inhibition. Finally, functional magnetic resonance imaging studies show that the activity in cerebral areas involved in executive tasks can be transient or sustained. Consequently, to better characterize the functional role of areas associated with executive functioning, it is important to take into account not only the localization of cerebral activity but also the temporal pattern of this activity.
Cognitive neuroscience research on working memory has been largely motivated by a standard model that arose from the melding of psychological theory with neuroscience data. Among the tenets of this standard model are that working memory functions arise from the operation of specialized systems that act as buffers for the storage and manipulation of information, and that frontal cortex (particularly prefrontal cortex) is a critical neural substrate for these specialized systems. However, the standard model has been a victim of its own success, and can no longer accommodate many of the empirical findings of studies that it has motivated. An alternative is proposed: Working memory functions arise through the coordinated recruitment, via attention, of brain systems that have evolved to accomplish sensory-, representation-, and action-related functions. Evidence from behavioral, neuropsychological, electrophysiological, and neuroimaging studies, from monkeys and humans, is considered, as is the question of how to interpret delay-period activity in the prefrontal cortex.
Working memory is essential to learning and performing sensory-motor behaviors that in many situations require the integration of stimuli of one modality with stimuli of another. In the present study, we focused on the neural mechanisms underlying crossmodal working memory. We hypothesized that in performance of the tactile crossmodal working memory task, there would be sequentially discrete task-correlated neural activities representing the processes of crossmodal working memory. Scalp-recorded event-related potentials were collected from 15 electrodes in humans performing each of four tasks: tactile-tactile unimodal delayed matching-to-sample task, tactile-visual crossmodal delayed matching-to-sample task, tactile unimodal control spatial task, and tactile crossmodal control spatial task. Two positive event-related potential peaks were observed during the delay of the task. One peak (late positive component-1) was at about 330 ms after the onset of the tactile stimulus, and the other (late positive component-2) was at about 600 ms. Late positive component-1 was observed in all four tasks. There was no significant difference in late positive component-1 either between the unimodal tasks, or between the crossmodal tasks, but late positive component-1 was significantly larger in the crossmodal tasks than that in the unimodal tasks, and showed a specific pattern of larger activity over parietal areas than activity over frontal areas. Late positive component-2 was not observed in the unimodal matching task but was observed in all other three tasks over parietal areas. During the late delay (1000 ms-1500 ms), significant differences in negative potentials (late negative component) were found between the tasks. The present study shows sequential changes in event-related potentials during the retention period of working memory tasks. It indicates that in performance of a crossmodal working memory task, there are sequentially discrete neural processes that may represent neural activities related to different cognitive functions, such as crossmodal transfer of information, and the working memory of the stimulus.
Recent studies of neural correlates of working memory components have identified both low-level perceptual processes and higher-order supramodal mechanisms through which sensory information can be integrated and manipulated. In addition to the primary sensory cortices, working memory relies on a widely distributed neural system of higher-order association areas that includes posterior parietal and occipital areas, and on prefrontal cortex for maintaining and manipulating information. The present study was designed to determine brain patterns of neural response to the same spatial working memory task presented either visually or in a tactile format, and to evaluate the relationship between spatial processing in the visual and tactile sensory modalities. Brain activity during visual and tactile spatial working memory tasks was measured in six young right-handed healthy male volunteers by using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Results indicated that similar fronto-parietal networks were recruited during spatial information processing across the two sensory modalities-specifically the posterior parietal cortex, the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and the anterior cingulate cortex. These findings provide a neurobiological support to behavioral observations by indicating that common cerebral regions subserve generation of higher order mental representations involved in working memory independently from a specific sensory modality.
Studies of attention and working memory address the fundamental limits in our ability to encode and maintain behaviorally relevant information, processes that are critical for goal-driven processing. Here we review our current understanding of the interactions between these processes, with a focus on how each construct encompasses a variety of dissociable phenomena. Attention facilitates target processing during both perceptual and postperceptual stages of processing, and functionally dissociated processes have been implicated in the maintenance of different kinds of information in working memory. Thus, although it is clear that these processes are closely intertwined, the nature of these interactions depends upon the specific variety of attention or working memory that is considered.
Three classic delay tasks: spatial delayed response, delayed spatial alternation and delayed object-alternation are prototypical experimental paradigms for mapping the functional neuroanatomy of prefrontal cortex in animals. These tasks have been applied in human lesion studies, yet there have been very few studies investigating their functional neuroanatomy in healthy human subjects. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate the functional neuroanatomy of these classic paradigms (and a fourth: object delayed response) in a single sample of healthy human participants. Consistent with previous animal, human lesion, and functional neuroimaging studies, activity was observed in prefrontal and posterior parietal cortices across all three delay tasks. Task-specific activations, however, were not entirely consistent with predictions drawn from animal lesion studies. For example, delayed object-alternation activated dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, a region not generally implicated in animal lesion reports. Spatial delayed response, classically associated with the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, did not activate this region; it rather activated posterior premotor cortices involved in response preparation, as did spatial alternation. All three tasks activated the frontopolar cortex, a region not considered crucial in animal research but associated with manipulation of internally generated information in recent human research. While cross-method convergence may be attained for lower level perceptual or motor tasks, the results of this study caution against the assumption that lesion-specific effects in animals generalize to human prefrontal cortex function.
It has been postulated that spatial working memory operates optimally within a limited range of dopamine transmission and D1 dopamine receptor signaling in prefrontal cortex. Insufficiency in prefrontal dopamine, as in aging, and excessive transmission, as in acute stress, lead to impairments in working memory that can be ameliorated by D1 receptor agonist and antagonist treatment, respectively. Iontophoretic investigations of dopamine's influence on the cellular mechanisms of working memory have revealed that moderate D1 blockade can enhance memory fields in primate prefrontal pyramidal neurons while strong blockade abolishes them. The combined behavioral and physiological evidence indicates that there is a normal range of dopamine function in prefrontal cortex that can be described as an &quot;inverted-U&quot; relationship between dopamine transmission and the integrity of working memory. Both in vivo and in vitro studies have demonstrated a role for dopamine in promoting the excitability of prefrontal pyramidal cells and facilitating their N-methyl-d-aspartate inputs, while simultaneously restraining recurrent excitation and facilitating feedforward inhibition. This evidence indicates that there is a fine balance between the synergistic mechanisms of D1 modulation in working memory. Given the critical role of prefrontal function for cognition, it is not surprising that this balancing act is perturbed by both subtle genetic influences and environmental events. Further, there is evidence for an imbalance in these dopaminergic mechanisms in multiple neuropsychiatric disorders, particularly schizophrenia, and in related nonhuman primate models. Elucidating the orchestration of dopamine signaling in key nodes within prefrontal microcircuitry is therefore pivotal for understanding the influence of dopamine transmission on the dynamics of working memory. Here, we explore the hypothesis that the window of optimal dopamine signaling changes on a behavioral time-scale, dependent upon current cognitive demands and local neuronal activity as well as long-term alterations in signaling pathways and gene expression. If we look under the bell-shaped curve of prefrontal dopamine function, it is the relationship between neuromodulation and cognitive function that promises to bridge our knowledge between molecule and mind.
Work with individuals with lesions to specific brain regions has long been used to test or even generate theories regarding the neural systems that support specific cognitive processes. Work with individuals who have neuropsychiatric disorders that also involve neurobiological disturbances may be able to play a similar role in theory testing and building. For example, schizophrenia is a psychiatric disorder thought to involve a range of neurobiological disturbances. Further, individuals with schizophrenia are known to suffer from deficits in working memory, meaning that examining the work on the neurobiology of working memory deficits in schizophrenia may help to further our understanding of the cognitive neuroscience of working memory. This article discusses the pros and cons of extrapolating from work in schizophrenia to models of healthy working memory function, and reviews the literature on working memory function in schizophrenia in relationship to existing human and non-human primate models of the cognitive neuroscience of working memory.

The expression of the galanin receptor-1 and -2 (Gal(1) and Gal(2)) messenger ribonucleic acids (mRNAs) was studied in the lower spinal cord of rat by means of in situ hybridization, using ribonucleic acid probes (riboprobes). Nave rats as well as rats with unilateral axotomy of the sciatic nerve or unilateral inflammation of the hindpaw were analyzed. In nave rats, numerous Gal(1) mRNA-positive (+) neurons were detected in lamina (L) I-III. In addition, several Gal(1) mRNA(+) neurons were seen in deeper layers, including the ventral horns, area X, and the lateral spinal nucleus. In contrast, few and comparatively weakly labeled Gal(2) mRNA(+) neurons were observed, mostly in the ventral horns and in area X, with fewer in the dorsal horn and in the sympathetic and parasympathetic intermediate lateral cell columns. Axotomy induced a strong increase in intensity and number of Gal(2) mRNA(+) motoneurons ipsilateral to the lesion. In contrast, nerve cut or hindpaw inflammation did not alter the expression of Gal(1) or Gal(2) in the dorsal horn. The present (and previous) results suggest that galanin, acting through Gal(1) and Gal(2) receptors, has a modulatory role on spinal excitability, not only via interneurons in superficial dorsal horn, but also on neurons in deep layers and area X, as well as on the sympathetic and parasympathetic outflow. Furthermore, the nerve injury-induced Gal(2) upregulation in motor neurons suggests a role for galanin in survival/regeneration mechanisms.
Zinquin (Zn(2+) selective fluorophore), when used to visualize intracellular Zn(2+), typically shows brightly fluorescent perinuclear endosome-like structures, presumably identifying Zn(2+) containing organelles. In this study, zinquin identified numerous and widespread sites of Zn(2+) compartmentalization in primary cultures of embryonic rat cortical neurons. Nuclear fluorescence, however, was absent. We labeled neuronal mitochondria with MitoTracker Green in the presence of zinquin and show that the fluorescent patterns of MitoTracker Green and zinquin were distinct and clearly different in both the perinuclear region and in processes. The mitochondrial compartment was much larger than the sum of the areas of zinquin fluorescence, as indicated by the small amount (&lt;10% MitoTracker Green over zinquin) of overlap of MitoTracker Green on zinquin. Zinquin fluorescence was unaffected by carbonyl cyanide 4-(trifluoromethoxy)phenylhydrazone (FCCP) treatment. The zinquin fluorescent objects were generally spherical in shape with a average diameter of about 0.6 mum. Most fluorescent objects, nearly two thirds on average, appeared to be docked, but both anterograde and retrograde movements were observed by time lapse image analysis. Although some fluorescent objects moved as much as 1 mum in 5 min, typical movements were smaller, usually 0.5 mum or less. Colchicine treatment caused striking aggregation of MitoTracker Green most noticeable in the perinuclear region. Zinquin fluorescence similarly showed reduced distribution throughout the cytoplasm, suggesting that zinquin fluorescent structures were associated with microtubules. Treatment with cytochalasin D had little noticeable effect on either the pattern of zinquin and MitoTracker Green fluorescence or their coincidence. Thus, numerous Zn(2+) sequestering organelles/structures are present in perinuclear regions and processes of cultured neurons and are sometimes found coincident with mitochondria. We demonstrated real time trafficking of sequestered Zn(2+), using zinquin fluorescence, apparently associated with an endosome-like compartment or protein complexes in the cytosol.
Systemic administration of the nonselective muscarinic agonist pilocarpine induces pronounced striatal Fos expression. Intrastriatal injections of the mamba snake toxin MT-7, a highly selective and irreversible m1 muscarinic antagonist, drastically attenuated this response when given 2, but not 8, days before pilocarpine. In contrast, MT-7 did not alter the response to amphetamine (5 mg/kg). These results suggest that pilocarpine induces Fos expression in the striatum as a result of stimulating m1 muscarinic receptors located within this structure and demonstrate the utility of the MT-7 for in vivo studies of cholinergic function.
Fanconi anemia (FA) is a complex disease involving nine identified and two unidentified loci that define a network essential for maintaining genomic stability. To test the hypothesis that the FA network is conserved in vertebrate genomes, we cloned and sequenced zebrafish (Danio rerio) cDNAs and/or genomic BAC clones orthologous to all nine cloned FA genes (FANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD1, FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG, and FANCL), and identified orthologs in the genome database for the pufferfish Tetraodon nigroviridis. Genomic organization of exons and introns was nearly identical between zebrafish and human for all genes examined. Hydrophobicity plots revealed conservation of FA protein structure. Evolutionarily conserved regions identified functionally important domains, since many amino acid residues mutated in human disease alleles or shown to be critical in targeted mutagenesis studies are identical in zebrafish and human. Comparative genomic analysis demonstrated conserved syntenies for all FA genes. We conclude that the FA gene network has remained intact since the last common ancestor of zebrafish and human lineages. The application of powerful genetic, cellular, and embryological methodologies make zebrafish a useful model for discovering FA gene functions, identifying new genes in the network, and identifying therapeutic compounds.
The transcription factor cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) is implicated in mediating the actions of chronic morphine in the locus ceruleus (LC), but direct evidence to support such a role is limited. Here, we investigated the influence of CREB on LC neuronal activity and opiate withdrawal behaviors by selectively manipulating CREB activity in the LC using viral vectors encoding genes for CREBGFP (wild-type CREB tagged with green fluorescent protein), caCREBGFP (a constitutively active CREB mutant), dnCREBGFP (a dominant-negative CREB mutant), or GFP alone as a control. Our results show that in vivo overexpression of CREBGFP in the LC significantly aggravated particular morphine withdrawal behaviors, whereas dnCREBGFP expression attenuated these behaviors. At the cellular level, CREBGFP expression in the LC in vivo and in vitro had no significant effect on neuronal firing at baseline but enhanced the excitatory effect of forskolin (an activator of adenylyl cyclase) on these neurons, which suggests that the cAMP signaling pathway in these neurons was sensitized after CREB expression. Moreover, in vitro studies showed that caCREBGFP-expressing LC neurons fired significantly faster and had a more depolarized resting membrane potential compared with GFP-expressing control cells. Conversely, LC neuronal activity was decreased by dnCREBGFP, and the neurons were hyperpolarized by this treatment. Together, these data provide direct evidence that CREB plays an important role in controlling the electrical excitability of LC neurons and that morphine-induced increases in CREB activity contribute to the behavioral and neural adaptations associated with opiate dependence and withdrawal.
A prominent theory of hippocampal function proposes that the hippocampus is importantly involved in relating or binding together separate pieces of information to form an episodic representation. This hypothesis has only been applied to studies of long-term memory because the paradigmatic view of the hippocampus is that it is not critical for short-term forms of memory. However, relational processing is important in many working memory tasks, especially tasks using visual stimuli. Here, we test the hypothesis that the medial temporal lobes are important for relational memory even over short delays. The task required patients with medial temporal lobe amnesia and controls to remember three objects, locations, or object-location conjunctions over 1 or 8 s delays. The results show that working memory for objects and locations was at normal levels, but that memory for conjunctions was severely impaired at 8 s delays. Additional analyses suggest that the hippocampus per se is critical for accurate conjunction working memory. We propose that the hippocampus is critically involved in memory for conjunctions at both short and long delays.
CNS abnormalities can be detected during chronic human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, before the development of opportunistic infections or other sequelae of immunodeficiency. However, although end-stage dementia caused by HIV has been linked to the presence of infected and activated macrophages and microglia in the brain, the nature of the changes resulting in the motor and cognitive disorders in the chronic stage is unknown. Using simian immunodeficiency virus-infected rhesus monkeys, we sought the molecular basis for CNS dysfunction. In the chronic stable stage, nearly 2 years after infection, all animals had verified CNS functional abnormalities. Both virus and infiltrating lymphocytes (CD8+ T-cells) were found in the brain. Molecular analysis revealed that the expression of several immune response genes was increased, including CCL5, which has pleiotropic effects on neurons as well as immune cells. CCL5 was significantly upregulated throughout the course of infection, and in the chronic phase was present in the infiltrating lymphocytes. We have identified an altered state of the CNS at an important stage of the viral-host interaction, likely arising to protect against the virus but in the long term leading to damaging processes.
NR3A is expressed widely in the developing CNS of mammals. Coassembly of NR3A with NR1 and NR2 modifies NMDA receptor-mediated responses, reducing calcium permeability and single-channel conductance. The ligand binding properties of NR3A are unknown but shape the role NR3A plays when incorporated into NMDA receptors. Here, a soluble NR3A ligand binding domain (NR3A S1S2) was constructed based on amino acid sequence alignments with other glutamate receptor ion channels and is expressed in Escherichia coli. After purification by affinity, gel filtration, and ion exchange chromatography, NR3A S1S2 behaves as a monomer even at a concentration of 20 mg/ml, as determined by size-exclusion chromatography and dynamic light scattering. NR3A S1S2 has very high affinity for glycine with an apparent dissociation constant (Kd) of 40 nm, 650-fold less than the Kd for NR1. Glutamate, which binds to NR2 subunits, also binds to NR3A, but with very low affinity (Kd = 9.6 mm); in contrast, binding of glutamate to NR1 was not detectable even at a 300 mm concentration. The antagonist binding profiles of NR3A and NR1 also show striking differences. 6-cyano-2,3-dihydroxy-7-nitro-quinoxaline (CNQX), and its analog CGP78608, bind to NR3A S1S2 with low micromolar affinity, whereas for NR1, the affinity of CGP78608 increases 1000-fold compared with CNQX. Other high-affinity NR1 antagonists also show very weak binding to NR3A. Proteolysis protection experiments reveal that CNQX and CGP78608 bind to and stabilize domain 1 of NR3A S1S2 but increase proteolysis of domain 2, indicating that they produce conformational changes distinct from those induced by glycine and D-serine.
The recurrent excitatory and inhibitory connections between and within layers of the cerebral cortex are fundamental to the operation of local cortical circuits. Models of cortical function often assume that recurrent excitation and inhibition are balanced, and we recently demonstrated that spontaneous network activity in vitro contains a precise balance of excitation and inhibition; however, the existence of a balance between excitation and inhibition in the intact and spontaneously active cerebral cortex has not been directly tested. We examined this hypothesis in the prefrontal cortex in vivo, during the slow (&lt;1 Hz) oscillation in ketamine-xylazine-anesthetized ferrets. We measured persistent network activity (Up states) with extracellular multiple unit and local field potential recording, while simultaneously recording synaptic currents in nearby cells. We determined the reversal potential and conductance change over time during Up states and found that the body of Up state activity exhibited a steady reversal potential (-37 mV on average) for hundreds of milliseconds, even during substantial (21 nS on average) changes in membrane conductance. Furthermore, we found that both the initial and final segments of the Up state were characterized by significantly more depolarized reversal potentials and concomitant increases in excitatory conductance, compared with the stable middle portions of Up states. This ongoing temporal evolution between excitation and inhibition, which exhibits remarkable proportionality within and across neurons in active local networks, may allow for rapid transitions between relatively stable network states, permitting the modulation of neuronal responsiveness in a behaviorally relevant manner.
Neuroprotection can be induced by low doses of NMDA, which activate both synaptic and extrasynaptic NMDA receptors. This is in apparent contradiction with our recent findings that extrasynaptic NMDA receptor signaling exerts a dominant inhibitory effect on prosurvival signaling from synaptic NMDA receptors. Here we report that exposure to low preconditioning doses of NMDA results in preferential activation of synaptic NMDA receptors because of a dramatic increase in action potential firing. Both acute and long-lasting phases of neuroprotection in the face of apoptotic or excitotoxic insults are dependent on this firing enhancement. Key mediators of synaptic NMDA receptor-dependent neuroprotection, phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase-Akt (PI3 kinase-Akt) signaling to Forkhead box subgroup O (FOXO) export and glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta) inhibition and cAMP response element-binding protein-dependent (CREB-dependent) activation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), can be induced only by low doses of NMDA via this action potential-dependent route. In contrast, NMDA doses on the other side of the toxicity threshold do not favor synaptic NMDA receptor activation because they strongly suppress firing rates below baseline. The classic bell-shaped curve depicting neuronal fate in response to NMDA dose can be viewed as the net effect of two antagonizing (synaptic vs extrasynaptic) curves: via increased firing the synaptic signaling dominates at low doses, whereas firing becomes suppressed and extrasynaptic signaling dominates as the toxicity threshold is crossed.
Magnetic resonance imaging and computer image analysis in human clinical studies effectively identify abnormal neuroanatomy in disease populations. As more mouse models of neurological disorders are discovered, such an approach may prove useful for translational studies. Here, we demonstrate the effectiveness of a similar strategy for mouse neuroscience studies by phenotyping mice with the cerebellar deficient folia (cdf) mutation. Using in vivo multiple-mouse magnetic resonance imaging for increased throughput, we imaged groups of cdf mutant, heterozygous, and wild-type mice and made an atlas-based segmentation of the structures in 15 individual brains. We then performed computer automated volume measurements on the structures. We found a reduced cerebellar volume in the cdf mutants, which was expected, but we also found a new phenotype in the inferior colliculus and the olfactory bulbs. Subsequent local histology revealed additional cytoarchitectural abnormalities in the olfactory bulbs. This demonstrates the utility of anatomical magnetic resonance imaging and semiautomated image analysis for detecting abnormal neuroarchitecture in mutant mice.
Diagnosis and treatment of pruritus is still a great problem. The pathophysiologic principles are mostly unknown, however the progress in neurosciences also added several new neurophysiologic explanations for pruritus. There exist several different types of pruritus and also the treatment of the different forms varies. The treatment of chronic pruritus is not the same as the treatment of acute pruritus. Usually more than one pathological disorder leads to severe pruritus and therefore the diagnostic of the different forms of pruritus and the treatment needs an interdisciplinary approach. One of the major causes of itch is dry skin, this is true for elderly persons and also for patients with atopic dermatitis. Therefore, the treatment of the dry skin is one of the most important measures against pruritus.
In human parietal cortex, the retinal location of a just seen visual stimulus is updated from one hemisphere to the other, when a horizontal eye movement brings the representation of the stimulus into the opposite visual hemifield. The present study aimed to elucidate the time course of this process. Twelve subjects performed an updating task, in which a filled circle was shown before a horizontal saccade, requiring updating of stimulus location, and a control task without visual stimulation before the saccade. Electroencephalogram (EEG) and electrooculogram (EOG) were recorded while subjects performed the tasks and LORETA source analysis was performed on event-related potential (ERP) components. ERP amplitudes were more positive in the updating condition in comparison to the control condition in two latency windows. An early positive wave starting at about 50 ms after saccade offset and originating in the posterior parietal cortex contralateral to saccade direction probably reflects the integration of saccade-related and visual information and thus the updating process. A shift of the representation of the to-be-updated stimulus to the opposite hemisphere is reflected in a later component starting approximately 400 ms after saccade offset, which is related to memory and originates in the PPC ipsilateral to saccade direction and thus contralateral to the spatial location of the updated visual stimulus.
Developmental and social factors are known to play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of affective disorders. Although it has been demonstrated that early life aversive experiences can be a risk factor in the development of human depression, most of the investigation in animals that try to model depression do not include postnatal manipulations. Since housing represents a fundamental ethological factor which modifies behavior and brain development, this study aimed to investigate the impact of different social and structural housing conditions on the development of a depressive-like syndrome in the behavioral despair paradigm and an anxiety-like syndrome in the unconditioned anxiety paradigm. The present study uses several multivariate analyses to study the impact of housing conditions in animal models of depression and anxiety. In this study, social isolation was able to reproduce the effects found in other animals models based on stress, suggesting that only 2 months of social isolation are enough to produce effects that can be useful as behavioral model of depression. Moreover, environmental enrichment showed an antidepressive and anxiolytic like effect in animal models of depression and anxiety. This effect, which has not been reported in earlier studies, suggests that stimulation during the first stages of growth might play a &quot;protective&quot; role on behavior and brain development.
We have reported that exposure to bacteria (Escherichia coli) during the neonatal period in rats is associated with impaired memory for a novel context in adulthood. However, impairment is only observed if a peripheral immune challenge (bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS)) is administered immediately following context exposure. The goal of the current study was to more fully characterize this phenomenon. In Experiment 1, memory impairment as a result of neonatal infection and subsequent LPS challenge was observed in juvenile rats, indicating that the changes induced by infection occur early on and are then manifest throughout the lifespan. In Experiment 2, infection in juvenile rats did not lead to LPS-induced memory impairment in adulthood, suggesting there is a critical period for early infection-induced alterations. In Experiments 3 and 4, memory for a novel context was impaired in neonatally infected rats, a task that is dependent on the hippocampus, whereas cued memory for a tone, which does not depend on the hippocampus, was not impaired. Furthermore, long-term, but not short-term contextual memory was impaired in adult rats infected as neonates following an LPS challenge either 24 h before or immediately after conditioning. Finally, in Experiment 5, no neonatal group differences were observed in corticosterone or open field behaviour, suggesting that decreased freezing to a conditioned context reflects impaired memory, and not simply hyperactivity or altered stress reactivity. Taken together, we have demonstrated that neonatal infection results in robust hippocampal-dependent memory impairment following an immune challenge in adulthood using a number of conditioning paradigms.
Beta-catenin phosphorylation at serine 45 (Ser45), threonine 41 (Thr41), Ser37, and Ser33 is critical for beta-catenin degradation, and regulation of beta-catenin phosphorylation is a central part of the canonical Wnt signaling pathway. Beta-catenin mutations at Ser45, Thr41, Ser37, and Ser33 perturb beta-catenin degradation and are frequently found in cancers. It is established that Ser45 phosphorylation by casein kinase I (CKI) initiates phosphorylation at Thr41, Ser37, and Ser33 by glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) and that phosphorylated Ser37 and Ser33 are recognized by the F-box protein beta-TrCP, a component of a ubiquitin ligase complex that mediates beta-catenin degradation. While the roles of Ser45, Ser37, and Ser33 are well documented, the function of Thr41 remains less defined. Here we show that Thr41 strictly acts as a phosphorylation relay residue and that the Ser-X-X-X-Ser (X is any amino acid) motif is obligatory for beta-catenin phosphorylation by GSK3. Beta-catenin phosphorylation/degradation and its regulation by Wnt can occur normally in the absence of Thr41 as long as the Ser-X-X-X-Ser motif/spacing is preserved. These results suggest that Thr41 functions to bridge sequential phosphorylation from Ser45 to Ser37 and provide further insights into the discrete steps and logic in beta-catenin phosphorylation-degradation.
The authors report a Japanese patient with hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type 2 (HSAN2) who has a new mutation of the HSN2 gene. The pathologic findings of the patient matched those of Canadian patients. They identified a homozygous 1134-1135 ins T mutation, resulting in a frameshift, and the subsequent premature stop codon at residue 378. These observations support the hypothesis that HSN2 is a causative gene for HSAN2.



Amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) accumulation in aged Sprague-Dawley rats (12 months) with kaolin-induced hydrocephalus was investigated by Abeta(1-40) and Abeta(1-42) immunohistochemistry at 2, 6 and 10 weeks after induction. The low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein-1 transporting Abeta across the blood-brain barrier was assayed. Age-matched controls showed some positive Abeta staining, mainly in the choroid plexus. At 2 weeks after induction, Abeta staining of the arachnoid and subependymal layer was observed. At 6 weeks, larger Abeta accumulations were prominent at the endothelial and perivascular sites. Intraparenchymal Abeta positively stained accumulations occurred at 10 weeks. Microvessel lipoprotein receptor-related protein-1 staining was progressively reduced from 2 to 10 weeks. The pattern of Abeta deposition and lipoprotein receptor-related protein-1 loss suggests reduced Abeta clearance in chronic hydrocephalus.
Nogo-66 receptor was first identified in neurons. Recently, it was demonstrated in glial cells as well. Our previous study on the expression of Nogo-66 receptor in the cerebellum of the rat surprisingly found its location at the glial gap junctions. Here, we present our study on Nogo-66 receptor in the rat posterior pituitary, which is densely packed with pituicytes, a special type of astrocyte, and is known to be rich in gap junctions. We were able to demonstrate with immunohistochemistry and immuno-electron microscopy abundant Nogo-66 receptor immunoreactive gap junctions between pituicytes. This study, together with our prior one, strongly suggests that the Nogo-66 receptor may play a role in regulating the function of the gap junctions.
The controllability of stressors modulates many of the consequences of stressor exposure. Here, we used immunohistochemistry to examine neural progenitor cell proliferation and survival and basic fibroblast growth factor-2 in the hippocampus of male rats after controllable or uncontrollable tailshock. A series of identical tailshocks were delivered to yoked pairs of rats. One rat could terminate shocks to both rats of the pair. Reductions in neural progenitor cells were observed at 1-2 days and at 28 days in rats exposed to uncontrollable shock. Controllable shock produced an increase in fibroblast growth factor-2 in the dentate gyrus and CA1 2 h after stress and in the dentate gyrus 24 h after stress. Thus, stressor controllability modulates stress-induced decreases in neurogenesis and increases in fibroblast growth factor-2.
Noise-induced hearing loss induces reorganization of the tonotopic map in cat auditory cortex and increases spontaneous firing rate and neural synchrony. We showed previously that keeping cats after noise trauma in an acoustic environment enriched in high frequencies prevents tonotopic map reorganization. Here, we show the effects of low-frequency and high-frequency enriched acoustic environments on spontaneous firing rate and neural synchrony. Exposed cats placed in the quiet environment and in the low-frequency enriched acoustic environment showed increased spontaneous firing rate and synchrony of firing. In contrast, exposed cats placed in the high-frequency enriched acoustic environment did not show significant differences in spontaneous firing rate or synchrony compared with normal hearing controls. This is interpreted as an absence of putative neural signs of tinnitus.
Whole-cell patch-clamp was used to assess the modulatory effect of thiopental (Thio) on glycine (Gly) receptor in mechanically dissociated rat spinal dorsal horn neurons. It was found that Thio inhibited the amplitude, accelerated the desensitization and prolonged the deactivation of Gly-induced currents (IGly) in a concentration-dependent manner. In addition, a rebound current occurred after washout of the co-application of Gly and Thio in most neurons tested. Moreover, the inhibitory effect of Thio was not the result of cross-inhibition between Gly and GABAA receptors. Furthermore, taurine-induced currents, a low-affinity agonist for Gly receptors, were also markedly inhibited by Thio in a similar way to IGly. These results indicate that Thio suppresses Gly receptor function and suggest that Thio anesthetic actions might not be mediated by Gly receptors. We speculate that the weak muscle relaxation and the limited analgesic effects observed during Thio anesthesia may attribute to its inhibitory effects on Gly receptors.
Zaltoprofen, a propionic acid derivative of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), was shown to have more powerful inhibitory effects to bradykinin (BK)-nociception than other NSAIDs. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this potent analgesia are not yet fully understood. Here we attempted to clarify the molecular mechanism underlying zaltoprofen-induced analgesia on BK-induced nociception by a novel algogenic-induced paw flexion (APF) test in mice. The intraplantar (i.pl.) injection of zaltoprofen at 1nmol showed strong analgesic action on BK (i.pl.)-induced nociceptive flexor responses, whereas loxoprofen or its active metabolite loxoprofen-SRS did not. Zaltoprofen also inhibited the nociception induced by [Tyr8]-BK, a specific agonist of B2-type BK receptor, but did not affect the nociception by [Lys-des-Arg9]-BK, a specific agonist of B1-type BK receptor. However, zaltoprofen did not affect the substance P-induced nociception, which is mediated by common post-receptor signaling through nociceptive fibers with BK-ones. All these results suggest that NSAID zaltoprofen possesses novel anti-nociceptive mechanism, which inhibits B2-type BK receptor function in nerve endings.
Recent work in our laboratories has demonstrated that an opioid-independent form of stress-induced analgesia (SIA) is mediated by endogenous ligands for cannabinoid receptors-anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) [A.G. Hohmann, R.L. Suplita, N.M. Bolton, M.H. Neely, D. Fegley, R. Mangieri, J.F. Krey, J.M. Walker, P.V. Holmes, J.D. Crystal, A. Duranti, A. Tontini, M. Mor, G. Tarzia, D. Piomelli, An endocannabinoid mechanism for stress-induced analgesia, Nature 435 (2005) 1108-1112]. The present study was conducted to examine the contribution of cannabinoid CB1 receptors in the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA) and central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) to nonopioid SIA. SIA was induced by continuous footshock (3 min 0.9 mA) and quantified behaviorally using the tail-flick test. Microinjection of the CB1 antagonist/inverse agonist rimonabant (SR141716A) into the BLA, a limbic forebrain region with high densities of CB1 receptors, suppressed SIA relative to control conditions. By contrast, the same dose administered into the CeA, where CB1 immunoreactivity is largely absent, or outside the amygdala did not alter SIA. To examine the contribution of endocannabinoids in the BLA to SIA, we used selective pharmacological inhibitors of the anandamide-degrading enzyme fatty-acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) and the 2-arachidonoylglycerol-degrading enzyme monoacylglycerol lipase (MGL). The FAAH inhibitor URB597 and MGL inhibitor URB602, at doses that enhanced SIA following microinjection in the midbrain periaqueductal gray, did not alter SIA relative to control conditions. Our findings suggest that CB1 receptors in the BLA but not the CeA contribute to SIA, but pharmacological inhibition of endocannabinoid degradation at these sites does not affect the expression of stress antinociception.
Formation of neuronal intranuclear inclusions of the disease proteins that are ubiquitinated and often associated with various proteasome components is the major hallmark of the polyglutamine diseases. Curcumin is a polyphenolic compound having anti-inflammatory, anti-tumor, and anti-oxidative properties. Recently, curcumin has been reported to suppress the amyloid-beta accumulation, oxidative damage, and inflammation in the transgenic mice model of Alzheimer's disease. Here, we found that the treatment of curcumin increases the polyglutamine-expanded truncated N-terminal huntingtin (mutant huntingtin) aggregation and mutant huntingtin-dependent cell death. Curcumin also causes rapid proteasomal malfunction in the mutant huntingtin expressing cells in comparison with normal glutamine repeat expressing cells. Finally, we show that N-acetyl cysteine (NAC), a potent antioxidant, reverted the curcumin-induced mutant huntingtin aggregation and proteasomal malfunction in the mutant huntingtin expressing cells. NAC also protects curcumin-induced cell death. Our result suggests that curcumin promotes mutant huntingtin-induced cell death by mimicking proteasomal dysfunction.
Apoptosis of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) impairs vision in glaucoma patients. RGCs are also degenerated in multiple sclerosis (MS), resulting in loss of visual perception in MS patients. We examined the involvement of calpain and caspase cascades in apoptosis of the rat retinal ganglion cell line RGC-5 following 24 h of exposure to 250 nM ionomycin (IMN) or 300 units/ml interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and then evaluated functional neuroprotection with 2 microM calpeptin (CP, a calpain-specific inhibitor). Morphological and biochemical features of apoptosis were detected in RGC-5 cells following exposure to IMN or IFN-gamma. Fura-2 assay determined significant increases in intracellular free [Ca2+] following exposure to IMN or IFN-gamma. Pretreatment with CP for 1 h prevented Ca2+ influx, proteolytic activities, and apoptosis in RGC-5 cells. Western blot analyses showed an increase in activities of calpain and caspase-12, upregulation of Bax:Bcl-2 ratio, release of cytochrome c from mitochondria, and increase in caspase-9 and caspase-3 activities during apoptosis. Increased caspase-3 activity was also confirmed by a colorimetric assay. Activation of caspase-8 and cleavage of Bid to tBid in RGC-5 cells following exposure to IFN-gamma indicated co-operation between extrinsic and intrinsic pathways of apoptosis. Patch-clamp recordings showed that pretreatment with CP attenuated apoptosis and maintained normal whole-cell membrane potential, indicating functional neuroprotection. Taken together, our results demonstrated that Ca2+ overload could be responsible for activation of calpain and caspase cascades leading to apoptotic death of RGC-5 cells and CP provided functional neuroprotection.
The G protein gamma13 subunit (Ggamma13) is expressed in taste and retinal and neuronal tissues and plays a key role in taste transduction. We identified PSD95, Veli-2, and other PDZ domain-containing proteins as binding partners for Ggamma13 by yeast two-hybrid and pull-down assays. In two-hybrid assays, Ggamma13 interacted specifically with the third PDZ domain of PSD95, the sole PDZ domain of Veli-2, and the third PDZ domain of SAP97, a PSD95-related protein. Ggamma13 did not interact with the other PDZ domains of PSD95. Coexpression of Ggamma13 with its Gbeta1 partner did not interfere with these two-hybrid interactions. The physical interaction of Ggamma13 with PSD95 in the cellular milieu was confirmed in pull-down assays following heterologous expression in HEK293 cells. The interaction of Ggamma13 with the PDZ domain of PSD95 was via the C-terminal CAAX tail of Ggamma13 (where AA indicates the aliphatic amino acid); alanine substitution of the CTAL sequence at the C terminus of Ggamma13 abolished its interactions with PSD95 in two-hybrid and pull-down assays. Veli-2 and SAP97 were identified in taste tissue and in Ggamma13-expressing taste cells. Coimmunoprecipitation of Ggamma13 and PSD95 from brain and of Ggamma13 and SAP97 from taste tissue indicates that Ggamma13 interacts with these proteins endogenously. This is the first demonstration that PDZ domain proteins interact with heterotrimeric G proteins via the CAAX tail of Ggamma subunits. The interaction of Ggamma13 with PDZ domain-containing proteins may provide a means to target particular Gbetagamma subunits to specific subcellular locations and/or macromolecular complexes involved in signaling pathways.
Momordica charantia and Andrographis paniculata are the commonly used herbs by the diabetic patients in Pampanga, Philippines. While the anti-diabetic potential of Momordica charantia is well established in streptozocin- or alloxan-induced diabetic animals, the anti-diabetic potential of Andrographis paniculata in alloxan-induced diabetic rat is not known. Neither the effects of these herbs on estrous cyclicity of alloxan-induced diabetic rats are elucidated. Thus, in these experiments, Momordica charantia fruit juice or Andrographis paniculata decoction was orally administered to alloxan-induced diabetic rats. Rats that were treated with Momordica charantia and Andrographis paniculata had higher body weight (BW) compared with diabetic positive control (P &lt; 0.01) from day 22 to day 27 (D27) but exhibited lower BW than the non-diabetic control (P &lt; 0.05). These rats had lower feed (P &lt; 0.05) and liquid intakes (P &lt; 0.01) compared with diabetic positive control from day 17 to D27, but similar with the non-diabetic control. The blood glucose levels in these groups were significantly reduced from day 12 to D27 compared with diabetic positive control (P &lt; 0.01), however, comparable with non-diabetic control. The diabetic positive control had extended mean estrous cycles (8 days) compared to Momordica charantia and Andrographis paniculata-treated diabetic rats (5 days; P &lt; 0.05). Our results suggest that the anti-diabetic potentials of Momordica charantia and Andrographis paniculata could restore impaired estrous cycle in alloxan-induced diabetic rats.
A new field of gene transfer is emerging as a simple, effective means to drive the expression foreign genes in cells: ultrasound-mediated gene transfer or sonoporation. We report here that sonoporation is an effective means of gene transfer for cultured neurons, a cell type that has been difficult to transfect. Neuronal cell types that are effectively sonoporated include chick retinal neurons, chick dorsal forebrain, chick optic tectum, PC12 cells, rat cerebellar neurons and mouse hippocampal neurons. Depending on the type of cell and conditions of sonoporation the transfection efficacy was as high as 20%. Sonoporation of plasmid DNA was effective for cells adherent to a substrate and for free-floating cells that were freshly dissociated. In the free-floating preparations, between 60 and 95% of the cells that were transfected were neuronal, as much as 90% higher than that observed for other methods of gene transfer including adenovirus and lipid-based transfection methods. We conclude that sonoporation is a simple, effective and inexpensive means by which to preferentially transfect DNA into neuronal cells.
The rhinal cortices constitute the main route for impulse traffic to and from the hippocampus. Tracing studies have revealed that the perirhinal cortex forms strong reciprocal connections with the neo- and entorhinal cortex (EC). However, physiological investigations indicate that perirhinal transmission of neocortical and EC inputs occurs with a low probability. In search of an explanation for these contradictory findings, we have analyzed synaptic connections in this network by combining injections of the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHAL) into the neocortex, area 36, or area 35 with gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) immunocytochemistry and electron microscopic observations. Within area 36, neocortical axon terminals formed only asymmetric synapses, usually with GABA-negative spines (87%), and less frequently with GABA-immunopositive (GABA+) dendrites (13%). A similar synaptic distribution was observed within area 35 except that asymmetric synapses onto GABA+ dendrites were more frequent (23% of synapses). Examination of the projections from area 36 to area 35 and from both regions to the EC revealed an even higher incidence of asymmetric synapses onto GABA+ dendrites (35 and 32%, respectively) than what was observed in the neocortical projection to areas 36 and 35. Furthermore, some of the neocortical and perirhinal terminals containing PHAL and GABA immunolabeling formed symmetric synapses onto GABA-negative dendrites in their projection sites (neocortex to area 35, 16%; area 36 to 35, 7%; areas 36-35 to EC, 12%). Taken together, these findings suggest that impulse transmission through the rhinal circuit is subjected to strong inhibitory influences, reconciling anatomical and physiological data about this network.
We have previously shown [Cys-Trp-Arg-Nva-Arg-Tyr-NH(2)](2), 1, to be a moderately selective neuropeptide Y (NPY) Y(4) receptor agonist. Toward improving the selectivity and potency for Y(4) receptors, we studied the effects of dimerizing H-Trp-Arg-Nva-Arg-Tyr-NH(2) using various diamino-dicarboxylic acids containing either di-, tri-, or tetramethylene spacers. These parallel dimers, 2A, 2B, 3, 4A, and 4B, and the corresponding linear tandem dimer and trimer analogues, 5 and 6, had enhanced selectivity and affinity for Y(4) receptors compared to 1 (Table 1). Substitution of Trp and Nva with Tyr and Leu, respectively, as in 2,7-d/l-diaminosuberic acid derivatized dimer, 7, resulted in a superior Y(4) selective agonist with picomolar affinity. Intraperitoneal (ip) injection of 7 potently inhibited food intake in fasted mice. Moreover, 7 (ip) inhibited the food intake in wild-type mice and not in Y(4)(-/-) knock-out mice, confirming that the actions of 7 on food intake are not due to global effects, but specifically mediated Y(4) receptors.
The development of a series of GABA(A) alpha2/alpha3 subtype selective pyridazine based benzodiazepine site agonists as anxiolytic agents with reduced sedative/ataxic potential is described, including the discovery of 16, a remarkably alpha3-selective compound ideal for in vivo study. These ligands are antagonists at the alpha1 subtype, with good CNS penetration and receptor occupancy, and excellent oral bioavailability.


Although radial oblique dendrites are a major synaptic input site in CA1 pyramidal neurons, little is known about their integrative properties. We have used multisite two-photon glutamate uncaging to deliver different spatiotemporal input patterns to single branches while simultaneously recording the uncaging-evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials and local Ca2+ signals. Asynchronous input patterns sum linearly in spite of the spatial clustering and produce Ca2+ signals that are mediated by NMDA receptors (NMDARs). Appropriately timed and sized input patterns ( approximately 20 inputs within approximately 6 ms) produce a supralinear summation due to the initiation of a dendritic spike. The Ca2+ signals associated with synchronous input were larger and mediated by influx through both NMDARs and voltage-gated Ca2+ channels (VGCCs). The oblique spike is a fast Na+ spike whose duration is shaped by the coincident activation of NMDAR, VGCCs, and transient K+ currents. Our results suggest that individual branches can function as single integrative compartments.
The p75 neurotrophin receptor regulates neuronal survival, promoting it in some contexts yet activating apoptosis in others. The mechanism by which the receptor elicits these differential effects is poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that p75 is cleaved by gamma-secretase in sympathetic neurons, specifically in response to proapoptotic ligands. This cleavage resulted in ubiquitination and subsequent nuclear translocation of NRIF, a DNA binding protein essential for p75-mediated apoptosis. Inhibition of gamma-secretase or expression of a mutant p75 resistant to this protease prevented receptor proteolysis, blocked NRIF nuclear entry, and prevented apoptosis. In contrast, overexpression of the p75 ICD resulted in NRIF nuclear accumulation and apoptosis. The receptor proteolysis and NRIF nuclear localization were also observed in vivo during naturally occurring cell death in the superior cervical ganglia. These results indicate that p75-mediated apoptosis requires gamma-secretase dependent release of its ICD, which facilitates nuclear translocation of NRIF.
OGG1 (8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase-1) is one of the main DNA glycosylases present in mammalian cells. The enzyme removes 7,8-dihydro-8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG) lesions, believed to be the most important oxidized lesions due to their relatively high incidence and their miscoding properties. This study shows that in prenatal mice brains the repair capacity for 8-oxoG is 5-10-fold higher than in adult mice brains. Western blot analysis and repair activity in extracts from Ogg1(-/-) mice revealed that OGG1 was responsible for the efficient 8-oxoG removal from prenatal mice. To investigate how OGG1 protects against oxidative stress-induced mutagenesis, pregnant Big Blue/wild-type and Big Blue/Ogg1(-/-) mice were exposed to nontoxic doses of gamma radiation. A 2.5-fold increase in the mutation frequency in Ogg1(-/-) mouse brains was obtained by exposure to 3.5 Gy at day 19 postfertilization. This was largely due to GC to TA transversions, believed to originate from 8-oxoG mispairing with A during replication. Furthermore, rapid cell divisions seemed to be required for fixation of mutations, as a similar dose of radiation did not increase the mutation frequency, or the frequency of GC to TA transversion, in the adult brain.


The cellular and molecular mechanisms mediating the activity-dependent development of brain circuitry are still incompletely understood. Here, we examine the role of cAMP-dependent protein kinase [protein kinase A (PKA)] signaling in cortical development and plasticity, focusing on its role in thalamocortical synapse and barrel map development. We provide direct evidence that PKA activity mediates barrel map formation using knock-out mice that lack type IIbeta regulatory subunits of PKA (PKARIIbeta). We show that PKARIIbeta-mediated PKA function is required for proper dendritogenesis and the organization of cortical layer IV neurons into barrels, but not for the development and plasticity of thalamocortical afferent clustering into a barrel pattern. We localize PKARIIbeta function to postsynaptic processes in barrel cortex and show that postsynaptic PKA targets, but not presynaptic PKA targets, have decreased phosphorylation in pkar2b knock-out (PKARIIbeta(-/-)) mice. We also show that long-term potentiation at TC synapses and the associated developmental increase in AMPA receptor function at these synapses, which normally occurs as barrels form, is absent in PKARIIbeta(-/-) mice. Together, these experiments support an activity-dependent model for barrel map development in which the selective addition and elimination of thalamocortical synapses based on Hebbian mechanisms for synapse formation is mediated by a cAMP/PKA-dependent pathway that relies on PKARIIbeta function.
Traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI) results not only in motor impairment but also in chronic central pain, which can be refractory to conventional treatment approaches. It has been shown recently that in models of peripheral nerve injury, spinal cord microglia can become activated and contribute to development of pain. Considering their role in pain after peripheral injury, and because microglia are known to become activated after SCI, we tested the hypothesis that activated microglia contribute to chronic pain after SCI. In this study, adult male Sprague Dawley rats underwent T9 spinal cord contusion injury. Four weeks after injury, when lumbar dorsal horn multireceptive neurons became hyperresponsive and when behavioral nociceptive thresholds were decreased to both mechanical and thermal stimuli, intrathecal infusions of the microglial inhibitor minocycline were initiated. Electrophysiological experiments showed that minocycline rapidly attenuated hyperresponsiveness of lumbar dorsal horn neurons. Behavioral data showed that minocycline restored nociceptive thresholds, at which time spinal microglial cells assumed a quiescent morphological phenotype. Levels of phosphorylated-p38 were decreased in SCI animals receiving minocycline. Cessation of delivery of minocycline resulted in an immediate return of pain-related phenomena. These results suggest an important role for activated microglia in the maintenance of chronic central below-level pain after SCI and support the newly emerging role of non-neuronal immune cells as a contributing factor in post-SCI pain.
Increasing evidence links intraneuronal beta-amyloid (Abeta42) accumulation with the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In Abeta precursor protein (APP) mutant transgenic mice and in human AD brain, progressive intraneuronal accumulation of Abeta42 occurs especially in multivesicular bodies (MVBs). We hypothesized that this impairs the MVB sorting pathway. We used the trafficking of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and TrkB receptor to investigate the MVB sorting pathway in cultured neurons. We report that, during EGF stimulation, APP mutant neurons demonstrated impaired inactivation, degradation, and ubiquitination of EGFR. EGFR degradation is dependent on translocation from MVB outer to inner membranes, which is regulated by the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS). We provide evidence that Abeta accumulation in APP mutant neurons inhibits the activities of the proteasome and deubiquitinating enzymes. These data suggest a mechanism whereby Abeta accumulation in neurons impairs the MVB sorting pathway via the UPS in AD.
An intensely painful stimulus may lead to hyperalgesia, the enhanced sensation of subsequent painful stimuli. This is commonly believed to involve facilitated transmission of sensory signals in the spinal cord, possibly by a long-term potentiation-like mechanism. However, plasticity of identified synapses in intact hyperalgesic animals has not been reported. Here, we show, using neuronal tracing and postembedding immunogold labeling, that after acute noxious stimulation (hindpaw capsaicin injections), immunolabeling of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) and of CaMKII phosphorylated at Thr(286/287) (pCaMKII) are upregulated postsynaptically at synapses established by peptidergic primary afferent fibers in the superficial dorsal horn of intact rats. In contrast, postsynaptic pCaMKII immunoreactivity was instead downregulated at synapses of nonpeptidergic primary afferent C-fibers; this loss of pCaMKII immunolabel occurred selectively at distances greater than approximately 20 nm from the postsynaptic membrane and was accompanied by a smaller reduction in total CaMKII contents of these synapses. Both pCaMKII and CaMKII immunogold labeling were unaffected at synapses formed by presumed low-threshold mechanosensitive afferent fibers. Thus, distinct molecular modifications, likely indicative of plasticity of synaptic strength, are induced at different populations of presumed nociceptive primary afferent synapse by intense noxious stimulation, suggesting a complex modulation of parallel nociceptive pathways in inflammatory hyperalgesia. Furthermore, the activity-induced loss of certain postsynaptic pools of autophosphorylated CaMKII at previously unmanipulated synapses supports a role for the kinase in basal postsynaptic function.
Many cortical synapses exhibit spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) in which the precise timing of presynaptic and postsynaptic spikes induces synaptic strengthening [long-term potentiation (LTP)] or weakening [long-term depression (LTD)]. Standard models posit a single, postsynaptic, NMDA receptor-based coincidence detector for LTP and LTD components of STDP. We show instead that STDP at layer 4 to layer 2/3 synapses in somatosensory (S1) cortex involves separate calcium sources and coincidence detection mechanisms for LTP and LTD. LTP showed classical NMDA receptor dependence. LTD was independent of postsynaptic NMDA receptors and instead required group I metabotropic glutamate receptors and calcium from voltage-sensitive channels and IP3 receptor-gated stores. Downstream of postsynaptic calcium, LTD required retrograde endocannabinoid signaling, leading to presynaptic LTD expression, and also required activation of apparently presynaptic NMDA receptors. These LTP and LTD mechanisms detected firing coincidence on approximately 25 and approximately 125 ms time scales, respectively, and combined to implement the overall STDP rule. These findings indicate that STDP is not a unitary process and suggest that endocannabinoid-dependent LTD may be relevant to cortical map plasticity.
An enhanced real-time polymerase chain reaction (ERT-PCR) assay to detect the coronavirus associated with severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS-Cov) has been designed for detection of SARS-Cov with high sensitivity and easy-to-interpret results, in which a target gene pre-amplification step preceded TaqMan real-time fluorescent PCR. The limit of detection of the ERT-PCR method was 10(-2) higher than the standard real-time PCR assay and 10(-7) higher than conventional PCR methods. The increased sensitivity of the assay would have major benefits in screening suspected SARS patients rapidly and efficiently and may help control the spread of SARS and other infectious diseases during future outbreak.
A new study of the functional anatomy of noun and verb production suggests an important role for semantic representations in the cortical processing of these two distinct grammatical classes.


Neurobiological factors contributing to violence in humans remain poorly understood. One approach to this question is examining allelic variation in the X-linked monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) gene, previously associated with impulsive aggression in animals and humans. Here, we have studied the impact of a common functional polymorphism in MAOA on brain structure and function assessed with MRI in a large sample of healthy human volunteers. We show that the low expression variant, associated with increased risk of violent behavior, predicted pronounced limbic volume reductions and hyperresponsive amygdala during emotional arousal, with diminished reactivity of regulatory prefrontal regions, compared with the high expression allele. In men, the low expression allele is also associated with changes in orbitofrontal volume, amygdala and hippocampus hyperreactivity during aversive recall, and impaired cingulate activation during cognitive inhibition. Our data identify differences in limbic circuitry for emotion regulation and cognitive control that may be involved in the association of MAOA with impulsive aggression, suggest neural systems-level effects of X-inactivation in human brain, and point toward potential targets for a biological approach toward violence.
Short interfering RNAs (siRNAs) have been gaining popularity as the gene knock-down tool of choice by many researchers because of the clean nature of their workings as well as the technical simplicity and cost efficiency in their applications. We have constructed siRecords, a database of siRNAs experimentally tested by researchers with consistent efficacy ratings. This database will help siRNA researchers develop more reliable siRNA design rules; in the mean time, siRecords will benefit experimental researchers directly by providing them with information about the siRNAs that have been experimentally tested against the genes of their interest. Currently, more than 4100 carefully annotated siRNA sequences obtained from more than 1200 published siRNA studies are hosted in siRecords. This database will continue to expand as more experimentally tested siRNAs are published. Availability: The siRecords database can be accessed at http://siRecords.umn.edu/siRecords/

Microglial cells undergo cell division in vitro, as well as in vivo after brain injury. Mitotic activity of microglia suggests that they have limited life spans and rely on self-renewal to replace senescent cells. In the current study we examined long-term effects of antioxidants vitamin E and alpha-lipoic acid on cultured rat microglia with respect to proliferative ability, telomere length, telomerase activity, and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) production. We report that vitamin E induces dramatic microglial proliferation, as measured by MTT assay and BrdU incorporation, surpassing that of the well-known microglial mitogen granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor, and therefore establishing vitamin E as the most potent, known mitogen for microglia in vitro. The high rate of microglial proliferation resulted in a concomitant decrease in telomere length and telomerase activity. Production of IL-1beta was significantly decreased in vitamin E-treated microglia in vitro. Our findings provide an impetus to investigate potential benefits of vitamin E supplementation on microglial renewal capacity in vivo during aging or after brain injury.
Membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) proteins function as scaffold proteins contributing to cell polarity and organizing signal transducers at the neuronal synapse membrane. The MAGUK protein Mpp4 is located in the retinal outer plexiform layer (OPL) at the presynaptic plasma membrane and presynaptic vesicles of photoreceptors. Additionally, it is located at the outer limiting membrane (OLM) where it might be involved in OLM integrity. In Mpp4 knockout mice, loss of Mpp4 function only sporadically causes photoreceptor displacement, without changing the Crumbs (Crb) protein complex at the OLM, adherens junctions or synapse structure. Scanning laser ophthalmology revealed no retinal degeneration. The minor morphological effects suggest that Mpp4 is a candidate gene for mild retinopathies only. At the OPL, Mpp4 is essential for correct localization of Psd95 and Veli3 at the presynaptic photoreceptor membrane. Psd95 labeling is absent of presynaptic membranes in both rods and cones but still present in cone basal contacts and dendritic contacts. Total retinal Psd95 protein levels are significantly reduced which suggests Mpp4 to be involved in Psd95 turnover, whereas Veli3 proteins levels are not changed. These protein changes in the photoreceptor synapse did not result in an altered electroretinograph. These findings suggest that Mpp4 coordinates Psd95/Veli3 assembly and maintenance at synaptic membranes. Mpp4 is a critical recruitment factor to organize scaffolds at the photoreceptor synapse and is likely to be associated with synaptic plasticity and protein complex transport.
Immune privilege in the central nervous system (CNS) is not maintained by immune ignorance of the CNS, but by CNS control over inflammatory processes. In this review we examine the role neuropeptides play in maintenance of immune privilege in the CNS. Vasoactive intestinal peptide, alpha-melanocyte-stimulating-hormone, neuropeptide Y, and somatostatin are members of an anti-inflammatory repertoire of immune modulators, while substance P acts to break immune privilege and promote inflammation in the CNS. Here we focus both on cellular responses to these neuropeptides and the role these peptides play in immune privilege as it relates to CNS autoimmunity.
The espin actin-bundling proteins, which are the target of deafness mutations, are present in the parallel actin bundles of stereocilia and microvilli and appear to increase their steady-state length. Here, we report a new activity of the espins, one that depends on their enigmatic WH2 domain: the ability to assemble a large actin bundle when targeted to a specific subcellular location. This activity was observed for wild-type espins targeted to the centrosome in transfected neuronal cells and for jerker espins targeted to the nucleolus in a wide variety of transfected cells as a result of the frameshifted peptide introduced into the espin C-terminus by the jerker deafness mutation. This activity, which appears specific to espins, requires two espin F-actin-binding sites and the actin-monomer-binding activity of the espin WH2 domain, but can be mimicked by adding a WH2 domain to an unrelated actin-bundling protein, villin. Espins do not activate the Arp2/3 complex in vitro, and bundle assembly is not indicative of in-vitro nucleation activity. Our results suggest a novel way to build actin bundles at specific sites in cells.

Because myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disease mediated by Abs specific for the acetylcholine receptor, helper T cells play a role in Ab production. In this study, we have performed large-scale cross-sectional and longitudinal TCR studies by CDR3 spectratyping using PBL and thymus tissues from MG patients. We found that there was no preferential usage of any particular TCR beta-chains that was identical among MG patients. However, the longitudinal study clearly demonstrated that one or more TCR Vbeta expansions persisted frequently in MG patients. Importantly, persistent TCR expansions correlated with clinical severity and high anti-acetylcholine receptor Ab titer. Finally, examinations of T cells expressing CXCR5, i.e., follicular B-helper T cells, revealed that spectratype expansions in MG patients were detected mainly in the CD4+ CXCR5+ T cell populations, whereas CD8+ T cells were the major source of clonal expansion in healthy subjects. These findings suggest that persistent clonal expansions of T cells in MG patients are associated with the development and maintenance of MG. Close examination of pathogenic T cells in MG provides useful information to elucidate the pathogenesis and to estimate the disease status.
Mouse CD1d-restricted Valpha14 NKT cells are a unique subset of lymphocytes, which play important roles in immune regulation, tumor surveillance and host defense against pathogens. DOCK2, a mammalian homolog of Caenorhabditis elegans CED-5 and Drosophila melanogaster myoblast city, is critical for lymphocyte migration and regulates T cell responsiveness through immunological synapse formation, yet its role in Valpha14 NKT cells remains unknown. We found that DOCK2 deficiency causes marked reduction of Valpha14 NKT cells in the thymus, liver, and spleen. When alpha-galactosylceramide (alpha-GalCer), a ligand for Valpha14 NKT cells, was administrated, cytokine production was scarcely detected in DOCK2-deficient mice, suggesting that DOCK2 deficiency primarily affects generation of Valpha14 NKT cells. Supporting this idea, staining with CD1d/alpha-GalCer tetramers revealed that CD44- NK1.1- Valpha14 NKT cell precursors are severely reduced in the thymuses of DOCK2-deficient mice. In addition, studies using bone marrow chimeras indicated that development of Valpha14 NKT cells requires DOCK2 expression in T cell precursors, but not in APCs. These results indicate that DOCK2 is required for positive selection of Valpha14 NKT cells in a cell-autonomous manner, thereby suggesting that avidity-based selection also governs development of this unique subset of lymphocytes in the thymus.
Decreased cardiac uptake in (123)I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) scintigraphy has been adopted as one of the most reliable diagnostic tests for Parkinson disease (PD) in Japan. To investigate the morphological basis for this finding, we performed a detailed neuropathological study of the cardiac sympathetic nervous system of a 71-year-old autopsy-proven PD patient, who presented with a marked decrease in cardiac uptake of MIBG, just 1 year prior to death. We carefully examined the intermediolateral column at several levels of the thoracic spinal cord, the sympathetic trunk and ganglia, and the nerve plexus of the anterior wall of the left ventricle and compared the findings with those of five age-matched controls. We found that the cardiac plexus was more heavily involved than the sympathetic ganglia in this patient with PD. Our study may provide further evidence that the markedly decreased cardiac uptake of MIBG observed in PD cases represents preferential involvement of the cardiac sympathetic nerve plexus in this disorder.
One major challenge in neuroscience is the identification of interrelations between signals reflecting neural activity. When applying multivariate time series analysis techniques to neural signals, detection of directed relationships, which can be described in terms of Granger-causality, is of particular interest. Partial directed coherence has been introduced for a frequency domain analysis of linear Granger-causality based on modeling the underlying dynamics by vector autoregressive processes. We discuss the statistical properties of estimates for partial directed coherence and propose a significance level for testing for nonzero partial directed coherence at a given frequency. The performance of this test is illustrated by means of linear and non-linear model systems and in an application to electroencephalography and electromyography data recorded from a patient suffering from essential tremor.
The pig is becoming an increasingly used non-primate model in basic experimental studies of human neurological diseases. In spite of the widespread use of immunohistochemistry and cell type specific markers, the application of immunohistochemistry in the pig brain has not been systematically described. Therefore, to facilitate future stereological studies of the neuronal and glial cell populations in experimental neurological diseases in the pig, we established a battery of immunohistochemical protocols for staining of perfusion fixed porcine brain tissue processed as free floating cryostat-, vibratome- or paraffin sections. Antibodies against NeuN, GFAP, S100-protein, MBP, CNPase, CD11b, CD68 (KP1), CD45 and Ki67 were evaluated, and all except CD68 and CD45 resulted in staining of high quality in either type of tissue. Each staining was evaluated with respect to specificity and sensitivity in identification of the individual cells, and for penetration of the staining and maintenance of section thickness above 25 microm, necessary for stereological cell counting. In the cases of NeuN, CNPase, CD11b and Ki67 the staining met the demands to be applicable in stereological analyses using the optical disector. In conclusion, all protocols will be applicable in studies of pathological and neurochemical changes in the porcine brain, and a few protocols applicable for stereology.
The 14-3-3 protein family consists of acidic 30-kDa proteins composed of seven isoforms in mammalian cells, expressed abundantly in neurons and glial cells of the central nervous system (CNS). The 14-3-3 isoforms form a dimer that acts as a molecular adaptor interacting with key signaling components involved in cell proliferation, transformation, and apoptosis. Until present, more than 300 proteins have been identified as 14-3-3-binding partners, although most of previous studies focused on a limited range of 14-3-3-interacting proteins. Here, we studied a comprehensive profile of 14-3-3-binding proteins by analyzing a high-density protein microarray using recombinant human 14-3-3 epsilon protein as a probe. Among 1752 proteins immobilized on the microarray, 20 were identified as 14-3-3 interactors, most of which were previously unreported 14-3-3-binding partners. However, 11 known 14-3-3-binding proteins, including keratin 18 (KRT18) and mitogen-activated protein kinase-activated protein kinase 2 (MAPKAPK2), were not identified as a 14-3-3-binding protein. The specific binding to 14-3-3 of EAP30 subunit of ELL complex (EAP30), dead box polypeptide 54 (DDX54), and src homology three (SH3) and cysteine rich domain (STAC) was verified by immunoprecipitation analysis of the recombinant proteins expressed in HEK293 cells. These results suggest that protein microarray is a powerful tool for rapid and comprehensive profiling of 14-3-3-binding proteins.
A loss of neostriatal neurons is a characteristic of Huntington's disease (HD), and neural tissue transplantation has been performed directly into the striatum. Since the neural stem cells have ability to migrate into the lesion site, we administered immortalized neural stem-like cells (NSC) into the ventricle or via a tail vein following unilateral intrastriatal quinolinic acid lesioning in Sprague-Dawley rats. To identify transplanted NSC, cells were encoded with lac Z and beta-galactosidase histochemistry was performed. lac Z+ cells were detected in the lesioned striatum but tissue damage or tumor formation was not observed. This study shows that NSC migrate into the striatum, either from ventricle or from the systemic circulation, providing less invasive routes for stem cell application in HD.
We describe a set of microfabricated nanocutting devices with a cutting edge of less than 20 nm radius of curvature that enables high precision microdissection and subcellular isolation of neuronal structures. With these devices, it is possible to isolate functional substructures from neurons in culture such as segments of axons and dendrites, dendritic spines and Nodes of Ranvier. By fine-tuning the mechanical compliance of these devices, they can also act as alternatives to costly laser capture microdissection workstations for harvesting specific neuronal populations from tissue sections for analysis. The small size of the device (1 mm2x100 microm) allows convenient insertion into researcher specific experimental set-ups. Its ease of use and possibility for batch fabrication makes this a highly effective and versatile tool for tissue microdissection and the microanalysis of neuronal function.
We present a client-server application for the distributed multivariate analysis of time series using standard PCs. We here concentrate on analyses of multichannel EEG/MEG data, but our method can easily be adapted to other time series. Due to the rapid development of new analysis techniques, the focus in the design of our application was not only on computational performance, but also on high flexibility and expandability of both the client and the server programs. For this purpose, the communication between the server and the clients as well as the building of the computational tasks has been realized via the Extensible Markup Language (XML). Running our newly developed method in an asynchronous distributed environment with random availability of remote and heterogeneous resources, we tested the system's performance for a number of different univariate and bivariate analysis techniques. Results indicate that for most of the currently available analysis techniques, calculations can be performed in real time, which, in principle, allows on-line analyses at relatively low cost.
Establishing the cell lineage relationships of cells during development allows insight into when and where developmental decisions are made. In the developing spinal cord, the origin and fate of radial glial has yet to be determined. One way in which to address this question is to transplant enriched populations of radial glia into the ventricular zone (VZ) region of host embryos to examine the lineage and differentiation pattern of these cells. An indirect selection procedure using immunomagnetic beads (Dynabeads; Dynal Biotech) was used here to isolate spinal cord radial glia. This negative immunoselection procedure resulted in a high yield of radial glia. A fluorescent cytoplasmic dye (Cell Tracker Green CMFDA) was used to label radial glia before transplantation. The role of radial glia as progenitor cells can also be examined using a green fluorescent protein (GFP)-expressing retroviral vector. The retroviral vector allows dividing cells in the VZ region of the spinal cord to be tracked by labelling them with GFP. Both techniques were utilised here to successfully label and examine embryonic spinal cord radial glia in vivo after a microinjection of either fluorescently labelled radial glia or replication-incompetent GFP-expressing retrovirus in utero.
A vessel motion detection algorithm has been implemented for the measurement of multiple lymphatic chamber diameters via pre-recorded VHS tape (PAL, 25 Hz). The method differs significantly from previous attempts based on edge-detection, in that it employs center of mass of pixel brightness in the vessel wall based on a Kalman filtered image subtracted from a Kalman filtered background. The operation of the algorithm confirms that it is able to detect accurately the full constriction-relaxation cycle of the vessel and produce data that meets high standards of tolerance. The procedure is well suited for real-time measurement of lymphatic and blood vessel constrictions in vitro or in vivo at multiple sites so long as the object under measurement is sufficiently differentiated from its background.
The recent advent of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) as a readily accessible neuroimaging method has led to exciting new insights into the functioning of the human motor system. However, technical complications related to the fMRI scanner environment often limit the ability to measure the desired behavioral data reflecting the subjects' movements. In order to perform kinematic registrations of predefined complex two-dimensional movement patterns while scanning, a new MR-compatible setup has been developed. The method presented here allows the recording of detailed pen tracing data during concurrent functional image acquisition. Essentially, temporally high resolved resistance measurements are used to keep track of the covered distance across time, as applied here to the tracing of various mazes. In this way, the current setup adds the close monitoring of continuous tracing movements to the spectrum of behavioral data which can be successfully obtained in an fMRI setting.
In neuroscience, rats have several advantages over mice as a model organism. For instance, behavioral experiments are more advanced and the larger size of the brain is better suited for surgical manipulation and biochemistry. Furthermore, the vascular physiology of rats is considered closer to human, providing clinical relevance. Because transgenesis rates achieved by conventional pronuclear injection are extremely low (0.2-3.5%), the availability of transgenic rats in neuroscience is limited. Lentivirus infection is an efficient way to integrate exogenous genes into the genome of a one-cell embryo to generate transgenic animals. We report here the generation of synapsin I promoter driven GRIP1-transgenic rats using lentiviral transgenesis. GRIP1 was chosen as a transgene because it interacts with AMPA receptors and is involved in glutamate receptor signaling. From a single infection experiment, 45% of the offspring carried the transgene and 40% achieved germ-line transmission. The expression of GRIP1 was observed at low levels in brain, spinal cord and testis. Interestingly, one transgenic copy lacked a 147 bp fragment in the GRIP1 coding region most likely caused by alternative splicing of genomic lentiviral RNA. Co-immunoprecipitation from rat brains showed that transgenic GRIP1 is in complex with the endogenous GluR2 subunit of AMPA receptors. These results indicate that functional transgenic GRIP1 protein is expressed in rat brain using lentiviral vectors containing a human synapsin I promoter. Tissue specific lentiviral transgenic rats will be a powerful tool for various applications in modern neuroscience.
We present a novel hypothesis that could explain virological failure to structured treatment interruptions (STI). We analysed a classic mathematical model of HIV within-host viral dynamics and found that non-linear parametric resonance occurs when STI are added to the model; resonance is observed as virological failure. We simulated clinical trial data and calculated patient-specific resonant spectra. We gained two important insights. First, within an STI trial, patients who begin with similar viral loads can be expected to show very different virological responses as a result of resonance. Second, and more importantly, virological failure is not simply due to STI or patients' characteristics; instead it is the result of complex interaction between STI and the patient's viral dynamics. Hence, our analyses show that no universal regimen with periodic interruptions will be effective for all patients.
Much work has investigated the neural representation of specific categories of knowledge, but relatively scant attention has been paid in the cognitive neuroscience literature to the semantic processes that contribute to semantic memory. In this study, we monitored regional cortical activity with fMRI while healthy young adults evaluated visually displayed NATURAL KIND, ARTIFACT, and ABSTRACT nouns with two standard tasks: Typicality judgments and Pleasantness judgments. We observed a significant interaction effect between the category of knowledge and the type of judgment used to evaluate members of these semantic categories. Typicality judgments recruited greater temporal-occipital activation relative to Pleasantness judgments of the same category, and this was seen for comparisons of all three semantic categories. However, when contrasted with Typicality judgments, Pleasantness judgments activated a different anatomic distribution for each semantic category. These findings are consistent with a dynamic approach to semantic memory that includes at least two components: semantic knowledge and semantic processes that interpret this knowledge in several ways depending on the particular semantic challenge.
To use Electroencephalography (EEG) and Magnetoencephalography (MEG) as functional brain 3D imaging techniques, identifiable distributed source models are required. The reconstruction of EEG/MEG sources rests on inverting these models and is ill-posed because the solution does not depend continuously on the data and there is no unique solution in the absence of prior information or constraints. We have described a general framework that can account for several priors in a common inverse solution. An empirical Bayesian framework based on hierarchical linear models was proposed for the analysis of functional neuroimaging data [Friston, K., Penny, W., Phillips, C., Kiebel, S., Hinton, G., Ashburner, J., 2002. Classical and Bayesian inference in neuroimaging: theory. NeuroImage 16, 465-483] and was evaluated recently in the context of EEG [Phillips, C., Mattout, J., Rugg, M.D., Maquet, P., Friston, K., 2005. An empirical Bayesian solution to the source reconstruction problem in EEG. NeuroImage 24, 997-1011]. The approach consists of estimating the expected source distribution and its conditional variance that is constrained by an empirically determined mixture of prior variance components. Estimation uses Expectation-Maximization (EM) to give the Restricted Maximum Likelihood (ReML) estimate of the variance components (in terms of hyperparameters) and the Maximum A Posteriori (MAP) estimate of the source parameters. In this paper, we extend the framework to compare different combinations of priors, using a second level of inference based on Bayesian model selection. Using Monte-Carlo simulations, ReML is first compared to a classic Weighted Minimum Norm (WMN) solution under a single constraint. Then, the ReML estimates are evaluated using various combinations of priors. Both standard criterion and ROC-based measures were used to assess localization and detection performance. The empirical Bayes approach proved useful as: (1) ReML was significantly better than WMN for single priors; (2) valid location priors improved ReML source localization; (3) invalid location priors did not significantly impair performance. Finally, we show how model selection, using the log-evidence, can be used to select the best combination of priors. This enables a global strategy for multiple prior-based regularization of the MEG/EEG source reconstruction.
Face priming is a nondeclarative memory phenomenon that can be observed when recognition is facilitated for a recently encountered face. This data-driven form of priming is distinct from conceptually driven priming. Moreover, it includes two dissociable components, the facilitated access to pre-existing representations and facilitation in perceptual processing of faces. In the present study, we measured neural correlates of perceptual contributions to face priming with event-related brain potentials. Faces appeared two times (separated by 7-17 s), while participants discriminated familiar from unfamiliar faces. Half of the initial face stimuli were inverted, thereby disrupting perceptual face processing and making possible an assessment of perceptual contributions to face priming. Whereas none of the brain waves previously linked to perceptual processing of faces showed indications of priming, such effects were observed between 200 and 600 ms at left occipito-parieto-temporal recording sites. This electrical activity was present for both unfamiliar and familiar faces. The scalp topography of this effect was consistent with sources within the temporal and occipital cortices of the left hemisphere (based on a LORETA source localization). These findings suggest that priming of perceptual face processing is subserved by prolonged neural activity from 200 to 600 ms primarily in the left hemisphere. We propose that this priming reflects facilitated selection based on second-order relations among facial features.
To perceive the vast array of stimuli in the world around us, the visual system employs parallel processing mechanisms that ensure efficiency in perceiving multiple objects in a scene. A way to test this efficiency is to measure reaction time (RT) to pairs of identical stimuli, presented singly or as doublets; typically, the resulting phenomenon is the redundant targets effect (RTE), which manifests as faster RTs to paired than singly presented stimuli. It is controversial, however, whether the neural locus of the parallel processing mechanisms invoked to produce the RTE is perceptual or motor and why some studies observe a substantial RTE and others do not. To resolve these two issues, we measured the RTE in young adults while undergoing functional MRI. Regarding the question of a perceptual or motor basis for the RTE, we observed that bilateral activation of extrastriate cortex was prominent in paired vs. the sum of the two single stimulus conditions, indicating that the RTE invoked perceptual mechanisms; by contrast, the motor cortex was not disproportionately activated in this comparison. Regarding the magnitude of the RTE, we compared activation patterns in individuals with small vs. large RTEs and observed that frontal and premotor areas were activated with small RTEs. These data indicate that the primary processing level of response facilitation, observed as the RTE, is perceptual, but the modulation of the RTE magnitude is premotor and associated with basic aspects of response selection and preparation.
Functional MRI is aimed at localizing cortical activity to understand the role of specific cortical regions, providing insight into the neurophysiological underpinnings of brain function. Scientists developing fMRI methodology seek to improve detection of subtle activations and to spatially localize these activations more precisely. Except for applications in the clinical environment, such as functional mapping in patients prior to neurosurgical intervention, most basic neuroscience studies involve group level random-effects analyses. Prior to grouping data, the data from each individual are typically smoothed. A wide range of motivations for smoothing have been given including to match the spatial scale of hemodynamic responses, to normalize the error distribution (by the Central Limit Theorem) to improve the validity of inferences based on parametric tests, and, in the context of inter-subject averaging smoothing has been shown necessary to project the data down to a scale where homologies in functional anatomy are expressed across subjects. This work demonstrates that, for single-subject studies, if smoothing is to be employed, the data should be acquired at lower resolutions to maximize SNR. The benefits of a low-resolution acquisition are limited by partial volume effects and by the weak impact of resolution-dependent noise on the overall group level statistics. Given that inter-subject noise dominates across a range of tasks, improvements in within-subject noise, through changes in acquisition strategy or even moving to higher field strength, may do little to improve group statistics. Such improvements however may greatly impact single-subject studies such as those used in neurosurgical planning.
Characterization of brain-behavior relationships through functional magnetic imaging (fMRI) within typically or atypically developing populations poses methodological and interpretational challenges. We consider theoretical, methodological, and artifactual factors that influence characterization of developmental and adaptive changes in childhood. Findings from anatomical and physiological brain development studies are highlighted as they may influence functional imaging results. Then, we consider several patterns of functional activation within the context of developmental processes as well as neurologic disease. Hypotheses regarding the development of cognitive networks are proposed to account for the individual differences seen in normal and atypical development. We also identify potential sources of unwanted variability related to experimental design and task performance and suggest possible solutions to help minimize these effects. Lastly, a challenge for current studies is a lack of group and individual analysis methods that can be reliably applied to capture and quantify factors that contribute to variability introduced by developmental and disease processes. We review current methods and propose potential solutions.
Brain slices provide a useful nervous tissue model to investigate the relationships between magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) contrast mechanisms and tissue microstructure; yet, these acutely isolated tissues remain viable for only 10-12 h. To study slower biological processes, this work describes the first MRI microscopy characterization of organotypic rat hippocampal slice cultures that can be maintained for several weeks. Diffusion-weighted images of slice cultures acquired with a 14.1-T magnet demonstrated the laminar anatomy of the hippocampus with relatively high signal-to-noise ratios. Diffusion data analyzed using a two-compartment model with exchange indicated that cultured slices had a comparable microstructure to acute brain slices and to in vivo brain. Immunohistochemistry indicated that slice cultures tolerated the conditions required for MRI study well. MRI of cultured tissue slices is highly amenable to correlative microscopy techniques and offers great promise for future MRI investigations of pathological tissue reorganization, molecular imaging and stem cell therapies.
Humans have a considerable facility to adapt their behavior in a manner that is appropriate to social or societal context. A failure of this ability can lead to social exclusion and is a feature of disorders such as psychopathy and disruptive behavior disorder. We investigated the neural basis of this ability using a customized video game played by 12 healthy participants in an fMRI scanner. Two conditions involved extreme examples of context-appropriate action: shooting an aggressive humanoid assailant or healing a passive wounded person. Two control conditions involved carefully matched stimuli paired with inappropriate actions: shooting the person or healing the assailant. Surprisingly, the same circuit, including the amygdala and ventromedial prefrontal cortex, was activated when participants acted in a context-appropriate manner, whether being compassionate towards an injured conspecific or aggressive towards a violent assailant. The findings indicate a common system that guides behavioral expression appropriate to social or societal context irrespective of its aggressive or compassionate nature.
Visual working memory (VWM) allows us to hold visual information briefly in our minds after its disappearance. It is important for bridging the present to the immediate past. Previous neuroscience studies on VWM have shown that several parietal, frontal, and occipitotemporal brain regions subserve this function. Those studies, however, have often focused on VWM for a single property, such as color. Yet, in behavior, the capacity of VWM is sensitive to the complexity of to-be-remembered visual features. How do different brain areas represent VWM for visual features of different complexity and for combination of features? To address this question, we used functional MRI to study the response profile of several brain regions in three VWM tasks. In all tasks, subjects saw 1 to 7 colored polygons and had to remember their color (a simple feature), shape (a complex feature), or both color and shape. Behavioral performance showed that VWM reached capacity limit at about 3 colors, 2 shapes, and 2 compound objects. In the fMRI data, we found different functional profiles for frontal, parietal, and occipitotemporal regions. Specifically, the posterior parietal cortex was sensitive to both featural and VWM load manipulations. The prefrontal regions were sensitive to VWM load manipulation but relatively insensitive to featural differences. The occipitotemporal regions were sensitive to featural differences, but not to VWM load manipulation. We propose that the response properties of these regions can jointly account for several findings in human VWM behavior.
Group studies implicitly assume that all subjects activate one common system to sustain a particular cognitive task. Intersubject variability is generally treated as well-behaved and uninteresting noise. However, intersubject variability might result from subjects engaging different degenerate neuronal systems that are each sufficient for task performance. This would produce a multimodal distribution of intersubject variability. We have explored this idea with the help of Gaussian Mixture Modeling and Bayesian model comparison procedures. We illustrate our approach using a crossmodal priming paradigm, in which subjects perform a semantic decision on environmental sounds or their spoken names that were preceded by a semantically congruent or incongruent picture or written name. All subjects consistently activated the superior temporal gyri bilaterally, the left fusiform gyrus and the inferior frontal sulcus. Comparing a One and Two Gaussian Mixture Model of the unexplained residuals provided very strong evidence for two groups with distinct activation patterns: 6 subjects exhibited additional activations in the superior temporal sulci bilaterally, the right superior frontal and central sulcus. 11 subjects showed increased activation in the striate and the right inferior parietal cortex. These results suggest that semantic decisions on auditory-visual compound stimuli might be accomplished by two overlapping degenerate neuronal systems.
The treatment of malignant gliomas has advanced significantly in the past 15 years. The simultaneous development of new targeting agents and techniques to deliver these high-molecular-weight compounds has led to improved efficacy and promising results in Phase III trials. Convection-enhanced delivery (CED) of macromolecules has emerged as the leading delivery technique for the treatment of malignant gliomas. A summary of the basic principles of CED and a review of the current human trials of protein targeting agents are provided.
The motor activity of mice in tests of &quot;exploration&quot; is organized. Mice establish home bases, operationally defined as places where they spend long periods of time, near physical objects and nesting material from which they make excursions. This organization raises the question of the extent to which mouse motoric activity is modulated by innate predispositions versus environmental influences. Here the influence of contextual cues (visual and tactile) on the motor activity of C57BL/6 mice was examined: (1) on an open field that had no walls, a partial wall, or a complete wall, (2) in the presence of distinct visual cues, room cues, or in the absence of visual cues (infrared light), and (3) in the presence of configurations of visual and tactile cues. Mice were generally less active in the presence of salient cues and formed home bases near those cues. In addition, movement speed, path distribution, and the number and length of stops were modulated by contextual cues. With repeated tests, mice favored tactile cues over visual cues as their home base locations. Although responses to cues were robust over test days, conditioning to context was generally weak. That the exploratory behavior of mice is affected by experience and context provides insights into performance variability and may prove useful in investigating the genetic and neural influences on mouse behavior.
Lactating females direct aggressive behaviors towards intruders presumably to reduce the likelihood of infanticide of their pups. Infected animals display a constellation of responses that include lethargy, anorexia, and decreased social interactions. This suite of responses is referred to as sickness behavior, and is putatively part of an adaptive strategy to aid the organism in recovery from infection. Previous work has suggested that animals can suppress the behavioral symptoms of sickness in order to engage in adaptive behaviors. To test whether adaptive nest defense is affected by illness, dams received a peripheral injection of either saline or lipopolysaccharide (LPS [50, 400, or 1000 microg/kg]), a non-replicating component of bacterial cell walls that activates the immune system. Simulated infection with LPS reduced body mass and food intake in dams and interfered with litter growth in a dose-dependent manner. Generally, nest defense was unaffected by LPS; the proportion of dams displaying maternal aggression against a male intruder, as well as the latency and duration of aggressive encounters were only suppressed at the highest LPS dose tested. Further, LPS treatment also altered non-agonistic behavior during the aggression test as indicated by reduced social investigation of the intruder and an increased time spent immobile during the session. LPS administration also significantly increased serum corticosterone concentrations in lactating females. These findings suggest that maternal aggression is not suppressed by LPS-evoked immune activation at doses that attenuate other aspects of maternal and social behavior.
The majority of wild felids, as well as some domestic cats, have low sperm concentration in their ejaculates, and a high proportion of abnormal spermatozoa. We have employed several possible semen quality markers to further characterize cat epididymal sperm. Methods included possible apoptotic reporters, such as the annexin V assay to monitor exposure of phosphatidylserine (PS) on the outer leaflet of the plasma membrane, as well as cell integrity; and the TUNEL assay to quantify DNA breaks. Sperm surface ubiquitination, another putative marker of sperm quality, was also monitored. The annexin V assay revealed a high percentage of sperm with PS exposure, and the TUNEL assay pointed to high levels (13+/-12%) of sperm with DNA breaks. Correlations were found between apoptotic markers (but not ubiquitination) and semen parameters. In parallel to this analysis, cat sperm morphology was evaluated using the Diff-Quik optical stain, which has been used in human reproduction laboratories. Several types of abnormalities could be characterized with this method. Remarkably, head staining abnormalities detected using the Diff-Quik staining method were strongly correlated with, and could accurately predict, sperm DNA defects detected in the same sample using the TUNEL assay. We therefore suggest that sperm morphology analysis using Diff-Quik could be used in field conditions to assess sperm status, due to the simplicity of the procedure and the equipment involved.
Hyperglycemia resulting from uncontrolled glucose regulation is widely recognized as the causal link between diabetes and diabetic complications. Four major molecular mechanisms have been implicated in hyperglycemia-induced tissue damage: activation of protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms via de novo synthesis of the lipid second messenger diacylglycerol (DAG), increased hexosamine pathway flux, increased advanced glycation end product (AGE) formation, and increased polyol pathway flux. Hyperglycemia-induced overproduction of superoxide is the causal link between high glucose and the pathways responsible for hyperglycemic damage. In fact, diabetes is typically accompanied by increased production of free radicals and/or impaired antioxidant defense capabilities, indicating a central contribution for reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the onset, progression, and pathological consequences of diabetes. Besides oxidative stress, a growing body of evidence has demonstrated a link between various disturbances in mitochondrial functioning and type 2 diabetes. Mutations in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and decreases in mtDNA copy number have been linked to the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes. The study of the relationship of mtDNA to type 2 diabetes has revealed the influence of the mitochondria on nuclear-encoded glucose transporters, glucose-stimulated insulin secretion, and nuclear-encoded uncoupling proteins (UCPs) in beta-cell glucose toxicity. This review focuses on a range of mitochondrial factors important in the pathogenesis of diabetes. We review the published literature regarding the direct effects of hyperglycemia on mitochondrial function and suggest the possibility of regulation of mitochondrial function at a transcriptional level in response to hyperglycemia. The main goal of this review is to include a fresh consideration of pathways involved in hyperglycemia-induced diabetic complications.
The effects of organophosphate (OP) paraoxon, active metabolite of parathion, were studied on the Ca(2+) and Ba(2+) spikes and on the excitability of the neuronal soma membranes of land snail (Caucasotachea atrolabiata). Paraoxon (0.3 muM) reversibly decreased the duration and amplitude of Ca(2+) and Ba(2+) spikes. It also reduced the duration and the amplitude of the afterhyperpolarization (AHP) that follows spikes, leading to a significant increase in the frequency of Ca(2+) spikes. Pretreatment with atropine and hexamethonium, selective blockers of muscarinic and nicotinic receptors, respectively, did not prevent the effects of paraoxon on Ca(2+) spikes. Intracellular injection of the calcium chelator BAPTA dramatically decreased the duration and amplitude of AHP and increased the duration and frequency of Ca(2+) spikes. In the presence of BAPTA, paraoxon decreased the duration of the Ca(2+) spikes without affecting their frequency. Apamin, a neurotoxin from bee venom, known to selectively block small conductance of calcium-activated potassium channels (SK), significantly decreased the duration and amplitude of the AHP, an effect that was associated with an increase in spike frequency. In the presence of apamin, bath application of paraoxon reduced the duration of Ca(2+) spike and AHP and increased the firing frequency of nerve cells. In summary, these data suggest that exposure to submicromolar concentration of paraoxon may directly affect membrane excitability. Suppression of Ca(2+) entry during the action potential would down regulate Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels leading to a reduction of the AHP and an increase in cell firing.
Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of serine/threonine kinases comprised of 10 isoforms. Although commercial antibodies are available for all 10 isoforms, the specificity of these antibodies has been questioned. We have identified immunoblot conditions in which commercially purchased PKC antibodies are specific for their respective isoform. We then used these conditions to determine that PKC isoforms alpha, betaI, betaII, delta, epsilon, gamma, lambda, theta, and zeta are present in rat primary cultured cerebellar granule cells (CGCs) 6-14 days in vitro (DIV). This PKC profile is identical to that observed in cerebellar homogenates taken from 6-, 14- and 21-day-old rats. Western blot analysis indicated that the classical and the atypical PKC isoforms were more prevalent in the cytosolic subcellular fraction compared to the particulate fraction under basal conditions. Immunoreactivity for the novel isoforms tended to be higher in the particulate fraction under basal conditions. Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) treatment resulted in translocated immunoreactivity from the cytosolic to the particulate fraction for all of the classical and novel PKC isoforms, but not for the atypical isoforms. However, the degree of translocation as well as the speed of translocation varied among the isoforms. The stability of the individual isoforms after PMA-induced activation also varied among the isoforms. Differences in these parameters were dependent upon culture batches and PKC isoform groups. We have identified experimental conditions in which reproducible results can be obtained with primary cultured CGCs in the study of PKC. We discuss possible solutions for problems encountered when utilizing primary cultured neurons to study PKC-mediated signal transduction.
Epilepsy is an often-debilitating disease with many etiologies. Genetic predisposition is common for many of the generalized epilepsy syndromes, and mutations in genes encoding neuronal ion channels are causative in many cases. We previously identified a locus for juvenile audiogenic monogenic seizures (jams1) in the Black Swiss mouse strain, delimited by the gene basigin (Bsg) and the marker D10Mit140. This region includes Hcn2, the gene encoding the hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated channel subunit 2 (HCN2), an ion channel implicated in epilepsy. By sequencing genomic DNA, we found that Black Swiss mice have a single polymorphism in exon 2 within the Hcn2 gene. This single G/C to A/T base change alters the third position of a codon specifying alanine residue 293, without changing the predicted amino acid sequence. Furthermore, we found no detectable differences in HCN2 protein expression in the brains of Black Swiss mice, compared to control mice. We therefore reason that juvenile audiogenic seizures in Black Swiss mice are unlikely to be due to abnormalities of HCN2 channel function.
The study, and the preceding companion article, reviews the pioneering contributions of Constantin von Economo (1876-1931) to Neuroscience in a modern context. The neurological studies of von Economo include the discovery of a new nosological entity, encephalitis lethargica, with which his name is forever linked ('von Economo disease'). Based on a percipient analysis of pathoanatomical material from patients with encephalitis lethargica who manifested with either insomnia or somnolence, von Economo deduced the existence of distinct centres in the brain for the regulation of sleep and wakefulness. He presented a synthesis of his ideas in a series of lectures in New York in 1929 and at the First International Neurological Congress held in Berne in 1931. Constantin von Economo was nominated three times for the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for the discovery of encephalitis lethargica. As those studies have exerted and continue to exert the highest impact among von Economo's publications, the present article examines the spectrum of his observations on encephalitis lethargica and the cerebral control of sleep, documented in 63 published works--including post-humous translations into French and English of original German texts; complete bibliographic information is given. His remaining 76 works of an annotated total of 139 scientific publications deal with brain structure, evolution and intelligence, as well as general works on nervous and mental pathology and form the focus of the preceding article.
The study, and the companion article that follows, reviews the entire spectrum of the epoch-making contributions of Constantin von Economo (1876-1931) to basic, clinical and evolutionary Neuroscience. An astute observer and avid writer, von Economo left marks of brilliance on fundamental areas of brain research through an exuberant record of publications dating from 1899 to 1932. His ingenious medical career began with the histological study of the developing pigeon and chick hypophysis, and culminated with bold propositions about the neuroanatomy of talent and the future evolution of the human brain. On the way, he made the seminal discovery of encephalitis lethargica ('von Economo disease'), and produced, with Georg N. Koskinas (1885-1975), one of the masterpieces of brain science, the 1925 Cytoarchitectonics of the Adult Human Cerebral Cortex, defining 107 cortical areas on the basis of cytoarchitectonic criteria. His untimely death at age 55, barely 5.5 months after inaugurating his new Brain Research Institute in Vienna, deprived the Neuroscience world of one of its brightest protagonists during the 20th century. An annotated total of 139 scientific works by von Economo have been identified. The present study covers the 76 works on brain structure, evolution and intelligence, and general works on nervous and mental pathology, with the complete bibliographic information. The companion article covers the remaining 63 works on encephalitis lethargica and sleep regulation.
We have investigated the mitochondrial effects of BH3I-2', Chelerythrine, and HA14-1, small organic molecules that share the ability to bind the BH3 domain of BCL-2. All compounds displayed a biphasic effect on mitochondrial respiration with uncoupling at low concentrations and respiratory inhibition at higher concentrations, the relative uncoupling potency being BH3I-2' (half-maximal uncoupling at about 80 nm) &gt; Chelerythrine (half-maximal uncoupling at about 2 microm) &gt; HA14-1 (half-maximal uncoupling at about 20 microm). At concentrations lower than required for uncoupling all compounds sensitized the permeability transition pore (PTP) to opening both in isolated mitochondria and intact cells. To assess whether the effects on BCL-2 binding, PTP induction and respiration could be due to different structural determinants we have tested a set of HA14-1 analogs from the Hoffmann-La Roche chemical library. We have identified 5-(6-chloro-2,4-dioxo-1,3,4,10-tetrahydro-2H-9-oxa-1,3-diaza-anthracen-10-yl)-pyrimidine-2,4,6-trione (EM20-25) as a molecule devoid of effects on respiration that is able to induce PTP opening, to disrupt the BCL-2/BAX interactions in situ and to activate caspase-9 in BCL-2-overexpressing cells. EM20-25 neutralized the antiapoptotic activity of overexpressed BCL-2 toward staurosporine and sensitized BCL-2-expressing cells from leukemic patients to the killing effects of staurosporine, chlorambucil, and fludarabine. These results provide a proof of principle that the potentially toxic effects of BCL-2 ligands on mitochondrial respiration are not essential for their antiapoptotic activity and represent an important step forward in the development of tumor-selective drugs acting on BCL-2.
Pctaire1, a member of the cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk)-related family, has recently been shown to be phosphorylated and regulated by Cdk5/p35. Although Pctaire1 is expressed in both neuronal and non-neuronal cells, its precise functions remain elusive. We performed a yeast two-hybrid screen to identify proteins that interact with Pctaire1. N-Ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein (NSF), a crucial factor in vesicular transport and membrane fusion, was identified as one of the Pctaire1 interacting proteins. We demonstrate that the D2 domain of NSF, which is required for the oligomerization of NSF subunits, binds directly to and is phosphorylated by Pctaire1 on serine 569. Mutation of this phosphorylation site on NSF (S569A) augments its ability to oligomerize. Moreover, inhibition of Pctaire1 activity by transfecting its kinase-dead (KD) mutant into COS-7 cells enhances the self-association of NSF. Interestingly, Pctaire1 associates with NSF and synaptic vesicle-associated proteins in adult rat brain. To investigate whether Pctaire1 phosphorylation of NSF is involved in regulation of Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis, we examined the effect of expressing Pctaire1 or NSF phosphorylation mutants on the regulated secretion of growth hormone from PC12 cells. Interestingly, expression of either Pctaire1-KD or NSF-S569A in PC12 cells significantly increases high K(+)-stimulated growth hormone release. Taken together, our findings provide the first demonstration that Pctaire1 phosphorylation of NSF regulates the ability of NSF to oligomerize, implicating an unexpected role of this kinase in modulating exocytosis. These findings open a new avenue of research in studying the functional roles of Pctaire1 in the nervous system.
At cholinergic synapses, acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is critical for ensuring normal synaptic transmission. However, little is known about how this enzyme is maintained and regulated in vivo. In this work, we demonstrate that the dissociation of fluorescently-tagged fasciculin 2 (a specific and selective peptide inhibitor of AChE) from AChE is extremely slow. This fluorescent probe was used to study the removal and insertion of AChE at individual synapses of living adult mice. After a one-time blockade of AChEs with fluorescent fasciculin 2, AChEs are removed from synapses initially at a faster rate (t(1/2) of approximately 3 days) and later at a slower rate (t(1/2) of approximately 12 days). Most of the removed AChEs are replaced by newly inserted AChEs over time. However, when AChEs are continuously blocked with fasciculin 2, the removal rate increases substantially (t(1/2) of approximately 12 h), and most of the lost AChEs are not replaced by newly inserted AChE. Furthermore, complete one-time inactivation of AChE activity significantly increases the removal of postsynaptic nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs). Finally, time lapse imaging reveals that synaptic AChEs and AChRs that are removed from synapses are co-localized in the same pool after being internalized. These results demonstrate a remarkable AChE dynamism and argue for a potential link between AChE function and postsynaptic receptor lifetime.
This study evaluated the action of tamoxifen and estradiol on the function of isolated liver mitochondria. We observed that although tamoxifen and estradiol per se did not affect mitochondrial complexes II, III, or IV, complex I is affected, this effect being more drastic (except for state 4 of respiration) when mitochondria were coincubated with both drugs. Furthermore, using two respiratory chain inhibitors, rotenone and diphenyliodonium chloride, we identified the flavin mononucleotide site of complex I as the target of tamoxifen and/or estradiol action(s). Tamoxifen (25 microm) per se induced a significant increase in hydrogen peroxide production and state 4 of respiration. Additionally, a significant decrease in respiratory control ratio, transmembrane, and depolarization potentials were observed. Estradiol per se decreased carbonyl cyanide p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone (FCCP)-stimulated respiration, state 3 of respiration, and respiratory control ratio and increased lag phase of repolarization. With the exception of state 4 of respiration whose increase induced by tamoxifen was reversed by the presence of estradiol, the effects of tamoxifen were highly exacerbated when estradiol was present. We observed that 10 microm tamoxifen in the presence of estradiol affected mitochondria significantly by decreasing FCCP-stimulated respiration, state 3 of respiration, respiratory control ratio, and ADP depolarization and increasing the lag phase of repolarization. All of the deleterious effects induced by 25 microm tamoxifen were highly exacerbated in the presence of estradiol. Furthermore, we observed that the effects of both compounds were independent of estrogen receptors because the pure estrogen antagonist ICI 182,780 did not interfere with tamoxifen and/or estradiol detrimental effects. Altogether, our data provide a mechanistic explanation for the multiple cytotoxic effects of tamoxifen including its capacity to destroy tamoxifen-resistant breast cancer cells in the presence of estradiol. This new piece of information provides a basis for the development of new and promising anticancer therapeutic strategies.
Advances in molecular biology, organic chemistry, and materials science have recently created several new classes of fluorescent probes for imaging in cell biology. Here we review the characteristic benefits and limitations of fluorescent probes to study proteins. The focus is on protein detection in live versus fixed cells: determination of protein expression, localization, activity state, and the possibility for combination of fluorescent light microscopy with electron microscopy. Small organic fluorescent dyes, nanocrystals (&quot;quantum dots&quot;), autofluorescent proteins, small genetic encoded tags that can be complexed with fluorochromes, and combinations of these probes are highlighted.
Vector-based RNA interference (RNAi) has emerged as a valuable tool for analysis of gene function. We have developed new RNA polymerase II expression vectors for RNAi, designated SIBR vectors, based upon the non-coding RNA BIC. BIC contains the miR-155 microRNA (miRNA) precursor, and we find that expression of a short region of the third exon of mouse BIC is sufficient to produce miR-155 in mammalian cells. The SIBR vectors use a modified miR-155 precursor stem-loop and flanking BIC sequences to express synthetic miRNAs complementary to target RNAs. Like RNA polymerase III driven short hairpin RNA vectors, the SIBR vectors efficiently reduce target mRNA and protein expression. The synthetic miRNAs can be expressed from an intron, allowing coexpression of a marker or other protein with the miRNAs. In addition, intronic expression of a synthetic miRNA from a two intron vector enhances RNAi. A SIBR vector can express two different miRNAs from a single transcript for effective inhibition of two different target mRNAs. Furthermore, at least eight tandem copies of a synthetic miRNA can be expressed in a polycistronic transcript to increase the inhibition of a target RNA. The SIBR vectors are flexible tools for a variety of RNAi applications.
The lobster olfactory organ is an important model for investigating many aspects of the olfactory system. To facilitate study of the molecular basis of olfaction in lobsters, we made a subtracted cDNA library from the mature zone of the olfactory organ of Homarus americanus, the American lobster. Sequencing of the 5'-end of 5,184 cDNA clones produced 2,389 distinct high-quality sequences consisting of 1,944 singlets and 445 contigs. Matches to known sequences corresponded with the types of cells present in the olfactory organ, including specific markers of olfactory sensory neurons, auxiliary cells, secretory cells of the aesthetasc tegumental gland, and epithelial cells. The wealth of neuronal mRNAs represented among the sequences reflected the preponderance of neurons in the tissue. The sequences identified candidate genes responsible for known functions and suggested new functions not previously recognized in the olfactory organ. A cDNA microarray was designed and tested by assessing mRNA abundance differences between two of the lobster's major chemosensory structures: the mature zone of the olfactory organ and the dactyl of the walking legs, a taste organ. The 115 differences detected again emphasized the abundance of neurons in the olfactory organ, especially a cluster of mRNAs encoding cytoskeletal-associated proteins and cell adhesion molecules such as 14-3-3zeta, actins, tubulins, trophinin, Fax, Yel077cp, suppressor of profilin 2, and gelsolin.
Ductus arteriosus (DA) closure is initiated by oxygen rise postnatally and progresses in two, functional-to-permanent, stages. Here, using GeneChip Arrays in rats (normoxic and hyperoxic fetus, normoxic newborn), we examined whether oxygen alone duplicates the birth process in affecting DA genes. In addition, by comparing DA with aorta (Ao), we identified features in postnatal gene profile marking transitional adjustments in a closing (DA) vs. a persistent (Ao) vessel. We found changes in neonatal DA denoting enhanced formation and action of the constrictor endothelin-1 (ET-1). Likewise, ANG II type 1 receptor was upregulated, and the compound was a constrictor. Conversely, relaxant PGE2 became less effective. Among agents for functional closure, only ET-1 was affected similarly by oxygen and birth. Coincidentally, neonatal DA showed enhanced contractile drive with upregulation of Rho-Rho kinase and calcium signaling along with downregulation of contractile proteins. The latter effect was shared by oxygen. Changes denoting active remodeling were also seen in neonatal but not hyperoxic fetal DA. Ao, unlike DA, exhibited postnatal variations in noradrenergic, purinergic, and PGI2 systems with opposing effects on vasomotion. Contraction and remodeling processes were also less affected by birth, whereas lipid and glucose metabolism were upregulated. We conclude that several agents, including ANG II as novel effector, promote functional closure of DA, but only ET-1 is causally coupled with oxygen. Oxygen has no role in processes for permanent closure. Functional closure is associated with downregulation of contractile apparatus, and this may render neonatal DA less amenable to tone manipulation. Conceivably, activation of metabolism in neonatal Ao is a distinguishing feature for transitional adaptations in the permanent vasculature.

An event-related brain potentials (ERP) experiment was carried out to investigate the influence of semantic category membership on syntactic decision-making. Native speakers of German viewed a series of words that were semantically marked or unmarked for gender and made go/no-go decisions about the grammatical gender of those words. The electrophysiological results indicated that participants could make a gender decision earlier when words were semantically gender-marked than when they were semantically gender-unmarked. Our data provide evidence for the influence of semantic category membership on the decision of the syntactic gender of a visually presented German noun. More specifically, our results support models of language comprehension in which semantic information processing of words is initiated prior to syntactic information processing is finalized.
Associative conditioning involves changes in the processing pathways activated by sensory information to link the conditioned stimulus (CS) to the conditioned behavior. Thus, conditioning can recruit neuronal elements to form new pathways for the processing of the CS and/or can change the strength of existing pathways. Using a behavioral and systems level electrophysiological approach on a tractable invertebrate circuit generating feeding in the mollusk Lymnaea stagnalis, we identified three independent pathways for the processing of the CS amyl acetate used in appetitive conditioning. Two of these pathways, one suppressing and the other stimulating feeding, mediate responses to the CS in naive animals. The effects of these two pathways on feeding behavior are unaltered by conditioning. In contrast, the CS response of a third stimulatory pathway is significantly enhanced after conditioning, becoming an important contributor to the overall CS response. This is unusual because, in most of the previous examples in which naive animals already respond to the CS, memory formation results from changes in the strength of pathways that mediate the existing response. Here, we show that, in the molluscan feeding system, both modified and unmodified pathways are activated in parallel by the CS after conditioning, and it is their integration that results in the conditioned response.
One of the hallmarks of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 associated pathology in the CNS is deterioration of neuronal processes. Although there is mounting evidence of neuronal toxicity and cell death induced by the HIV-1 transactivating factor Tat, the molecular events linked directly to its detrimental effect on neuronal cells remain unclear. In this study, we used rat embryonic cortical neurons and demonstrated that Tat causes rapid degradation of microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) and the collapse of cytoskeletal filaments. The mechanism of Tat action on MAP2 stability involved Tat-mediated translocation of the proteasome to the site of microtubule filaments. Immunohistochemical analysis of clinical samples from patients with HIV encephalopathy further revealed a significant decrease in MAP2 with predominant cytoplasmic 20S in cortical neurons near microglial nodules. These findings indicate a novel mechanism for the action of Tat on neuronal cells. It involves proteasome-mediated MAP2 degradation and may account for the loss of MAP2 and neuronal damage observed in the brain of AIDS patients with neurological dysfunctions.
The evolutionarily conserved Semaphorin family proteins are well known axon guidance ligands that mediate both attractive and repulsive responses in invertebrates and vertebrates. In this study, we show that the Drosophila Semaphorin-1a (Sema1a), a transmembrane Semaphorin, is required cell autonomously in adult photoreceptor (R-cell) axons for the establishment of an appropriate topographic termination pattern in the optic lobe. Loss of sema1a disrupts the association of neighboring R-cell growth cones leading to defects in local termination pattern, whereas overexpression of sema1a induces the hyper-fasciculation of R-cell axons. The function of Sema1a in R-cell axon guidance absolutely requires its cytoplasmic domain. We propose that Sema1a functions as a receptor in regulating R-cell axon guidance in the Drosophila visual system.
Dysfunction of the 140 aa protein alpha-synuclein plays a central role in Lewy body disorders, including Parkinson's disease, as well as in multiple system atrophy. Here, we show that the expression of truncated human alpha-synuclein(1-120), driven by the rat tyrosine hydroxylase promoter on a mouse alpha-synuclein null background, leads to the formation of pathological inclusions in the substantia nigra and olfactory bulb and to a reduction in striatal dopamine levels. At the behavioral level, the transgenic mice showed a progressive reduction in spontaneous locomotion and an increased response to amphetamine. These findings suggest that the C-terminal of alpha-synuclein is an important regulator of aggregation in vivo and will help to understand the mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of Lewy body disorders and multiple system atrophy.
Functional polymorphisms in the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) and the dopamine transporter (DAT) genes modulate dopamine inactivation, which is crucial for determining neuronal signal-to-noise ratios in prefrontal cortex during working memory. We show that the COMT Met158 allele and the DAT 3' variable number of tandem repeat 10-repeat allele are independently associated in healthy humans with more focused neuronal activity (as measured with blood oxygen level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging) in the working memory cortical network, including the prefrontal cortex. Moreover, subjects homozygous for the COMT Met allele and the DAT 10-repeat allele have the most focused response, whereas the COMT Val and the DAT 9-repeat alleles have the least. These results demonstrate additive genetic effects of genes regulating dopamine signaling on specific neuronal networks subserving working memory.


Type I IFN is a cytokine family endowed with multiple biological activities. In recent years, type I IFN has been demonstrated to play a crucial role in innate immunity, in dendritic cell maturation/differentiation and in the priming of primary antibody responses, especially when administered i.m. with a purified influenza vaccine. Due to the increasing interest in mucosal vaccination especially for respiratory infections, we investigated two different IFN-adjuvanted immunization protocols against influenza. In the first one, anesthesized C3H/HeN mice were instilled intranasally with 50 microl of a commercially available influenza vaccine containing 5 mg of hemagglutinin (HA) and a partially purified preparation of mouse IFN-alphal. A single intranasal administration of IFN-adjuvanted vaccine resulted in a full protection of 100% of mice against virus challenge while vaccine alone was only partially effective (40%). From the analysis of the specific antibody response emerged that type I IFN induced a significant increase of antibody titers in all the Ig subclasses with particular effect on IgG2a and IgA. To mimic aerosol administration and to limit vaccine delivery strictly to nasal mucosa, a second method of intranasal vaccination was developed in which mice were left awake and their nostrils moistened along the day of treatment (every 10 min) with six mini-doses (8 microl each) of vaccine +/- IFN-I with dose and timing equivalent to previous immunization protocol. This vaccination schedule prevented mice from pulmonary damage and the concomintant use of type I IFN induced an efficient and long lasting both local and systemic immune response. These findings shed new light on the involvement of type I IFN in the early phases of the immune response and open new and practical perspectives in vaccine research.
The authors recorded forearm H reflex reciprocal inhibition and clinical outcome in eight patients with primary torsion dystonia before and 1, 3, and 6 months after pallidal deep brain stimulation (DBS). There was progressive increase in reciprocal inhibition after surgery, which correlated with clinical improvement. The authors conclude that pallidal DBS for dystonia results in functional reorganization of the nervous system, which includes a long-term increase in spinal inhibition.
The perceptual color qualities of hue, saturation, and brightness do not correspond in any simple way to the physical characteristics of retinal stimuli, a fact that poses a major obstacle for any explanation of color vision. Here we test the hypothesis that these basic color attributes are determined by the statistical covariations in the spectral stimuli that humans have always experienced in typical visual environments. Using a database of 1,600 natural images, we analyzed the joint probability distributions of the physical variables most relevant to each of these perceptual qualities. The cumulative density functions derived from these distributions predict the major colorimetric functions that have been reported in psychophysical experiments over the last century.

The formation and maturation of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic synapses was studied in cultured hippocampal pyramidal neurons by both performing immunocytochemistry for GABAergic markers and recording miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs). Nascent GABAergic synapses appeared between 3 and 8 days in vitro (DIV), with GABAA receptor subunit clusters appearing first, followed by GAD-65 puncta, then functional synapses. The number of GABAergic synapses increased from 7 to 14 DIV, with a corresponding increase in frequency of mIPSCs. Moreover, these new GABAergic synapses formed on neuronal processes farther from the soma, contributing to decreased mIPSC amplitude and slowed mIPSC 19-90% rise time. The mIPSC decay quickened from 7 to 14 DIV, with a parallel change in the distribution of the alpha5 subunit from diffuse expression at 7 DIV to clustered expression at 14 DIV. These alpha5 clusters were mostly extrasynaptic. The alpha1 subunit was expressed as clusters in none of the neurons at 7 DIV, in 20% at 14 DIV, and in 80% at 21 DIV. Most of these alpha1 clusters were expressed at GABAergic synapses. In addition, puncta of GABA transporter 1 (GAT-1) were localized to GABAergic synapses at 14 DIV but were not expressed at 7 DIV. These studies demonstrate that mIPSCs appear after pre- and postsynaptic elements are in place. Furthermore, the process of maturation of GABAergic synapses involves increased synapse formation at distal processes, expression of new GABAA receptor subunits, and GAT-1 expression at synapses; these changes are reflected in altered frequency, kinetics, and drug sensitivity of mIPSCs.
The pattern of expression of ionotropic glutamate receptor (GluR) subunits 1-4 in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) has been reported to change during development. The aim of this study was to compare the distribution of the GluR1-4 subunits in the MNTB at postnatal day (P) 9, before high-frequency signal transmission in the auditory system has developed, with that observed in mature adult rats. GluR1-4 subunits were studied by preembedding and postembedding immunocytochemical methods. Increased levels of GluR1, 2/3, and 4 associated with development were evident only at postsynaptic sites of MNTB principal cell bodies receiving calyces of Held synapses, whereas receptor density at nonsynaptic sites was found to remain unaltered. Taken together, the expression pattern of GluR subunits and the density of immunoparticles in postsynaptic specializations are indicative of a compartmentalization of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4 isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) subunits upon development. These developmental changes provide a morphological basis for establishment of the postsynaptic properties needed for high-frequency synaptic transmission of auditory signals to MNTB principal neurons.
Locus coeruleus (LC) noradrenergic neurons are active during wakefulness, slow their discharge rate during slow wave sleep, and stop firing during paradoxical sleep (PS). A large body of data indicates that their inactivation during PS is due to a tonic GABAergic inhibition. To localize the neurons responsible for such inhibition, we first examined the distribution of retrogradely and Fos double-immunostained neurons following cholera toxin b subunit (CTb) injection in the LC of control rats, rats selectively deprived of PS for 3 days, and rats allowed to recover for 3 hours from such deprivation. We found a significant number of CTb/Fos double-labeled cells only in the recovery group. The largest number of CTb/Fos double-labeled cells was found in the dorsal paragigantocellular reticular nucleus (DPGi). It indeed contained 19% of the CTb/Fos double-labeled neurons, whereas the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (vlPAG) contained 18.3% of these neurons, the lateral paragigantocellular reticular nucleus (LPGi) 15%, the lateral hypothalamic area 9%, the lateral PAG 6.7%, and the rostral PAG 6%. In addition, CTb/Fos double-labeled cells constituted 43% of all the singly CTb-labeled cells counted in the DPGi compared with 29% for the LPGi, 18% for the rostral PAG, and 10% or less for the other structures. Although all these populations of CTb/Fos double-labeled neurons could be GABAergic and tonically inhibit LC neurons during PS, our results indicate that neurons from the DPGi constitute the best candidate for this role.
Olfactory ensheathing cell (OEC) transplants stimulate axon regeneration and partial functional recovery after spinal cord injury. However, it remains unclear whether enriched OEC or mixed transplants of OEC and olfactory nerve fibroblasts (ONF) are optimal for stimulating axon regrowth. The neurite outgrowth stimulating effects of enriched OEC, ONF, and mixed OEC/ONF cultures on neonatal cerebral cortical neurons were compared using co-cultures. We show that (1) OEC are more neurite outgrowth promoting than ONF, and (2) ONF do not enhance the neurite outgrowth stimulating effects of OEC in mixed OEC/ONF cultures. Hence, our data indicate that there is no preference for the use of enriched OEC or mixed OEC/ONF cultures with respect to stimulation of neurite growth in vitro.

We conducted a study on the mechanism of KAI1/CD82-mediated suppression of tumor invasiveness and metastasis, and examined its effect on MMP-9 activity and the TIMP1 levels in H1299 human non-small cell lung carcinoma cells. The H1299 human lung carcinoma cells were transfected with pcDNA3.1-CD82 and stable transfectant clones that had a high KAI1/CD82 expression were obtained. We performed Western blot analysis, cell invasion assay, gelatin zymography, and RT-PCR to assess the KAI1/CD82 expression and tumor invasiveness, the MMP-9 activity, the MMP-9 mRNA and protein levels, and the TIMP1 levels in the H1299/CD82 transfectant cells and compared the results with those of the control groups. The H1299/CD82 transfectants exhibited significant suppression of cell invasion, reduced MMP9 enzyme activity, elevated MMP9 mRNA and MMP-9 protein levels, and elevated TIMP1 levels. It may be postulated that KAI1/CD82 over-expression in the H1299 non-small cell lung carcinoma cells suppresses the tumor invasiveness and metastatic potential by inducing MMP9 inactivation via the up-regulation of TIMP1.
The historic discovery that the catecholamine neurotransmitters of the sympathetic nervous system, norepinephrine and epinephrine, are inactivated through their reuptake by presynaptic nerve terminals provided new insights into neurotransmitter action and paved the way for the development of modern antidepressant drugs.
Peroxynitrite toxicity has been implicated in the pathogenesis of white matter injury. The mechanisms of peroxynitrite toxicity to oligodendrocytes (OLs), the major cell type of the white matter, are unknown. Using primary cultures of mature OLs that express myelin basic protein, we found that 3-morpholinosydnonimine, a peroxynitrite generator, caused toxicity to OLs. N,N,N',N'-tetrakis (2-pyridylmethyl)ethylenediamine, a zinc chelator, completely blocked peroxynitrite-induced toxicity. Use of FluoZin-3, a specific fluorescence zinc indicator, demonstrated the liberation of zinc from intracellular stores by peroxynitrite. Peroxynitrite caused the sequential activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 42/44 (ERK42/44), 12-lipoxygenase, and generation of reactive oxygen species, which were all dependent upon the intracellular release of zinc. The same cell death pathway was also activated when exogenous zinc was used. These results suggest that in addition to preventing the formation of peroxynitrite, useful strategies in preventing disease progression in pathologies in which peroxynitrite toxicity plays a critical role might include maintaining intracellular zinc homeostasis, blocking phosphorylation of ERK42/44, inhibiting activation of 12-lipoxygenase, and eliminating the accumulation of reactive oxygen species.
X-ray CT images obtained with iterative reconstruction (IR) can be hampered by the so-called edge and aliasing artefacts, which appear as interference patterns and severe overshoots in the areas of sharp intensity transitions. Previously, we have demonstrated that these artefacts are caused by discretization errors during the projection simulation step in IR. Although these errors are inherent to IR, they can be adequately suppressed by reconstruction on an image grid that is finer than that typically used for analytical methods such as filtered back-projection. Two other methods that may prevent edge artefacts are: (i) smoothing the projections prior to reconstruction or (ii) using an image representation different from voxels; spherically symmetric Kaiser-Bessel functions are a frequently employed example of such a representation. In this paper, we compare reconstruction on a fine grid with the two above-mentioned alternative strategies for edge artefact reduction. We show that the use of a fine grid results in a more adequate suppression of artefacts than the smoothing of projections or using the Kaiser-Bessel image representation.


A new enantiomeric synthesis utilizing classical resolution provided two novel series of optically active inhibitors of cholinesterase: (-)- and (+)-O-carbamoyl phenols of tetrahydrofurobenzofuran and methanobenzodioxepine. An additional two series of (-)- and (+)-O-carbamoyl phenols of pyrroloindole and furoindole were obtained by known procedures, and their anticholinesterase actions were similarly quantified against freshly prepared human acetyl- (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE). Both enantiomeric forms of each series demonstrated potent cholinesterase inhibitory activity (with IC(50) values as low as 10 nM for AChE and 3 nM for BChE), with the exception of the (+)-O-carbamoyl phenols of pyrroloindole, which lacked activity (IC(50) values &gt;1 microM). Based on the biological data of these four series, a structure-activity relationship (SAR) analysis was provided by molecular volume calculations. In addition, a probable transition-state model was established according to the known X-ray structure of a transition-state complex of Torpedo californica AChE-m-(N,N,N-trimethylammonio)-2,2,2-trifluoroacetophenone (TcAChE-TMTFA). This model proved valuable in explaining the enantioselectivity and enzyme subtype selectivity of each series. These carbamates are more potent than, or similarly potent to, anticholinesterases in current clinical use, providing not only inhibitors of potential clinical relevance but also pharmacological tools to define drug-enzyme binding interactions within an enzyme crucial in the maintenance of cognition and numerous systemic physiological functions in health, aging, and disease.
Understanding the neural mechanisms underlying object recognition is one of the fundamental challenges of visual neuroscience. While neurophysiology experiments have provided evidence for a &quot;simple-to-complex&quot; processing model based on a hierarchy of increasingly complex image features, behavioral and fMRI studies of face processing have been interpreted as incompatible with this account. We present a neurophysiologically plausible, feature-based model that quantitatively accounts for face discrimination characteristics, including face inversion and &quot;configural&quot; effects. The model predicts that face discrimination is based on a sparse representation of units selective for face shapes, without the need to postulate additional, &quot;face-specific&quot; mechanisms. We derive and test predictions that quantitatively link model FFA face neuron tuning, neural adaptation measured in an fMRI rapid adaptation paradigm, and face discrimination performance. The experimental data are in excellent agreement with the model prediction that discrimination performance should asymptote as faces become dissimilar enough to activate different neuronal populations.
Both episodic memory and spatial navigation require temporal encoding of the relationships between events or locations. In a linear maze, ordered spatial distances between sequential locations were represented by the temporal relations of hippocampal place cell pairs within cycles of theta oscillation in a compressed manner. Such correlations could arise due to spike &quot;phase precession&quot; of independent neurons driven by common theta pacemaker or as a result of temporal coordination among specific hippocampal cell assemblies. We found that temporal correlation between place cell pairs was stronger than predicted by a pacemaker drive of independent neurons, indicating a critical role for synaptic interactions and precise timing within and across cell assemblies in place sequence representation. CA1 and CA3 ensembles, identifying spatial locations, were active preferentially on opposite phases of theta cycles. These observations suggest that interleaving CA3 neuronal sequences bind CA1 assemblies representing overlapping past, present, and future locations into single episodes.
Sensory experience plays an instructive role in the development of the nervous system. Here we showed that visual experience can induce persistent modification of developing retinotectal circuits via spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP). Pairing light stimuli with spiking of the tectal cell induced persistent enhancement or reduction of light-evoked responses, with a dependence on the relative timing between light stimulus and postsynaptic spiking similar to that for STDP. Using precisely timed sequential three-bar stimulation to mimic a moving bar, we showed that spike timing-dependent LTP/LTD can account for the asymmetric modification of the tectal cell receptive field induced by moving bar. Furthermore, selective inhibition of signaling mediated by brain-derived neurotrophic factor and nitric oxide, which are respectively required for light-induced LTP and LTD, interfered with moving bar-induced temporally specific changes in the tectal cell responses. Together, these findings suggest that STDP can mediate sensory experience-dependent circuit refinement in the developing nervous system.
Accumulating evidence indicates that cyclin dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5), through phosphorylating a plethora of pre- and postsynaptic proteins, functions as an essential modulator of synaptic transmission. Recent advances in the field of Cdk5 research have not only consolidated the in vivo importance of Cdk5 in neurotransmission but also suggest a pivotal role of Cdk5 in the regulation of higher cognitive functions and neurodegenerative diseases. In this review, we will discuss the recent findings on the emanating role of Cdk5 as a regulator of synaptic functions and plasticity.
Recent reports have overturned a series of dogmas that have been well entrenched in the neuroscience literature concerning NMDA-type glutamate receptors (NMDARs). The new data show that NMDARs exist on the myelin sheath formed by oligodendrocytes, that an uncompetitive NMDAR antagonist has successfully passed human clinical trials, and that NMDARs trigger multiple deleterious cascades to inflict cellular damage on both neurons and glia during cerebral ischemia (stroke). These recent findings bode well for clinical intervention with NMDAR antagonists in more neurological disorders than previously thought, including multiple sclerosis, cerebral palsy (periventricular leukomalacia), and spinal cord injury.
Building on recent findings that synaptotagmin (Syt) participates in synaptic vesicle endocytosis, Poskanzer et al., in this issue of Neuron, show distinct mechanisms by which Syt functions in this process. Most significantly, they show (1) that calcium binding to Syt determines the rate but not fidelity of vesicle recycling and (2) that mutations in a different Syt domain affect the shape but not rate of formation of recycled synaptic vesicles.
Channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2), a directly light-gated cation channel from the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii has been shown to be a directly light-switched cation-selective ion channel, which employs 11-cis retinal as its chromophore. This is the same chromophore as the mammalian photoreceptor's visual pigment-rhodopsin. Previously, investigators demonstrated that ChR2 can be used to optically control neuronal firing by depolarizing the cell. In this issue of Neuron, Bi et al. apply viral-mediated gene transfer to deliver ChR2 to retinal ganglion cells (RGC) in a rodent model of inherited blindness. In this way, the authors have genetically engineered surviving retinal neurons to take on the lost photoreceptive function. The conversion of light-insensitive retinal interneurons into photosensitive cells introduces an entirely new direction for treatments of blinding retinal degeneration.
The transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4) is a primary afferent transducer that plays a crucial role in neuropathic hyperalgesia for osmotic and mechanical stimuli, as well as in inflammatory mediator-induced hyperalgesia for osmotic stimuli. In view of the clinical importance of mechanical hyperalgesia in inflammatory states, the present study investigated the role of TRPV4 in mechanical hyperalgesia induced by inflammatory mediators and the second-messenger pathways involved. Intradermal injection of either the inflammogen carrageenan or a soup of inflammatory mediators enhanced the nocifensive paw-withdrawal reflex elicited by hypotonic or mechanical stimuli in rat. Spinal administration of TRPV4 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide blocked the enhancement without altering baseline nociceptive threshold. Similarly, in TRPV4(-/-) knock-out mice, inflammatory soup failed to induce any significant mechanical or osmotic hyperalgesia. In vitro investigation showed that inflammatory mediators engage the TRPV4-mediated mechanism of sensitization by direct action on dissociated primary afferent neurons. Additional behavioral observations suggested that multiple mediators are necessary to achieve sufficient activation of the cAMP pathway to engage the TRPV4-dependent mechanism of hyperalgesia. In addition, direct activation of protein kinase A or protein kinase C epsilon, two pathways that mediate inflammation-induced mechanical hyperalgesia, also induced hyperalgesia for both hypotonic and mechanical stimuli that was decreased by TRPV4 antisense and absent in TRPV4(-/-) mice. We conclude that TRPV4 plays a crucial role in the mechanical hyperalgesia that is generated by the concerted action of inflammatory mediators present in inflamed tissues.
Manipulation of objects and tool-use are known to be controlled by a network of frontal motor and parietal areas. Here, we investigate which of these areas are associated with the somatic sensation of hand-object interactive movement using functional magnetic resonance imaging. To dissociate the sensation of movement from the motor control commands, we used a new kinesthetic illusion. Twelve blindfolded right-handed participants placed the palm of their right or left hand on an object (a ball). Simultaneously, we vibrated the tendon of the wrist extensor muscle. This elicited the illusion that the wrist is flexing and the touched object is also moving along with the hand (hand-object illusion). As controls, we vibrated the skin surface over the nearby bone, which does not elicit any illusions, or we vibrated the tendon when the hand did not touch the object, which only generates the illusory flexion of the hand. We found that the hand-object illusion specifically activated the left inferior parietal lobule (IPL) (supramarginal gyrus and parietal operculum, including cytoarchitectonic areas ip1 and op1) and area 44. The left IPL was activated both during the hand-object illusions with the right and left hands, and the activity was greater than in the right corresponding parietal region, suggesting a dominant role of the left hemisphere. We conclude that the left IPL is involved in the somatic perception of hand-object interactive movement and suggest that the underlying mechanism is the somatic integration of internal information about the body and external information about the object.
Respiratory rhythmogenesis is modulated by chloride-mediated conductances via GABAA and glycine receptors. In this study, we determine the actions of chloride-mediated conductances on respiratory rhythmogenesis in perinatal rats from the time of inception of fetal inspiratory drive through to the newborn period. Data were obtained from perinatal rat models, including (1) recordings of nerve roots and neuronal population discharge from medullary slice and brainstem-spinal cord in vitro preparations, (2) gramicidin perforated-patch recordings of respiratory neurons in medullary slices, and (3) plethysmographic recordings from unanesthetized pups. The transition from excitatory to inhibitory effects on respiratory rhythmogenesis occurs at approximately embryonic day 19. By birth, GABA, glycine, and taurine all induce a hyperpolarization of the membrane potential in respiratory medullary neurons and a suppression of respiratory frequency. The age-dependant change in the actions of chloride-mediated conductances is regulated by the development of chloride cotransporters (KCC2 and NKCC1). The function of KCC2 chloride cotransporter is strongly modulated by [K+]o, which must be considered when evaluating responses observed using in vitro perinatal preparations.
We present experiments and analyses designed to test the idea that firing rates in premotor cortex become optimized during motor preparation, approaching their ideal values over time. We measured the across-trial variability of neural responses in dorsal premotor cortex of three monkeys performing a delayed-reach task. Such variability was initially high, but declined after target onset, and was maintained at a rough plateau during the delay. An additional decline was observed after the go cue. Between target onset and movement onset, variability declined by an average of 34%. This decline in variability was observed even when mean firing rate changed little. We hypothesize that this effect is related to the progress of motor preparation. In this interpretation, firing rates are initially variable across trials but are brought, over time, to their &quot;appropriate&quot; values, becoming consistent in the process. Consistent with this hypothesis, reaction times were longer if the go cue was presented shortly after target onset, when variability was still high, and were shorter if the go cue was presented well after target onset, when variability had fallen to its plateau. A similar effect was observed for the natural variability in reaction time: longer (shorter) reaction times tended to occur on trials in which firing rates were more (less) variable. These results reveal a remarkable degree of temporal structure in the variability of cortical neurons. The relationship with reaction time argues that the changes in variability approximately track the progress of motor preparation.
The brightness and color of a surface depends on its contrast with nearby surfaces. For example, a gray surface can appear very light when surrounded by a black surface or dark when surrounded by a white surface. Some theories suggest that perceived surface brightness and color is represented explicitly by neural signals in cortical visual field maps; these neural signals are not initiated by the stimulus itself but rather by the contrast signals at the borders. Here, we use functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to search for such neural &quot;filling-in&quot; signals. Although we find the usual strong relationship between local contrast and fMRI response, when perceived brightness or color changes are induced by modulating a surrounding field, rather than the surface itself, we find there is no corresponding local modulation in primary visual cortex or other nearby retinotopic maps. Moreover, when we model the obtained fMRI responses, we find strong evidence for contributions of both local and long-range edge responses. We argue that such extended edge responses may be caused by neurons previously identified in neurophysiological studies as being brightness responsive, a characterization that may therefore need to be revised. We conclude that the visual field maps of human V1 and V2 do not contain filled-in, topographical representations of surface brightness and color.
We describe a study testing fibrillar beta-amyloid(1-42) (Abeta42) vaccination in dogs. Three young beagles (4.6 years) were immunized twice with Abeta42 and a Th1 adjuvant (TiterMax Gold). Animals generated primarily IgG2 and IgM antibody responses, which were specific for the Abeta(11-30) region of Abeta(1-42). Next, 3 aged beagles (8.9-13.8 years) were immunized 4 times with Abeta(42) and a Th2 adjuvant (Alum). We observed an acute increase in IgG2, a slower increase in IgG1 and Abeta antibodies of broader specificity (Abeta(1-15&gt;) Abeta(11-30&gt;) Abeta(6-20)). A nonsignificant increase in CSF Abeta(1-40) and decrease in Abeta(1-40/1-42) in cortex was detected. Canines may be a useful system for testing an Abeta vaccine.
The lipid requirements of the Torpedo californica nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) were assessed by reconstituting purified receptors into lipid vesicles of defined composition and by using photolabeling with 3-trifluoromethyl-3-(m-[125I]iodophenyl)diazirine ([125I]TID) to determine functionality. Earlier studies demonstrated that nAChRs reconstituted into membranes containing phosphatidylcholine (PC), the anionic lipid phosphatidic acid (PA), and cholesterol (CH) are particularly effective at stabilizing the nAChR in the resting (closed) state that is capable of undergoing agonist-induced conformational transitions (i.e., functionality). The present studies demonstrate that (1) there is no obligatory requirement for PC, (2) increasing the CH content serves to increase the degree to which nAChRs are stabilized in the resting state, and this effect saturates at approximately 35 mol % (molar lipid percentage), and (3) the effect of increasing levels of PA saturates at approximately 12 mol % and in the absence of PA nAChRs are stabilized in the desensitized state (i.e., nonfunctional). Native Torpedo membranes contain approximately 35 mol % CH but less than 1 mol % PA, suggesting that other anionic lipids may substitute for PA. We report that (1) phosphatidylserine (PS) and phosphatidylinositol (PI), anionic lipids that are abundant in native Torpedo membranes, also stabilize the receptor in the resting state although with reduced efficacy (approximately 50-60%) compared to PA, and (2) for nAChRs reconstituted into PA/CH membranes at different lipid-protein molar ratios, receptor functionality decreases rapidly below approximately 65 lipids per receptor. Collectively, these results are consistent with a functional requirement of a single shell of lipids surrounding the nAChR and specific anionic lipid- and sterol (CH)-protein interactions.

Classification image and other similar noise-driven linear methods have found increasingly wider applications in revealing psychophysical receptive field structures or perceptual templates. These techniques are relatively easy to deploy, and the results are simple to interpret. However, being a linear technique, the utility of the classification-image method is believed to be limited. Uncertainty about the target stimuli on the part of an observer will result in a classification image that is the superposition of all possible templates for all the possible signals. In the context of a well-established uncertainty model, which pools the outputs of a large set of linear frontends with a max operator, we show analytically, in simulations, and with human experiments that the effect of intrinsic uncertainty can be limited or even eliminated by presenting a signal at a relatively high contrast in a classification-image experiment. We further argue that the subimages from different stimulus-response categories should not be combined, as is conventionally done. We show that when the signal contrast is high, the subimages from the error trials contain a clear high-contrast image that is negatively correlated with the perceptual template associated with the presented signal, relatively unaffected by uncertainty. The subimages also contain a &quot;haze&quot; that is of a much lower contrast and is positively correlated with the superposition of all the templates associated with the erroneous response. In the case of spatial uncertainty, we show that the spatial extent of the uncertainty can be estimated from the classification subimages. We link intrinsic uncertainty to invariance and suggest that this signal-clamped classification-image method will find general applications in uncovering the underlying representations of high-level neural and psychophysical mechanisms.
Diffusion within the extracellular space (ECS) of the brain is necessary for chemical signaling and for neurons and glia to access nutrients and therapeutics; however, the width of the ECS in living tissue remains unknown. We used integrative optical imaging to show that dextrans and water-soluble quantum dots with Stokes-Einstein diameters as large as 35 nm diffuse within the ECS of adult rat neocortex in vivo. Modeling the ECS as fluid-filled &quot;pores&quot; predicts a normal width of 38-64 nm, at least 2-fold greater than estimates from EM of fixed tissue. ECS width falls below 10 nm after terminal ischemia, a likely explanation for the small ECS visualized in electron micrographs. Our results will improve modeling of neurotransmitter spread after spillover and ectopic release and establish size limits for diffusion of drug delivery vectors such as viruses, liposomes, and nanoparticles in brain ECS.
The sense of hearing depends on fast, finely graded neurotransmission at the ribbon synapses connecting hair cells to afferent nerve fibers. The processing that occurs at this first chemical synapse in the auditory pathway determines the quality and extent of the information conveyed to the central nervous system. Knowledge of the synapse's input-output function is therefore essential for understanding how auditory stimuli are encoded. To investigate the transfer function at the hair cell's synapse, we developed a preparation of the bullfrog's amphibian papilla. In the portion of this receptor organ representing stimuli of 400-800 Hz, each afferent nerve fiber forms several synaptic terminals onto one to three hair cells. By performing simultaneous voltage-clamp recordings from presynaptic hair cells and postsynaptic afferent fibers, we established that the rate of evoked vesicle release, as determined from the average postsynaptic current, depends linearly on the amplitude of the presynaptic Ca(2+) current. This result implies that, for receptor potentials in the physiological range, the hair cell's synapse transmits information with high fidelity.
In walking quadrupeds the alternating activity pattern of antagonistic leg muscles and the coordination between legs is orchestrated by central pattern generating networks within the spinal cord. These networks are activated by tonic input from the reticular formation in the brainstem. Under more challenging conditions, such as walking on a horizontal ladder, successful locomotion relies upon additional context dependent input from pathways such as the cortico- and rubro-spinal tracts. In this study we used electromyographic and kinematic approaches to characterize the adaptations in the walking pattern in adult uninjured rats crossing a horizontal ladder. We found that the placement of a hind limb on a rung precisely followed the placement of the ipsilateral fore limb. This is different to normal walking where the hind limb is placed behind the position of the ipsilateral fore limb. The increased reach of the hind limbs is achieved by increased flexion of the hip and rotation of the pelvis during the swing phase. Electromyographic observations showed decreased burst duration in Tibialis anterior an ankle flexor muscle. Further changes in the muscle activity pattern were likely due to the reduced stepping frequency during ladder walking. Following a lesion of the dorsal column, containing major parts of the corticospinal tract, we found an increased number of stepping errors and changes in the stepping strategy. The step length of the fore limbs was reduced and the hind limbs were frequently positioned on rungs other than those occupied by the fore limb.
Previous studies with acute tryptophan depletion, leading to transient central 5-HT reductions, showed no effects on affective behavior but impaired object memory. In the present study, the behavioral effects of a 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT) lesion in the dorsal raphe were evaluated in animal models of anxiety (open field test), depression (forced swimming test), behavioral inhibition (discrete fixed interval test) and cognition (object recognition task). The corticosterone response to a stress condition was examined at several intervals after 5,7-DHT treatment. The substantial reduction in neuronal 5-HT markers in the dorsal raphe did not affect anxiety-related, depressive-like or impulsive behavior. Compared to the SHAM group, the lesioned rats showed a lower response latency to obtain a reward, indicating a quick and accurate reaction to a stimulus. No differences were found in the progressive ratio test for food motivation. A marked impairment in object recognition was found. The 5,7-DHT treatment did not affect the corticosterone response to a stressful situation. Overall, these results corroborate studies with acute tryptophan depletion suggesting a role of 5-HT in object memory, but not affective behavior.
Mitochondria from Zucker fatty (ZF) rats (a model for fatty liver disease) showed a delay in the repolarization after a phosphorylative cycle and a decrease on state 3 respiration, suggesting alterations at the phosphorylative system level. The ATPase activity showed no differences between control and ZF rats, implying alterations in other components of the phosphorylative system. A pronounced depletion in the content of the adenine nucleotide translocator (ANT) was observed by Western blotting, while no alterations were found in the mitochondrial voltage-dependent anion channel content. These data suggest that hepatic accumulation of fat impairs mitochondrial function, reflecting the loss of oxidative phosphorylation capacity caused by a decrease in the ANT content.

Previously we have demonstrated that rapidly presented sensory stimulation (visual or auditory) can induce long-lasting increases in sensory evoked potentials recorded from the human cortex. Long-term potentiation was suggested as the underlying mechanism of these increases. In the present experiment, we applied the same visual paradigm to anesthetized rats to investigate the properties and mechanisms of this effect. Our results indicated that visual evoked responses were significantly enhanced for at least 1 h and, when followed, up to 5 h after the presentation of a 'photic tetanus.' Furthermore, the potentiation was N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent and cortically generated. This type of sensory long-term potentiation may underlie perceptual learning, and serves as a model system for investigating sensory-evoked plasticity.
'Winner-take-all' networks are an important theoretical construct in visual neuroscience. An implication of winner-take-all networks is that a stimulus that wins the competition for selection receives maximal activation and will be consciously perceived, even when selection was incorrect. In this study, competition was induced between physically presented ('real') and self-constructed ('illusory') words. Semantic activation was probed by recording event-related potential responses to a downstream target word. The results showed that only words reported by participants triggered a spread of activation in the semantic system, whereas non-reported words failed to prime the target. Both effects were independent of whether the potential primes were 'real' or 'illusory'. Our findings indicate that neural 'winner-take-all' networks extend to the processing of lexical units.
The inward rectifier Kir4.1, composed of KCNJ10 K channel subunits, plays an essential role in inner ear K homeostasis. We have investigated the developmental expression and localization of KCNJ10 (Kir4.1) in the guinea pig inner ear using semi-quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry. Kcnj10 was expressed at low levels from embryonic day 30 (E30), increased from E45, and persisted from E50 to adulthood. KCNJ10 channel protein was detected in spiral ganglion satellite cells of the basal turn at E40, and at E45 its expression proceeded with a base-to-apex gradient along the cochlear spiral. KCNJ10 protein was enriched in the myelin sheath around the cochlear nerve between E40 and E45 and disappeared gradually with age. In the strial intermediate cells, KCNJ10 channel expression was first observed at E50, and lagged behind that of the spiral ganglion. In addition, KCNJ10 channel protein was expressed and localized in vestibular transitional cells. Differential expression of KCNJ10 channel protein suggests roles for KCNJ10 channels in inner ear development and onset of auditory function.
It has been postulated that opiates induce addictive behaviour via changes in gene expression. PC12 cells were stably transfected with the recombinant human mu-opioid receptor (MOR) to study opioid-induced gene expression. Expression was verified by binding assay, immunocytochemistry, and immunblotting experiments. Forskolin-induced cAMP formation was inhibited by [D-Ala(2), N-Me-Phe(4), Gly(5)-ol]-enkephalin (DAMGO 1 microM), a specific MOR agonist. This effect was completely antagonized by naloxone. By using cDNA arrays, including approximately 1,200 well-defined genes normally expressed in neural tissue, we monitored semi-quantitative changes in gene expression after 3 h short-term exposure to DAMGO. Incubation with DAMGO increased mRNA levels for 13 genes and down-regulated 13 other genes. Annexin V, RGS4 and CREB genes showed pronounced increase in expression after stimulation with DAMGO. Quantitative RT-PCR confirmed that DAMGO increased mRNA levels of Annexin V, an apoptosis-induced gene. We suggest that the PC12 cell transfected with the recombinant human MOR is a useful tool for identification of opioid-induced genes that may provide information on opiate effects of relevance for dependence.
Skeletonized images of Golgi impregnated neurons from the human, monkey, cat and rat dorsal horns were subjected to fractal analysis. These neurons have sparse branching of dendrite arbors. It is noticed that, in certain neuronal samples, some authors report that scaling range of experimentally declared fractals is extremely limited and spanned approximately between 0.5 and 2.0 decades. In order to retain our hypothesis that neurons with dendrites of uncomplicated shapes can be considered fractal over three decades of scale, we conducted four procedures: (i) we used the box-counting method, (ii) we scaled the box sizes as a power of 2, (iii) we chose the coefficient of correlation, measuring the &quot;goodness of fit&quot; of experimental data points to regression straight line, to be equal to or larger than 0.995, and (iv) we pointed out that all the neurons analyzed have a single fractal dimension measuring a global fractality showing no linear regions. As a control, we used some cerebellar Purkinje cells whose dendrite trees show much more complex structure and profuseness of branching. Since, generally, the neuronal structure is among the most complex of all cellular morphologies, we believe that supporting this hypothesis we advance the neuroscience and fractal theory.
Fever is a normal adaptation in response to a pyrogenic stimulus resulting in the generation of cytokines and prostaglandins. Fever differs from hyperpyrexia and hyperthermia associated with hot environs and pharmacological triggers. Typically, pyrogens are infectious organisms or their direct products (toxins). The body produces a wide array of pyrogenic cytokines such as interleukins (IL-1, IL-6), interferon, and tumor necrosis factor. Tissue trauma can trigger the febrile response, as can infectious organisms, certain medications, and blood products. The circumventricular organ system (CVOS) is neuronal tissues lying outside the blood-brain barrier that has a key role in initiating the communication sequence responsible for the synthesis of febrile prostaglandins. When pyrogenic cytokines are detected by the CVOS, prostaglandin synthesis, especially cyclooxygenase-dependent prostaglandin E2, is induced, activating the febrile response. Once the appropriate signal is received by the hypothalamus, autonomic, endocrine, and behavioral processes are activated until the hypothalamic set-point is reset downward as a consequence of a reduction in pyrogen content or antipyretic therapy, with subsequent heat loss. There is little evidence that fever facilitates recovery from disease or assists the immune system in mounting a response. Antipyretics are used commonly to decrease the distressing manifestations associated with fever.
Cluster headache (CH), also known as &quot;suicide headache&quot;, is characterized by a distinctive periodic temporal pattern and by accompanying autonomic symptoms during the attacks. Epidemiological data for the general population are scarce: only five studies have been carried out until now on CH prevalence in the general population, with conflicting results (prevalence rates vary between 56 and 326 cases every 100,000 inhabitants). Recently, a study was performed to investigate a representative sample of the Italian general population aged over 14 years. Possible CH cases according to the diagnostic criteria of the 1988 International Headache Society (IHS) classification were screened out of a sample of 10,071 patients registered in the lists of seven general practitioners (GPs) in Parma, using a previously validated, specially designed self-administered questionnaire. The diagnosis of CH was confirmed in 21 subjects (nine women and 12 men). The estimated prevalence rate was 279/100,000 (95% CI: 173-427), 227/100,000 (95% CI: 104-431) in women and 338/100,000 (95% CI: 175-592) in men. Based on methodological considerations, we believe that a lifetime prevalence rate of 279/100,000 for a population aged over 14 years is a reliable figure and it is probably not much lower than in the whole general population, since some studies performed on large case series have shown that the onset of CH is not frequent under 14 years of age.
The human polyomavirus JCV, the etiological agent of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, has been associated with primitive neuroectodermal tumors and various glial-derived tumors, including glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). Here we describe the unique clinical case of a 54-year-old man who presented with headaches, hemiparesis and drowsiness. T1 and T2 magnetic resonance images revealed a large solid tumor with a cystic component located in the right temporal lobe, with extension into the parietal lobe. Histologically, the tumor was composed of two areas, a main area of large neoplastic cells with pleomorphic atypical nuclei and abundant cytoplasm, which by immunohistochemistry was reactive for glial fibrillary acidic protein, mixed with several foci of poorly differentiated tumoral cells with elongated nuclei and scant cytoplasm, negative for GFAP, but robustly immunoreactive for synaptophysin and phosphoneurofilaments. Results from PCR in laser capture microdissected cells from both areas of the tumor revealed the presence of DNA sequences corresponding to the early, late and control regions (CR) of the JCV genome and expression of JCV proteins T-antigen and Agnoprotein in both phenotypes. No evidence for capsid protein was observed, excluding productive viral infection. Sequencing demonstrated the presence of the JCV Mad-1 strain with distinct point mutations in the CR of isolates from both, GBM and small cell architectural areas. The presence of JCV DNA sequences and expression of viral proteins further reinforces the role of the widely spread human neurotropic virus in early transformation and in the development of brain tumors.



Abscesses involving the cavum septum pellucidum are rare and, owing to their location, detection may be difficult with routine conventional computed tomography (CT). Only a few isolated cases have been reported and mostly in children. We report a case of abscess involving the cavum septum pellucidum in an adult and its appearance on multi-slice spiral CT.


Relative to the characteristically profound deficits of explicit memory, components of implicit memory remain largely intact in patients with alcohol-induced Korsakoff syndrome (KS). Perceptual priming occurs in KS and transfer of learning has been consistently observed on mirror reading, a perceptual reversal task. Although priming also occurs with fragmented pictures, a perceptual closure task, it is unclear whether transfer of learning can occur. This study examined visuoperceptual learning in 4 men with alcoholic KS, 9 recently detoxified alcoholic men (ALC), 21 healthy age-matched normal control men (NC), and 6 young normal control men (YNC). Subjects were tested with the Gollin Incomplete Pictures Test at initial and 1-hour and 1-day retest sessions. Both alcoholic groups (KS, ALC) were impaired in visuoperceptual ability. All subject groups showed visuoperceptual learning. The KS group showed additional learning after continued exposure to the stimuli, despite their nonmnemonic visuospatial deficits and profound explicit memory impairment for the test stimuli. Transfer of learning to similar but new stimuli was not evident in either the KS or young healthy control subjects; learning occurred only for the specific items presented. The persistence of learning beyond the life of the percept, which was independent of declarative features (such as item recall), suggests that perceptual learning and memory reflects an intact cognitive memory process in KS. This process is likely mediated by posterior cortical networks relatively unaffected in KS and that are independent of the hippocampal-diencephalic declarative memory system.



The progression of Alzheimer disease (AD) corresponds to a prolonged course of neuronal loss in the cerebral cortex. Strategies aimed at reducing the rates of neuronal loss are therefore particularly important. The clinical measures to evaluate the disease-modifying effect of an intervention are readily confounded by any symptomatic benefit of the intervention. Thus, when testing putative neuroprotective agents that are known to have symptomatic effects, it can be difficult to separate the 2 effects. The hypothesis that cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEIs) only treat symptoms caused by cholinergic imbalances in AD is overly simplistic. Evidence has now accumulated that ChEIs have a neuroprotective, disease-modifying property. In this paper, to answer the question of what constitutes clinical evidence for neuroprotection in AD, we have reviewed clinical studies with specific designs, including &quot;delaying end point,&quot; &quot;withdrawal,&quot; and &quot;randomized start&quot; designs. We have also reviewed data on surrogate biomarkers of disease progression that may indicate a disease-modifying action. In addition, we have reviewed evidence indicating that ChEIs may protect cells in the brain of patients with AD. Among the clinical data suggesting a possible neuroprotective effect of ChEIs, the most rigorous published evidence comes from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) hippocampal volumetric studies with donepezil.
Epidemiologic evidence suggests that individuals with higher IQ, education, occupational attainment, or participation in leisure activities have a reduced risk of developing Alzheimer disease (AD). The concept of cognitive reserve (CR) posits that individual differences in how tasks are processed provide differential reserve against brain pathology or age-related changes. This may take 2 forms. In neural reserve, preexisting brain networks that are more efficient or have greater capacity may be less susceptible to disruption. In neural compensation, alternate networks may compensate for pathology's disruption of preexisting networks. Imaging studies have begun to identify the neural substrate of CR. Because CR may modulate the clinical expression of AD pathology, it is an important consideration in studies of &quot;preclinical&quot; AD and treatment studies. There is also the possibility that directly enhancing CR may help forestall the diagnosis of AD.


Neuroscience documents the activity of &quot;mirror neurons&quot; in the human brain as a mechanism whereby we experience empathy and recognize the intentions of others by observing their behavior and automatically matching their brain activity. This neural basis of empathy finds support in research on dysfunctions in the mirror systems of humans with autism and fMRI research on normal subjects designed to assess intentionality, emotions, and complex cognition. Such empathy research now appears to be consistent with the historical and research literature on hypnotic induction, rapport, and many of the classical phenomena of suggestion. A preliminary outline of how mirror neurons may function as a rapport zone mediating between observing consciousness, the gene expression/protein synthesis cycle, and brain plasticity in therapeutic hypnosis and psychosomatic medicine is proposed. Brain plasticity is generalized in the theory, research, and practice of utilizing mirror neurons as an explanatory framework in developing and training new skill sets for facilitating an activity-dependent approach to creative problem solving, mind-body healing, and rehabilitation with therapeutic hypnosis.
Neuroinflammatory disorders (including human immunodeficiency virus-1 encephalitis, HIVE) are associated with oxidative stress and inflammatory brain injury, and excessive alcohol use can exacerbate tissue damage. Using a murine model of HIVE, we investigated the effects of alcohol abuse on the clearance of virus-infected macrophages and neuroinflammation. Severe combined immunodeficient mice were reconstituted with human lymphocytes, and encephalitis was induced by intracranial injection of HIV-1-infected monocyte-derived macrophages (HIV-1(+) MDM). Animals were fed an ethanol-containing diet beginning 2 weeks before lymphocyte engraftment and for the entire duration of the experiment. Lymphocyte engraftment was not altered by ethanol exposure. Alcohol-mediated immunosuppression in ethanol-fed mice was manifested by a significant decrease in CD8(+)/interferon-gamma(+) T lymphocytes, a fivefold increase in viremia, and diminished expression of immunoproteasomes in the spleen. Although both groups showed similar amounts of CD8(+) T-lymphocyte infiltration in brain areas containing HIV-1(+) MDMs, ethanol-fed mice featured double the amounts of HIV-1(+) MDMs in the brain compared to controls. Ethanol-exposed mice demonstrated higher microglial reaction and enhanced oxidative stress. Alcohol exposure impaired immune responses (increased viremia, decreased immunoproteasome levels, and prevented efficient elimination of HIV-1(+) MDMs) and enhanced neuroinflammation in HIVE mice. Thus, alcohol abuse could be a co-factor in progression of HIV-1 infection of the brain.
Hypoglycemia-induced counterregulatory failure is a dangerous complication of insulin use in diabetes mellitus. Controlled hypoglycemia studies in gene knockout models, which require the use of mice, would aid in identifying causes of defective counterregulation. Because stress can influence counterregulatory hormones and glucose homeostasis, we developed glucose clamps with remote blood sampling in conscious, unrestrained mice. Male C57BL/6 mice implanted with indwelling carotid artery and jugular vein catheters were subjected to 2 h of hyperinsulinemic glucose clamps 24 h apart, with a 6-h fast before each clamp. On day 1, blood glucose was maintained (euglycemia, 178 +/- 4 mg/dl) or decreased to 62 +/- 1 mg/dl (hypoglycemia) by insulin (20 mU x kg(-1) x min(-1)) and variable glucose infusion. Donor blood was continuously infused to replace blood sample volume. Baseline plasma epinephrine (32 +/- 8 pg/ml), corticosterone (16.1 +/- 1.8 microg/dl), and glucagon (35 +/- 3 pg/ml) were unchanged during euglycemia but increased significantly during hypoglycemia, with a glycemic threshold of approximately 80 mg/dl. On day 2, all mice underwent a hypoglycemic clamp (blood glucose, 64 +/- 1 mg/dl). Compared with mice that were euglycemic on day 1, previously hypoglycemic mice had significantly higher glucose requirements and significantly lower plasma glucagon and corticosterone (n = 6/group) on day 2. Epinephrine tended to decrease, although not significantly, in repeatedly hypoglycemic mice. Pre- and post-clamp insulin levels were similar between groups. We conclude that counterregulatory responses to acute and repeated hypoglycemia in unrestrained, chronically cannulated mice reproduce aspects of counterregulation in humans, and that repeated hypoglycemia in mice is a useful model of counterregulatory failure.

Three experiments were carried out to elucidate the origins of the concreteness (C) effect in a lexical decision task. The first experiment was a replication of the work of Schwanenflugel et al. (1988) and Van Hell and De Groot (1998), who presented the context availability (CA) hypothesis. In this experiment CA seemed to be a dominant factor. Familiarity (FAM) was not incorporated in the ANOVA, but a regression analysis and negative correlation between C and FAM in the groups matched on CA showed that FAM could explain the disappearance of the C effect. Experiment 2 controlled FAM and revealed a C effect, although concrete and abstract words were matched on CA. Experiment 3 controlled C and FAM and revealed a CA effect. The current data emphasize the importance of controlling FAM and CA in examining the C effect in a lexical decision task and support a revised version of the dual-coding theory.
3-Nitrotyrosine (3-NT) is formed by the reaction of peroxynitrite with either free or protein-bound tyrosine residues and has been proposed as a biomarker of oxidative stress caused by reactive nitrogen species. This study describes the development of an HPLC electrochemical detection assay for free 3-NT capable of measuring this metabolite at the very low (nanomolar) levels encountered physiologically. We employed a dual-cell coulometric approach in which 3-NT is first reduced at an upstream cell to 3-aminotyrosine, which itself is then oxidized at the downstream cell. The method was shown to be linear over the range of 1-500 nM (r = 0.999), with a detection limit (signal/noise ratio of 3) of 0.5 nM (25 fmol on column). Ten consecutive injections of 2 and 20 nM 3-NT standards produced coefficients of variation of 5.88 and 1.87%, respectively. Validation of the identity of the 3-NT peak was confirmed by coelution with authentic standards and by the in vitro production of 3-NT by incubation of 3-morpholinylsydnoneimine (SIN-1, 100 microM), a molecule releasing nitric oxide and superoxide in solution at a pH of 7.0 or higher with tyrosine (10 microM). Using this method, 3-NT was detected in human liver microdialysate (levels up to 2.6 nM), although levels in rat spinal cord dialysate were below the limit of detection.
Various methods in auditory neuroscience have been used to gain knowledge about the structure and function of the human auditory cortical system. Regardless of method, hemispheric differences are evident in the normal processing of speech sounds. This review article, augmented by the authors' own work, provides evidence that asymmetries exist in both cortical and subcortical structures of the human auditory system. Asymmetries are affected by stimulus type, for example, hemispheric activation patterns have been shown to change from right to left cortex as stimuli change from speech to nonspeech. In addition, the presence of noise has differential effects on the contribution of the two hemispheres. Modifications of typical asymmetric cortical patterns occur when pathology is present, as in hearing loss or tinnitus. We show that in response to speech sounds, individuals with unilateral hearing loss lose the normal asymmetric pattern due to both a decrease in contralateral hemispheric activity and an increase in the ipsilateral hemisphere. These studies demonstrate the utility of modern neuroimaging techniques in functional investigations of the human auditory system. Neuroimaging techniques may provide additional insight as to how the cortical auditory pathways change with experience, including sound deprivation (e.g., hearing loss) and sound experience (e.g., training). Such investigations may explain why some populations appear to be more vulnerable to changes in hemispheric symmetry such as children with learning problems and the elderly.





During the twentieth century, a controversy raged over the role of electrical forces and chemical substances in synaptic transmission. Although the story of the 'main' participants is well documented, the story of 'lesser' known participants is seldom told. For example, Alexander Forbes, who was a prominent member of the axonologists, played an active role in the controversy and yet is seldom mentioned in standard accounts of the controversy. During the 1930s, Forbes incorporated chemical substances into his theory of synaptic transmission, advocating a complementarity model for the role of electrical forces and chemical substances. By focusing on Forbes and the axonologists, the controversy is simply more than a debate over 'soup' vs. 'sparks' but also involves the relative roles of electrical forces and chemical substances in synaptic transmission. The implications of this case study for the nature of scientific controversies are also discussed.




Mounting is generally considered to be a male-typical behavior. Female Japanese macaques, in certain populations, are unusual, in that they routinely mount other females. In this study, we examined to what extent female Japanese macaques mount same-sex partners in a male-typical manner. We compared the mount postures males and females adopt and their rate of pelvic thrusting. In addition, we employed a modified form of Laban Movement Analysis (LMA) to compare patterns of pelvic movement during mounts. LMA is a universal language for movement that describes quantitative features of movement, such as changes in the relation of the body segments, as well as qualitative features, such as the style of movements. Our results indicate that female Japanese macaques do not mount in a male-typical manner. Females exhibited a much greater variety of mount postures than did males. Some of the most common types of mount postures employed by females were never exhibited by males. Females performed fewer pelvic thrusts per mount than males, but they executed more pelvic movements per mount, as well as, greater variety and complexity of movement. In addition, the qualitative style of pelvic mounting that females employed differed, in general, from that of males. We argue that these sex differences in mounting can be explained by the fact that both sexes sought sexual reward via genital stimulation during mounting, but they did so in different ways owing to the constraints imposed by their genital architecture. This study raises the larger question as to what constitutes a male-typical or female-typical behavior.

The prospect of manipulating endogenous neural stem cells to replace damaged tissue and correct functional deficits represents a novel mechanism for treating a variety of central nervous system disorders. Using human neural precursor cultures and a variety of assays for studying stem cell behavior we have screened two libraries of commercially available compounds using an endpoint high content screening assay. We then performed detailed follow-up mechanistic studies on confirmed hits using endpoint and kinetics assays to characterize and differentiate the mechanisms of action of these compounds. The screening cascade employed successfully identified a number of active compounds with differing mechanisms of action. This approach shows how hits from a phenotypic screen can be prioritized and characterized by high content screening to identify potentially novel mechanisms and druggable targets to take forward into more conventional high-throughput screening approaches.
Rho family proteins can coordinate multiple signaling pathways through their ability to regulate both gene transcription and the actin cytoskeleton. With respect to the neuronal Nogo receptor (NgR), recent data assign a key role for the GTPase Rho in the control of cellular responses leading to actin cytoskeletal rearrangements and finally resulting in axonal outgrowth inhibition and growth cone collapse in the adult human central nervous system. In order to evaluate potential NgR antagonists, human embryonic kidney 293 cells stably overexpressing RhoA in the absence or presence of NgR have been generated. RhoA activation induced by stimulation with the alkaline phosphatase-tagged NgR ligand Nogo66 (AP-Nogo66) was confirmed by affinity-precipitation of the GTPase with the Rho-binding domain from Rhotekin. As this pull-down assay is not applicable to a higher-throughput format, a cellular Rho GTPase activation assay strategy based on the ability of Rho to regulate the actin cytoskeleton was developed. Stimulation with L-alpha-lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), a Rho activator acting through the ubiquitiously expressed LPA receptors, induced significant cytoskeletal rearrangement resulting in cell contraction in all RhoA-overexpressing cell lines. In contrast, stimulation with AP-Nogo66 resulted in Rho-dependent cell contraction with a similar time course only in the NgR-expressing cell line. Moreover, the NgR-induced Rho-dependent morphological changes could be analyzed and quantified with customary image analysis software. In conclusion, the cytoskeletal rearrangement assay is amenable to automated high-content screening and has the potential to eliminate major technical bottlenecks of the pull-down assay. The increased throughput of the cellular GTPase activation assay compared with the biochemical method should facilitate the evaluation of compounds that modulate the actin cytoskeleton through Rho.
Trillium Health Centre (THC) is one of Canada's largest community hospitals and a regional provider of tertiary-level cardiac, neuroscience, and orthopedic care. In 2001, it was named one of nine Regional Stroke Centres in Ontario, with a mandate to coordinate stroke services across the continuum of care in keeping with best practices in the west Greater Toronto Area (GTA). Within its role as a Regional Stroke Centre, THC has successfully implemented an innovative approach to the delivery of stroke prevention services in its regional catchment area. Building on best practices, it has introduced a specialized and interdisciplinary team to provide timely and effective primary and secondary prevention services. The rapid growth in utilization to more than 2000 patients in the last fiscal year (2004-2005), suggests that the clinic is meeting a real need in the community for stroke prevention services. Many of these patients now benefit from appropriate medical management, stroke awareness education, lifestyle counselling, and expedited referrals to other specialists. The Regional Stroke Prevention Clinic (RSPC) may be the first step in preventing a stroke, thus avoiding the social costs to people with strokes and their families, and the financial burden on the health care system.
This target article considers the relation of fluid cognitive functioning to general intelligence. A neurobiological model differentiating working memory/executive function cognitive processes of the prefrontal cortex from aspects of psychometrically defined general intelligence is presented. Work examining the rise in mean intelligence-test performance between normative cohorts, the neuropsychology and neuroscience of cognitive function in typically and atypically developing human populations, and stress, brain development, and corticolimbic connectivity in human and nonhuman animal models is reviewed and found to provide evidence of mechanisms through which early experience affects the development of an aspect of cognition closely related to, but distinct from, general intelligence. Particular emphasis is placed on the role of emotion in fluid cognition and on research indicating fluid cognitive deficits associated with early hippocampal pathology and with dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis stress-response system. Findings are seen to be consistent with the idea of an independent fluid cognitive construct and to assist with the interpretation of findings from the study of early compensatory education for children facing psychosocial adversity and from behavior genetic research on intelligence. It is concluded that ongoing development of neurobiologically grounded measures of fluid cognitive skills appropriate for young children will play a key role in understanding early mental development and the adaptive success to which it is related, particularly for young children facing social and economic disadvantage. Specifically, in the evaluation of the efficacy of compensatory education efforts such as Head Start and the readiness for school of children from diverse backgrounds, it is important to distinguish fluid cognition from psychometrically defined general intelligence.
Kamin blocking in fear conditioning is thought to reflect diminished processing of the unconditional stimulus (US) in the presence of a conditional stimulus (CS-super(+)) that was previously paired with this US. According to Fanselow's (1998) hypothesis, the CS-super(+) drives output from the amygdala that ultimately produces analgesia by causing opiate release onto afferent pain circuits. This hypothesis was explored quantitatively through neurophysiological simulations. The results suggest that opiate-mediated, negative-feedback control of US processing is too slow for efficient blocking of cue conditioning. The reason is that conditioning-produced synaptic modifications can be induced before the opiate-mediated inhibition has any substantial effect on US processing. The results suggest the existence of an additional, faster-acting, inhibitory neurotransmitter in the blocking circuit.
Serum amyloid A (SAA) is a precursor for the amyloid A in AA type of amyloidosis. Distribution of mast cells in tissues is similar to the distribution of amyloid deposits in secondary AA-amyloidosis. Therefore, we studied whether mast cells could be involved in SAA metabolism. Human mast cell line (HMC-1) cells were cultured with recombinant human apoSAA (rhSAA), and the production of tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interleukin (IL)-1 beta was determined by ELISA. RhSAA and human SAA (huSAA) were incubated with human chymase, tryptase or with intact human mast cell (huMC) in cultures, and degradation of SAA was followed by gel electrophoresis, liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry. SAA induced dose-dependent production of TNF-alpha and IL-1 beta in HMC-1 cells. Tryptase, chymase, and huMC granules degraded efficiently the SAA protein. Degradation of SAA by tryptase, but not by chymase, released a highly amyloidogenic N-terminal fragment of SAA. Finally, incubation of huMC with rhSAA alone resulted in degradation of SAA and formation of protofibrillar intermediates. These results suggest a pathogenic role for mast cells in AA-amyloidosis.
One of the earliest recorded works in Biological Psychology was published in 1910 by Argentine psychiatrist Jos Ingenieros (1877-1925), Professor of Experimental Psychology at the Faculty of Philosophy and Letters of the University of Buenos Aires. Ingenieros, a multifaceted personality and prolific author and educator famous for his lapidary aphorisms, has been considered a 'luminary' for generations. Trained as a physician, he was the first scientist to establish a comprehensive psychological system in Latin America. His long list of publications includes more than 300 titles generally divided in two periods: studies in mental pathology and criminology (1897-1908) and studies in philosophy, psychology and sociology (1908-1925). His works were never made particularly available to English-speaking audiences, despite the fact that certain of his books are still best-sellers in the Spanish-speaking world. We present an overview of Ingenieros' life and work, and a detailed account of his profoundly interesting work Principios de Psicologa Biolgica, in which he analyzes the development, evolution and social context of mental functions. We also provide an English translation of the Introduction contributed by Nobel laureate Wilhelm Ostwald (1853-1932) to the 1922 German edition of the work, pertinent to the energetic principles Ingenieros used and the study of Psychology as a natural science. It is a hope, 80 years after Ingenieros' parting, to bibliographically resurrect this champion of reason, who, until now, has not been given his due placement in the international psychological and biomedical literature.
Education in diagnostic radiology employs medical images extensively, and case-based teaching files of actual patients are useful to illustrate pertinent teaching points. In the era of digital radiology, there is great potential to use the ready source of patient material from Picture Archive and Communication Systems (PACS) and initiatives such as Medical Imaging Resource Center (MIRC) on the World Wide Web for teaching and for Continuing Professional Development (CPD). As mandatory CPD becomes the reality in medical practice, computerised solutions that support the creation of electronic teaching files in the midst of busy clinical workflow would be very valuable. This paper will explore the features of image-based CPD, the various ways in which medical images can be used for self directed learning and the challenges that face the radiology profession.
1-Phenyl-8-azabicyclo[3.2.1]octane ethers are NK(1) receptor antagonists. Substitution at the 6-exo-position led to high affinity NK(1) antagonists with a prolonged duration of action in vivo. Incorporation of an alpha-methyl substituent in the pendent benzyl ether side chain gave compounds with increased selectivity over the hERG channel.


Intradural spinal cord teratoma is a very rare tumour that can be associated with dysraphism. The relationship of this lesion to pregnancy is unknown and its occurrence during pregnancy in the thoracic spine has not been previously reported. We report a 19-year-old pregnant woman with spinal dysraphism, who presented with a new onset thoracic myelopathy. The MRI scan showed an intradural, extramedullary lesion with solid and cystic component in the thoracic spine at the level of T5-T6. A thoracic laminectomy and excision of this lesion was followed by significant improvement of her lower limb function. Histopathology confirmed a benign mature teratoma. The rapid progression of this lesion during pregnancy suggests a hormonal mediated pathway for the tumour growth. Further analysis from the resected specimen confirmed that the tumour was oestrogen and progesterone receptors positive.
We present a case of an elderly lady with a symptomatic large intra-axial right frontoparietal arachnoid cyst displacing the corticospinal tract (CST) posteromedially on diffusion tensor imaging. This information assisted the surgeons in confirming the symptomatic nature of the lesion, in planning an appropriate surgical procedure, as well as in prognostication of recovery.
The objective of this study was to investigate if there are possible gender differences in relation to outcome following closed severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) in a predominantly Asian population. A study was conducted using our prospectively maintained TBI database of 672 patients with severe TBI admitted into our neurosurgical intensive care unit. All patients were managed on a standardized protocol in accordance with the Guidelines to the management of severe traumatic brain injury. Glasgow Outcome Score was used to measure the outcome of patients 6 months postinjury. There were 525 males and 147 females, with the latter significantly older than their counterpart. Females had a significantly higher mortality and poorer outcome compared with males. However, this difference was no longer significant when variables (presence of multiple injuries, postresuscitation pupil abnormalities and Glasgow Coma Score) are controlled for. However, both crude and adjusted odd ratios revealed that females aged 60 and below were significantly more likely to have a poorer outcome.
Ionotropic glutamate receptors mediate the vast majority of fast excitatory synaptic transmission in the CNS. Elucidating the structure of these proteins is central to understanding their overall function and in the last few years a tremendous amount of knowledge has been gained from the crystal structures of the ligand-binding domains of the receptor protein. These efforts have enabled us to unravel the possible mechanisms of partial agonism, agonist selectivity and desensitization. This review summarizes recent data obtained from structural studies of the binding pockets of the GluR2, GluR5/6, NR1 and NR2A subunits and discusses these studies together with homology modelling and molecular dynamics simulations that have suggested possible binding modes for full and partial agonists as well as antagonists within the binding pocket of various ionotropic glutamate receptor subunits. Comparison of the ligand-binding pockets suggests that the ligand-binding mechanisms may be conserved throughout the glutamate receptor family, although agonist selectivity may be explained by a number of features inherent to the AMPA, kainate and NMDA receptor-binding pockets such as steric occlusion, cavity size and the contribution of water-bridged interactions.
Evidence is increasing for a role of brain 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) systems in schizophrenia. We previously showed that brain 5-HT depletion causes disruption of prepulse inhibition, a measure of sensorimotor gating that is deficient in schizophrenia. Antipsychotic treatment has been reported to reverse these deficits in patients with schizophrenia. The present study was designed to investigate the ability of antipsychotic drugs to reverse prepulse inhibition deficits caused by lesions of the brain 5-HT system in rats. In male Sprague-Dawley rats, selected parts of the brain 5-HT systems were lesioned by micro-injection of the 5-HT neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine into the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) or median raphe nucleus (MRN). The effects of antipsychotic drugs on lesion-induced changes in prepulse inhibition were examined 2 weeks after the surgery. There was significant disruption of prepulse inhibition in the MRN-lesioned group compared to sham-operated controls. This deficiency in prepulse inhibition was restored by clozapine (1 and 5 mg kg(-1)) treatment, and by treatment with a relatively high dose of haloperidol (0.25 mg kg(-1)). There was no significant effect of the DRN lesions on prepulse inhibition compared with sham-operated controls. These results indicate that 5-HT depletion in MRN-innervated brain structures leads to disruption of prepulse inhibition. Treatment with both antipsychotic drugs, haloperidol and clozapine, significantly increased prepulse inhibition in these animals back to the level seen in sham-operated controls. The present findings highlight the importance of the 5-HT systems in cognitive models of schizophrenia.


In this study, we examine the suitability of a relatively new imaging technique, arterial spin labeled perfusion imaging, for the study of continuous, gradual changes in neural activity. Unlike BOLD imaging, the perfusion signal is stable over long time-scales, allowing for accurate assessment of continuous performance. In addition, perfusion fMRI provides an absolute measure of blood flow so signal changes can be interpreted without reference to a baseline. The task we used was the serial response time task, a sequence learning task. Our results show reliable correlations between performance improvements and decreases in blood flow in premotor cortex and the inferior parietal lobe, supporting the model that learning procedures that increase efficiency of processing will be reflected in lower metabolic needs in tissues that support such processes. More generally, our results show that perfusion fMRI may be applied to the study of mental operations that produce gradual changes in neural activity.
Traditionally, applied stem cell research has been segregating into strategies aiming at endogenous repair and cell transplantation. Recent advances in both fields have unraveled unexpected potential for synergy between these disparate fields. The increasing dissection of the step-wise integration of adult-born neurons into an established brain circuitry provides a highly informative blueprint for the functional incorporation of grafted neurons into a host brain. On the other hand, in vitro recapitulation of developmental differentiation cascades permits the de novo generation of various neural cell types from pluripotent embryonic stem (ES) cells. Advanced tools in stem cell engineering enable not only genetic selection and instruction of disease-specific donor cells for neural replacement but also the exploitation of stem cells as transgenic cellular model systems for human diseases. In a comparative approach we here illuminate the functional integration of neurons derived from endogenous and transplanted stem cells, the evolving technologies for advanced stem cell engineering and the impact of cloned and mutated stem cells on disease modeling.
Detailed analysis of the structural changes that follow human clinical spinal cord injury is limited by difficulties in achieving adequate tissue fixation. This study bypasses this obstacle by examining the spinal cord from paraplegic domestic animals, enabling us to document the ultrastructural changes at different times following injury. In all but one case, injury resulted from a combination of contusion and compression. There was infarction and hemorrhage, followed by gray matter destruction and the rapid development of a variety of white matter changes including axon swelling and myelin degeneration. Axons greater than 5 microm in diameter were more susceptible to degenerative changes, whereas smaller axons, particularly those in the subpial region, were relatively well preserved. Demyelinated axons were seen within 2 weeks after injury and, at later time points, both Schwann cell and oligodendrocyte remyelination was common. More subtle white matter abnormalities were identified by examining sagittal sections, including focal accumulation of organelles in the axoplasm and partial and paranodal myelin abnormalities. These observations serve to validate observations from experimental models of spinal contusion but also highlight the complexity of naturally occurring (ie, clinical) spinal injury. They also raise the possibility that focal abnormalities such as paranodal demyelination may contribute to early axonal dysfunction and possibly to progressive tissue damage.
We investigated cortical source localization of word repetition effects in patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) by employing the equivalent current dipole (ECD) model with high-density 128 channels EEG and individual MRI as a realistic head model. Twelve OCD patients and 13 healthy control subjects performed a word/nonword discrimination task, in which the words and nonwords were visually presented, and some of the words appeared twice with a lag of one or five items. During the 200-500 ms post-stimulus period, the control group showed more positivity in the ERPs elicited by old words than in those elicited by new words, whereas the OCD patients did not. Furthermore, the OCD patients showed prolonged response times to the old words, as compared to the controls. We calculated the location and the power of the ECD sources at approximately 400 ms post-stimulus with the peak mean global field potentials. In both groups, the sources of word repetition effects were determined to be located in the inferior frontal gyrus. The right ECD powers of the ERP generators elicited by the new words were significantly higher in the OCD patients than in the control subjects. The OCD patients also exhibited significant alterations in the hemispheric asymmetry of ECD power during the processing of new words. These results suggest that OCD patients suffer from the encoding deficits in word processing, particularly in the left hemisphere.
Neuroscientific research focuses on the mind-brain relation, particularly with respect to patterns of brain arousal and activity in the production of various forms of behavior, both external and mental behavior. In this article the author reviews neuroscientific findings to demonstrate that there are no activities of the human person, whether in the form of external behavior or purely mental activity, that are not produced by activation of the CNS. Areas considered include information processing, development, brain plasticity, language, memory, and affects.
Understanding the mind-body relation is crucial for any meaningful advance in the psychoanalytic understanding of the neurobiological integrity of the human person and of the interaction between psychoanalysis and the neurosciences. Recent neuroscientific research has contributed significant findings having important implications for understanding the mind-body relation. Here the author comments on some theoretical positions regarding the mind-body problem of brain researchers in terms of the monistic-dualistic alternatives. Furthermore, the author briefly considers some of the recent technological advancements that have revolutionized thinking specifically about the mind-brain relation.

This study was designed to develop reliable methods for quantification of cortisol and cortisol immunoreactive metabolites (C-CIM) and immunoglobulin A (IgA) in reindeer serum, saliva, urine, and feces as tools for the objective noninvasive assessment of well-being and immunocompetence in reindeer. Although C-CIM was readily quantifiable by radioimmunoassay in serum, urine, and feces, the levels in saliva samples were low, rendering quantification unreliable. Whereas IgA concentrations were high in feces samples, they were much lower, albeit quantifiable, in serum and urine; the levels in saliva samples were too low for quantification with the use of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay that we developed. Further studies are in progress to validate the usefulness of fecal levels of C-CIM and IgA in the assessment of welfare in reindeer.
Cells preferentially expressing GluR4-containing alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid (AMPA) receptors are particularly sensitive to excitotoxicity mediated through non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. However, the excitotoxic signalling pathways associated with GluR4-containing AMPA receptors are not known. In this work, we investigated the downstream signals coupled to excitotoxicity mediated by Ca2+-permeable GluR4-containing AMPA receptors, using a HEK 293 cell line constitutively expressing the GluR4flip subunit of AMPA receptors (HEK-GluR4). Glutamate stimulation of GluR4-containing AMPA receptors decreased cell viability, in a calcium-dependent manner, when the receptor desensitisation was prevented with cyclothiazide. The excitotoxic stimulation mediated through GluR4-containing AMPA receptors increased activator protein-1 (AP-1) DNA-binding activity. Inhibition of the AP-1 activity by overexpression of a c-Jun dominant-negative form protected HEK-GluR4 cells against excitotoxic damage. Taken together, the results indicate that overactivation of Ca2+-permeable GluR4-containing AMPA receptors is coupled to a death pathway mediated, at least in part, by the AP-1 transcription factor.
We previously reported that 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG) accumulates in the cytoplasm of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra of patients with Parkinson's disease and the expression of MTH1 carrying an oxidized purine nucleoside triphosphatase activity increases in these neurons, thus suggesting that oxidative damage in nucleic acids is involved in dopamine neuron loss. In the present study, we found that levels of 8-oxoG in cellular DNA and RNA increased in the mouse nigrostriatal system during the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive dopamine neuron loss induced by the administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). MTH1-null mice exhibited a greater accumulation of 8-oxoG in mitochondrial DNA accompanied by a more significant decrease in TH and dopamine transporter immunoreactivities in the striatum after MPTP administration, than in wild-type mice. We thus demonstrated that MTH1 protects the dopamine neurons from oxidative damage in the nucleic acids, especially in the mitochondrial DNA of striatal nerve terminals of dopamine neurons.
Gradual disclosure of the molecular basis of selective neuronal apoptosis during neurodegenerative diseases reveals active participation of acetylating and deacetylating agents during the process. Several studies have now successfully manipulated neuronal vulnerability by influencing the dose and enzymatic activity of histone acetyltransferases (HATs) and histone deacetylases (HDACs), enzymes regulating acetylation homeostasis within the nucleus, thus focusing on the importance of balanced acetylation status in neuronal vitality. It is now increasingly becoming clear that acetylation balance is greatly impaired during neurodegenerative conditions. Herein, we attempt to illuminate molecular means by which such impairment is manifested and how the compromised acetylation homeostasis is intimately coupled to neurodegeneration. Finally, we discuss the therapeutic potential of reinstating the HAT-HDAC balance to ameliorate neurodegenerative diseases.
Reticulons (RTNs) are a group of integral membrane proteins that have a uniquely conserved C-terminal domain named RHD. In mammalian genomes, transcripts are produced from four genes, rtn1 to rtn4, under the regulation of tissue or cell-type-specific expression. The presence of alternative promoters for gene expression and multiple cryptic splicing sites have resulted in large numbers of genes/proteins that are classified among the reticulon family. Although this family exists in almost all eukaryotes, only the rtn4 gene product, Nogo (RTN4), has gained relatively more in-depth attention. Despite predominant localization in the endoplasmic reticulum, Nogo on the cell surface appears to play a critical role as an inhibitory molecule for axonal growth and regeneration in humans and rodents. Recently, studies have expanded the biological functions of RTNs to other facets including modulating the enzymatic activity of beta-secretase in Alzheimer's disease. In this review, we summarize the accumulated findings concerning the structural and functional aspects of RTNs and speculate on their linkage to the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases.
Our purpose was to identify Na(v)1.2-expressing myenteric neurons of the small and large intestine of the guinea pig by using antibodies directed against Na(v)1.2 and selected neurochemical markers. Na(v)1.2-like immunoreactivity (-li) co-localized with immunoreactivity for choline acetyltransferase in all regions, representing 45%-67% of Na(v)1.2-positive neurons. Na(v)1.2-li co-localized with immunoreactivity for the neural form of nitric oxide synthase more frequently in the colon (20% of neurons exhibiting Na(v)1.2-li) than in the ileum (8%). Co-localization of Na(v)1.2-li with immunoreactivity for a form of neurofilament (NF145) was infrequently observed in the ileum and colon. Enkephalin-immunoreactive cell bodies co-localized with Na(v)1.2-li in all regions. Few myenteric cell bodies immunoreactive for neuropeptide Y were observed in the ileum, but all co-localized with Na(v)1.2-li. This and our previous data suggest that Na(v)1.2 is widely expressed within the guinea pig enteric nervous system, including the three main classes of myenteric neurons (sensory, motor, and interneurons), and is involved in both excitatory and inhibitory pathways. Notable exceptions include the excitatory motor neurons to the longitudinal smooth muscle, the ascending interneurons of the ileum, and the myenteric neurons immunoreactive for NF145, few of which are immunoreactive for Na(v)1.2.
A meta-analysis of pooled individual patient data from four randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trials comparing several doses of almotriptan (n = 1,908) with placebo (n = 386) was used to investigate the efficacy, speed of onset and tolerability of almotriptan in the acute treatment of migraine. As early as 30 min after dosing, almotriptan 12.5 mg was significantly more effective than placebo for pain relief (14.9% vs. 8.2%; P &lt; 0.05) and pain free (2.5% vs. 0.7%; P &lt; 0.05). At 2 h, pain-relief rates were 56.0%, 63.7% and 66.0% for almotriptan 6.25, 12.5 and 25 mg, respectively, compared with 35% for placebo; 2-h pain-free rates were 26.7%, 36.4% and 43.4% compared with 13.9% for placebo. All almotriptan dosages were significantly more effective than placebo in eliminating migraine-associated symptoms (P &lt; 0.05) and in achieving sustained pain relief up to 24 h (P &lt; 0.05). The incidence of adverse events after almotriptan 6.25 mg and 12.5 mg was not significantly different from that of placebo. This meta-analysis confirms the findings of individual clinical trials, while demonstrating for the first time, significant pain-free efficacy at 30 min compared with placebo.
The present study utilizes nestin-BDNF transgenic mice, which offer a model for early increased brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signalling, to examine the role of BDNF in the development of cortical architecture. Our results demonstrate that the premature and homogeneous expression of BDNF, while preserving tangential migration from the ganglionic eminence to the cortex, impairs the final radial migration of GABAergic neurons, as well as their integration in the appropriate cortical layers. Moreover, Cajal-Retzius (CR) cells and GABAergic neurons segregate in the cortical marginal zone (MZ) in response to BDNF signalling, leading to an alternating pattern and a columnar cortical organization, within which the migration of different neuronal populations is specifically affected. These results suggest that both CR and GABAergic neurons play a role in directing the radial migration of late-generated cortical neurons, and that the spatial distribution of these cells in the MZ is critical for the development of correct cortical organization. In addition, reelin secreted by CR cells in the MZ is not sufficient to direct the migration of late-born neurons to the upper cortical layers, which most likely requires the presence of reelin-secreting interneurons in layers V-VI. We propose that in addition to modulating reelin expression, BDNF regulates the patched distribution of CR and GABAergic neurons in the MZ, and that this spatial distribution is involved in the formation of anatomical and/or functional columns and convoluted structures.
During the past two decades, research on the role of biologic factors in antisocial behavior has made great progress. This article discusses recent findings and their possible implications for future forensic assessment and treatment. In addition, some relevant philosophical, ethical, and political questions are brought forward.
A widened attentional focus, that is typically associated with ADHD, has been postulated to be accompanied by enhanced creative ability. However, creativity has been only limitedly examined in ADHD. Performance across several creativity measures were investigated in three groups: adolescents with ADHD, those with conduct disorder, and a healthy control sample. The ADHD group exhibited selective cognitive advantages and disadvantages by demonstrating an enhanced ability in overcoming the constraining influence of examples, but a reduced capacity to generate a functional invention during an imagery task. These findings are interpreted with reference to inhibitory control mechanisms and the contextual modulation of creative cognition.


Multiple system atrophy (MSA) and pure autonomic failure (PAF) represent distinct pathological models of autonomic failure in humans. We have investigated the neuroendocrine, behavioural and autonomic cardiovascular responses to the 35% CO2 challenge. Nine patients with MSA, nine with PAF and five control subjects received a single breath of 35% CO2. Peripheral autonomic failure (i.e., PAF) was associated with significantly lower resting noradrenaline levels. All groups demonstrated a significant pressor response to CO2. In controls, the mean pressor response was +60.2 mm Hg, which was significantly smaller in both the PAF (+26.8 mm Hg, P &lt; 0.01) and MSA (+18.3 mm Hg, P &lt; 0.001) patients. In addition, the onset of the response was significantly delayed in both MSA (140.2 s) and PAF (154.2 s) patients compared with controls (32.4 s, P = 0.04 and P = 0.03, respectively). Noradrenaline levels increased only in controls. Central autonomic impairment (i.e., MSA) was associated with lower cortisol release (+8.8% in MSA compared with +35.2% in control and +23.7% in PAF) and fewer somatic symptoms of emotional arousal. Both MSA and PAF exhibit marked sympathetic autonomic impairment, however, residual (albeit differing) sympathetic pathways can still maintain a partial cardiovascular response. A central autonomic lesion, however, also appears to be associated with blunting of both cortisol and emotional responses to this stress paradigm.
A continuum from neuronal cellular/subcellular properties to system processes appears to exist in many instances and to allow privileged approaches in neuroscience and neuropharmacology research. Brain signals and the cholinergic and GABAergic systems, in vivo and in vitro evidence from studies on the retina, or the &quot;gamma band&quot; oscillations in neuron membrane potential/spiking rate and neuronal assemblies are examples in this respect. However, spontaneous and stimulus-event-related signals at any location and time point reflect brain state conditions that depend on neuromodulation, neurotransmitter interaction, hormones (e.g., glucocorticois, ACTH, estrogens) and neuroendocrine interaction at different levels of complexity, as well as on the spontaneous or experimentally-induced changes in metabolism (e.g., glucose, ammonia), blood flow, pO2, pCO2, acid/base balance, K activity, etc., that occur locally or systemically. Any of these factors can account for individual differences and/or changes over time that often are (or need to be) neglected in pharmaco-EEG studies or are dealt with statistically and by controlling the experimental conditions. As a result, the electrophysiological effects of neuroactive drugs are to an extent non-specific and require adequate modeling and precise correlation with independent parameters (e.g., drug kinetics, vigilance, hormonal profile or metabolic status, etc.) to avoid biased results in otherwise controlled studies.
Early admission to stroke unit (SU) and factors that may cause admission delay represent relevant issues to obtain an optimal management of acute stroke. This study was aimed at recording timing from clinical onset to admission to our SU and to identify the reasons for delay. We prospectively examined acute stroke patients consecutively admitted to the Perugia SU. Baseline characteristics of stroke patients, stroke type and etiology, time from symptom onset to arrival in the SU were obtained from the Hospital-Based Perugia Stroke Registry. 60.8% of 2,213 consecutive stroke patients admitted to the SU arrived within 6 hrs and 39.2% after 6 hrs. Underestimation of symptoms was the cause of delay in 48.7% of cases. Younger age, especially for females, ischemic stroke, mild and/or unspecific symptoms and the underestimation of symptoms seem to be the main reasons for delayed arrival in the SU. To increase the proportion of stroke patients arriving in the SU within 3 hr of symptom onset, it is necessary to improve public and general practitioner awareness of stroke through educational programs.
The use of intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) administered within 3 hrs from symptom onset is beneficial in selected patients independent of age; although oldest patients (&gt; or = 80 years) are excluded a priori. We report an experience relative to rt-PA treatment in the oldest patients including outcome at 3 months. Data were from the hospital-based Perugia Stroke Registry. Seventy-two consecutive acute stroke patients, fulfilling NINDS and EUSI-criteria were treated with rt-PA of these 23 patients (30.5%) were &gt; or = 80 years. The median and mean age were, respectively, 72.5 and 71.1 +/- 12.7 years (range 35-94). The proportion of favorable outcome at 3-months did not differ between groups (55% elderly versus 51.1% of younger patients). Proportions of unfavorable outcome and death from baseline were similar in both groups of patients. Age did not influence prognosis in patients treated with rt-PA. The oldest stroke patients should not be excluded from rt-PA treatment on the basis of age per se.
Randomized trials with statins have shown a modest but significant absolute reduction in the incidence of stroke in patients with a previous myocardial infarction. The reasons for the positive statin effect on stroke endpoint are unclear, because a link between serum cholesterol level and stroke never has been established. However, positive results of statin trials were mainly obtained in patients with an average or a low serum cholesterol level. Statins have a good overall safety profile. Statins reduced stroke incidence in high-risk (mainly coronary heart disease, diabetics, and hypertensives) population even with a normal baseline blood cholesterol level. In patients with prior strokes, statins reduce the incidence of coronary events, but it is not yet proven if drugs of this class actually reduce the incidence of recurrent strokes in terms of secondary prevention.
Predictors of poor outcome after first-ever stroke within 3 months in consecutive patients admitted to our Stroke Unit were defined. Factors included age, sex, risk factors, occurrence of transient ischemic attacks, extension of cerebral infarction, presumed cause of stroke, clinical findings, and demographic characteristics. Multiple regression models were used to analyze predictors of mortality, dependency and stroke recurrence. A total of 435 patients with first-ever stroke were included. Of these, 358 patients had ischemic stroke and 77 hemorrhagic stroke. Three-month mortality rate was 20.5%. After the same period, 24.6% of survivors were dependent (mRS &gt; or = 3) and 5.0% of patients had recurrent stroke. Age, the presence of atrial fibrillation, impaired consciousness on admission, and stroke severity were related to mortality. The presence of stroke due to an undetermined cause or small vessel disease was associated with lower mortality. Partial anterior circulation syndrome or lacunar syndrome were both related to better outcome. The best predictors for dependency after 3 months were age and stroke severity. The only variable identified as the best predictor for recurrence was the presence of diabetes mellitus.
To understand the etiopathogenetic mechanisms of stroke and to target prevention, we need to know how risk factors differ among etiological subtypes. Our aims were to determine the different profile of risk factors for ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke subtypes in our cohort from the Perugia Hospital-Based Stroke Registry. We analyzed the characteristics and the different risk factors of 2,395 first-ever consecutive stroke patients admitted to the Perugia Hospitals in the period between January 1, 1998 and December 31, 2002. The prevalence of cerebrovascular risk factors in each stroke subtype was analyzed independently and compared with other subtypes of stroke pooled together by means of univariate analysis and logistic regression models. Hypertension occurred in 61% of patients; familial history of stroke in 41.6%; vascular disease in 27.2%; embolic heart disease in 22.3%; cigarette smoking in 21.6%. Different potentially modifiable risk factors profiles were identified for each ischemic subtype of stroke, while in hemorrhagic lobar stroke subtypes, only male gender was an independent risk factor.
An attack of abrupt loss of vision in one eye that recovers completely after a short period is called &quot;transient monocular blindness&quot; (TMB) or amaurosis fugax. The most common cause of TMB is atherothromboembolism from the origin of the internal carotid artery (ICA), whereas atrial fibrillation is quite uncommon. TMB also can be caused by anterior optic nerve ischemia, that is usually caused by thrombosis in the posterior ciliary artery. Thrombosis in the central retinal vein may be another cause. Dissection of the ICA, vascular malformations, or fibromuscular dysplasia are other potential etiologies. Blurring of vision as compared with blackened vision or positive phenomena such as flashing is probably associated with a higher risk of future cardiovascular events, whereas involvement of the partial monocular field is associated with a relative benign prognosis. In patients with atherosclerosis, antiplatelet therapy is indicated and treatment of vascular risk factors should have high priority. Carotid endarterectomy should be performed only in case of an ICA stenosis of more than 70% in the presence of at least one other risk factor for stroke.







Bryostatin-1 is a powerful protein kinase C (PKC) agonist, activating PKC isozymes at nanomolar concentrations. Pharmacological studies of bryostatin-1 have mainly been focused on its action in preventing tumor growth. Emerging evidence suggests, however, that bryostatin-1 exhibits additional important pharmacological activities. In preclinical studies bryostatin-1 has been shown at appropriate doses to have cognitive restorative and antidepressant effects. The underlying pharmacological mechanisms may involve an activation of PKC isozymes, induction of synthesis of proteins required for long-term memory, restoration of stress-evoked inhibition of PKC activity, and reduction of neurotoxic amyloid accumulation and tau protein hyperphosphorylation. The therapeutic potential of bryostatin-1 as a CNS drug should be further explored.
As with other addictions, human alcoholism is characterised as a chronically relapsing condition. Consequently, the &quot;holy grail&quot; from a therapeutic viewpoint is the development of clinically effective, safe drugs that promote high compliance rates and prevent relapse. Here we discuss the potential of therapeutics targeting neuropeptide systems implicated in aberrant alcohol-seeking behaviour. Clearly, much of the data so far available comes from pre-clinical studies; however, one of the first effective therapeutic strategies for alcoholism (still in use today) was the use of non-selective opioid receptor antagonists, such as naltrexone (Revia). In addition to opioid receptors, other neuropeptide receptors including those for corticotrophin releasing factor (CRF), neuropeptide Y and nociceptin may represent valid therapeutic targets to regulate alcohol consumption and the affective consequences of alcohol withdrawal.
Galanin is a neuropeptide synthesized in many neuronal types including brainstem norepinephrine-producing cells of the locus coeruleus and the serotonin-producing neurons of the dorsal raphe nucleus. Galanin inhibits the firing of rodent norepinephrine, serotonin and dopamine neurons and reduces release of these neurotransmitters in forebrain target regions. The distribution of galanin and its receptors and its actions on monoamine signaling has fostered interest in this neuropeptide in the field of behavioral pharmacology and the potential role of galanin in the pathophysiology of neurological diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, epilepsy, stroke, and in psychiatric disorders such as anxiety, depression, and drug addiction, particularly withdrawal. In rodent models, expression of galanin in brain is altered by various stressors, while administration of galanin can modulate anxiety-like responses to stress. Emerging evidence further supports a role for galanin in the mediation of depression-related behaviors in rodents. Recently, galanin agonists have been shown to decrease behavioral signs of opiate withdrawal, which are thought to result from hyperactivation of brain stress pathways. Studies using genetically modified mice suggest that galanin normally plays a protective role against opiate reinforcement and withdrawal. The present article reviews current evidence on a potential role for galanin in modulating stress-related neural pathways and behaviors, and speculates on the therapeutic potential of targeting this galanin system for emotional disorders and opiate addiction.
Specific phobia is the most prevalent of the anxiety disorders. Although there have been relatively few studies of its psychobiology and pharmacotherapy, there is a rich laboratory of literature on fear conditioning and extinction and a clear evolutionary perspective. Advances in the cognitive-affective neuroscience of fear processing may ultimately lead to new approaches to the clinical management of phobias.
Visual evoked potentials are useful clinical tools to study visual pathways of the brain. Although the temporal resolution is unsurpassed by other brain imaging technologies, the spatial resolution is diminished or blurred by the low conductance of the electrical signals through the skull. Methods have been proposed to improve the spatial resolution by downwardly projecting the electrical signals measured on the scalp to the surface of the cerebral cortex through the inverse solution of the equations governing static current flow. We describe the adaptation and combination of commercially available engineering software programs to solve this inverse problem and report the results of a sample run of the system. Before deblurring, the visual evoked potentials appeared to be diffusely localized over the posterior scalp. After deblurring, the visual evoked potentials were only found at the electrodes closest to the visual cortex, as would be predicted by our current knowledge of neuroanatomy.



Recently, interhemispheric disconnection syndromes have been noted in patients with agenesis of the corpus callosum (ACC) during the performance of certain tasks. However, few studies have demonstrated an asymmetric disconnection syndrome. In this report, we present just such a syndrome in a patient with ACC, who manifested ambidexterity (but with a left-hand tendency) and had high intelligence, no neurological deficits, and no associated malformations. In a comparison with similar subjects (amateur musician), we studied her asymmetric deficits using four tasks: (1) simple reaction time for visual stimuli, (2) paced finger tapping in synchrony with visual or auditory stimuli, (3) paced finger tapping without an external reference, and (4) rhythmical finger tapping in synchrony with visual or auditory stimuli. While the comparable subjects displayed no significant difference between hands, and the patient showed no significant difference between hands in the auditory paradigm, her tapping performance deteriorated significantly when asked to synchronize the left hand with timed visual stimuli, irrespective of whether finger tapping was paced or rhythmical. We believe that this phenomenon constitutes a novel asymmetrical disconnection syndrome in an ACC subject; these results suggest that synchronization of multimodal temporal information was lateralized in the left hemisphere (in this case), which is something that the ACC patient could not compensate for.
Dopamine (DA) and noradrenaline (NA) in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) modulate superior cognitive functions, and are involved in the aetiology of depressive and psychotic symptoms. Moreover, microdialysis studies in rats have shown how pharmacological treatments that induce modifications of extracellular NA in the medial PFC (mPFC), also produce parallel changes in extracellular DA.To explain the coupling of NA and DA changes, this article reviews the evidence supporting the hypothesis that extracellular DA in the cerebral cortex originates not only from dopaminergic terminals but also from noradrenergic ones, where it acts both as precursor for NA and as a co-transmitter.Accordingly, extracellular DA concentration in the occipital, parietal and cerebellar cortex was found to be much higher than expected in view of the scarce dopaminergic innervation in these areas.Systemic administration or intra-cortical perfusion of alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonists and antagonists, consistent with their action on noradrenergic neuronal activity, produced concomitant changes not only in extracellular NA but also in DA in the mPFC, occipital and parietal cortex.Chemical modulation of the locus coeruleus by locally applied carbachol, kainate, NMDA or clonidine modified both NA and DA in the mPFC.Electrical stimulation of the locus coeruleus led to an increased efflux of both NA and DA in mPFC, parietal and occipital cortex, while in the striatum, NA efflux alone was enhanced.Atypical antipsychotics, such as clozapine and olanzapine, or antidepressants, including mirtazapine and mianserine, have been found to increase both NA and DA throughout the cerebral cortex, likely through blockade of alpha(2)-adrenoceptors. On the other hand, drugs selectively acting on dopaminergic transmission produced modest changes in extracellular DA in mPFC, and had no effect on the occipital or parietal cortex.Acute administration of morphine did not increase DA levels in the PFC (where NA is diminished), in contrast with augmented dopaminergic neuronal activity; moreover, during morphine withdrawal both DA and NA levels increased, in spite of a diminished dopaminergic activity, both increases being antagonised by clonidine but not quinpirole administration.Extensive 6-hydroxy dopamine lesion of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) decreases below 95% of control both intra- and extracellular DA and DOPAC in the nucleus accumbens, but only partially or not significantly in the mPFC and parietal cortex.The above evidence points to a common origin for NA and DA in the cerebral cortex and suggests the possible utility of noradrenergic system modulation as a target for drugs with potential clinical efficacy on cognitive functions.



HuCNS-SC, a proprietary human neural stem cells product, is being developed as a cellular therapy for the potential treatment of Batten disease, one of a group of disorders known as neural ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCL). Developer StemCells is also investigating the therapy for spinal cord injury and other central nervous system disorders, such as demyelinating disease, stroke and Alzheimer's disease. A phase I trial of HuCNS-SC for infantile and late-infantile NCL has been initiated, following the March 2006 U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval of StemCells' investigational new drug application.
The processes and mechanisms implicated in retention and retrieval of memories as they age is an enduring problem in cognitive neuroscience. Research from lesion and functional neuroimaging studies on remote episodic, semantic and spatial memory in humans is crucial for evaluating three theories of hippocampal and/or medial temporal lobe-neocortical interaction in memory retention and retrieval: cognitive map theory, standard consolidation theory and multiple trace theory. Each theory makes different predictions regarding first, the severity and extent of retrograde amnesia following lesions to some or all of the structures mentioned; second, the extent of activation of these structures to retrieval of memory across time; and third, the type of memory being retrieved. Each of these theories has strengths and weaknesses, and there are various unresolved issues. We propose a unified account based on multiple trace theory. This theory states that the hippocampus is needed for re-experiencing detailed episodic and spatial memories no matter how old they are, and that it contributes to the formation and assimilation of semantic memories and schematic spatial maps.
By using multi-electrode arrays or optical imaging, investigators can now record from many individual neurons in various parts of nervous systems simultaneously while an animal performs sensory, motor or cognitive tasks. Given the large multidimensional datasets that are now routinely generated, it is often not obvious how to find meaningful results within the data. The analysis of neuronal-population recordings typically involves two steps: the extraction of relevant dynamics from neural data, and then use of the dynamics to classify and discriminate features of a stimulus or behavior. We focus on the application of techniques that emphasize interactions among the recorded neurons rather than using just the correlations between individual neurons and a perception or a behavior. An understanding of modern analysis techniques is crucially important for researchers interested in the co-varying activity among populations of neurons or even brain regions.
Developmental prosopagnosia is characterized by severely impaired face recognition. Individuals with this disorder, which often runs in families, have no history of brain damage and intact early visual processing systems. Recent research has also demonstrated that many developmental prosopagnosics have normal or relatively good object recognition, indicating that their impairments are not the result of deficits to a unitary visual recognition mechanism. To investigate the nature of the impaired mechanisms, extensive testing was done on an individual with especially pure face processing deficits. The results ruled out all extant explanations of prosopagnosia except one that proposed that faces are recognized by a content-specific face processing mechanism. fMRI and MEG studies show that there are a variety of neural profiles in developmental prosopagnosia, which is consistent with behavioral studies demonstrating that it is a heterogeneous disorder.
Following the suggestion that midbrain dopaminergic neurons encode a signal, known as a 'reward prediction error', used by artificial intelligence algorithms for learning to choose advantageous actions, the study of the neural substrates for reward-based learning has been strongly influenced by computational theories. In recent work, such theories have been increasingly integrated into experimental design and analysis. Such hybrid approaches have offered detailed new insights into the function of a number of brain areas, especially the cortex and basal ganglia. In part this is because these approaches enable the study of neural correlates of subjective factors (such as a participant's beliefs about the reward to be received for performing some action) that the computational theories purport to quantify.
The capability of the adult primate visual system for rapid and accurate recognition of targets in cluttered, natural scenes far surpasses the abilities of state-of-the-art artificial vision systems. Understanding this capability remains a fundamental challenge in visual neuroscience. Recent experimental evidence suggests that adaptive coding strategies facilitated by underlying neural plasticity enable the adult brain to learn from visual experience and shape its ability to integrate and recognize coherent visual objects.
Multivariate genetic research suggests that a single set of genes affects most cognitive abilities and disabilities. This finding already has far-reaching implications for cognitive neuroscience, and will become even more revealing when this - presumably large - set of generalist genes is identified. Similar to other complex disorders and dimensions, molecular genetic research on cognitive abilities and disabilities is adopting genome-wide association strategies. These strategies involve very large samples to detect DNA associations of small effect size using microarrays that simultaneously assess hundreds of thousands of DNA markers. When this set of generalist genes is identified, it can be used to provide solid footholds in the climb towards a systems-level understanding of how genetically driven brain processes work together to affect diverse cognitive abilities and disabilities.
Advances in cognitive neuroscience now allow us to use physiological techniques to measure and assess mental states under a growing set of circumstances. The implication of this growing ability has not been lost on the western legal community. If biologists can accurately measure mental state, then legal conflicts that turn on the true mental states of individuals might well be resolvable with techniques ranging from electroencephalography to functional magnetic resonance imaging. Therefore, legal practitioners have increasingly sought to employ cognitive neuroscientific methods and data as evidence to influence legal proceedings. This poses a risk, because these scientific methodologies have largely been designed and validated for experimental use only. Their subsequent use in legal proceedings is an application for which they were not intended, and for which those methods are inadequately tested. We propose that neurobiologists, who might inadvertently contribute to this situation, should be aware of how their papers will be read by the legal community and should play a more active role in educating and engaging with that community.
Ample evidence suggests that upon their retrieval, items in long-term memory enter a transient special state, in which they might become prone to change. The process that generates this state is dubbed 'reconsolidation'. The dominant conceptual framework in this revitalized field of memory research focuses on whether reconsolidation resembles consolidation, which is the process that converts an unstable short-term memory trace into a more stable long-term trace. However, this emphasis on the comparison of reconsolidation to consolidation deserves reassessment. Instead, the phenomenon of reconsolidation, irrespective of its relevance to consolidation, provides a unique opportunity to tap into the molecular, cellular and circuit correlates of memory persistence and retrieval, of which we currently know only little.
Standard economic theories conceive homo economicus as a rational decision maker capable of maximizing utility. In reality, however, people tend to approximate optimal decision-making strategies through a collection of heuristic routines. Some of these routines are driven by emotional processes, and others are adjusted iteratively through experience. In addition, routines specialized for social decision making, such as inference about the mental states of other decision makers, might share their origins and neural mechanisms with the ability to simulate or imagine outcomes expected from alternative actions that an individual can take. A recent surge of collaborations across economics, psychology and neuroscience has provided new insights into how such multiple elements of decision making interact in the brain.


Tetrapod limbs, forelimbs and hindlimbs, emerge as limb buds during development from appropriate positions along the rostro-caudal axis of the main body. In this study, tissue interactions by which rostro-caudal level-specific limb initiation is established were analyzed. The limb bud originates from the lateral plate located laterally to the paraxial mesoderm, and we obtained evidence that level-specific tissue interactions between the paraxial mesoderm and the lateral plate mesoderm are important for the determination of the limb-type-specific gene expression and limb outgrowth. When the wing-level paraxial mesoderm was transplanted into the presumptive leg region, the wing-level paraxial mesoderm upregulated the expression of Tbx5, a wing marker gene, and down regulated the expression of Tbx4 and Pitx1, leg marker genes, in the leg-level lateral plate. The wing-level paraxial mesoderm relocated into the leg level also inhibited outgrowth of the hindlimb bud and down regulated Fgf10 and Fgf8 expression, demonstrating that the wing-level paraxial mesoderm cannot substitute for the function of the leg-level paraxial mesoderm in initiation and outgrowth of the hindlimb. The paraxial mesoderm taken from the neck- and flank-level regions also had effects on Tbx5/Tbx4 expression with different efficiencies. These findings suggest that the paraxial mesoderm has level-specific abilities along the rostro-caudal axis in the limb-type-specific mechanism for limb initiation.
The transmembrane ephrinB ligands and their Eph receptor tyrosine kinases are known to regulate excitatory synaptic functions in the hippocampus. In the CA3-CA1 synapse, ephrinB ligands are localized to the post-synaptic membrane, while their cognate Eph receptors are presumed to be pre-synaptic. Interaction of ephrinB molecules with Eph receptors leads to changes in long-term potentiation (LTP), which has been reported to be mediated by reverse signaling into the post-synaptic membrane. Here, we demonstrate that the cytoplasmic domain of ephrinB3 and hence reverse signaling is not required for ephrinB dependent learning and memory tasks or for LTP of these synapses. Consistent with previous reports, we find that ephrinB3(KO) null mutant mice exhibit a striking reduction in CA3-CA1 LTP that is associated with defective learning and memory tasks. We find the null mutants also show changes in both pre- and post-synaptic proteins including increased levels of synapsin and synaptobrevin and reduced levels of NMDA receptor subunits. These abnormalities are not observed in ephrinB3(lacZ) reverse signaling mutants that specifically delete the ephrinB3 intracellular region, supporting a cytoplasmic domain-independent forward signaling role for ephrinB3 in these processes. We also find that both ephrinB3(KO) and ephrinB3(lacZ) mice show an increased number of excitatory synapses, demonstrating a cytoplasmic-dependent reverse signaling role of ephrinB3 in regulating synapse number. Together, these data suggest that ephrinB3 may act like a receptor to transduce reverse signals to regulate the number of synapses formed in the hippocampus, and that it likely acts to stimulate forward signaling to modulate a number of other proteins involved in synaptic activity and learning/memory.
An important question in stem cell biology is how a cell decides to self-renew or differentiate. Drosophila neuroblasts divide asymmetrically to self-renew and generate differentiating progeny called GMCs. Here, we report that the Brain tumor (Brat) translation repressor is partitioned into GMCs via direct interaction with the Miranda scaffolding protein. In brat mutants, another Miranda cargo protein (Prospero) is not partitioned into GMCs, GMCs fail to downregulate neuroblast gene expression, and there is a massive increase in neuroblast numbers. Single neuroblast clones lacking Prospero have a similar phenotype. We conclude that Brat suppresses neuroblast stem cell self-renewal and promotes neuronal differentiation.
In this review article, we shall focus our attention on the initial steps in the research career of Jos A. Campos-Ortega and the studies he undertook. Particular emphasis will be placed on how these early experiences shaped his personality and his future scientific contributions.
Xenopus laevis larvae can regenerate an exact replica of the missing part of a limb after amputation at an early limb bud stage. However, this regenerative capacity gradually decreases during metamorphosis, and a froglet is only able to regenerate hypomorphic cartilage, resulting in a spike-like structure (spike). It has been reported that the spike has tissue deformities, e.g., a muscleless structure. However, our previous study demonstrated that the muscleless feature of the spike can be improved. The existence of other kinds of tissue, such as tendon, has not been clarified. In this study, we focused on the tendon and dermis, and we isolated the scleraxis and dermo-1 genes, which are known to be marker genes for the tendon and dermis, respectively. The expressions of these genes were investigated in both the developmental and regenerating processes of a Xenopus limb. Although muscle was needed to maintain scleraxis expression, scleraxis transcription was detectable in the muscleless spike. Additionally, although grafting of matured skin, including dermal tissue, inhibited limb regeneration, the expression of dermo-1, a dermal marker gene, was detected from the early stage of the froglet blastema. These results indicate that tendon precursor cells and dermal cells exist in the regenerating froglet blastema. Our results support the idea that spike formation in postmetamorphic Xenopus limbs is epimorphic regeneration.
We examined regional brain electrical activity (EEG), heart rate, and subjective responses at rest and during the presentation of videoclips designed to elicit a range of emotions (e.g., sadness, anger, happiness, fear) among a sample of healthy 4-year-old children selected for temperamental shyness. We found that shy children exhibited significantly greater relative right central EEG activation at rest and during the presentation of the fear-eliciting videoclip than nonshy children. Shy females displayed greater relative right mid-frontal EEG activation during the sad, happy, and fear videoclips than shy males who displayed greater relative left mid-frontal EEG activation. These results (1) suggest that recent frontal EEG activation/emotion models might be gender-specific and (2) appear to provide the first empirical evidence for recent theoretical notions linking the origins and maintenance of temperamental shyness in children to difficulty in regulating fear responses.
Neuronal migration is a prerequisite event for the establishment of highly ordered neuronal circuits in the developing brain. Here, we report Pax6-dependent alignment of the olfactory cortex neurons in the developing telencephalon. These neurons were generated in the dorsal part of telencephalon, migrated ventrally and stopped at the pallium-subpallium boundary (PSB). In Pax6 mutant rat embryos, however, these neurons invaded the ventral part of the telencephalon by crossing the PSB. Ephrin A5, one of the ligands for EphA receptors, was specifically expressed in the ventral part of the telencephalon, and its expression level was markedly reduced in the Pax6 mutant. Gain- and loss-of-function studies of ephrin A5 indicated that ephrin A5 plays an important role in the alignment of olfactory cortex neurons at the PSB. Our results suggest that Pax6-regulated ephrin A5 acts as a repulsive molecule for olfactory cortex neurons in the developing telencephalon.
In neural crest formation, transcription factors, such as group E Sox and Snail1/Snail2 (Slug) regulate subsequent epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and migration. In particular, Sox9 has a strong effect on neural crest formation, EMT and differentiation of crest-derived cartilages in the cranium. It remains unclear, however, how Sox9 functions in these events, and how Sox9 activity is regulated. In this study, our gain-of-function and loss-of-function experiments reveal that Sox9 is essential for BMP signal-mediated induction of Snail2 and subsequent EMT in avian neural crest. We also show that Snail2 activates the Snail2 promoter, although Snail family proteins have been known as a repressor. Consistently, Sox9 directly activates the Snail2 promoter in synergy with, and through a direct binding to, Snail2. Finally, functions of these transcription factors in neural crest cells are enhanced by PKA signaling.
The structural correlates of impaired cognition in type 2 diabetes are unclear. The present study compared cognition and brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) between type 2 diabetic patients and nondiabetic control subjects and assessed the relationship between cognition and MRI findings and blood pressure and metabolic control. The study included 113 patients and 51 control subjects. Brain MRI scans were rated for white matter lesions (WMLs), cortical and subcortical atrophy, and infarcts. Neuropsychological test scores were divided into five cognitive domains and expressed as standardized Z values. Type 2 diabetes was associated with deep WMLs (P = 0.02), cortical (P &lt; 0.001) and subcortical (P &lt; 0.05) atrophy, (silent) infarcts (P = 0.06), and impaired cognitive performance (attention and executive function, information-processing speed, and memory, all P &lt; 0.05). Adjustment for hypertension did not affect the results. Within the type 2 diabetic group, cognitive function was inversely related with WMLs, atrophy, and the presence of infarcts (adjusted for age, sex, and estimated IQ), and there was a modest association with HbA1c and diabetes duration. This association was strongest for age, even more so than in control subjects. We conclude that cognitive impairments in patients with type 2 diabetes are not only associated with subcortical ischemic changes in the brain, but also with increased brain atrophy.
Chronic exposure to elevated levels of free fatty acids (FFAs) impairs pancreatic beta-cell function and contributes to the decline of insulin secretion in type 2 diabetes. Previously, we reported that FFAs caused increased nitric oxide (NO) production, which damaged mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and ultimately led to apoptosis in INS-1 cells. To firmly establish the link between FFA-generated mtDNA damage and apoptosis, we stably transfected INS-1 cells with an expression vector containing the gene for the DNA repair enzyme human 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase/apurinic lyase (hOGG1) downstream of the mitochondrial targeting sequence (MTS) from manganese superoxide dismutase. Successful integration of MTS-OGG1 into the INS-1 cellular genome was confirmed by Southern blot analysis. Western blots and enzyme activity assays revealed that hOGG1 was targeted to mitochondria and the recombinant enzyme was active. MTS-OGG1 cells showed a significant decrease in FFA-induced mtDNA damage compared with vector-only transfectants. Additionally, hOGG1 overexpression in mitochondria decreased FFA-induced inhibition of ATP production and protected INS-1 cells from apoptosis. These results indicate that mtDNA damage plays a pivotal role in FFA-induced beta-cell dysfunction and apoptosis. Therefore, targeting DNA repair enzymes into beta-cell mitochondria could be a potential therapeutic strategy for preventing or delaying the onset of type 2 diabetes symptoms.

Structure-activity relationship studies of valproic acid (VPA) derivatives have revealed a quantitative correlation between histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibition and induction of neural tube defects (NTDs) in the NMRI-exencephaly-mouse model, but this correlation has been, so far, limited to congeners with a carboxylic acid function. Whereas the classical HDAC inhibitor trichostatin A is active only as a hydroxamate but not as a carboxylic acid, we found that neither VPA amides nor hydroxamates inhibit HDACs, but can cause NTDs; e.g., 2-pentyl-4-pentynoic hydroxamic acid with its S-enantiomer being the potent teratogen. We therefore investigated the hypothesis that hydroxamic acid derivatives of VPA might be metabolized in vivo and may possibly be pro-teratogenic, as had been shown for valpromide but not valproic hydroxamic acid. We developed two stereoselective quantification methods based on chiral derivatization of VPA hydroxamates with (1R,2S,5R)-(-)-menthylchloroformate and carboxylic acid derivatives with (S)-(-)-1-naphthylethylamine, followed by gas chromatography-nitrogen phosphor detector analysis of biological samples. We then determined the pharmacokinetic profiles of S-2-pentyl-4-pentynoic hydroxamic acid and of S-2-pentyl-4-pentynoic acid in mice. S-2-Pentyl-4-pentynoic hydroxamic acid was found to be extensively metabolized to the corresponding carboxylic acid without affecting the stereochemistry at position C2. Furthermore, the metabolite S-2-pentyl-4-pentynoic acid was found to be very stable in vivo, with an extended half-life of 4.2 h compared with that of VPA, 1.4 h. Comparison of the individual HDAC inhibition abilities of additional VPA amides and hydroxamates, as measured by cellular and enzymatic assays, led us to the conclusion that both classes of VPA derivatives can be pro-teratogenic.
Fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) are expressed in most tissues of the organism including pituitary. FGF-2 increases PRL levels and PRL mRNA in GH3 cells and primary cultures, and it has been involved in the lactotroph proliferation and hyperplasia. EGF also increases PRL levels in vitro. However, the effects of these two factors in the responses of lactotroph cells to TRH and dopamine (DA) remain to be clarified. In the present work we have studied the modulator activity of FGF-2 and EGF on in vitro PRL in responses to TRH and DA in primary cultures from in vivo vehicle- or estrogen (E2)-treated rats. We have found that FGF-2 (2 x 10(-11) M) prevents the EGF-induced dose-dependent increase in PRL levels in control cells, and reversed the EGF-stimulating effects in cells from E2-treated rats. Both FGF-2 (2 x 10(-11) M) and EGF (6.6 x 10(-9) M) significantly increase (&gt;30% and &gt;120%, respectively) the PRL levels in response to TRH (10(-6), 10(-5) M). FGF-2 blocked the inhibitory effects of low doses of DA (10(-9) M). EGF was unable to do so, although markedly increased (&gt;200%) the post-DA PRL rebound. In cells from in vivo E2-treated rats, FGF-2 increased (&gt;50%) the PRL secretion in response to TRH, while EGF reduced responses to high doses of TRH (10(-6), 10(-5) M). In addition, FGF-2 reversed and EGF increased the inhibitory effects of DA. Both FGF-2 and EGF completely blocked the post-DA PRL rebound, in these cells. Taken together our data suggest that FGF-2 and EGF are important regulators of lactotroph responsiveness to TRH and DA in vitro, although their actions are highly dependent on estrogenic milieu.
Estrogen and progesterone are two steroid hormones whose biology has been greatly studied within the confines of reproductive function. As a consequence, the effects of these hormones on the brain have focused primarily on the hypothalamus. Growing evidence, however, forces us to recognize that various extrahypothalamic brain regions, including the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, are equally important targets of these hormones. As such, hormones are involved in numerous aspects of brain function, and elicit effects ranging from the regulation of mood and cognition to the regulation of neuronal survival. While estrogen exerts neuroprotective effects in various experimental models, the potential for progesterone as a protective agent has, until recently, been greatly understudied. Here, we review the data from various laboratories including our own that support the protective role of progesterone and describe the multiplicity of mechanisms by which progesterone elicits these protective effects. Finally, we contrast the neurobiology of progesterone with that of the clinically used progestin, medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA), and suggest that the &quot;natural&quot; progesterone may be the better choice when considering which progestin to use for future therapeutic/ palliative purposes in CNS-related disorders.
Estrogen replacement therapy (ERT) is widely prescribed to postmenopausal women for relief from the adverse vasomotor effects of menopause, to reduce bone loss, to improve cardiovascular health, and to protect against metabolic disorders. However, there is now greater awareness of the increased risk to benefit ratio from the recently concluded Women's Health Initiative Memory Study (WHIMS), which reported that ERT increased the risk of cognitive impairment and dementia in elderly women. Studies from the experimental literature indicate that while estrogen is neuroprotective in many instances, estrogen replacement can be deleterious in some cases. These differences may be partly due to the age and species of the experimental model. The majority of the experimental data comes from studies where the age or endocrine status of the animal model is not comparable to that of menopausal or postmenopausal women, such as those in the WHIMS study. In this review, we will focus on age-related changes in estrogen's neuroprotective effects and evidence that reproductive senescence-related changes in the blood-brain barrier and the immune system may result in deleterious consequences for ERT.
This study aimed to test the hypothesis that the tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic neurons of the arcuate nucleus and/or the lactotroph cells of the anterior pituitary gland are key targets for the programming effects of perinatal glucocorticoids (GCs). Dexamethasone was administered noninvasively to fetal or neonatal rats via the mothers' drinking water (1 mug/ml) on embryonic d 16-19 or neonatal d 1-7, and control animals received normal drinking water. At 68 d of age, the numbers of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive (TH+) cells in the arcuate nucleus and morphometric parameters of pituitary lactotrophs were analyzed. In control animals, striking sex differences in TH+ cell numbers, lactotroph cell size, and pituitary prolactin content were observed. Both pre- and neonatal GC treatment regimens were without effect in adult male rats, but in females, the overriding effect was to abolish the sex differences by reducing arcuate TH+ cell numbers (pre- and neonatal treatments) and reducing lactotroph cell size and pituitary prolactin content (prenatal treatment only) without changing lactotroph cell numbers. Changes in circulating prolactin levels represented a net effect of hypothalamic and pituitary alterations that exhibited independent critical windows of susceptibility to perinatal GC treatments. The dopaminergic neurons of the hypothalamic periventricular nucleus and the pituitary somatotroph populations were not significantly affected by either treatment regimen in either sex. These data show that the adult female hypothalamo-lactotroph axis is profoundly affected by perinatal exposure to GCs, which disrupts the tonic inhibitory tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic pathway and changes lactotroph morphology and prolactin levels in the pituitary and circulation. These findings provide new evidence for a long-term disruption in prolactin-dependent homeostasis in females, but not males, after inappropriate GC exposure in perinatal life.
Androgens such as dihydrotestosterone (DHT) are known to exert their effects through the activation of intracellular receptors that regulate the transcription of target genes. Alternatively, nongenomic mechanisms, including the activation of such signaling pathways as the MAPK pathways, have been described. It is unclear, however, whether this latter mechanism of action is mediated by the classical androgen receptor (AR) or some alternative mechanism. In this study, using a glial cell model (C6 cells) that we found to express the AR, we identified that DHT increased the phosphorylation of both ERK and Akt, key effectors of the neuroprotection-associated MAPK and phosphoinositide 3-kinase signaling pathways, respectively, and ERK phosphorylation was blocked by the AR antagonist, flutamide. In contrast, the membrane-impermeable, BSA-conjugated androgen (DHT-BSA) caused a dose-dependent suppression of ERK and Akt phosphorylation, suggesting the existence of a novel membrane-associated AR that mediates this opposite effect on neuroprotective signaling. This is also supported by the observation of DHT-displaceable binding sites on the cell surface of live C6 cells. Collectively, these data support the existence of a novel membrane-associated AR in glial cells and argue for the existence of two, potentially competing, pathways in a given cell or tissue. This mutual antagonism was supported by the ability of DHT-BSA to attenuate DHT-induced ERK phosphorylation. Thus, depending on the predominance of one receptor mechanism over another, the outcome of androgen treatment may be very different and, as such, could help explain existing discrepancies as to whether androgens are protective or damage inducing.
While it is known that resistance training causes changes in the central nervous system (CNS) in the initial stages of training, there have been few studies of cumulative or sustained neural adaptation to resistance training beyond the initial periods. To further investigate this we compared the electromyographic (EMG) response to transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) during voluntary contractions of ten subjects who have been training for more than 2 years, resistance-training (RT) group, and ten subjects that have never participated in resistance training (NT). The active motor threshold for biceps brachii was obtained during voluntary elbow flexion at 10% of maximal voluntary contraction (MVC). TMS was also delivered at 100% of the maximal stimulator output while the participants exerted forces ranging from 10 to 90% of MVC. Evoked force, motor-evoked potential (MEP) amplitude and latency from biceps brachii was recorded for each condition to explore changes in corticospinal excitability. The evoked force was significantly lower in the RT group in comparison with the NT group between 30 and 70% of MVC intensity (P&lt;0.05). At 90% of MVC, nine subjects from the RT group showed an absence in the evoked force while this occurred in only five subjects from the NT group. The MEP amplitude and latency changed significantly (P&lt;0.001) with increasing levels of contraction, without significant difference between groups. These results indicate that changes in the CNS are sustained in the log-term practices of resistance training and permit a higher voluntary activation at several intensities of the MVC.
In this study, antibodies toward the transcription factors Prox1, Lim1, Ap2alpha, Pax6, Isl1, Isl2, Lim3 and Chx10 were used to identify and distinguish between developing cell types in the pre-laminated chick retina. The spatio-temporal expression patterns were analysed from embryonic day 3 (E3) to E9, thus covering a time-span from the onset of retinal cell-fate determination to when retinal laminas can be distinguished. Most transcription factors were found at early stages of development, enabling us to trace various precursor cell populations throughout the lamination process. With time, each transcription factor expression became restricted to distinct laminas or sub-laminas of the maturing retina. These early emerging patterns were compared and found to be consistent with those of the hatched chick retina, where the outer nuclear layer label for Lim3, Isl1 and Isl2. In the inner nuclear layer, horizontal cells labeled for Prox1, Lim1, Isl1, Ap2alpha and Pax6, bipolar cell labeled for Lim3, Isl1 and Chx10 and amacrine cells labeled for Ap2alpha, Isl1 and Pax6. The ganglion cell layer labeled for Isl1, Pax6 and Isl2. The immunolabeling patterns of Lim3 and Isl2 have not previously been described in detail.
Dysfunction of the ubiquitin-proteasome system has recently been implicated in the pathogenesis of some untreatable myodegenerative diseases characterized by the formation of ubiquitinated inclusions in skeletal muscles. We have developed an in vitro model of proteasomal dysfunction by applying inhibitors of the proteasome to primary adult human skeletal muscle cultures. Our data show that proteasome inhibition causes both cytoplasmic accumulation of ubiquitinated inclusions and apoptotic death, the latter through accumulation of active caspase-3.
Electrophysiological evaluation of motor pathways to the lingual muscles is technically challenging. Previous studies utilizing transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the parieto-occipital region with a round coil reported difficulties in eliciting tongue motor responses. In this study, we utilized TMS with a double cone coil at the posterior head region to obtain tongue motor evoked potentials. Our findings suggest activation at or distal to the hypoglossal nuclear level, but proximal to the hypoglossal canal region. Our method can be usefully applied in future studies of brainstem and cranial nerve function.
Our aim was to test the lateralizing value of a neuropsychological battery including several memory tests on a large sample of consecutive patients with drug-resistant temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) evaluated for epilepsy surgery. We studied 73 right-handed patients (56% males, mean age 35.3 +/- 11.2 years, 49% left TLE) aged 16 years or older with normal IQ who underwent a preoperative neuropsychological assessment including several memory tests and were seizure-free after at least 1 year of follow-up. Forty-seven had TLE due to hippocampal sclerosis, whilst 26 had TLE secondary to tumors or other lesions. Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis and discriminant function analysis were used to evaluate the lateralization value of selected tests and of the battery as a whole, respectively. In patients with TLE secondary to tumors or other lesions, no test showed significant lateralizing value. In patients with TLE due to hippocampal sclerosis, the immediate (P &lt; 0.01) and delayed (P &lt; 0.001) Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT) displayed substantial discriminatory ability. The battery as a whole correctly classified 82% of patients with respect to side of epileptogenesis. Our findings suggest that a non-invasive, relatively short and unexpensive neuropsychological battery based on memory tests may profitably complement other well-established diagnostic procedures such as video-EEG or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), at least in patients with drug-resistant TLE due to hippocampal sclerosis.
In acute stroke patients, anger can disturb management and rehabilitation and creates a stressful situation for family, health-care providers and other patients. We aim to describe the presence of anger and its association with demographic, clinical, psychiatric, lesion variables and functional outcome in acute stroke patients. We screened anger prospectively in 202 consecutive acute stroke patients (&lt; or =4 days) using eight items from three psychiatric scales (Catastrophic Reaction Scale, Mania Rating Scale and Comprehensive Psychopathological Rating Scale). Anger was present if the patient scored in at least one item. Anger was detected in 71 (35%) patients and 26 of these were severely angry (&gt; or =4 points). There was no association between anger and the considered variables. Analysis of the items extracted two factors: (i) the emotional-cognitive and (ii) the behavioural components of anger. These components were independent of each other in 26 patients. In 38 patients we found a dissociation between clinical observation and patients' subjective expression. Anger was frequent in acute stroke patients. Anger was probably triggered by the brain lesion, which interfered with the emotional control. The lack of an association with clinical and imaging variables suggests a contribution of psychological/psychosocial dimensions.
The present review of epidemiologic studies on migraine and headache in Europe is part of a larger initiative by the European Brain Council to estimate the costs incurred because of brain disorders. Summarizing the data on 1-year prevalence, the proportion of adults in Europe reporting headache was 51%, migraine 14%, and 'chronic headache' (i.e. &gt; or =15 days/month or 'daily') 4%. Generally, migraine, and to a lesser degree headache, are most prevalent during the most productive years of adulthood, from age 20 to 50 years. Several European studies document the negative influence of headache disorders on the quality of life, and health-economic studies indicate that 15% of adults were absent from work during the last year because of headache. Very few studies have been performed in Eastern Europe, and there are also surprisingly little data on tension-type headache from any country. Although the methodology and the quality of the published studies vary considerably, making direct comparisons between different countries difficult, the present review clearly demonstrates that headache disorders are extremely prevalent and have a vast impact on public health. The data collected should be used as arguments to increase resources to headache research and care for headache patients all over the continent.
Febrile (fever-induced) seizures (FS) are the most common form of seizures during childhood and have been associated with an increased risk of epilepsy later in life. The relationship of FS to subsequent epilepsy is, however, still controversial. Insights from animal models do indicate that especially complex FS are harmful to the developing brain and contribute to a hyperexcitable state that may persist for life. Here, we determined long-lasting changes in neuronal excitability of rat hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells after prolonged (complex) FS induced by hyperthermia on postnatal day 10. We show that hyperthermia-induced seizures at postnatal day 10 induce a long-lasting increase in the hyperpolarization-activated current I(h). Furthermore, we show that a reduction in the amount of spike broadening and in the amplitude of the slow afterhyperpolarization following FS are also likely to contribute to the hyperexcitability of the hippocampus long term.
Twelve right-handed volunteers were asked to judge the laterality of a hand stimulus by pressing a button with one of their toes. Judgements were based on two-dimensional drawings of the back or palm of a right or left hand at various orientations. Suprathreshold single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was given to the left primary motor hand area (M1-HAND) at 0, 200, 400, 600, 800 or 1000 ms after stimulus onset to probe the functional involvement of the dominant left M1 at various stages of handedness recognition. We found that mean reaction times and error rates increased with angle of rotation depending on the actual biomechanical constraints of the hand but suprathreshold TMS had no influence on task performance regardless of the timing of TMS. However, the excitability of the corticomotor output from the left M1-HAND was modulated during the reaction. Judging left hand drawings was associated with an attenuation of motor-evoked potentials 300-100 ms before the response, whereas judging right hand drawings facilitated the motor-evoked potentials only immediately before the response. These effects were the same for pictures of backs and palms and were independent of the angle of rotation. The failure of TMS to affect task performance suggests that there is no time window during which the M1-HAND makes a critical contribution to mental rotation of the hand. The modulation of motor-evoked potentials according to the laterality of the stimulus indicates a secondary effect of the task on corticomotor excitability that is not directly related to mental rotation itself.
Global cerebral ischemia induces, within seconds, suppression of spontaneous electrocortical activity, partly due to alterations in synaptic transmission. In vitro studies have found that repeated brief hypoxic episodes prolong the persistence of synaptic transmission due to weakened adenosine release. The aim of this study was to investigate in vivo whether the time to ischemic electrocortical suppression (T(ES)) could be altered during energy stress conditions such as rapid repeated global cerebral ischemia and kainate-induced seizures. Experiments were carried out in adult rats under chloral hydrate anaesthesia. Repeated episodes of 1 min of ischemia were induced by transiently clamping the carotid arteries in a 'four-vessel occlusion' model. We devised an automatic method of T(ES) estimation based on the decay of the root mean square of two-channel electrocorticographic recordings. To distinguish the alterations in spontaneous electrocortical activity we compared T(ES) with the ischemic suppression of visual evoked potentials (VEP). During the first ischemic episode, T(ES) was approximately 15 s and remained unchanged when five ischemic episodes were separated by 10-min reperfusion intervals. When ischemia was repeated after 2 min of reperfusion T(ES) progressively increased, reaching a plateau value of approximately 24 s. A similar plateau was reached during kainate-induced seizures. The T(ES) plateau occurred prior to ischemic suppression of VEP. Our data suggest that, under conditions of acute metabolic stress in vivo, the ischemic suppression of spontaneous electrocortical activity may be delayed up to a plateau value. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis of a depletable adenosine pool; however, the restoration of synaptic transmission may be faster in vivo than in vitro.
The position of the caudal intralaminar nuclei within basal ganglia circuitry has largely been neglected in most studies dealing with basal ganglia function. During the past few years, there has been a growing body of evidence suggesting that the thalamic parafascicular nucleus in rodents (PF) exerts a multifaceted modulation of basal ganglia nuclei, at different levels. Our aim was to study the activity of the thalamostriatal pathway in rats with unilateral dopaminergic depletion. The experimental approach comprised first unilateral delivery of 6-OHDA in the medial forebrain bundle. Thirty days post-lesioning, animals showing a clear asymmetry were then subjected to bilateral injection of Fluoro-Gold (FG) within the striatum. Subsequently, expression of the mRNA encoding the vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (vGLUT2) was detected within thalamostriatal-projecting neurons (FG-labeled) by in situ hybridization and the results were confirmed by laser-guided capture microdissection microscopy followed by real-time PCR. The data showed that there was a marked neuronal loss restricted to PF neurons projecting to the dopamine-depleted striatum. Moreover, PF neurons innervating the dopamine-depleted striatum were intensely hyperactive. These neurons showed a marked increase on the expression of vGLUT2 mRNA as well as for the mRNA encoding the subunit I of cytochrome oxidase as compared with those neurons projecting to the striatum with normal dopamine content. Thus, the selective neurodegeneration of PF neurons innervating the striatum together with the increased activity of the thalamostriatal pathway coexist after nigrostriatal denervation.
We previously demonstrated that the opioid peptide enkephalin and corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) are occasionally colocalized in individual axon terminals but more frequently converge on common dendrites in the locus coeruleus (LC). To further examine potential opioid cotransmitters in CRF afferents we investigated the distribution of pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC), the precursor that yields the potent bioactive peptide beta-endorphin, with respect to CRF immunoreactivity using immunofluorescence and immunoelectron microscopic analyses of the LC. Coronal sections were collected through the dorsal pontine tegmentum of rat brain and processed for immunocytochemical detection of POMC and CRF or tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). POMC-immunoreactive processes exhibited a distinct distribution within the LC as compared to the enkephalin family of opioid peptides. Specifically, POMC fibers were enriched in the ventromedial aspect of the LC with fewer fibers present dorsolaterally. Immunofluorescence microscopy showed frequent coexistence of POMC and CRF in varicose processes that overlapped TH-containing somatodendritic processes in the LC. Ultrastructural analysis showed POMC immunoreactivity in unmyelinated axons and axon terminals. Axon terminals containing POMC were filled with numerous large dense-core vesicles. In sections processed for POMC and TH, approximately 29% of POMC-containing axon terminals (n = 405) targeted dendrites that exhibited immunogold-silver labeling for TH. In contrast, sections processed for POMC and CRF showed that 27% of POMC-labeled axon terminals (n = 657) also exhibited CRF immunoreactivity. Taken together, these data indicate that a subset of CRF afferents targeting the LC contain POMC and may be positioned to dually impact LC activity.
Cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease (AD) stems from the progressive dysfunction of synaptic connections within cortical neuronal microcircuits. Recently, soluble amyloid beta protein oligomers (Abeta(ol)s) have been identified as critical triggers for early synaptic disorganization. However, it remains unknown whether a deficit of Hebbian-related synaptic plasticity occurs during the early phase of AD. Therefore, we studied whether age-dependent Abeta accumulation affects the induction of spike-timing-dependent synaptic potentiation at excitatory synapses on neocortical layer 2/3 (L2/3) pyramidal cells in the APPswe/PS1dE9 transgenic mouse model of AD. Synaptic potentiation at excitatory synapses onto L2/3 pyramidal cells was significantly reduced at the onset of Abeta pathology and was virtually absent in mice with advanced Abeta burden. A decreased alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA)/N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated current ratio implicated postsynaptic mechanisms underlying Abeta synaptotoxicity. The integral role of Abeta(ol)s in these processes was verified by showing that pretreatment of cortical slices with Abeta((25-35)ol)s disrupted spike-timing-dependent synaptic potentiation at unitary connections between L2/3 pyramidal cells, and reduced the amplitude of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents therein. A robust decrement of AMPA, but not NMDA, receptor-mediated currents in nucleated patches from L2/3 pyramidal cells confirmed that Abeta(ol)s perturb basal glutamatergic synaptic transmission by affecting postsynaptic AMPA receptors. Inhibition of AMPA receptor desensitization by cyclothiazide significantly increased the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked by afferent stimulation, and rescued synaptic plasticity even in mice with pronounced Abeta pathology. We propose that soluble Abeta(ol)s trigger the diminution of synaptic plasticity in neocortical pyramidal cell networks during early stages of AD pathogenesis by preferentially targeting postsynaptic AMPA receptors.
Although injured axons in mammalian spinal cords do not regenerate, some recovery of locomotor function following incomplete injury can be observed in patients and animal models. Following a lateral hemisection injury of the thoracic spinal cord, rats spontaneously recover weight-bearing stepping in the hind limb ipsilateral to the injury. The mechanisms behind this recovery are not completely understood. Plasticity in the reticulospinal tract (RtST), the tract responsible for the initiation of walking, has not been studied. In this study, rats received lateral thoracic hemisection of the spinal cord, and RtST projections were compared in two groups of rats, one early in recovery (7 days) and the other at a time point when weight-bearing stepping was fully regained (42 days). We found that this recovery occurs in parallel with increased numbers of collaterals of spared RtST fibers entering the intermediate lamina below the injury at L2. Sprouting of injured RtST fibers above the lesion was not found. In conclusion, our study suggests that sprouting of spared RtST fibers might be involved in the recovery of locomotion following incomplete spinal cord injury.
Strong synchronization of neuronal activity occurs in the 8-35 Hz band in the subthalamic nucleus (STN) of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and is evident as oscillatory local field potential (LFP) activity. To test whether such synchronization may contribute to bradykinesia and rigidity, we sought correlations between the suppression of synchronization at 8-35 Hz in STN and the reduction in Parkinsonism with levodopa. LFPs were recorded on and off medication from STN deep-brain stimulation electrodes in nine PD patients. LFP power was calculated over the frequencies of the most prominent spectral peak within the 8-35 Hz frequency band on each of 17 sides (off medication), and over the frequencies of any peak in the 60-90 Hz band, if present (seven sides, on medication). Levodopa-induced reduction of LFP power over these two frequency ranges was then correlated with improvement in motor impairment as assessed by the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS). The reduction in peak activity in the 8-35 Hz band with levodopa positively correlated with the improvement in the contralateral hemibody motor UPDRS score with levodopa (r = 0.811, P &lt; 0.001) as well as with hemibody subscores of akinesia-rigidity (r = 0.835, P &lt; 0.001), but not tremor. A trend for negative correlations was found between peak 60-90 Hz LFP power and UPDRS hemibody score, suggesting that positive correlations were relatively frequency-specific. Our results support a link between levodopa-induced improvements in bradykinesia and rigidity and reductions in population synchrony at frequencies &lt; 35 Hz in the region of the STN in patients with PD.
In trained behaving rats, the expression of a prominent beta oscillatory activity in the olfactory system was previously identified as a correlate of odour recognition. The aim of the present study was to assess the putative role of a functional coupling between the olfactory bulb (OB) and higher structures in this activity. We performed a unilateral inactivation of the medial part of the olfactory peduncle by lidocaine infusion. Inactivation deprived the OB from most of its centrifugal afferences, including feedback connections from the piriform cortex (PC) while sparing the ascending fibres from the OB to higher cortical structures. This treatment reduced the amplitude of odour-induced oscillatory beta responses both in OB and PC. In parallel, gamma activity classically observed in these two structures during spontaneous activity displayed a strong enhancement. Results suggest that odour-induced oscillatory response could be the emergent feature of an olfactory functional network set up through learning.
The late-phase of long-term potentiation (L-LTP) in hippocampal area CA1 requires gene expression and de novo protein synthesis but it is expressed in an input-specific manner. The 'synaptic tag' theory proposes that gene products can only be captured and utilized at synapses that have been 'tagged' by previous activity. The mechanisms underlying synaptic tagging, and its activity dependence, are largely undefined. Previously, we reported that low-frequency stimulation (LFS) decreases the stability of L-LTP in a cell-wide manner by impairing synaptic tagging. We show here that a phosphatase inhibitor, okadaic acid, blocked homosynaptic and heterosynaptic inhibition of L-LTP by prior LFS. In addition, prior LFS homosynaptically and heterosynaptically impaired chemically induced synaptic facilitation elicited by forskolin/3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine, suggesting that there is a cell-wide dampening of cAMP/protein kinase A (PKA) signaling concurrent with phosphatase activation. We propose that prior LFS impairs expression of L-LTP by inhibiting synaptic tagging through its actions on the cAMP/PKA pathway. In support of this notion, we show that hippocampal slices from transgenic mice that have genetically reduced hippocampal PKA activity display impaired synaptic capture of L-LTP. An inhibitor of PKA, KT-5720, also blocked synaptic capture of L-LTP. Moreover, pharmacological activation of the cAMP/PKA pathway can produce a synaptic tag to capture L-LTP expression, resulting in persistent synaptic facilitation. Collectively, our results show that PKA is critical for synaptic tagging and for input-specific L-LTP. PKA-mediated signaling can be constrained by prior episodes of synaptic activity to regulate subsequent L-LTP expression and perhaps control the integration of multiple synaptic events over time.

PTSD among a sample of mass-evacuated adults from Kosovo was studied using a prospective design with a baseline study and follow-ups at 3 and 6 months in Sweden, and with an additional follow-up after 1.5 years in both Sweden and Kosovo. Trauma events and PTSD-related symptoms were measured by the Harvard Trauma Questionnaire (HTQ). At the additional follow-up after 1.5 years the same measure (HTQ) was used as well as clinical diagnostic interviews with the SCID instrument and measurement of saliva cortisol levels. Thirty-seven percent had PTSD-related symptoms at baseline. Morbidity increased at the three follow-ups. About 80% of the participants had PTSD at the additional follow-up after 1.5 years. The HTQ results were confirmed by clinical diagnoses and the participants diagnosed with PTSD also had low saliva cortisol levels. The results are discussed in terms of trauma, time needed to develop PTSD, post-migration stress and selection mechanisms.
Do relative binocular disparities guide our movements in depth? In order to find out we asked subjects to move a 'cursor' to a target within a simulated horizontal plane at eye height. They did so by moving a computer mouse. We determined how quickly subjects responded to the target jumping in depth. We found that it took subjects about 200 ms to respond to changes in binocular disparity. Subjects responded just as quickly if the cursor was temporarily only visible to one eye near the time that the target jumped in depth, and less vigorously, though just as quickly, if the cursor jumped rather than the target, so the fastest binocular responses cannot be based directly on the relative retinal disparity between the target and the cursor. Subjects reacted faster to changes in the target's height in the visual field than to changes in binocular disparity, but did not react faster to changes in image size. These results suggest that binocular vision mainly improves people's everyday movements by giving them a better sense of the distances of relevant objects, rather than by relative retinal disparities being used to directly guide the movement. We propose that relative disparities only guide parts of very slow movements that require extreme precision.
Research has shown that haptic spatial matching at intermanual distances over 60 cm is prone to large systematic errors. The error pattern has been explained by the use of reference frames intermediate between egocentric and allocentric coding. This study investigated haptic performance in near peripersonal space, i.e. at intermanual distances of 60 cm and less. Twelve blindfolded participants (six males and six females) were presented with two turn bars at equal distances from the midsagittal plane, 30 or 60 cm apart. Different orientations (vertical/horizontal or oblique) of the left bar had to be matched by adjusting the right bar to either a mirror symmetric (/ \) or parallel (/ /) position. The mirror symmetry task can in principle be performed accurately in both an egocentric and an allocentric reference frame, whereas the parallel task requires an allocentric representation. Results showed that parallel matching induced large systematic errors which increased with distance. Overall error was significantly smaller in the mirror task. The task difference also held for the vertical orientation at 60 cm distance, even though this orientation required the same response in both tasks, showing a marked effect of task instruction. In addition, men outperformed women on the parallel task. Finally, contrary to our expectations, systematic errors were found in the mirror task, predominantly at 30 cm distance. Based on these findings, we suggest that haptic performance in near peripersonal space might be dominated by different mechanisms than those which come into play at distances over 60 cm. Moreover, our results indicate that both inter-individual differences and task demands affect task performance in haptic spatial matching. Therefore, we conclude that the study of haptic spatial matching in near peripersonal space might reveal important additional constraints for the specification of adequate models of haptic spatial performance.
The purpose of this study was to investigate short-term effects of walking with functional electrical stimulation (FES) on inhibitory and excitatory spinal reflexes in healthy subjects. The FES was applied to the common peroneal (CP) nerve during the swing phase of the step cycle when the ankle flexors are active. We have previously shown that corticospinal excitability for the tibialis anterior (TA) muscle increased after 30 min of FES-assisted walking. An increase of corticospinal excitability could be due to the changes in spinal and/or cortical excitability. Thus, we wished to examine whether a short-term application of FES would increase spinal motoneuronal excitability. Changes could also result from effects on inhibitory as well as excitatory pathways, but to our knowledge no studies have investigated short-term effects of FES on spinal inhibitory pathways. Therefore, we measured reciprocal and presynaptic inhibition, as well as reflex excitability, before and after FES-assisted walking. As controls, effects of FES-like stimulation at rest and walking without stimulation were tested in separate sessions. The TA H-reflex amplitude did not increase after FES in any of the conditions tested, so we have no evidence that FES increases spinal excitability for the TA. The soleus H-reflex decreased slightly (10%) after FES-assisted walking, and remained decreased for at least 30 min. However, the control experiment indicated that this decrease was associated with walking and not with stimulation. Thirty minutes of FES did not produce any significant effects on spinal inhibitory pathways examined in the present study. In conclusion, the soleus H-reflex showed a small but consistent decrease and no spinal circuits examined showed an increase, as was observed in the corticospinal excitability. Thus, we suggest that a short-term application of FES increases the excitability of the cortex or its connections to the spinal cord more effectively than that of spinal pathways.

Heat shock proteins (HSPs) are a family of ubiquitously expressed proteins that are up-regulated in response to a range of stresses and play an important role in cellular defence mechanisms. In previous studies, we demonstrated that overexpression of heat shock protein 27 (HSP27) in transgenic mice has significant cytoprotective properties in vivo, reducing caspase-3-mediated cell death in the hippocampus associated with limbic seizures and reducing infarct size in cardiac ischaemia. In motor neurons, HSP27 is also implicated as a survival promoting factor; however, it remains to be established whether HSP27 is able to exert long-term neuroprotective effects following neonatal nerve injury. We now show that, following neonatal nerve crush, HSP27 overexpression in vivo provides a substantial rescue of motor neurons 5-6 months following nerve injury. Furthermore, in vivo isometric tension recordings demonstrate that surviving motor neurons were able to regenerate, resulting in a 90% improvement (P &lt; 0.0005) in motor unit number in HSP27 mice. Moreover, this increase in motor unit number was associated with improved muscle weight, muscle force, contractile speeds, and histochemical markers of muscle activity. These properties of HSP27 therefore have considerable potential for improving long-term muscle function in motor neuron disorders.
This study is part of the NIH &quot;Facilities of Research-Spinal Cord Injury&quot; contract to support independent replication of published studies. We repeated a study reporting that delayed transplantation of olfactory lamina propria (OLP) into the site of a complete spinal cord transection led to significant improvement in hindlimb motor function and induced axon regeneration. Adult female rats received complete spinal cord transections at T10. Thirty days post-injury, pieces of OLP, which contains olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs), or respiratory lamina propria (RLP), which should not contain OECs, were placed into the transection site. Hindlimb motor function was tested using the BBB scale from day 1 post-injury through 10 weeks following transplantation. To assess axonal regeneration across the transection site, Fluorogold was injected into the distal segment, and the distribution of 5HT-containing axons was assessed using immunostaining. BBB analyses revealed no significant recovery after OLP transplantation and no significant differences between OLP vs. RLP transplant groups. Fluorogold injections into caudal segments did not lead to retrograde labeling in any animals. Immunostaining for 5HT revealed that a few 5HT-labeled axons extended into both RLP and OLP transplants and a few 5HT-labeled axons were present in sections caudal to the injury in 2 animals that received OLP transplants and 1 animal that received RLP transplants. Our results indicate that, although OLP transplants may stimulate regeneration under some circumstances, the effect is not so robust as to reliably overcome the hostile setting created by a complete transection paradigm.
Dexamethasone (DEX) and betamethasone (BETA) are synthetic glucocorticoids used clinically to reduce morbidity and mortality in infants at risk of premature birth. While their main role is to facilitate lung development, their effect on the developing nervous system and seizure susceptibility is unclear. The present study tested the hypothesis that antenatal DEX or BETA treatment would alter seizure thresholds and spread of epileptiform activity in the brains of infant offspring. Pregnant dams received once daily injections with DEX, BETA, or vehicle on gestation days 15 to 18. Physical appearance, litter size, and weight of the pups were assessed postnatally. Seizure thresholds were determined on postnatal day 14 using electroconvulsive shock delivered through ear clips (i.e., generalized seizure) or kindling stimulation of the left hippocampus through indwelling electrodes (i.e., partial seizure). The rate of acquisition of kindled seizures was determined on postnatal days 14 and 15. Pups from dams treated with DEX and BETA were growth restricted. Antenatal BETA treatment increased seizure threshold for both models. Antenatal DEX treatment increased kindling threshold, but not electroconvulsive shock threshold. Kindling rate was unaffected by either antenatal treatment. In summary, repeated glucocorticoid treatments had adverse effects on weight, skin and litter size, raised seizure thresholds, and reduced seizure vulnerability. Although these effects are seemingly desirable with respect to seizure susceptibility, they suggest that the functional organization of the nervous system is altered with antenatal synthetic glucocorticoid treatment.
After spinal cord injury (SCI), structural reorganization occurs at multiple levels of the motor system including the motor cortex, and this remodeling may underlie recovery of motor function. The present study determined whether SCI leads to a remodeling of synaptic structures in the motor cortex. Dendritic spines in the rat motor cortex were visualized by confocal microscopy in fixed slices, and their density and morphology were analyzed after an overhemisection injury at C4 level. Spine density decreased at 7 days and partially recovered by 28 days. Spine head diameter significantly increased in a layer-specific manner. SCI led to a higher proportion of longer spines especially at 28 days, resulting in a roughly 10% increase in mean spine length. In addition, filopodium-like long dendritic protrusions were more frequently observed after SCI, suggesting an increase in synaptogenic events. This spine remodeling was accompanied by increased expression of polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule, which attenuates adhesion between the pre- and postsynaptic membranes, in the motor cortex from as early as 3 days to 2 weeks after injury, suggesting a decrease in synaptic adhesion during the remodeling process. These results demonstrate time-dependent changes in spine density and morphology in the motor cortex following SCI. This synaptic remodeling seems to proceed with a time scale ranging from days to weeks. Elongation of dendritic spines may indicate a more immature and modifiable pattern of synaptic connectivity in the motor cortex being reorganized following SCI.
Parkinson's disease (PD) patients commonly experience psychotic symptoms, with the most frequent manifestation being visual hallucinations. In PD, psychosis is predominantly drug induced and an important issue for clinicians to address as it increases the risk of nursing home placement as well as mortality. This review summarises the current knowledge regarding the clinical manifestations, pathophysiology and risk factors for drug-induced psychosis in patients with PD and focuses on treatment, especially with regard to the atypical antipsychotics.
Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) is a critical hypothalamic anabolic neuropeptide, with key central and peripheral actions on energy balance regulation. The actions of MCH are, so far, known to be transduced through two seven-transmembrane-like receptor paralogues, named MCH1R and MCH2R. MCH2R is not functional in rodents. MCH1R is an important receptor involved in mediating feeding behaviour modulation by MCH in rodents. Pharmacological antagonism at MCH1R in rodents diminishes food intake and results in significant and sustained weight loss in fat tissues, particularly in obese animals. Additionally, MCH1R antagonists have been shown to have anxiolytic and antidepressant properties. The purpose of this review is to highlight the recent numerous pieces of evidence showing that pharmacological blockade at MCH1R could be a potential treatment for obesity and its related metabolic syndrome, as well as for various psychiatric disorders.
Dietary restriction (DR) has been shown to increase life span, delay or prevent age-associated diseases, and improve functional and metabolic cardiovascular risk factors in rodents and other species. To investigate the effects of DR on beat-to-beat heart rate and diastolic blood pressure variability (HRV and DPV) in male Sprague-Dawley rats, we implanted telemetric transmitters and animals were maintained on either intermittent fasting (every other day feeding) or calorie-restricted (40% caloric reduction) diets. Using power spectral analysis, we evaluated the temporal profiles of the low- and high-frequency oscillatory components in heart rate and diastolic blood pressure signals to assess cardiac autonomic activity. Body weight, heart rate, and systolic and diastolic blood pressure were all found to decrease in response to DR. Both methods of DR produced decreases in the low-frequency component of DPV spectra, a marker for sympathetic tone, and the high-frequency component of HRV spectra, a marker for parasympathetic activity, was increased. These parameters required at least 1 month to become maximal, but returned toward baseline values rapidly once rats resumed ad libitum diets. These results suggest an additional cardiovascular benefit of DR that merits further studies of this potential effect in humans.
Vasohibin is a recently identified protein that is up-regulated in cultured vascular endothelial cells by vascular endothelial growth factor and fibroblast growth factor 2. It inhibits endothelial cell migration, proliferation, and tube formation, and suppresses angiogenesis in chick chorioallantoic membrane, after subcutaneous implantation of matrigel, and in a tumor xenograft model. This has led to the hypothesis that vasohibin functions as a negative feedback inhibitor of angiogenesis. In this study, we tested that hypothesis in a well-characterized model of retinal neovascularization. In ischemic retina, increased expression of VEGF was accompanied by elevation of vasohibin mRNA and blocking of the increase in vegf mRNA with vegf siRNA significantly attenuated the rise in vasohibin mRNA. In transgenic mice in which the rhodopsin promoter drives expression of VEGF in the retina, there was also a significant increase in vasohibin mRNA. In mice with ischemic retinopathy, there was increased expression of vasohibin in vascular endothelial cells, and vasohibin knockdown caused an increase in neovascularization. Conversely, intraocular injection of recombinant vasohibin or an adenoviral vector containing a vasohibin expression cassette strongly suppressed retinal neovascularization in mice with ischemic retinopathy. Knockdown of vasohibin mRNA in ischemic retina had no significant effect on vegf or vegf receptor 1 mRNA levels but caused a significant elevation in the level of vegf receptor 2 mRNA. These data support the hypothesis that vasohibin acts as a negative feedback regulator of neovascularization in the retina and suggest that suppression of VEGF receptor 2 may play some role in mediating its activity.
Although chronic stress is known to be linked with memory and other neurological disorders, little is known about the relationship between chronic stress and the onset or development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, we investigated the effects of long-term stress on the onset and severity of cognitive deficits and pathological changes in APPV717I-CT100 mice overexpressing human APP-CT100 containing the London mutation (V717I) after exposure to immobilization stress. We found that chronic immobilization stress accelerated cognitive impairments, as accessed by the Passive avoidance and the Social Transfer of Food Preference (STFP) tests. Moreover, the numbers and densities of vascular and extracellular deposits containing amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) and carboxyl-terminal fragments of amyloid precursor protein (APP-CTFs), which are pathologic markers of AD, were significantly elevated in stressed animals, especially in the hippocampus. Moreover, stressed animals, also showed highly elevated levels of neurodegeneration and tau phosphorylation and increased intraneuronal Abeta and APP-CTFs immunoreactivities in the hippocampus and in the entorhinal and piriform cortex. This study provides the first evidence that chronic stress accelerates the onset and severity of cognitive deficits and that these are highly correlated with pathological changes, which thus indicates that chronic stress may be an important contributor to the onset and development of AD.
Secretory polypeptides are vital for nervous system function, sleep, reproduction, growth, and metabolism. Ribosomes scanning the 5'-end of mRNA usually detect the first AUG site for initiating translation. The nascent propeptide chain is then directed via a signal-peptide into the endoplasmic reticulum, processed through the Golgi stacks, and packaged into secretory vesicles. By expressing prepropeptide-EGFP fusion proteins, we observed unusual destinations, mitochondria, nucleus, and cytoplasm, of neuropeptide Y (NPY), atrial natriuretic peptide, and growth hormone in living murine cardiac cells and hypothalamic slices. Subcellular expression was modulated by Zn++ or mutations of N-terminal prohormone sequences but was not due to overexpression in the trans-Golgi network. Mitochondrial targeting of NPY also occurred without the EGFP tag, was enhanced by site-directed mutagenesis of the first AUG initiation site, and abolished by mutation of the second AUG. Immunological methods indicated the presence of N-terminal truncated NPY in mitochondria. Imaging studies showed depolarization of NPY-containing mitochondria. P-SORT software correctly predicted the secondary intracellular destinations and suggested such destinations for many neuropeptides and peptide hormones known. Thus, mammalian cells may retarget secretory peptides from extracellular to intracellular sites by skipping the first translation-initiation codon and thereby alter mitochondrial function, gene expression, and secretion.

Whether or not the neurobiological basis of mental processes is compatible with the philosophical postulate of free will is a matter of committed debating in our days. What is the meaning of those frequently-quoted experiments concerning voluntary action? Both convictions, being autonomous subjects and exercising a strong influence on the world by applying sciences, have become most important for modern human self-conception. Now these two views are growing apart and appear contradictory because neurobiology tries to reveal the illusionary character of free will. In order to cope with this ostensible dichotomy it is recommended to return to the core of scientific thinking, i. e. to the reflection about truth and methods. The neurobiological standpoint referring to Libet as well as the philosophical approaches to free will must be analysed, considering pre-conceptions and context-conditions. Hence Libet's experiments can be criticised on different levels: methods, methodology and epistemology. Free will is a highly complex system, not a simple fact. Taking these very complicated details into account it is possible to define conditions of compatibility and to use the term free will still in a meaningful way, negotiating the obstacles called pure chance and determinism.
Benjamin Franklin (1706-1790), who is better known in other fields, especially colonial politics and international diplomacy, was an early, major contributor to the neurosciences from the New World. Among his accomplishments are: experiments on medical electricity as a possible cure for the palsies and hysteria; the first descriptions of how electricity affecting the brain can cause a specific type of amnesia; supporting the idea that cranial shocks might provide a cure for melancholia; showing that the cures performed by the Mesmerists to remove obstructions, including nerve blockages, rest on gullibility and suggestion, and recognizing the dangers, including those to the nerves, posed by exposure to lead. Franklin?s neuroscience was firmly based on experiments, careful observations, and hard data ? and finding clinical relevance for new discoveries was always on his mind.
To better understand the effects of varying head movement frequencies on human balance control, 12 healthy adult humans were studied during static and dynamic (0.14, 0.33, 0.6 Hz) head tilts of +/- 30 degrees in the pitch and roll planes. Postural sway was measured during upright stance with eyes closed and altered somatosensory inputs provided by a computerized dynamic posturography (CDP) system. Subjects were able to maintain upright stance with static head tilts, although postural sway was increased during neck extension. Postural stability was decreased during dynamic head tilts, and the degree of destabilization varied directly with increasing frequency of head tilt. In the absence of vision and accurate foot support surface inputs, postural stability may be compromised during dynamic head tilts due to a decreased ability of the vestibular system to discern the orientation of gravity. This instability may compound the risk of falling following recovery from balance disorders or adaptation to altered gravity conditions such as space flight. Thus, dynamic head tilts may improve the diagnostic sensitivity of computerized dynamic posturography, particularly for healthy subjects recovering from temporary balance control deficits.
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is the most commonly diagnosed childhood psychiatric disorder. We have found that a transgenic mouse bearing a human mutant thyroid receptor (TRbeta1) expresses all of the defining symptoms of ADHD--inattention, hyperactivity, and impulsivity--as well as a 'paradoxical' response to methylphenidate (MPH). As with ADHD, the behavioral phenotypes expressed by the TRbeta transgenic mice are dynamic and sensitive to changes in environmental conditions, stress, and reinforcement. TRbeta transgenic mice are euthyroid except for a brief period during postnatal development, but the behavioral phenotypes, elevated dopamine turnover, and paradoxical response to MPH persist into adulthood. Thus, like the vast majority of children with ADHD, the TRbeta transgenic mice exhibit the symptoms of ADHD in the complete absence of thyroid abnormalities. This suggests that even transient perturbations in developmental thyroid homeostasis can have long-lasting behavioral and cognitive consequences, including producing the full spectrum of symptoms of ADHD.
The possibility of detecting progressive changes in cognitive function reflecting the spatio-temporal pattern of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) deposition was investigated in Tg2576 mice overexpressing the human mutant amyloid precursor protein (hAPP). Here, we show that at 7 months of age, Tg2576 mice exhibited a selective deficit in hippocampus-based operations including a defective habituation of object exploration, a lack of reactivity to spatial novelty and a disruption of allothetic orientation in a cross-shaped maze. At 14 months of age, Tg2576 mice displayed a more extended pattern of behavioral abnormalities, because they failed to react to object novelty and exclusively relied on motor-based orientation in the cross-shaped maze. However, an impaired reactivity to spatial and object novelty possibly reflecting age-related attention deficits also emerged in aged wild-type mice. These findings further underline that early cognitive markers of AD can be detected in Tg2576 mice before Abeta deposition occurs and suggest that as in humans, cognitive deterioration progressively evolves from an initial hippocampal syndrome to global dementia because of the combined effect of the neuropathology and aging.
The characterization of the molecular mechanisms whereby our brain codes, stores and retrieves memories remains a fundamental puzzle in neuroscience. Despite the knowledge that memory storage involves gene induction, the identification and characterization of the effector genes has remained elusive. The completion of the Human Genome Project and a variety of new technologies are revolutionizing the way these mechanisms can be explored. This review will examine how a genomic approach can be used to dissect and analyze the complex dynamic interactions involved in gene regulation during learning and memory. This innovative approach is providing information on a new class of genes associated with learning and memory in health and disease and is elucidating new molecular targets and pathways whose pharmacological modulation may allow new therapeutic approaches for improving cognition.
Vertebrate and invertebrate dendrites are information-processing compartments that can be found on both central and peripheral neurons. Elucidating the molecular underpinnings of information processing in the nervous system ultimately requires an understanding of the genetic pathways that regulate dendrite formation and maintenance. Despite the importance of dendrite development, few forward genetic approaches have been used to analyze the latest stages of dendrite development, including the formation of F-actin-rich dendritic filopodia or dendritic spines. We developed a forward genetic screen utilizing transgenic Drosophila second instar larvae expressing an actin, green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein (actin::GFP) in subsets of sensory neurons. Utilizing this fluorescent transgenic reporter, we conducted a forward genetic screen of &gt;4000 mutagenized chromosomes bearing lethal mutations that affected multiple aspects of larval dendrite development. We isolated 13 mutations on the X and second chromosomes composing 11 complementation groups affecting dendrite outgrowth/branching, dendritic filopodia formation, or actin::GFP localization within dendrites in vivo. In a fortuitous observation, we observed that the structure of dendritic arborization (da) neuron dendritic filopodia changes in response to a changing environment.
Acute liver failure (ALF) is consistently accompanied by alterations in brain energy metabolites and recent nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) studies suggest disturbances in brain oxidative metabolism in experimental ALF. Glucose transport across the blood-brain barrier is essential to sustain brain energy metabolism and is accomplished by the facilitative glucose transporter GLUT1. To investigate alterations in brain glucose uptake in acute liver failure further, GLUT1 expression and [14C]-2-deoxy-D-glucose uptake were measured in the brains of rats with hepatic devascularization. RT-PCR and Western blot analyses showed significant increases in steady-state levels of GLUT1 mRNA and protein in frontal cortex as early as 6 h following hepatic devascularization, (prior to the onset of brain edema and encephalopathy) which remained elevated at coma stages of encephalopathy. Expression of the astrocytic (45-kDa) and endothelial (55-kDa) forms of GLUT1 was increased as a result of hepatic devascularization. Exposure of cultured astrocytes to pathophysiologically relevant concentrations of ammonia resulted in increased GLUT1 expression, suggesting that elevated ammonia levels are responsible for GLUT1 upregulation in ALF. Increased GLUT1 expression in ALF was selective, since expression of the neuronal glucose transporter GLUT3 and other glucose-regulated proteins (GRP-78 and GRP-94) was unaltered. [14C]-2-deoxy-D-glucose autoradiography revealed increases in cerebral glucose uptake following the induction of GLUT1 in ALF. These results suggest that ammonia-induced increases of GLUT1 expression resulting in increased cerebral glucose uptake occur in ALF and could contribute to the pathophysiological mechanisms responsible for the neurological complications of this condition.

Early onset depression is a widely prevalent, recurrent and familial disorder with a tendency to continue throughout adulthood. It is often accompanied by other comorbidities such as substance abuse, bipolar disorder, suicidal behavior and significant impairment in the child's psychosocial development. The risk factors include genetic, psychological and environmental factors and gene-environment interaction. The evidence-based therapies include cognitive, inter-personal and pharmacological interventions. Recently, the FDA published a warning concerning the use of these pharmacological agents in the pediatric age group. Further research is needed to assess the efficacy and safety of these interventions and to better understand the etiological factors.

Anabolic-androgenic steroids (AAS) are drugs of abuse. Previous studies have shown that male and female hamsters self-administer testosterone (T) and other AAS, suggesting that androgens are reinforcing in a context where athletic performance is irrelevant. AAS are synthetic derivatives of T, which may be aromatizable to estrogen and/or reducible to dihydrotestosterone (DHT). However, we do not know which metabolites of T are reinforcing. To determine if DHT, estradiol (E(2)), or DHT + E(2) are reinforcing, we tested intracerebroventricular (icv) self-administration in male hamsters. The hypothesis was that androgen reinforcement is sensitive to both androgenic and estrogenic T metabolites. If so, hamsters would self-administer DHT, E(2), and DHT + E(2). Twenty four castrated male hamsters (n = 8/group) received icv cannulas and sc T implants for physiologic androgen replacement. One week later, hamsters self-administered DHT (0.1, 1.0, 2.0 microg/microl), E(2) (0.001, 0.01, 0.02 microg/microl), or DHT + E(2), each for 8 days in increasing concentration (4 h/day). Operant chambers were equipped with an active and inactive nose-poke. At the medium concentration, hamsters self-administered DHT (active nose-poke: 47.9 +/- 13.9 responses/4 h vs. inactive: 18.7 +/- 4.8), E(2) (active: 44.8 +/- 14.9 vs. inactive: 16.6 +/- 2.6), and DHT + E(2) (active: 19.1 +/- 2.4 vs. inactive: 10.4 +/- 2.4, P &lt; 0.05). At the highest concentration, males self-administered DHT (active: 28.3 +/- 7.7 vs. inactive: 15.0 +/- 3.5, P &lt; 0.05) and DHT + E(2) (active: 22.6 +/- 3.8 vs. inactive: 11.6 +/- 2.5, P &lt; 0.05), but not E(2). Hamsters did not self-administer the lowest concentrations of DHT, E(2), or DHT + E(2). These results support our hypothesis that both androgenic and estrogenic T metabolites are reinforcing. Together, they do not exert synergistic effects.
The present study investigated the role of the progestin receptor (PR) and the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway in the facilitation of lordosis behavior by the delta opioid receptor agonist [D-Pen(2), D-Pen(5)]-enkephalin (DPDPE). Ovariectomized, estrogen-primed rats were treated with the PR antagonist RU486 or the MAPK inhibitor PD98059 prior to intraventricular (icv) infusion of DPDPE. Both RU486 and PD98059 blocked receptive and proceptive behaviors induced by DPDPE at 60 min, and RU486 continued to inhibit estrous behavior at 90 min. Because delta opioid receptors can activate the p42/44 MAPKs, extracellular signal regulated kinases (ERK), we determined the effects of DPDPE on ERK phosphorylation. Icv infusion of DPDPE increased the levels of phosphorylated ERK in the hypothalamus and preoptic area of female rats, assessed by immunoblotting. These results support the participation of the PR and the MAPK pathway in the facilitation of lordosis behavior by delta opioid receptors.
Females alter their mate choices as they transition through different reproductive stages; however, the proximal mechanisms for such behavioral fluctuation are unclear. In many taxa, as females transition through different reproductive stages, there is an associated change in hormone levels; therefore, we examined whether fluctuation in hormone levels serves as a proximal mechanism for within-individual variation in mate choice in female tngara frogs (Physalaemus pustulosus). We manipulated hormone levels of females by administering 0, 10, 100, 500 or 1,000 IU of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG), which is a ligand for luteinizing hormone (LH) receptors and will therefore cause increased gonadal hormone production. Phonotaxis assays were conducted to measure three aspects of mate choice behavior before and after HCG administration; receptivity (response to a conspecific mate signal), permissiveness (response to a signal that is less attractive than conspecific signals) and discrimination (ability to discern signal differences). The probability of response to a conspecific and an artificial hybrid signal significantly increased at the highest HCG doses. The difference in mean response time between pre- and post-HCG tests was significantly different for both the receptivity and permissiveness tests among the five doses. Increased permissiveness, however, was not due to decreased discrimination because females could discriminate between calls even at the highest HCG doses. These hormonal manipulations caused the same behavioral pattern we reported in females as they transitioned through different reproductive stages (Lynch, K.S., Rand, A.S., Ryan, M.J., Wilczynski, W., 2005. Plasticity in female mate choice associated with changing reproductive states. Anim. Behav. 69, 689-699), suggesting that changes in hormone levels can influence the female's mate choice behavior.
A prominent theory in neuroscience suggests reward learning is driven by the discrepancy between a subject's expectation of an outcome and the actual outcome itself. Furthermore, it is postulated that midbrain dopamine neurons relay this mismatch to target regions including the ventral striatum. Using functional MRI (fMRI), we tested striatal responses to prediction errors for probabilistic classification learning with purely cognitive feedback. We used a version of the Rescorla-Wagner model to generate prediction errors for each subject and then entered these in a parametric analysis of fMRI activity. Activation in ventral striatum/nucleus-accumbens (Nacc) increased parametrically with prediction error for negative feedback. This result extends recent neuroimaging findings in reward learning by showing that learning with cognitive feedback also depends on the same circuitry and dopaminergic signaling mechanisms.
Previous studies tested the efficacy of sertraline in Binge Eating Disorder (BED) over a period of 6 weeks. The present open study assesses the efficacy of sertraline over a period of 24 weeks in obese persons with binge eating behaviour (with or without the full criteria for BED) confirmed by high scores on the Binge Eating Scale (BES). Thirty-two obese outpatients (14 with BED and 18 without full criteria for BED), without co-occurring psychiatric comorbidities, were treated with sertraline (dose range 100-200 mg/d). Subjects were assessed at baseline and at 8, 12 and 24 weeks of treatment for number of binges, weight and psychopathology. After 8 weeks of treatment a significant improvement in the BES score and a significant weight loss emerged. These results were maintained over 24 weeks. A moderate drop out rate was detected, but no significant association with the severity of side effects was found. Further studies are needed to confirm the usefulness of sertraline in the treatment of patients with BED and also in binge eaters with a less severe eating psychopathology.
Adjustment Disorders With Anxiety (ADWA) account for almost 10% of psychologically motivated consultations in primary care. The aim of this double-blind randomised parallel group study was to compare (non-inferiority test) the efficacies of etifoxine, a non-benzodiazepine anxiolytic drug, and lorazepam, a benzodiazepine, for ADWA outpatients followed by general practitioners. 191 outpatients (mean age: 43, female: 66%) were assigned to receive etifoxine (50 mg tid) or lorazepam (0.5-0.5-1 mg /day) for 28 days. Efficacy was evaluated on days 7 and 28 of the treatment. The main efficacy assessment criterion was the Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety score (HAM-A) on Day 28 adjusted to Day 0. The anxiolytic effect of etifoxine was found not inferior to that of lorazepam (HAM-A score decrease: 54.6% vs 52.3%, respectively, p=0.0006). The two drugs were equivalent on Day 28. However, more etifoxine recipients responded to the treatment (HAM-A score decreased by &gt;or=50%, p=0.03). Clinical improvement (based on Clinical Global Impression scale CGI, Social Adjustment Scale Self-Report SAS-SR, and Sheehan scores) was observed in both treatment arms, but more etifoxine patients improved markedly (p=0.03) and had a marked therapeutic effect without side effects as assessed by CGI, p=0.04. Moreover, 1 week after stopping treatment, fewer patients taking etifoxine experienced a rebound of anxiety, compared to lorazepam (1 and 8, respectively, p=0.034).
RNA interference (RNAi) is a biological process that controls gene silencing in all living cells. Targeting the RNAi system represents a novel therapeutic strategy that has the ability to intercede with multiple disease-related genes and so target many human diseases. Recently, the design of small interfering RNA (siRNA)-selective compounds has become more straightforward because of the significant progress made in predictive modeling. Exciting new data show that siRNA blocks gene function in vivo, suggesting that it has potential as a therapeutic approach for humans. This article highlights recent advances in siRNA research and discusses the aims of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries to progress siRNA compounds into the clinical. In the fight against disease, the use of RNAi is a powerful new tactic that adds to the arsenal of small-molecule inhibitors and antibody-blocking approaches.
In this paper, we develop a segmental semi-Markov model (SSMM) for protein secondary structure prediction which incorporates multiple sequence alignment profiles with the purpose of improving the predictive performance. The segmental model is a generalization of the hidden Markov model where a hidden state generates segments of various length and secondary structure type. A novel parameterized model is proposed for the likelihood function that explicitly represents multiple sequence alignment profiles to capture the segmental conformation. Numerical results on benchmark data sets show that incorporating the profiles results in substantial improvements and the generalization performance is promising. By incorporating the information from long range interactions in beta-sheets, this model is also capable of carrying out inference on contact maps. This is an important advantage of probabilistic generative models over the traditional discriminative approach to protein secondary structure prediction. The Web server of our algorithm and supplementary materials are available at http://public.kgi.edu/-wild/bsm.html.




A Swedish Hearing In Noise Test (HINT), consisting of everyday sentences to be used in an adaptive procedure to estimate the speech recognition thresholds in noise and quiet, has been developed. The material consists of 250 sentences, with a length of five to nine syllables, normalized for naturalness, difficulty and reliability. The sentences were recorded with a female speaker. From the sentences, 25 phonemically balanced lists were created. All lists fluctuate less than 1 dB of the overall mean. The standard deviation of the test-retest difference is 0.94 dB when testing with one list, and decreases to 0.68 dB and 0.56 dB for two and three lists, respectively. The average speech recognition thresholds in noise for the Swedish sentences were -3.0 dB signal/noise ratio (SD=1.1 dB). The present study has resulted in a well-defined and internationally comparable set of sentences, which can be used in Swedish audiological rehabilitation and research to measure speech recognition in noise and quiet.
We present a computational model of basal ganglia as a key player in exploratory behavior. The model describes exploration of a virtual rat in a simulated water pool experiment. The virtual rat is trained using a reward-based or reinforcement learning paradigm which requires units with stochastic behavior for exploration of the system's state space. We model the Subthalamic Nucleus-Globus Pallidus externa (STN-GPe) segment of the basal ganglia as a pair of neuronal layers with oscillatory dynamics, exhibiting a variety of dynamic regimes such as chaos, traveling waves and clustering. Invoking the property of chaotic systems to explore state-space, we suggest that the complex exploratory dynamics of STN-GPe system in conjunction with dopamine-based reward signaling from the Substantia Nigra pars compacta (SNc) present the two key ingredients of a reinforcement learning system.
Spike-timing dependent plasticity (STDP) is a form of associative synaptic modification which depends on the respective timing of pre- and post-synaptic spikes. The biophysical mechanisms underlying this form of plasticity are currently not known. We present here a biophysical model which captures the characteristics of STDP, such as its frequency dependency, and the effects of spike pair or spike triplet interactions. We also make links with other well-known plasticity rules. A simplified phenomenological model is also derived, which should be useful for fast numerical simulation and analytical investigation of the impact of STDP at the network level.
Several mechanisms have been suggested to account for altered dopaminergic neurotransmission in schizophrenia. The brain is the only organ for which amino-acid transport is limited and competition for transport over the blood-brain barrier (BBB) occurs at physiological plasma concentrations. One line of research suggests that patients with schizophrenia have altered brain levels of the essential amino acid tyrosine, the precursor for the synthesis of dopamine. The most common hypothesis is that less tyrosine is available because of competition with elevated levels of other amino acids. By consequence, the synthesis of dopamine in the brain will decrease. In contrast, another line of evidence suggests a change in the affinity for one of the transport proteins. A limitation of this research has been that the systems for amino-acid transport across the BBB have not been fully characterized at a molecular or functional level. The L system is the major system for transport of tyrosine across cell membranes including the BBB. The A system is also involved in this transport. Earlier in-vitro studies using fibroblasts have demonstrated a normal L system in schizophrenia but nevertheless reduced tyrosine transport. The combination of molecular research, fibroblast techniques, and brain imaging provides a new basis for clinical research on the role of amino-acid membrane transport in schizophrenia.
Functional abnormalities in muscarinic and nicotinic receptors are associated with a number of disorders including Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia. While the contribution of muscarinic receptors in modulating cognition is well established in humans, the effects of nicotinic receptors and the interactions and possible synergistic effects between muscarinic and nicotinic receptors have not been well characterized in humans. The current study examined the effects of selective and simultaneous muscarinic and nicotinic receptor antagonism on a range of cognitive processes. The study was a double-blind, placebo-controlled, repeated measures design in which 12 healthy, young volunteers completed cognitive testing under four acute treatment conditions: placebo (P); mecamylamine (15 mg) (M); scopolamine (0.4 mg i.m.) (S); mecamylamine (15 mg)/scopolamine (0.4 mg i.m.) (MS). Muscarinic receptor antagonism with scopolamine resulted in deficits in working memory, declarative memory, sustained visual attention and psychomotor speed. Nicotinic antagonism with mecamylamine had no effect on any of the cognitive processes examined. Simultaneous antagonism of both muscarinic and nicotinic receptors with mecamylamine and scopolamine impaired all cognitive processes impaired by scopolamine and produced greater deficits than either muscarinic or nicotinic blockade alone, particularly on working memory, visual attention and psychomotor speed. These findings suggest that muscarinic and nicotinic receptors may interact functionally to have synergistic effects particularly on working memory and attention and suggests that therapeutic strategies targeting both receptor systems may be useful in improving selective cognitive processes in a number of disorders.
This article presents a computer program, Micro3D, designed for 3-D reconstruction, visualization, and analysis of coordinate-data (points and lines) recorded from serial sections. The software has primarily been used for studying shapes and dimension of brain regions (contour line data) and distributions of cellular elements such as neuronal cell bodies or axonal terminal fields labeled with tract-tracing techniques (point data). The tissue elements recorded could equally well be labeled with use of other techniques, the only requirement being that the data collected are saved as x,y,z coordinates. Data are typically imported from image-combining computerized microscopy systems or image analysis systems, such as Neurolucida (MicroBrightField, Colchester, VT) or analySIS (Soft Imaging System, Gmbh, Mnster, Germany). System requirements are a PC running LINUX. Reconstructions in Micro3D may be rotated and zoomed in real-time, and submitted to perspective viewing and stereo-imaging. Surfaces are re-synthesized on the basis of stacks of contour lines. Clipping is used for defining section-independent subdivisions of the reconstruction. Flattening of curved sheets of points layers (e.g., neurons in a layer) facilitates inspection of complicated distribution patterns. Micro3D computes color-coded density maps. Opportunities for translation of data from different reconstructions into common coordinate systems are also provided. This article demonstrates the use of Micro3D for visualization of complex neuronal distribution patterns in somatosensory and auditory systems. The software is available for download on conditions posted at the NeSys home pages (http://www.nesys.uio.no/) and at The Rodent Brain Workbench (http://www.rbwb.org/).
Recent study in neuroscience has observed evidence that the anatomic structures in human brains might have certain connection with the functioning. This triggers the interest in morphological study of cortical surfaces and in comparison of different ethnic groups. This article compares the MRI brain datasets of 10 Chinese and 10 Caucasians. A statistical analysis was applied to the white matter volumes in these datasets and evaluate the dissimilarities between the two groups using various intuitive measures. This analysis has revealed systematic morphological differences between the two ethnic groups.
One explicit goal of visualization in the neurosciences is to present data to human observers in a way that is informative and meaningful, on the one hand, yet intuitive and effortless on the other. Multidimensional data visualization is concerned with the question &quot;How can we display high-dimensional data elements in a low-dimensional environment, such as on a computer screen or the printed page?&quot; This goal is often pursued by attaching &quot;features&quot; such as hue, intensity, spatial location, and size to each data element. Features are chosen to reveal properties of data elements as well as relationships among them. An ad hoc assignment of features to individual data dimensions may not result in a useful visualization tool. Indeed, too often the tool itself interferes with the viewer's ability to extract the desired information due to a poor choice of feature assignment. The articles presented in this issue address the concerns of representing data to better elucidate complex concepts in the neurosciences.


Psychoanalytic and psychodynamic education over the past 50 years is reviewed in the context of the author's personal experience, as well as the changes that have taken place in psychiatry and psychoanalysis over the same time span. Several key issues are identified, including (1) the increasing biological reductionism of psychiatry; (2) the gradual de-emphasis of subjective experience along with the biopsychosocial explanation of human behavior and psychopathology; and (3) the increasing attention paid to neuroscience, psychopharmacology, and brief therapies during residency training. In order to address these issues, it is suggested that education in psychodynamic and psychoanalytic psychiatry be integrated into residency training. This would take the form of subspecialty training in either psychodynamic psychiatry or psycho analysis. Such training would promote an understanding of the connections between neurobiology and psychodynamics, versatility with a variety of dynamic psychotherapeutic techniques, and familiarity with research methodology. Psychiatrists educated in this type of integrated training program will be optimally equipped to advance psychodynamic and psychoanalytic treatment, theory, and research in the 21st century.
Special challenges face the 21st century teacher of psychodynamic psychotherapy. Time for careful psychodynamic reflection, of necessity, competes for space with the current explosion of psychiatric knowledge in psychopharmacology, genetics, health care policy and multiple other agendas. Thus educators must be clear about the goals of psychodynamic psychotherapy, engage students in the special interviewing techniques to elicit sensitive information and appreciate the special needs of today's physicians launching into this field. Educational objectives must be clear, the goals of psychoanalysis and psychoanalytic psychotherapy well articulated and the means to gather information enhanced. With the expansion of neuroscience into the mysteries of implicit and explicit memory this is also an area where the 21st century educator must develop integrative expertise. There are tools available to expand ones proficiency in each of these areas.
Contemporary American psychiatry, influenced by the &quot;biologic revolution&quot; with its emphasis on a brain-disease model of mental illness, and operating in a managed care delivery system, is in danger of relinquishing its listening and talking functions--psychotherapy--in favor of prescribing drugs. However, despite remarkable advances in the neurosciences, there is still no pharmaceutical magic bullet. The author argues for the continued relevancy of psychotherapy and outlines a practical psychodynamic approach that utilizes fundamental analytic concepts. These concepts--transference, the dual theory of drives, the repetition compulsion, and mechanisms of defense--are described and their clinical application is illustrated. This core conceptual model has significant heuristic value in treating patients and in teaching psychotherapy to psychiatric residents. With its emphasis on the power of the doctor-patient relationship, it teaches residents an effective body of knowledge that helps them define their professional identity-as psychiatrists whose most effective therapeutic tool is themselves, not the drugs they dispense.
In the practice of medicine, an understanding of the biological functioning of organs and organ systems is the basis for theories of pathology and clinical practice. If psychoanalysis is to be accepted by the medical and psychiatric community, it must be based on a sophisticated understanding of the organ from which mental and emotional experiences emanate and use scientifically acceptable language. Each approach to psychotherapy has its own vocabulary for describing neuropsychological processes. Neurobiological vocabulary provides the various factions &quot;neutral ground&quot; upon which to carry on a multidisciplinary integrative dialogue. An understanding of behavioral neuroscience allows the therapist to look beyond the labels that spawn division and identify unifying biological principles that are described in a variety of ways in a multitude of theories. We contend that the neural network/representational approach to neurobiology views human mental experience as the result of multiple complex integrated systems, and is therefore holistic and antireductionistic in its perspective. Such a biologically informed psychotherapy facilitates integration of skill sets and flexibility in technique. With these principles in mind, the therapist can base his or her approach to the patient based on these principles rather than on devotion to one particular &quot;school&quot; or another. Because behavioral neuroscience supports many of the basic tenets of psychoanalytic theory, such an integrative psychotherapy would be psychodynamically informed. In this paper, we outline some of the ideas we present in our neuroscience course and how we relate biological concepts with some core principles of psychodynamics and psychotherapy.
To provide insight into what aspects of the emotional circuit might be affected in high-functioning autism, we measured indices of physiological emotions and of the expression of conscious feelings in 10 children with high-functioning autism or Asperger syndrome and 10 comparison participants. Pleasant, unpleasant, and neutral pictures were presented while skin conductance responses were measured. Self-report ratings of pleasantness and interestingness were taken between pictures. Skin conductance responses did not differ between the groups. Self report ratings were different, with the children with autism giving more similar answers to the two questions than the comparison children. Impairments in socio-emotional expression in autism may be related to deficits in perception and/or expression of conscious feelings; physiological emotions may be relatively preserved.
The field of mental health has long suffered from a lack of convergence of disciplines that deal with the mind, the brain, and behavior. This mind-brain dualism has been particularly detrimental for consumers and their families who daily face stigma and discrimination. The understanding of the brain and its dysfunctions has benefited from the study of the human genome and, in particular, of the mutations and variations in its code. This analysis permits a better understanding of the biological basis of mental disease and will soon inform a generation of new diagnostic tools and individualized pharmacological therapies. A biological perspective on mental illness will be complemented by the analysis of the social factors influencing people's behavior and their impact on brain biology and gene function. Neurobiology has progressed to a level for which the knowledge that is generated, even if still colored with uncertainty, could represent a catalyst for the creation of an alliance between neuroscientists and consumers. This partnership has the potential to benefit both parties but will require some concrete steps that might be outside of the usual courses of action for both consumers and scientists. It is by building collaborations based on personal contact and information sharing that a transformation of the mental health care system can occur.
This study reports the clinical use of a bioactive bone graft material, PerioGlas, in the treatment of dental extraction sites before dental implant placement, to effect bone regeneration and to give early fixation to the implant.PerioGlas, granules, ranging from 90 to 710 mm, are implanted after tooth extraction in three patients; after 6 months bone biopsies were performed in the site of the glass implantation and observed under Electron Scanning Microscopy. All the granules showed a biodegradation involving precipitation of calcium phosphate that worked as a scaffold for osteoblasts colonization. All cases examined showed the bioactivity of PerioGlas granules resulting in new bone formation and biodegradation of the glass. After a two-year clinical follow-up all the implants were successfully loaded and appeared stable.
The origin of the theory that the transmission of pain is through a single channel from the skin to the brain can be traced to the philosopher and scientist Ren Descartes. This simplified scheme of the reflex was the beginning of the development of the modern doctrine of reflexes. Unfortunately, Descartes' reflex theory directed both the study and treatment of pain for more than 330 years. It is still described in physiology and neuroscience textbooks as fact rather than theory. The gate control theory proposed by Melzack and Wall in 1965 rejuvenated the field of pain study and led to further investigation into the phenomena of spinal sensitization and central nervous system plasticity, which are the potential pathophysiologic correlates of chronic pain. The processing of pain takes place in an integrated matrix throughout the neuroaxis and occurs on at least three levels-at peripheral, spinal, and supraspinal sites. Basic strategies of pain control monopolize on this concept of integration by attenuation or blockade of pain through intervention at the periphery, by activation of inhibitory processes that gate pain at the spinal cord and brain, and by interference with the perception of pain. This article discusses each level of pain modulation and reviews the mechanisms of action of opioids and potential new analgesics. A brief description of animal models frames a discussion about recent advances regarding the role of glial cells and central nervous system neuroimmune activation and innate immunity in the etiology of chronic pain states. Future investigation into the discovery and development of novel, nonopioid drug therapy may provide needed options for the millions of patients who suffer from chronic pain syndromes, including syndromes in which the pain originates from peripheral nerve, nerve root, spinal cord, bone, muscle, and disc.
The original concept of gangliosides as localized components of the plasma membrane has broadened in recent years with recognition of their presence in various intracellular pools as well. The nuclear envelope (NE), consisting of two unique membranes, is one such structure shown to contain members of the gangliotetraose family and possibly other sialoglycolipids. GM1 situated in the inner membrane of the NE is tightly associated with a Na+/Ca2+ exchanger whose activity it potentiates in the transfer of Ca2+ from nucleoplasm to the NE lumen. This is in contrast to Na+/Ca2+ exchangers of the plasma membrane which bind GM1 less avidly or not at all. This is believed due to different isoforms of exchanger, and a difference in topology of the exchanger relative to GM1. Cultured neurons from mice genetically engineered to lack gangliotetraose gangliosides such as GM1 were highly vulnerable to Ca2+-induced apoptosis. They were rescued to some extent by GM1 but more effectively by LIGA-20, a membrane-permeant derivative of GM1 that traverses the plasma membrane more effectively than GM1 and inserts into the NE. As further indication of Ca2+ dysregulation, the mutant mice were highly susceptible to kainite-induced seizures which were attenuated by LIGA-20. This correlated with the ability of LIGA-20 to cross the blood-brain barrier, enter brain cells, insert into the NE, and potentiate the nuclear exchanger. GM1 in the NE, in association with nuclear Na+/Ca2+ exchanger, is thus seen as contributing to Ca2+ regulation within the nucleus and in the process exerting a cytoprotective role.
A previous study on the human tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) promoter revealed remarkable differences in the mechanism of TH gene regulation between the human and murine models. Indeed, a low degree of homology was observed in the sequence of TH promoters among human, mouse, and rat systems. Only five short conserved regions (CRs) could be identified among the three species. A human TH minimal promoter was engineered and assembled into a self-inactivating lentiviral vector system. This human TH minimal promoter contained the five CRs plus the first -194 bp from the transcription start of the human TH promoter and the first 35 bp of the untranslated messenger RNA leader of the human TH gene. A significant degree of specificity for this human TH minimal promoter was observed only for human neuronal progenitor cells (hNPCs), but not for TH-positive differentiated mouse primary striatal and substantia nigra cells, indicating a significant difference in TH gene regulation between the human and mouse systems. Not only is the degree of homology between the human and mouse promoters in the range of only 46%, but also those few elements that share a high degree of homology display totally different functions in human and mouse brain-derived cells. In the rodent system, NR4A2 (Nurr1) is required for the transactivation of TH minimal promoters. Intriguingly, neither the dimeric nor the heterodimeric binding sites for Nurr1 are present in the 13 kb DNA sequence that contains the human TH promoter. Instead, the CRs termed one and four of the human TH promoter encode only for a half palindromic binding site sequence for Nurr1, which failed to bind Nurr1 in an in vitro electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). Additionally, of the three monomeric NGFI-B response element (NBRE) core sites (AGGTCA) and two NBRE-related sites present in the human TH promoter, only one core and two NBRE-related sites formed protein binding complexes. Interestingly, there was no increase of protein binding complex formation upon TH induction and in no case could antibodies supershift Nurr1 from the complex. These findings, taken together, demonstrate that NBRE-related binding sites for Nurr1 do not play a direct role in mediating an interaction between Nurr1 and the human TH promoter. Likewise, immunohistochemical and Western blot analysis have also confirmed that both endogenous and exogenous Nurr1 expression does not positively correlate with TH gene expression in hNPCs, in contrast to the mouse model. In addition, real-time PCR analysis revealed that the downregulation of human Nurr1 gene expression mediated by silencing RNA molecules did not affect human TH gene expression in differentiated hNPCs. A better understanding of human TH gene regulation may have important implications both for the development of novel therapeutic approaches and the study of the pathogenesis of a variety of neurological illnesses, including Parkinson's disease, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia.
Flavonoids comprise a class of low molecular weight compounds displaying a variety of biological activities including inhibition of tumor growth and metastasis. To gain insight into the mechanisms underlying metastasis inhibition, we have employed the B16-BL6 murine melanoma metastasis model. B57BL/6N mice were injected i.v. with tumor cells and Apigenin, Quercetin, or Tamoxifen, each at 50 mg/kg given i.p., and lung tumor cell colonies counted 14-6 days thereafter. Three different injection schedules were used for each drug: (a) daily injection, starting 24 h before injection of the tumor cells; (b) single dose, 24 h preceding tumor challenge; (c) daily injection, starting 24 h after the injection of the tumor cells. All three compounds significantly reduced tumor lung deposits (Apigenin = Quercetin &gt; Tamoxifen). However, when treatment was delayed by 24 h after tumor cells (schedule c), multiple daily doses of Apigenin or Quercetin were less effective that a single dose of the same compound given 24 h before tumor challenge (schedule b). Apigenin and Quercetin, but not Tamoxifen, were found to inhibit VCAM-1 expression in a dose-dependent manner in HUVEC and in murine pulmonary endothelial cells. In ex vivo experiments, the number of tumor cells adhering to lung vessels was significantly diminished in animals treated with a single dose of Apigenin and Quercetin. These findings indicate that the inhibition of tumor cell metastasis by Apigenin or Quercetin may significantly depend on the ability of these compounds to alter the host's microenvironment, further substantiating the role of the intravascular processes in the metastatic cascade.
Post-transcriptional regulation exerted by neural-specific RNA-binding proteins plays a pivotal role in the development and maintenance of the nervous system. Neural ELAV proteins are key inducers of neuronal differentiation through the stabilization and/or translational enhancement of target transcripts bearing the AU-rich elements (AREs), whereas Musashi-1 maintains the stem cell proliferation state by acting as a translational repressor. Since the gene encoding Musashi-1 (Msi1) contains a conserved ARE in its 3' untranslated region, we focused on the possibility of a mechanistic relationship between ELAV proteins and Musashi-1 in cell fate commitment. Colocalization of neural ELAV proteins with Musashi-1 clearly shows that ELAV proteins are expressed at early stages of neural commitment, whereas interaction studies demonstrate that neural ELAV proteins exert an ARE-dependent binding activity on the Msi1 mRNA. This binding activity has functional effects, since the ELAV protein family member HuD is able to stabilize the Msi1 ARE-containing mRNA in a sequence-dependent way in a deadenylation/degradation assay. Furthermore activation of the neural ELAV proteins by phorbol esters in human SH-SY5Y cells is associated with an increase of Musashi-1 protein content in the cytoskeleton. We propose that ELAV RNA-binding proteins exert an important post-transcriptional control on Musashi-1 expression in the transition from proliferation to neural differentiation of stem/progenitor cells.
We have previously shown that neuregulin-1 (NRG-1) protects neurons from ischemic brain injury if administered before focal stroke. Here, we examined the therapeutic window and functional recovery after NRG-1 treatment in rats subjected to 90 mins of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and 24 h of reperfusion. Neuregulin-1 (2.5 microg/kg [corrected] bolus, 1.25 microg/kg/min [corrected] infusion) reduced infarct volume by 89.2%+/-41.9% (mean+/-s.d.; n=8; P&lt;0.01) if administered immediately after the onset of reperfusion. Neuroprotection was also evident if NRG-1 was administered 4 h (66.4%+/-52.6%; n=7; P&lt;0.01) and 12 h (57.0%+/-20.8%; n=8; P&lt;0.01) after reperfusion. Neuregulin-1 administration also resulted in a significant improvement of functional neurologic outcome compared with vehicle-treated animals (32.1%+/-5.7%; n=9; P&lt;0.01). The neuroprotective effect of the single administration of NRG-1 was seen as long as 2 weeks after treatment. Neurons labeled with the neurodegeneration marker dye Fluoro-JadeB were observed after MCAO in the cortex, but the numbers were significantly reduced after NRG-1 treatment. These results indicate that NRG-1 is a potent neuroprotective compound with an extended therapeutic window that has practical therapeutic potential in treating individuals after ischemic brain injury.
Bone marrow-derived cells (BMDCs) contribute to revascularization after ischemia. However, the mechanisms by which BMDCs support vessel remodeling after cerebral ischemia are not clear. Using mouse chimeras that express enhanced green fluorescent protein in reconstituted bone marrow, we investigated the role of BMDCs in revascularization and brain repair after middle cerebral artery occlusion of murine brain. After ischemia, two populations of BMDCs were observed, one in the brain parenchyma and another associated with the vasculature. The number of BMDCs that infiltrated the brain parenchyma peaked at 7 days and persisted through 14 days, the last time point observed. The majority of BMDCs were characterized as microglia, based on cell-type-specific marker expression. We observed a robust angiogenic response after cerebral ischemia. Bone marrow-derived cells associated with remodeling blood vessels were negative for endothelial markers, but were surrounded by basal lamina and expressed desmin and vimentin, identifying these cells as pericytes. Quantification of BMDCs that expressed desmin revealed increasing desmin expression with time. Perivascular associated BMDCs that expressed desmin were immunoreactive for the angiogenic factors vascular endothelial growth factor and transforming growth factor-beta. These findings suggest that pericytes are recruited from the periphery and are involved in blood vessel stabilization during ischemia-induced angiogenesis.
Dysregulation of sodium [Na+]i and calcium [Ca2+]i homeostasis plays a pivotal role in the pathophysiology of cerebral ischemia. Three gene products of the sodium-calcium exchanger family NCX1, NCX2, and NCX3 couple, in a bidirectional way, the movement of these ions across the cell membrane during cerebral ischemia. Each isoform displays a selective distribution in the rat brain. To determine whether NCX gene expression can be regulated after cerebral ischemia, we used NCX isoform-specific antisense radiolabeled probes to analyze, by radioactive in situ hybridization histochemistry, the pattern of NCX1, NCX2, and NCX3 transcripts in the ischemic core, periinfarct area, as well as in nonischemic brain regions, after 6 and 24 h of permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO) in rats. We found that in the focal region, comprising divisions of the prefrontal, somatosensory, and insular cortices, all three NCX transcripts were downregulated. In the periinfarct area, comprising part of the motor cortex and the lateral compartments of the caudate-putamen, NCX2 messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) was downregulated, whereas NCX3 mRNA was significantly upregulated. In remote nonischemic brain regions such as the prelimbic and infralimbic cortices, and tenia tecta, both NCX1 and NCX3 transcripts were upregulated, whereas in the medial caudate-putamen only NCX3 transcripts increased. In all these intact regions, NCX2 signal strongly decreased. These results indicate that NCX gene expression is regulated after pMCAO in a differential manner, depending on the exchanger isoform and region involved in the insult. These data may provide a better understanding of each NCX subtype's pathophysiologic role and may allow researchers to design appropriate pharmacological strategies to treat brain ischemia.
The involvement of the subthalamic nucleus in physiological and pathological motor behaviour has now largely been established. Clinical observations in patients suffering from Parkinson disease treated with Deep Brain Stimulation of the STN show that these patients can suffer from postoperative changes in non-motor behaviour mainly involving alterations in cognitive functions. The involvement of the STN in cognition has initially been demonstrated by non-human studies investigating the effects of STN lesions and stimulations on cognitive parameters. In the present review, we discuss the findings of these preclinical studies on cognitive parameters and outline the anatomical and functional place of the STN in the basal ganglia cognitive circuit.
X-linked juvenile retinoschisis is a rare progressive vitreoretinal degenerative process that appears in early childhood, results in decreased visual acuity and blindness (if severe), and is caused by various mutations within the XLRS1 gene at Xp22.2. We report an affected family of Western European ancestry with X-linked juvenile retinoschisis. The family was found to carry a 304C--&gt;T substitution in exon 4 of the XLRS1 gene, resulting in an Arg102Trp amino acid substitution. Two of the four available clinical cases in this family were found to carry the mutation. All available mothers of affected males were found to be unaffected carriers of the mutation, a typical feature of X-linked diseases. Two new female carriers, sisters of affected males, were identified and counseled accordingly. Questionnaires on visual functioning were given to the affected family members to examine the psychologic and sociologic impact of X-linked juvenile retinoschisis, which documented an associated stigma even when affected with a &quot;mild&quot; phenotype.
Every neurologist needs to develop an effective technique to diagnose and manage non-organic disorders, although there are different ways to go about it. The complex relationship that exists between functional and organic illness is an inescapable theme in daily neurological practice. Usually, it is better to read these case stories by examining their surface detail rather than to try to understand their psychological depth.
Herein, we present the case of a 67-year-old grazier who was bitten by a tiger snake and developed coagulopathy and respiratory distress. The patient required intubation and ventilation in intensive care. There was delayed detection of snake envenomation and administration of antivenom. On extubation several days later, gross external ocular paresis was noted. Clinical testing indicated that the ocular pathology was secondary to neurotoxin-mediated presynaptic blockade. The paresis was partially resolved by the time of discharge one week later. The present case report discusses the possible mechanisms for the delayed development of ophthalmoplegia.


Multiunit electrophysiology was combined with histological analysis of cortical sections to investigate the organization of somatosensory areas in the naked mole-rat. We provide new details for the organization of primary somatosensory cortex (S1) and identify cortical modules and barrels that correspond to the representations of different body parts. In addition, details of the location and organization of secondary somatosensory cortex (S2) are reported, and evidence for a third somatosensory representation, likely the parietal ventral area (PV), is provided and discussed. S1 contained a complete and systematic representation of the contralateral body surface and oral structures. The orientation of S1 was inverted, with the lower body represented medially and the face and oral structures located rostrolaterally. The S2 representation was found in caudolateral cortex forming a mirror image of S1. The two areas were joined at the representation of the vibrissae and snout, so that the orientation of S2 formed an upright representation of the body in cortex. Receptive fields for S2 were consistently larger than those in S1. Evidence for the presumptive parietal ventral area, lateral to S2, suggests that this area may be an inverted mirror image of S2. By aligning the electrophysiological maps of body representations with cytochrome oxidase-reacted cortical sections we were able to identify modules related to the buccal pad, chin, vibrissae, forelimb, hindlimb, trunk, tongue, lower incisor, and upper incisors. The orofacial modules in lateral cortex resemble similar modules reported to relate to oral structures previously described in the laboratory rat, owl monkey, and squirrel monkey.
Many sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPN) in the intermediolateral cell column (IML) contain cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART), but the function of these CART-immunoreactive (IR) neurons is unknown. To test the possibility that CART might mark SPN involved in cardiovascular regulation, we first established whether all CART neurons in the spinal cord were SPN by double-immunofluorescent labelling for CART and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT). All autonomic subnuclei contained SPN immunoreactive for ChAT plus CART. Occasional ChAT-negative, CART-positive neurons occurred adjacent to the IML, indicating the existence of CART-IR interneurons. We then retrogradely labelled SPN with cholera toxin subunit B (CTB) from a variety of targets and used double immunofluorescence to detect CTB and CART. Among SPN in the IML, 43% projecting to the coeliac ganglion, 34% projecting to the major pelvic ganglion, and about 15% projecting to the superior cervical ganglion or adrenal medulla contained CART. CART also occurred in most SPN projecting to the major pelvic ganglion from either the central autonomic area (63%) or the intercalated nucleus (58%). Finally, we used drug-induced hypotension in conscious rats to evoke Fos immunoreactivity in barosensitive SPN and immunostained to reveal Fos and CART. CART immunoreactivity was present in 41% of the Fos-IR barosensitive neurons, which were concentrated in the IML of segments T5-T13. CART-positive, Fos-negative neurons also occurred in the same segments. These results indicate that CART occurs in barosensitive SPN, nonbarosensitive SPN, and interneurons. Thus, CART is not an exclusive marker for cardiovascular SPN but is likely to influence many autonomic activities.
Pair formation in the bushcricket Gampsocleis gratiosa is achieved through acoustic signalling by the male and phonotactic approaches of the female towards the calling song. On a walking belt in the free sound field, females tracked the position of the speaker broadcasting the male calling song with a remarkable precision, deviating by no more than 10 cm in either direction from the ideal course. Starting with stimulus angles of 6-10 degrees the females significantly turned to the correct side, and with stimulus angles greater than 25 degrees no incorrect turns were made. Using neurophysiological data on the directionality of the ear we calculated that with such stimulus angles the available binaural intensity difference is in the order of 1-2 dB. We developed a dichotic ear stimulation device for freely moving females with a cross-talk barrier of about 50 dB, which allowed to precisely apply small binaural intensity differences. In such a dichotic stimulation paradigm, females on average turned to the tronger stimulated side starting with a 1 dB difference between both ears. The significance of such a reliable lateralization behaviour with small interaural intensity differences for phonotactic behaviour under natural conditions is discussed.
The extraction of the direction of motion from the time varying retinal images is one of the most basic tasks any visual system is confronted with. However, retinal images are severely corrupted by photon noise, in particular at low light levels, thus limiting the performance of motion detection mechanisms of what sort so ever. Here, we study how photon noise propagates through an array of Reichardt-type motion detectors that are commonly believed to underlie fly motion vision. We provide closed-form analytical expressions of the signal and noise spectra at the output of such a motion detector array. We find that Reichardt detectors reveal favorable noise suppression in the frequency range where most of the signal power resides. Most notably, due to inherent adaptive properties, the transmitted information about stimulus velocity remains nearly constant over a large range of velocity entropies.
This modeling study examines the possible functional roles of two hyperpolarization-activated conductances in lateral superior olive (LSO) principal neurons. Inputs of these LSO neurons are transformed into an output, which provides a firing-rate code for a certain interaural sound intensity difference (IID) range. Recent experimental studies have found pharmacological evidence for the presence of both the Gh conductance as well as the inwardly rectifying outward GKIR conductance in the LSO. We addressed the question of how these conductances influence the dynamic range (IID versus firing rate). We used computer simulations of both a point-neuron model and a two-compartmental model to investigate this issue, and to determine the role of these conductances in setting the dynamic range of these neurons. The width of the dynamic regime, the frequency-current (f-I) function, first-spike latency, subthreshold oscillations and the interplay between the two hyperpolarization activated conductances are discussed in detail. The in vivo non-monotonic IID-firing rate function in a subpopulation of LSO neurons is in good correspondence with our simulation predictions. Two compartmental model simulation results suggest segregation of Gh and GKIR conductances on different compartments, as this spatial configuration could explain certain experimental results.
The objective of this study was to find the theoretically smallest subsets of muscles for needle-EMG (nEMG) screening of lumbosacral radiculopathies that ascertain that each root and its adjacent roots are represented by at least two muscles each, innervated by those roots via different peripheral nerves. A 23 and a 30 muscles muscle-sets and their myotomal innervation where derived from the literature, and rearranged into 15 and 19 unique muscle-groups by root and peripheral nerve innervation. All 2(15) and 2(19) subset combinations thereof were respectively identified. The criteria above were computed for each subset and the smallest subsets that qualified were retained. The number of muscles sampled per damaged root and the number of muscles sampled per adjacent roots in compliance with the objective above were computed. The smallest subsets satisfying the objective above were of 6, 7 and 9 muscles each, and are enumerated in . From these tables, each electromyographer may choose a set that best suits him, confident of its diagnostic parameters, while inflicting the least pain onto his patients, utilizing the shortest possible procedure, concluding a screen of all the roots at once, a screen that best differentiate between normal and damaged roots, and in most cases adequate for reaching the final diagnosis. Moreover, when needed, each set may be the basis for a more extensive workup.
The class-I helical cytokines constitute a large group of signalling molecules that play key roles in a plethora of physiological processes including host defence, immune regulation, somatic growth, reproduction, food intake and energy metabolism, regulation of neural growth and many more. Despite little primary amino acid sequence similarity, the view that all contemporary class-I helical cytokines have expanded from a single ancestor is widely accepted, as all class-I helical cytokines share a similar three-dimensional fold, signal via related class-I helical cytokine receptors and activate similar intracellular signalling cascades. Virtually all of our knowledge on class-I helical cytokine signalling derives from research on primate and rodent species. Information on the presence, structure and function of class-I helical cytokines in non-mammalian vertebrates and non-vertebrates is fragmentary. Consequently, our ideas about the evolution of this versatile multigene family are often based on a limited comparison of human and murine orthologs. In the last 5 years, whole genome sequencing projects have yielded draft genomes of the early vertebrates, pufferfish (Takifugu rubripes), spotted green pufferfish (Tetraodon nigroviridis) and zebrafish (Danio rerio). Fuelled by this development, fish orthologs of a number of mammalian class-I helical cytokines have recently been discovered. In this review, we have characterised the mammalian class-I helical cytokine family and compared it with the emerging class-I helical cytokine repertoire of teleost fish. This approach offers important insights into cytokine evolution as it identifies the helical cytokines shared by fish and mammals that, consequently, existed before the divergence of teleosts and tetrapods. A 'fish-mammalian' comparison will identify the class-I helical cytokines that still await discovery in fish or, alternatively, may have been evolutionarily recent additions to the mammalian cytokine repertoire.
The first mathematically unbiased estimates of neocortical cell numbers are presented from the developing pig brain, including a full description of tissue processing and optimal sampling for application of the stereological optical fractionator method in this species. The postnatal development of neocortical neurons and glial cells from the experimental Gttingen minipig was compared with the postnatal development of neocortical neurons in the domestic pig. A significant postnatal development was observed in the Gttingen minipig brain for both neuronal (28%; P=0.01) and glial cells (87%; P&lt;0.01). A corresponding postnatal development of neurons was not detected in the domestic pig brain. The reason for this strain difference is not known. The mean total number of neocortical neurons is 324 million in the adult Gttingen minipig compared with 432 million in the domestic pig. The glial-to-neuron cell ratio is around 2.2 in the adult Gttingen minipig. Based on these results, the domestic pig seems to be a more suitable model for evaluating the effects of developmental insults on human brain growth and neuronal development than the Gttingen minipig.
The dactyl opener neuromuscular system of crayfish and lobster has long been a popular model system for studies of synaptic physiology and its modulation. Previous studies of its neural innervation in both species have reported that whereas the opener excitor axon (OE) and the specific opener inhibitor (OI) innervate the entire muscle, the common inhibitor (CI) is restricted to a small number of the most proximal muscle fibers and is the physiologically weaker of the two inhibitors. Here, we show in the lobster that, contrary to previous reports, CI innervates fibers along the entire extent of the dactyl opener muscle and thus shares the innervation targets of OE and OI. To characterize the physiological function of CI in the lobster dactyl opener system, we independently stimulated both OI and CI and compared their effects. The physiological impact of each inhibitor was similar: inhibitors elicit inhibitory junction potentials of similar sizes, both trigger muscle relaxations and both inhibit excitatory junction potentials and muscle contractions to a comparable extent. Thus, in the periphery, CI and OI appear to be equally powerful inhibitors with similar physiological roles, both in suppressing contractions triggered by the excitor OE and in directly relaxing muscle tension. In light of these observations, our understanding of the physiological roles of specific and common inhibitors in crustacean motor control requires reevaluation.
We report on a striking asymmetry in search behaviour observed in honeybees trained to forage alternately at one of two feeder sites in a narrow tunnel. Bees were trained by periodically switching the position of a sucrose reward between relatively short and long distances in the tunnel. Search behaviour was examined in the training tunnel itself and in a fresh tunnel devoid of scent cues deposited by bees during training. Bees tested in the fresh tunnel exhibited a bias towards the shorter site, while bees tested in the training tunnel searched closer to the longer site. In additional experiments, we manipulated the position of scent cues, relative to the training location, in the testing tunnel. Bees generally searched at the site to which they were trained rather than at the position of the scent. Our data argue strongly against the hypothesis that bees rely exclusively on deposited scent to accurately localise a food source in natural foraging environments. We instead conclude that odometry and scent guidance contribute to honeybee food search in a manner reflecting the significance and relative reliability of sensory information.
Two experiments examined ordinal numerical knowledge in rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta). Experiment 1 replicated the finding (E. M. Brannon &amp; H. S. Terrace, 2000) that monkeys trained to respond in descending numerical order (4--&gt;3--&gt;2--&gt;1) did not generalize the descending rule to the novel values 5-9 in contrast to monkeys trained to respond in ascending order. Experiment 2 examined whether the failure to generalize a descending rule was due to the direction of the training sequence or to the specific values used in the training sequence. Results implicated 3 factors that characterize a monkey's numerical comparison process: Weber's law, knowledge of ordinal direction, and a comparison of each value in a test pair with the reference point established by the first value of the training sequence.
The ClC family of Cl(-) channels and transporters comprises membrane proteins ubiquitously present in species ranging from prokaryotes to mammals. The recently solved structures of the bacterial ClC proteins have provided a good model to guide the functional experiments for the eukaryotic Cl(-) channels. Theoretical calculations based on the bacterial ClC structures have identified several residues critical for the Cl(-) binding energy in the Cl(-) transport pathway. It was speculated that the corresponding residues in eukaryotic Cl(-) channels might play similar roles for the channel functions. In this study, we made a series of mutations in three such residues in eukaryotic ClC Cl(-) channels (K149, G352, and H401 in ClC-0) and studied the functional consequences on the channel properties. A cysteine modification approach was also employed to evaluate the electrostatic effects of the charge placed at these three positions. The experimental results revealed that among the three residues tested, K149 plays the most important role in controlling both the gating and the permeation functions of ClC-0. On the other hand, mutations of H401 alter the channel conductance but not the gating properties, while mutations of G352 result in very little functional consequence. The mutation of K149 into a neutral residue leucine (K149L) shifts the activation curve and leads to flickery channel openings. The anion permeability ratios derived from bi-ionic experiments are also significantly altered in that the selectivity of Cl(-) over other anions is decreased. Furthermore, removing the positive charge at this position reduces and increases, respectively, the accessibility of the negatively and positively charged methane thiosulfonate reagents to the pore. The control of the accessibility to charged MTS reagents and the regulation of the anion permeation support the idea that K149 exerts an electrostatic effect on the channel function, confirming the prediction from computational studies.
The objective was to investigate the safety and efficacy of almotriptan in patients aged 11-17 years old with acute migraine. Fifteen patients aged 11-17 with a history of migraine with or without aura were treated with almotriptan. Reduction in headache severity, disability and adverse effects were studied. Almotriptan in doses ranging from 6.25 to 12.5 mg was well tolerated. There were virtually no adverse effects except for one case of transient mild stiffness. Of the 15 patients, only 2 demonstrated no efficacy without adverse effects. In the other 13 patients, not only was almotriptan effective, but again, no significant adverse effects were reported. Almotriptan is probably safe and effective in patients aged 11-17. This small open-label pilot study should support the feasibility of a large randomised controlled study to demonstrate tolerability and efficacy of almotriptan in children and adolescents with episodic migraine.
The catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene contains a functional polymorphism, Val158Met, that has been found to influence human pain perception, and one study has found that migraine was less likely among those with the Val/Val polymorphism. In the 1995-97 Nord-Trndelag Health (HUNT) Study, the association between the Val158Met polymorphism and headache was evaluated in a random sample of 2451 individuals. No association between Val158Met polymorphism and migraine was found. Among women, a lower prevalence of non-migrainous headache was found among individuals with the Val/Val genotype than among those with other genotypes (26.2% vs. 33.6%, p = 0.04). That non-migrainous headache was less likely among women with the Val/Val genotype may be an incidental finding, but should be investigated in further studies.
This review deals with the diagnostic usefulness of neurophysiological testing in patients with craniofacial pain. Neurophysiological testing of trigeminal nerve function relies on trigeminal reflexes and laser-evoked potentials (LEPs). This review briefly describes the physiology of trigeminal reflexes and LEPs, reports normal values and highlights the neurophysiological abnormalities in the main clinical conditions.
The history of a medical charity founded for the purpose of initiating research into the commonest of all human afflictions-headache. Of the 100 causes, migraine is one of the commonest, and in spite of the lack of interest of the medical profession, this review shows how the pace of research rapidly increased as evidenced by the biennial International Symposia of the Migraine Trust.
Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is a CD4(+) Th1 T cell-mediated disease of the CNS, used to study certain aspects of multiple sclerosis. CXCR3, the receptor for CXCL10, CXCL9, and CXCL11, is preferentially expressed on activated Th1 T cells and has been proposed to govern the migration of lymphocytes into the inflamed CNS during multiple sclerosis and EAE. Unexpectedly, CXCL10-deficient mice were susceptible to EAE, leaving uncertain what the role of CXCR3 and its ligands might play in this disease model. In this study, we report that CXCR3(-/-) mice exhibit exaggerated severity of EAE compared with wild-type (CXCR3(+/+)) littermate mice. Surprisingly, there were neither quantitative nor qualitative differences in CNS-infiltrating leukocytes between CXCR3(+/+) and CXCR3(-/-) mice with EAE. Despite these equivalent inflammatory infiltrates, CNS tissues from CXCR3(-/-) mice with EAE showed worsened blood-brain barrier disruption and more von Willebrand factor-immunoreactive vessels within inflamed spinal cords, as compared with CXCR3(+/+) mice. Spinal cords of CXCR3(-/-) mice with EAE demonstrated decreased levels of IFN-gamma, associated with reduced inducible NO synthase immunoreactivity, and lymph node T cells from CXCR3(-/-) mice primed with MOG(35-55) secreted less IFN-gamma in Ag-driven recall responses than cells from CXCR3(+/+) animals. CXCR3(-/-) lymph node T cells also showed enhanced Ag-driven proliferation, which was reduced by addition of IFN-gamma. Taken with prior findings, our data show that CXCL10 is the most relevant ligand for CXCR3 in EAE. CXCR3 does not govern leukocyte trafficking in EAE but modulates T cell IFN-gamma production and downstream events that affect disease severity.
The nonlinear dependence between the logarithm of the diffusion weighted signal, lnS, and the b-value, b, has often been interpreted as a manifestation of two physically distinct compartments, resulting in a biexponential form of the signal. This model fits to experimental data, however, has failed to yield realistic compartment sizes, severely jeopardizing the use of DWI to infer structural information on a cellular level. It has been hypothesized that the biexponential behavior can be attributed to the effect of confining boundaries that restrict diffusion in individual physical compartments. This interpretation is based on the analysis of diffusion in the presence of impermeable interfaces for short diffusion times such that the layer in which diffusion is affected by the boundary is thin as compared with the dimensions of the whole compartment. This model system is analyzed from the point of view of the cumulant expansion of the diffusion-weighted signal that results in a Taylor expansion of lnS in powers of b. Termination of this expansion to a polynomial form provides an excellent accuracy for small b-factors, but the series diverges for large b. The convergence of the series is studied, yielding a large range of b-values in which the absolute error of terminating the series at the second term remains smaller than 1% relative to the signal magnitude without diffusion weighting. With this accuracy, the signal in the studied model can be described as lnS approximately -A.bD+B.(bD)2, where the parameters A and B can be expressed in terms of correlation functions of molecular velocity. Fitting of these parameters to the exact signal is more stable than for the three parameters of the biexponential function. This description fails for large b, for which the cumulant expansion diverges. The signal at even larger b-values is proportional to 1/b, 1/b3/2, and 1/b2 in one-, two-, and three-dimensional systems, respectively.

The peroxynitrite-mediated activation of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) and subsequent cleavage of troponin I (TnI) in ventricular myocytes is a detrimental effect of ischemia/reperfusion injury. We hypothesized that acetaminophen, an effective antioxidant against peroxynitrite, would attenuate activation of MMP-2 and improve cardiac mechanical function. Isolated, perfused guinea pig hearts (Langendorff) were treated with either acetaminophen [0.35 mmol/l] or its vehicle and administered a bolus injection of peroxynitrite (6 microM) after reaching steady state function. Hemodynamic, metabolic, and mechanical effects were recorded, and coronary effluent concentrates or supernatant from heart homogenates were subjected to Western blotting and gelatin zymography. Hemodynamic and metabolic data showed no difference between acetaminophen- and vehicle-treated hearts. Mechanical data revealed that treatment with acetaminophen preserved contractile function (particularly diastolic function) after peroxynitrite administration. For example, 5 min after administration of peroxynitrite percent baseline -dP/dt(max) was 10+/-3% and -4+/-7% (P&lt;0.05) in acetaminophen- and vehicle-treated hearts, respectively. Western blotting and gel zymography revealed higher 72 kDa (pro-MMP-2) proteolytic activity in heart homogenates of vehicle-treated versus acetaminophen-treated hearts. In addition, Western blotting of heart homogenates showed increased degradative products of TnI in vehicle-treated versus acetaminophen-treated hearts. We conclude that acetaminophen is cardioprotective, at least in part, by attenuating peroxynitrite-activated, MMP-2-mediated cleavage of TnI.
VEGF is a major regulator of angiogenesis and vascular permeability in development and injury. The involvement of one of its receptors, Flk-1 in angiogenesis has been widely demonstrated, but few studies elucidate its role as a mediator of the BBB permeability and none displays its distribution following a cortical micronecrosis. A microvascular marker (LEA lectin), two BBB markers (EBA, GluT-1) and the VEGFR2 receptor were studied in adult rats after a minimal brain injury. Immunohistochemistry shows an increase of positive vessels, somata and processes around the micronecrosis from 6 to 72 hours after injury. Flk-1 was overexpressed mainly in endothelial cells, but also in astrocytes, neuronal somata and processes adjacent to the damage. This increase correlates to the lose of positivity for EBA. After injury, VEGFR-2 expression increases and its distribution corresponds to VEGF one. The whole system seems to play a role in the disruption of the BBB.
The dopaminergic transcriptional programme is highly regulated during development and in the adult, in response to activation of membrane receptor signalling cascades. Gene expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting enzyme in dopamine synthesis, is known to be regulated by receptors that act through protein kinase C (PKC) or Ras signalling. To investigate possible interactions between these two pathways before they converge on Raf activation, we evaluated whether phorbol ester (12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate, TPA)-dependent PKC activation required Ras for regulation of TH expression in IMR-32 cells. We found that long-term treatment with TPA, which induces down-regulation of PKC-alpha, led to induction of both protein and message levels of TH by autocrine factors. This was dependent on endogenous Ras, but independent of the transcription factor Nurr1. Moreover, this mechanism of action mimicked the effects of overexpression of the Ras-GAP domain of neurofibromin, GAP-related domain (GRD) I, which is part of the upstream mechanism for regulation of Ras activation and a PKC-alpha substrate. Overexpression of Ras also led to transcriptional and translational up-regulation of TH, independent of Nurr1 induction, as well as distinct phenotypic changes consistent with cell hypertrophy and increased secretory activity shown by induction of expression of vesicular monoamine transporter 2 and synaptosomal-associated protein-25. Most interestingly, overexpression of GRDI and down-regulation of the endogenous GRDII neurofibromin led to significant increases in Nurr1 message, possibly reflecting a transcriptional hierarchy during development. Taken together, these studies suggest that PKC-alpha, neurofibromin and Ras are essential in regulation of TH gene expression in IMR-32 cells.
Amplicon vectors derived from herpes simplex virus type 1 were built to modify NMDA receptors by expressing antisense RNA for the essential NR1 subunit. Their ability to modify endogenous levels of NR1 was tested in cultures of rat embryo neocortical neurons. We studied behaviour and tested for expression in adult rats injected with those vectors into the dorsal hippocampus to find out which cells and how many appear involved in memory formation. Rats injected with vectors expressing NR1 antisense performed significantly worse than control rats in an inhibitory avoidance task. Immunohistochemistry was performed in brain slices from the same animals. The transduced cells represented 6-7% of pyramidal neurons in CA1, showing that a single gene knockdown of NR1 in a small number of neurons significantly impaired memory formation. Perhaps neurons undergoing synaptic plasticity are more susceptible to NR1 knockdown, and hence NMDAR are particularly required in those neurons undergoing synaptic plasticity during learning, or perhaps, and more likely, there is not a high level of redundancy in the hippocampal circuits involved, leading to the idea that a certain level of NR1 expression/availability appears necessary for memory formation in most of CA1 pyramidal neurons.
Neurotransmitters and their receptors have been involved in both proper brain development and neurodevelopmental disorders. The role that nicotinic receptors play in immature cortical neurons was initially investigated by gene profiling using Affymetrix DNA arrays. Both short (15 min) and prolonged (18 h) treatments with nicotine did not induce modification in gene expression, whereas a significant down-regulation of c-fos protein levels was observed after 18 h treatment. Conversely, a brief treatment with the glutamatergic agonist NMDA triggered up-regulation of immediate early genes and transcription factors, which remained unaffected by pre-treatment for 18 h with nicotine. Calcium imaging studies revealed that NMDA activated a sustained increase in intracellular calcium concentration in the majority of neurons, whereas nicotine evoked only a transient calcium increase in a smaller percentage of neurons, suggesting that the calcium signalling response was correlated with activation of gene expression. Nicotine effects on immature cortical neurons perhaps do not require gene regulation but may be still acting on signalling pathways.
Hyperammonemic disorders such as acute liver failure (ALF) or urea cycle enzymopathies are associated with hyperexcitability, seizures, brain edema and increased extracellular brain glutamate. Mechanisms responsible for increased glutamate content in the extracellular space of the brain include decreased uptake by perineuronal astrocytes and/or increased release from neurons and/or astrocytes. Exposure of astrocytes to millimolar concentrations of ammonia results in cell swelling, loss of expression of the glutamate transporters excitatory amino acid transporter (EAAT-1) and EAAT-2 and increased release of glutamate. Three distinct mechanisms are theoretically possible to explain ammonia-induced glutamate release from astrocytes namely: release due to swelling; reversal of glutamate transporters and due to Ca2+-dependent vesicular release. Recent identification of vesicular docking and fusion proteins in astrocytes together with glutamate-release (due to intracellular alkanization and mobilization of intracellular Ca2+-stores) studies implies that vesicular release is a predominant mechanism responsible for ammonia-induced release of glutamate from astrocytes.

Persistent hyperalgesia is associated with increased expression of proteins that contribute to enhanced excitability of spinal neurons, however, little is known about how expression of these proteins is regulated. We tested the hypothesis that Substance P stimulation of neurokinin receptors on spinal neurons activates the transcription factor nuclear factor of activated T cells isoform 4 (NFATc4). The occurrence of NFATc4 in spinal cord was demonstrated with RT-PCR and immunocytochemistry. Substance P activated NFAT-dependent gene transcription in primary cultures of neonatal rat spinal cord transiently transfected with a luciferase DNA reporter construct. The effect of Substance P was mediated by neuronal neurokinin-1 receptors that coupled to activation of protein kinase C, l-type voltage-dependent calcium channels, and calcineurin. Interestingly, Substance P had no effect on cyclic AMP response element (CRE)-dependent gene expression. Conversely, calcitonin gene-related peptide, which activated CRE-dependent gene expression, did not activate NFAT signaling. These data provide evidence that peptides released from primary afferent neurons regulate discrete patterns of gene expression in spinal neurons. Because the release of Substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide from primary afferent neurons is increased following peripheral injury, these peptides may differentially regulate the expression of proteins that underlie persistent hyperalgesia.
Telomeres are specialized structures at the ends of chromosomes that consist of tandem repeats of the DNA sequence TTAGGG and several proteins that protect the DNA and regulate the plasticity of the telomeres. The telomere-associated protein TRF2 (telomeric repeat binding factor 2) is critical for the control of telomere structure and function; TRF2 dysfunction results in the exposure of the telomere ends and activation of ATM (ataxia telangiectasin mutated)-mediated DNA damage response. Recent findings suggest that telomere attrition can cause senescence or apoptosis of mitotic cells, but the function of telomeres in differentiated neurons is unknown. Here, we examined the impact of telomere dysfunction via TRF2 inhibition in neurons (primary embryonic hippocampal neurons) and mitotic neural cells (astrocytes and neuroblastoma cells). We demonstrate that telomere dysfunction induced by adenovirus-mediated expression of dominant-negative TRF2 (DN-TRF2) triggers a DNA damage response involving the formation of nuclear foci containing phosphorylated histone H2AX and activated ATM in each cell type. In mitotic neural cells DN-TRF2 induced activation of both p53 and p21 and senescence (as indicated by an up-regulation of beta-galactosidase). In contrast, in neurons DN-TRF2 increased p21, but neither p53 nor beta-galactosidase was induced. In addition, TRF2 inhibition enhanced the morphological, molecular and biophysical differentiation of hippocampal neurons. These findings demonstrate divergent molecular and physiological responses to telomere dysfunction in mitotic neural cells and neurons, indicate a role for TRF2 in regulating neuronal differentiation, and suggest a potential therapeutic application of inhibition of TRF2 function in the treatment of neural tumors.
Dopamine, a neurotransmitter released by the lateral olivocochlear efferents, has been shown tonically to inhibit the spontaneous and sound-evoked activity of auditory nerve fibres. This permanent inhibition probably requires the presence of an efficient transporter to remove dopamine from the synaptic cleft. Here, we report that the dopamine transporter is located in the lateral efferent fibres both below the inner hair cells and in the inner spiral bundle. Perilymphatic perfusion of the dopamine transporter inhibitors nomifensine and N-[1-(2-benzo[b]thiophenyl)cyclohexyl]piperidine into the cochlea reduced the spontaneous neural noise and the sound-evoked compound action potential of the auditory nerve in a dose-dependent manner, leading to both neural responses being completely abolished. We observed no significant change in cochlear responses generated by sensory hair cells (cochlear microphonic, summating potential, distortion products otoacoustic emissions) or in the endocochlear potential reflecting the functional state of the stria vascularis. This is consistent with a selective action of dopamine transporter inhibitors on auditory nerve activity. Capillary electrophoresis with laser-induced fluorescence (EC-LIF) measurements showed that nomifensine-induced inhibition of auditory nerve responses was due to increased extracellular dopamine levels in the cochlea. Altogether, these results show that the dopamine transporter is essential for maintaining the spontaneous activity of auditory nerve neurones and their responsiveness to sound stimulation.
Lipid membrane peroxidation is highly associated with neuronal death in various neurodegenerative diseases including cerebral stroke. Here, we report that simvastatin decreases oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD)/reoxygenation-evoked neuronal death by inhibiting the production and cytoxicity of 4-hydroxy-2E-nonenal (HNE), the final product of lipid peroxidation. Simvastatin markedly decreased the OGD/reoxygenation-evoked death of cortical neurons. OGD/reoxygenation increased the intracellular HNE level mostly in neuronal cells, not glial cells. Simvastatin decreased the intracellular level of HNE in neuronal cells exposed to OGD/reoxygenation. We further found that HNE induced the cytotoxicity in neuronal cells and synergistically increased the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated excitotoxicity. Simvastatin largely blocked the NMDA neurotoxicity potentiated by HNE. However, simvastatin did not alter the NMDA-evoked calcium influx in the absence or presence of HNE. HNE inhibited the activity of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB), and the cytotoxicity of HNE was in good correlation with inactivation of NF-kappaB. Simvastatin reversed the inhibition of NF-kappaB activity induced by OGD/reoxygenation or HNE. The neuroprotection by simvastatin was significantly attenuated by various NF-kappaB inhibitors, implying that simvastatin inhibits the cytotoxicity of HNE at least in part by maintaining the activity of NF-kappaB. Further understanding of the neuroprotective mechanism of simvastatin may provide a therapeutic strategy for oxidative stress-related neurodegenerative diseases.
The prospect of manipulating endogenous neural stem cells to replace damaged tissue and correct functional deficits offers a novel mechanism for treating a variety of CNS disorders. The aim of this study was to investigate pathways controlling neurite outgrowth in human neural precursor cells, in particular in response to platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF). PDGF-AA, -AB and -BB were found to initiate calcium signalling and produce robust increases in neurite outgrowth. PDGF-induced outgrowth of Tuj1-positive precursors was abolished by the addition of EGTA, suggesting that calcium entry is a critical part of the signalling pathway. Wortmannin and PD098059 failed to inhibit PDGF-induced outgrowth. Clostridium Toxin B increased the amount of PDGF-induced neurite branching but had no effect on basal levels. In contrast, WHI-P154, an inhibitor of Janus protein tyrosine kinase (JAK3), Hck and Syk, prevented PDGF-induced neurite outgrowth. PDGF activates multiple signalling pathways with considerable potential for cross-talk. This study has highlighted the complexity of the pathways leading to neurite outgrowth in human neural precursors, and provided initial evidence to suggest that calcium entry is critical in producing the morphological changes observed.
Magnocellular neuroendocrine cells of the supraoptic nucleus (SON) release the peptides oxytocin (OT) and vasopressin (VP) from their dendrites and terminals. In addition to peptide-containing large dense-core vesicles, axon terminals from these cells contain clear microvesicles that have been shown to contain glutamate. Using multilabelling confocal microscopy, we investigated the presence of vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUTs) in astrocytes as well as VP and OT neurones of the SON. Simultaneous probing of the SON with antibodies against VGLUT isoforms 1-3, OT, VP and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) revealed the presence of VGLUT-2 in somata and dendrites of SON neurones. Immunoreactivity (-ir) for VGLUT-3 was also detected in both OT and VP neurones as well as in GFAP-ir astrocytes and other cells of the ventral glial lamina. Colocalisation of VGLUT-2 and VGLUT-3 in individual SON neurones was also examined and VGLUT-ir with both antibodies could be detected in both types of SON neurones. Although VGLUT-1-ir was strong lateral to the SON, only sparse labelling was apparent within the nucleus, and no colocalisation with either SON neurones or astrocytes was observed. The SON or the SON plus its surrounding perinuclear zone was probed using the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and the presence of mRNA for all three VGLUT isoforms was detected. These results suggest that similar arrangements of transmitters exist in SON neuronal dendrites and their neurohypophysial terminals and that magnocellular neuroendocrine somata and dendrites may be capable of glutamatergic transmission.
Intrathecal antibody (ITAb) production is a common feature of neurological diseases, yet very little is known about its mechanisms. Because ITAb is prominent in human Lyme neuroborreliosis (LNB), in the present study we established a mouse model of LNB to study ITAb production. We injected different strains of Borrelia burgdorferi into a variety of mouse strains by the intracerebral (i.c.) route to develop the model. Spirochetal infection and ITAb production were identified by complementary methods. This study demonstrates that the mouse model of LNB can be utilized to test hypotheses related to the mechanisms of ITAb production.
The noradrenergic system plays an integral role in the stress response and modulates expression of proinflammatory cytokines. Recent work from our laboratory and others has shown that certain stressors increase the expression of the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) in the hypothalamus and spleen. One goal of the following studies was to assess the role of norepinephrine in stress-elicited increases in IL-1beta. To do this, adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with propranolol (20 mg/kg i.p.) or desipramine (20 mg/kg s.c.) and exposed to 80 inescapable footshocks (2.0 mA, 90 s variable ITI, 5 s each). We found that propranolol blocked the IL-1beta response to footshock in both the hypothalamus and the spleen, while the noradrenergic reuptake inhibitor desipramine significantly augmented the footshock-induced IL-1beta response in both of these sites. Our second goal was to determine whether these effects would also be blocked by administration of a putative microglial inhibitor (minocycline). Minocycline (40 mg/kg i.p.) completely reversed the footshock-induced increase in hypothalamic IL-1beta but had no effect on the IL-1beta response in the spleen. Moreover, lack of an effect of minocycline on conditioned fear responding suggests that the effect of this drug cannot be explained by nonspecific sedative properties produced by the drug. Together, these data suggest that NE powerfully modulates the hypothalamic and splenic IL-1beta response to stress, and that microglia may be a primary cellular source of central IL-1beta in response to footshock.
Human African Trypanosomiasis (HAT),which is also known as sleeping sickness, is a major cause of death and disability in 36 countries in sub-Saharan Africa. The disease is caused by the protozoan parasite of the Trypanosoma genus which is transmitted by the bite of the tsetse fly. The two types of HAT, the East African form due to Trypanosoma b.rhodesiensei (T. b.rhodesiensi) and the West African form due to T. b.gambiense, differ in their tempo of infection but in both cases the disease is always fatal if untreated. As well as multiple systemic features seen in the early (haemolymphatic) stage of disease, the late (encephalitic stage) stage, is associated with a wide range of neurological features including neuropsychiatric, motor and sensory abnormalities. Accurate staging of the disease is absolutely essential because of the potentially fatal complications of melarsoprol treatment of late-stage disease, the most important of which is a severe post-treatment reactive encephalopathy (PTRE) the pathogenesis of which is not fully understood. However, there is not a universal consensus as to how late-stage disease should be diagnosed using CSF criteria, and this has been very problematic in HAT. A more recent alternative drug for late stage gambiense disease is eflornithine (DFMO). There is a pressing need for a non-toxic oral drug for both early and late stage disease that would obviate many of the problems of staging, and various possible strategies to achieve this goal are currently underway. However, control of the disease will also require more effective measures of reducing man/fly contact and also the allocation of much greater financial and infrastructural resources than are currently available in Africa.

We discovered many reports of other immunosuppressive drugs being used in adults with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) but none of methotrexate. As weekly low dose oral methotrexate is safe, effective, and well tolerated in other diseases, we treated 10 patients with otherwise treatment resistant CIDP. Seven showed improvement in strength by at least two points on the MRC sum score and three worsened. Only two showed an improvement in disability and both were also receiving corticosteroids. We discuss the difficulty of detecting an improvement in treatment resistant CIDP and propose methotrexate as a suitable agent for testing in a randomised trial.

Genetic variations represent major risk factors for Alzheimer's disease (AD). While familial early onset AD is associated with mutations in the amyloid precursor protein and presenilin genes, only the e4 allele of the apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene has so far been established as a genetic risk factor for late onset familial and sporadic AD. It has been suggested that the C--&gt;T (224Ala--&gt;Val) transition within exon 2 of the cathepsin D gene (CTSD) might represent a risk factor for late onset AD. The objective of this study was to investigate whether possession of the CTSD exon 2 T allele increases the risk of developing AD, and to determine whether this modulates the amyloid pathology of the disease in conjunction with, or independent of, the APOE e4 allele. Blood samples were obtained from 412 patients with possible or probable AD and brain tissues from a further 148 patients with AD confirmed by postmortem examination. CTSD and APOE genotyping were performed by PCR on DNA extracted from blood, or from frontal cortex or cerebellum in the postmortem cases. Pathological measures of amyloid beta protein (Abeta), as plaque Abeta40 and Abeta42(3) load and degree of cerebral amyloid angiopathy were made by image analysis or semiquantitative rating, respectively. CTSD genotype frequencies in AD were not significantly different from those in control subjects, nor did these differ between cases of early or late onset AD or between younger and older controls. There was no gene interaction between the CTSD T and APOE e4 alleles. The amount of plaque Abeta40 was greater in patients carrying the CTSD T allele than in non-carriers, and in patients bearing APOE e4 allele compared with non-carriers. Possession of both these alleles acted synergistically to increase levels of plaque Abeta40, especially in those individuals who were homozygous for the APOE e4 allele. Possession of the CTSD T allele had no effect on plaque Abeta42(3) load or degree of CAA. Possession of the CTSD T allele does not increase the risk of developing AD per se, but has a modulating effect on the pathogenesis of the disorder by increasing, in concert with the APOE e4 allele, the amount of Abeta deposited as senile plaques in the brain in the form of Abeta40.


Hereditary neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies (HNPP) is an autosomal dominant, demyelinating neuropathy. Point mutations in the PMP22 gene are a rare cause of HNPP. A novel PMP22 splice site mutation (c.179+1 G--&gt;C) is reported in an HNPP family. By reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction experiments, this mutation was shown to cause the synthesis of an abnormal mRNA in which a premature stop codon probably produces a truncated non-functional protein.
The NG2 proteoglycan is of general interest after spinal cord injury because it is expressed by oligodendrocyte progenitors (OPCs), which contribute to central nervous system remyelination; however, NG2 may inhibit axon regeneration. We and others have examined the spatiotemporal expression of NG2 after spinal cord injury (SCI). Here, we extend those observations and provide a comprehensive analysis of the distribution, phenotype, and colocalization of NG2 cells with axons in a clinically relevant model of spinal contusion. Because contusion models mimic the majority of human SCI, this information is important for understanding endogenous processes that promote and/or prevent repair. The data demonstrate that NG2 levels rise significantly between 3 and 7 days postinjury (dpi) and remain elevated chronically throughout the lesions. NG2 within the lesions could be derived from an array of infiltrating cells; thus, a panel of antibodies was used to investigate NG2 cell phenotypes. First, platelet-derived growth factor-alpha receptor (PDGFalphaR) colocalization was examined because OPCs normally express both markers. PDGFalphaR cells were present in lesions at all times examined. However, only 37% of NG2 cells coexpressed PDGFalphaR at 14 dpi, which dropped to &lt;1% by 70 dpi. This contrasts with the nearly complete overlap in spared tissue surrounding the lesion. In contrast, 40% to 60% of NG2 cells expressed p75 and approximately 84% expressed Sox10, suggesting that many NG2 cells were nonmyelinating Schwann cells. Despite rising levels of NG2, we noted robust and sustained axon growth into the lesions, many of which were located along NG2 profiles. Thus, spinal contusion produces an NG2-rich environment into which axons grow and in which the source of NG2 appears considerably different from that in surrounding spared tissue.
Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a neurodegenerative tauopathy characterized by Parkinsonism, vertical gaze palsy, and early falls. Lewy bodies (LBs) are detected in approximately 10% of PSP cases, but there is little information on the relationship of LBs to tau pathology. We determined the frequency of LBs in a large series of autopsy-confirmed cases of PSP and studied the density and distribution of LBs, including Parkinson disease stage, in cases with LBs (PSP/LBD). PSP/LBD was compared with pure LB disease (LBD), including assessment of neuronal loss in key brainstem nuclei. Immunohistochemistry for alpha-synuclein revealed LBs in 31 of 290 PSP cases (11%). One case had multiple system atrophy in addition to PSP and was excluded from further study along with 2 PSP/LBD cases with concurrent Alzheimer disease. The 29 cases of PSP/LBD were compared with 30 cases of PSP and 24 cases of LBD. The age, sex, brain weight, Braak neurofibrillary tangle (NFT) stage, as well as counts of NFTs and senile plaques were not different among PSP, LBD, and PSP/LBD, but disease duration was longer in LBD. The Parkinson disease stage was similar, but the density of LBs in most subcortical nuclei tended to be greater in LBD than in PSP/LBD. In contrast, substantia nigra neuronal loss was greater in PSP/LBD than both PSP and LBD. Double immunostaining demonstrated alpha-synuclein and tau in different neurons with few exceptions. The findings suggest that LBs in PSP are similar in distribution to those in LBD and independent of tau pathology. The greater density of LBs in LBD compared with PSP/LBD may be the result of longer disease duration in LBD, whereas greater neuronal loss in the substantia nigra in PSP/LBD may be the result of vulnerability of this brain region to both disease processes.
The teleost Mauthner (M-) cell mediates a sound-evoked escape behavior. A major component of the auditory input is transmitted by large myelinated club endings of the posterior VIIIth nerve. Paradoxically, although nerve stimulations revealed these afferents have mixed electrical and glutamatergic synapses on the M-cell's distal lateral dendrite, paired pre- and postsynaptic recordings indicated most individual connections are chemically silent. To determine the sensory information encoded and the relative contributions of these two transmission modes, M-cell responses to acoustic stimuli in air were recorded intracellularly. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) evoked by both short 100- to 900-Hz &quot;pips&quot; and longer-lasting amplitude- and frequency-modulated sounds were dominated by fast, repetitive EPSPs superimposed on an underlying slow depolarization. Fast EPSPs 1) have kinetics comparable to presynaptic action potentials, 2) are maximal on the distal lateral dendrite, and 3) are insensitive to GluR antagonists. They presumably are coupling potentials, and power spectral analysis indicated they constitute a high-pass signal that accurately tracks sound frequency and amplitude. The spatial profile of the slow EPSP suggests both proximal and distal dendritic sources, a result supported by predictions of a multicompartmental model and the effects of AMPAR antagonists, which preferentially reduced the proximal component. Thus a second class of afferents generates a portion of the slow EPSP that, with sound stimuli, demonstrate that the dominant mode of transmission at LMCE synapses is electrical. The slow EPSP is a dynamic, low-pass representation of stimulus strength. Accordingly, amplitude and phase information, which are segregated in other systems, are faithfully represented in the M-cell.
Although metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) mGluR1 and mGluR5 are often found to have similar functions, there is considerable evidence that the two receptors also serve distinct functions in neurons. In hippocampal area CA1, mGluR5 has been most strongly implicated in long-term synaptic depression (LTD), whereas mGluR1 has been thought to have little or no role. Here we show that simultaneous pharmacological blockade of mGluR1 and mGluR5 is required to block induction of LTD by the group 1 mGluR agonist, (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG). Blockade of mGluR1 or mGluR5 alone has no effect on LTD induction, suggesting that activation of either receptor can fully induce LTD. Consistent with this conclusion, mGluR1 and mGluR5 both contribute to activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), which has previously been shown to be required for LTD induction. In contrast, selective blockade of mGluR1, but not mGluR5, reduces the expression of LTD and the associated decreases in AMPA surface expression. LTD is also reduced in mGluR1 knockout mice confirming the involvement of mGluR1. This shows a novel role for mGluR1 in long-term synaptic plasticity in CA1 pyramidal neurons. In contrast to DHPG-induced LTD, synaptically induced LTD with paired-pulse low-frequency stimulation persists in the pharmacological blockade of group 1 mGluRs and in mGluR1 or mGluR5 knockout mice. This suggests different receptors and/or upstream mechanisms for chemically and synaptically induced LTD.
We contrasted the physiology and peripheral targets of subclassified nociceptive and nonnociceptive afferents that express acid-sensing ion channel (ASIC)-like currents. The threshold for current activation was similar in eight distinct cell subclasses regardless of functional modality (pH 6.8). When potency was determined from concentration-response curves, nonnociceptors exhibited currents with significantly greater potency than that of all but one class of nociceptors (pH50 = 6.54 and 6.75 vs. 6.20-6.34). In nonnociceptive cells, acid transduction was also confined to a very narrow range (0.1-0.3 vs. 0.8-1.4 pH units for nociceptors). Simultaneous whole cell recording and ratiometric imaging of three peptidergic nociceptive classes were consistent with the expression of Ca2+ -permeable ASICs. Sensitivity to psalmotoxin and flurbiprofen indicated the presence of Ca2+ -permeable ASIC1a. Immunocytochemistry on these subclassified populations revealed a differential distribution of five ASIC proteins consistent with Ca2+ permeability and differential kinetics of proton-gated currents (type 5: ASIC1a, 1b, 2a, 2b, 3; type 8a: ASIC1a, 1b, 3; type 8b: ASIC1a, 1b, 2a, 2b, 3). Using DiI tracing, we found that nociceptive classes had discrete peripheral targets. ASIC-expressing types 8a and 9 projected to hairy skin, but only types 8a and 13 projected to glabrous skin. Non-ASIC-expressing types 2 and 4 were present only in hairy skin. We conclude that ASIC-expressing nociceptors differ from ASIC-expressing nonnociceptors mainly by range of proton reactivity. ASIC- as well as non-ASIC-expressing nociceptors have highly distinct cutaneous targets, and only one class was consistent with the existence of a generic C polymodal nociceptor (type 8a).
In human spinal cord injury, the neuronal mechanisms mediating the improvement of locomotor function in response to intensive treadmill training are not well understood. In this study, we examined if such recovery is mediated, in part, by increases in residual corticospinal drive to muscles of the leg during walking. To do this, we measured the coherence of electromyogram (EMG) activity between two antagonist muscles (intermuscular coherence), specifically at frequencies between 24 and 40 Hz, which is thought to indicate common drive to two muscles from corticospinal inputs. In 12 subjects with incomplete spinal cord injury, intermuscular coherence was measured between hamstrings and vastus lateralis EMG that was activated during walking on a motorized treadmill. Before training, appreciable coherence in the 24-40 Hz frequency band was only present in subjects with moderate volitional motor strength in their leg muscles (n = 8 subjects) compared with subjects with little or no leg muscle strength (n = 4 subjects), reconfirming that 24-40 Hz frequency coherence is likely mediated by common supraspinal inputs. After training, increases in 24-40 Hz coherence only occurred in the eight subjects with moderate leg muscle strength who also exhibited improvements in locomotor recovery as assessed by the 21 point WISCI II scale (termed responders). In contrast, development of intermuscular coherence in the 24-40 Hz frequency band did not occur in the four subjects with absent or weak muscle strength. These subjects also did not improve in their locomotor ability as reflected in unchanging WISCI II scores (termed nonresponders). Lower-frequency coherence (5-18 Hz), which is thought to contain common drive from spinal inputs, did not change in either group. In a subset of subjects that were previously assessed with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) before and after training (n = 5 responders and 3 nonresponders), there was a significant and positive relationship between increases in 24-40 Hz coherence and increases in evoked muscle responses to TMS of the primary motor cortex. Taken together, increases in higher-frequency EMG coherence in subjects with residual voluntary muscle strength and its parallel relation to changes in TMS-evoked responses provides further evidence that improvements in locomotor function from treadmill training are mediated, in part, by increases in corticospinal drive to muscles of the leg during walking.
Responses to monaural and binaural tone bursts were recorded from neurons in the rat's ventral nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (VNLL). Most of the neurons (55%) had V- or U-shaped frequency-tuning curves with a single clearly defined characteristic frequency (CF). However, many neurons had more complex, multipeaked tuning curves (37%), or other patterns (8%). Temporal firing patterns included both onset and sustained responses to contralateral tone bursts. Onset and sustained responses were distributed along the dorsoventral length of VNLL with no indication of segregation into different regions. Onset neurons had shorter average first-spike latencies than neurons with sustained responses (means, 8.3 vs. 14.8 ms). They also had less jitter, as reflected in the SD of first-spike latencies, than neurons with sustained responses (means, 0.59 and 4.2 ms, respectively). The extent of jitter decreased with an increase in stimulus intensity for neurons with sustained responses, but remained unchanged for onset neurons tested over the same range. Many neurons had binaural responses, primarily of the excitatory/inhibitory (EI) type, widely distributed along the dorsoventral extent of VNLL. Local application of the AMPA receptor antagonist NBQX reduced excitatory responses, indicating that responses were dependent on synaptic activity and not recorded from passing fibers. The results show that many neurons in VNLL have a precision of timing that is well suited for processing auditory temporal information. In the rat, these neurons are intermingled among cells with less precise temporal response features and include cells with binaural as well as monaural responses.
On the one hand, contrast signals provide information about surface properties, such as reflectance, and patchy illumination conditions, such as shadows. On the other hand, processing of luminance signals may provide information about global light levels, such as the difference between sunny and cloudy days. We devised models of contrast and luminance processing, using principles of logarithmic signal coding and half-wave rectification. We fit each model to individual response profiles obtained from 67 surface-responsive macaque V1 neurons in a center-surround paradigm similar to those used in human psychophysical studies. The most general forms of the luminance and contrast models explained, on average, 73 and 87% of the response variance over the sample population, respectively. We used a statistical technique, known as Akaike's information criterion, to quantify goodness of fit relative to number of model parameters, giving the relative probability of each model being correct. Luminance models, having fewer parameters than contrast models, performed substantially better in the vast majority of neurons, whereas contrast models performed similarly well in only a small minority of neurons. These results suggest that the processing of local and mean scene luminance predominates over contrast integration in surface-responsive neurons of the primary visual cortex. The sluggish dynamics of luminance-related cortical activity may provide a neural basis for the recent psychophysical demonstration that luminance information dominates brightness perception at low temporal frequencies.
GABA and glycine provide excitatory action during early development: they depolarize neurons and increase intracellular calcium concentration. As neurons mature, GABA and glycine become inhibitory. This switch from excitation to inhibition is thought to result from a shift of intracellular chloride concentration ([Cl-]i) from high to low, but in retina, measurements of [Cl-]i or chloride equilibrium potential (ECl) during development have not been made. Using the developing mouse retina, we systematically measured [Cl-]i in parallel with GABA's actions on calcium and chloride. In ganglion and amacrine cells, fura-2 imaging showed that before postnatal day (P) 6, exogenous GABA, acting via ionotropic GABA receptors, evoked calcium rise, which persisted in HCO3- -free buffer but was blocked with 0 extracellular calcium. After P6, GABA switched to inhibiting spontaneous calcium transients. Concomitant with this switch we observed the following: 6-methoxy-N-ethylquinolinium iodide (MEQ) chloride imaging showed that GABA caused an efflux of chloride before P6 and an influx afterward; gramicidin-perforated-patch recordings showed that the reversal potential for GABA decreased from -45 mV, near threshold for voltage-activated calcium channel, to -60 mV, near resting potential; MEQ imaging showed that [Cl-]i shifted steeply around P6 from 29 to 14 mM, corresponding to a decline of ECl from -39 to -58 mV. We also show that GABAergic amacrine cells became stratified by P4, potentially allowing GABA's excitatory action to shape circuit connectivity. Our results support the hypothesis that a shift from high [Cl-]i to low causes GABA to switch from excitatory to inhibitory.
The deeper layers of the midbrain superior colliculus (SC) contain a topographic motor map in which a localized population of cells is recruited for each saccade, but how the brain stem decodes the dynamic SC output is unclear. Here we analyze saccade-related responses in the monkey SC to test a new dynamic ensemble-coding model, which proposes that each spike from each saccade-related SC neuron adds a fixed, site-specific contribution to the intended eye movement command. As predicted by this simple theory, we found that the cumulative number of spikes in the cell bursts is tightly related to the displacement of the eye along the ideal straight trajectory, both for normal saccades and for strongly curved, blink-perturbed saccades toward a single visual target. This dynamic relation depends systematically on the metrics of the saccade displacement vector, and can be fully predicted from a quantitative description of the cell's classical movement field. Furthermore, we show that a linear feedback model of the brain stem, which is driven by dynamic linear vector summation of measured SC firing patterns, produces realistic two-dimensional (2D) saccade trajectories and kinematics. We conclude that the SC may act as a nonlinear, vectorial saccade generator that programs an optimal straight eye-movement trajectory.
The climbing fibers (CFs) that project from the dorsal cap of the inferior olive (IO) to the flocculus of the cerebellar cortex have been reported to be purely sensory, encoding &quot;retinal slip.&quot; However, a clear oculomotor projection from the nucleus prepositus hypoglossi (NPH) to the IO has been shown. We therefore studied the sensorimotor information that is present in the CF signal. We presented rabbits with visual motion noise stimuli to break up the tight relation between instantaneous retinal slip and eye movement. Strikingly, the information about the motor behavior in the CF signal more than doubled that of the sensory component and was time-locked more tightly. The contribution of oculomotor signals was independently confirmed by analysis of spontaneous eye movements in the absence of visual input. The motor component of the CF code is essential to distinguish unexpected slip from self-generated slip, which is a prerequisite for proper oculomotor learning.
Peripherally delivered opiates attenuate mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia in experimental models of inflammation, suggesting that activation of peripheral opioid receptors decreases the excitability of nociceptors in inflamed tissues. The current study examines the effects of peripheral morphine sulfate on response properties of sensory neurons in healthy and inflamed skin. Afferent units (185) were isolated from tibial nerve of rats using an in vitro glabrous skin-nerve teased-fiber preparation. Of these, 107 units were from normal healthy skin, and 78 were from inflamed skin 18 h after intraplantar injection of complete Freund's adjuvant. As a population, C-fiber units innervating inflamed skin exhibited properties characteristic of sensitization when compared with units innervating healthy control skin. Mechanical thresholds were lowered, responses to noxious mechanical and thermal stimuli were elevated, a greater proportion of units was spontaneously active, and the average rate of spontaneous discharge was higher. Response properties in other conduction velocity groups remained unchanged. Fifty-eight percent of C and C/Adelta nociceptors innervating inflamed skin were opiate-sensitive, and their excitability was attenuated by direct application of morphine to their receptive fields. All morphine-sensitive units were nociceptors from inflamed skin with conduction velocities &lt;1.3 m/s. Morphine effects were concentration-dependent and naloxone-sensitive, indicating that the effects were receptor-mediated. These findings provide direct evidence that morphine acts through peripheral opioid receptors to inhibit the activity of cutaneous nociceptors under conditions of inflammation.
Various properties of external scenes are integrated during the transmission of information along central visual pathways. One basic property concerns the sensitivity to direction of a moving stimulus. This direction selectivity (DS) is a fundamental response characteristic of neurons in the visual cortex. We have conducted a neurophysiological study of cells in the visual cortex to determine how DS is affected by changes in stimulus contrast. Previous work shows that a neuron integration time is increased at low contrasts, causing temporal changes of response properties. This leads to the prediction that DS should change with stimulus contrast. However, the change could be in a counterintuitive direction, i.e., DS could increase with reduced contrast. This possibility is of intrinsic interest but it is also of potential relevance to recent behavioral work in which human subjects exhibit increased DS as contrast is reduced. Our neurophysiological results are consistent with this finding, i.e., the degree of DS of cortical neurons is inversely related to stimulus contrast. Temporal phase differences of inputs to cortical cells may account for this result.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic, progressive neurological disease affecting 1.5 million Americans. The modern success of pharmacology and deep-brain stimulation surgery to treat the motor symptoms of tremor, rigidity, and bradykinesia provide PD patients with longer lives and increased motor functioning. However, in the moderate and advanced stages of disease, the therapeutic benefits of pharmacology diminish and motor symptoms are more complicated to treat. The nonmotor symptoms of PD receive little attention in clinical settings, although they can lead to disability and caregiver burden. The Center to Advance Palliative Care advocates applying the principles of palliative care to chronic disease. Likewise, the World Health Organization has redefined palliative care to include life-threatening illness. The Parkinson's Disease Model of Care (PDMC) takes the precepts of palliative care and presents a model for the neuroscience nurse to use in individual care planning across the trajectory of disease. The PDMC guides the nurse in providing relief from suffering for PD patients and their families, from diagnosis through bereavement, with an emphasis on advance care planning.
Family members of patients recovering from severe traumatic brain injuries have needs that are best met through early assessment and proactive intervention. A critical pathway addressing the needs of families during the acute and postacute phases of hospitalization was developed and implemented in the neuroscience intensive care and step-down units of a university hospital. A team of 10 neurosurgical nurses used and evaluated the program.
Secretory phospholipases A(2) (sPLA(2)) form a diverse family of enzymes involved in a variety of physiologic and pathologic processes. Common among all sPLA(2) is the ability to cleave the second position of phospholipids, thereby releasing fatty acid and a lysophospholipid. Several sPLA(2) have been cloned and characterized in various tissues and receptors have been identified. In the nervous system, sPLA(2) groups IB, IIA, IIE, IIF, V, and XII have been identified, and binding sites for sPLA(2) have been found. Here, we report sPLA(2)-IIE and sPLA(2)-X in rat brain as well as in neurons in primary culture. We furthermore confirm the presence of sPLA(2)-V in rat brain and demonstrate the presence of sPLA(2)-V in primary neuronal cultures. The distribution of sPLA(2)-IIE, V, and -X seems to be mainly neuronal, with the highest abundance occurring in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. We also find that sPLA(2)-IIE, -V, and -X are differentially induced by kainic acid. This study supports the concept that sPLA(2) heterogeneity in brain is functionally relevant and responsive to seizures.
Transplantation of mixed cultures containing olfactory ensheathing cell (OEC) and olfactory nerve fibroblasts (ONF) has been shown to stimulate regrowth of both acutely and chronically injured corticospinal (CS) axons across small spinal cord lesion gaps. Here, we used a multifactorial transplantation strategy to stimulate regrowth of chronically injured CS axons across large spinal cord lesion gaps. This strategy combined the transplantation of aligned OEC/ONF-biomatrix complexes, as described previously (Deumens et al. [2004] Neuroscience 125:591-604), within the lesion gap with additional OEC/ONF injections rostral and caudal to the lesion site. We show an enhanced presence of injured CS axons directly rostral to the lesion gap, with no effects on injured CS axons at or caudal to the lesion gap. Furthermore, injured CS axons did not penetrate the OEC/ONF-biomatrix complex within the lesion gap. The enhanced presence of CS axons rostral to the lesion gap was not accompanied by any recovery of behavioral parameters assessed with the BBB locomotor rating scale or CatWalk gait analysis. We conclude that our multifactorial transplantation strategy should be optimized to create an OEC/ONF continuum in the injured spinal cord and thereby stimulate regrowth of injured CS axons across large spinal lesion gaps.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) modulates glutamatergic excitatory transmission in hippocampal primary cultures by acting at a presynaptic locus. Although it has been suggested that BDNF also modulates adult hippocampus glutamatergic transmission, this remains a matter of controversy. To clarify a putative role for this neurotrophin in the modulation of glutamate release we applied exogenous BDNF to isolated adult rat hippocampal nerve terminals. BDNF, at 100 ng/ml, potentiated by 25% the K(+)-evoked release of [(3)H]glutamate from hippocampal synaptosomes. The small effect of BDNF on [(3)H]glutamate release correlated with a modest increase in phospholipase Cgamma (PLCgamma) phosphorylation, and with the lack of effect of BDNF on extracellular-signal regulated kinase (ERK) and Akt phosphorylation. Immunocytochemistry studies demonstrated that only about one-third of glutamatergic synaptosomes were positive for TrkB immunoreactivity. Furthermore, biotinylation and subsynaptic fractionation studies showed that only one-fourth of total full-length TrkB was present at the plasma membrane, evenly distributed between the presynaptic active zone and the postsynaptic density. These results indicate that BDNF modulates synaptic transmission presynaptically in a small subset of hippocampal glutamatergic synapses that contain TrkB and that express the receptor on the plasma membrane.
Apoptosis and neuronal atrophy are commonly seen in patients infected with the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) in the late phase of infection. The HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein gp120 has been suggested to be a causal agent of neuronal loss. Therefore, blocking gp120 neurotoxicity may be an effective way to reduce the neuronal degeneration seen in HIV patients. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) prevents gp120-mediated apoptosis in cerebellar granule cells. However, BDNF poorly crosses the blood-brain barrier and therefore may not be a suitable therapy for HIV patients. LIGA20 is a semisynthetic sphingoglycolipid that may be a valid alternative to BDNF. In fact, it has been shown that LIGA20 mimics the neuroprotective properties of BDNF. The present study was undertaken to characterize the relative potency of LIGA20 to antagonize gp120-mediated apoptosis. Cerebellar granule cells were exposed to gp120IIIB (5 nM) or stromal-cell derived factor-1 (SDF), the natural ligand for the CXCR4 receptor to which gp120 binds, alone or in combination with LIGA20 (5 microM), and cell death/survival was determined 12 and 24 hr later by various markers of apoptosis. LIGA20 blocked the neurotoxic effect of gp120 and SDF. The neurotrophic effect of LIGA20 was reversed by K252a, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor used to block TrkB signaling, suggesting the involvement of TrkB activation. These findings provide the rationale for exploring the ability of compounds that mimic BDNF activity to reduce neuronal cell death in HIV-1-positive patients.
Lipoprotein receptor-related protein-2 (LRP2)/megalin is a member of the low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) family, and is essential in absorptive epithelia for endocytosis of lipoproteins, low molecular weight proteins, cholesterol and vitamins, as well as in cellular signaling. Previous studies have shown megalin expression in ependymal cells and choroid plexus. We have investigated megalin expression in the spinal cord of postnatal mice with immunohistochemistry and immunoblot. Antibodies recognizing either the cytoplasmic tail (MM6) or the extracellular domain (E11) of megalin labeled oligodendrocytes in the spinal cord white matter, in parallel with myelination. MM6 antibodies, predominantly labeled the nuclei, whereas E11 antibodies labeled the cytoplasm of these cells. MM6 antibodies labeled also nuclei of oligodendrocytes cultured from embryonic mouse spinal cord. Immunoblots of spinal cord showed intact megalin, as well as its carboxyterminal fragment, the part remaining after shedding of the extracellular domain of megalin. Megalin-immunoreactive oligodendrocytes also expressed presenilin 1, an enzyme responsible for gamma-secretase mediated endodomain cleavage. These findings show that spinal cord oligodendrocytes are phenotypically different from those in the brain, and indicate that megalin translocates signals from the cell membrane to the nucleus of oligodendrocytes during the formation and maintenance of myelin of long spinal cord pathways.


With the advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy, human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) is becoming a more chronic, manageable disease; nevertheless, the prevalence of neurological complications of AIDS is increasing. In this study, protein levels of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine transporter (DAT) in the substantia nigra of HIV-infected brains and -seronegative controls were determined by immunoblotting. The immunoreactivity of neuronal specific enolase (NSE) was used to assess cell loss. Although there were no changes in levels of immunoreactive DAT or NSE proteins in HIV brains, levels of immunoreactive TH were significantly reduced, relative to controls. These results suggest that decreases in TH, the rate-limiting enzyme of dopamine synthesis, may be a factor in the neurological manifestations of HIV infection.
Myeloid sarcoma (MS) is a malignant tumour of myeloblasts rarely occurring in the maxillary bone. The tumour may precede or be concurrent with leukaemic infiltration of the bone marrow or herald blastic transformation of a myelodysplastic syndrome or a chronic myeloproliferative disorder. Myeloid sarcoma is uncommon in the oral cavity, but it can involve the palate, gingiva, extraction socket, and cheek. Recognition and diagnosis of myeloid sarcoma involving the soft tissues of the oral cavity in an otherwise asymptomatic patient is important and mandates an appropriate haematological diagnostic workup. We herein report on a new case without any evidence of haematological disorders. We discuss the pathological diagnosis and the therapeutical approaches.


Indiplon (NBI 34060) is a novel pyrazolopyrimidine currently in development for the treatment of insomnia. We have previously shown that indiplon exhibits high-affinity binding to native GABA(A) receptors from rat brain and acts as a positive allosteric modulator of GABA(A) receptor currents in cultured rat neurons (Sullivan et al., 2004). In this study, we examined the GABA(A) receptor alpha subunit selectivity of indiplon using electrophysiological techniques to record GABA-activated chloride currents from recombinant rodent GABA(A) receptors expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 cells. Indiplon potentiated the GABA-activated chloride current in recombinant GABA(A) receptors in a dose-dependent and reversible manner and was approximately 10-fold selective for alpha1 subunit-containing receptors over GABA(A) receptors containing alpha2, alpha3, or alpha5 subunits. The EC(50) values were 2.6, 24, 60, and 77 nM for alpha1beta2gamma2, alpha2beta2gamma2, alpha3beta3gamma2, and alpha5beta2gamma2 receptors, respectively. Indiplon was approximately 10 times more potent than zolpidem and zopiclone and &gt;100 times more potent than zaleplon. Moreover, indiplon, up to 1 microM, did not potentiate GABA(A) receptors composed of alpha4beta2gamma2 and alpha6beta2gamma2 subunits. This mechanism of action is proposed to underlie the sedative-hypnotic effects of indiplon in animals and humans.
Cocaine-amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART), a neuropeptide involved in the brain's reward/reinforcement circuit, modulates the effects of psychostimulants, including cocaine. The CART gene has been characterized, and binding sites for multiple transcription factors have been identified within the promoter region, including the cAMP-response element, which serves as a binding site for cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB). CART expression appears to be regulated via cAMP/protein kinase A (PKA)/CREB-mediated signaling in cell culture. Therefore, the goal of these studies was to examine the involvement of cAMP/PKA/CREB-mediated signaling in CART mRNA and peptide expression in vivo in the rat nucleus accumbens. Intra-accumbal injections of forskolin, an adenylyl cyclase activator, stimulated the phosphorylation of CREB and increased both CART mRNA and peptide levels, an effect attenuated by inhibition of PKA with H89 [N-(2-[p-bromocinnamylamino]ethyl)-5-isoquinoline-sulfonamide hydrochloride] and adenosine-3',5'-cyclic monophosphorothioate, Rp-isomer (Rp-cAMPS). In addition, Rp-cAMPS alone decreased CART mRNA compared with saline-injected controls, suggesting that CART expression may be tonically regulated by PKA. Under certain conditions, cocaine increases CART mRNA levels; thus, we examined the effects of cocaine on forskolin-induced CART mRNA expression in the rat nucleus accumbens. Cocaine plus forskolin significantly increased CART mRNA over either of the drugs administered independently, suggesting that under conditions of heightened cAMP signaling, cocaine may impact CART gene expression. These results suggest that CART expression in vivo in the rat nucleus accumbens is regulated by adenylyl cyclase and cAMP/PKA-mediating signaling and, likely, through the activation of CREB.
Early pathogenic events in Alzheimer's disease (AD) involve increased production and/or reduced clearance of beta-amyloid (Abeta), especially the 42 amino acid fragment Abeta1-42. The Abeta1-42 peptide is generated through cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein by beta- and gamma-secretase and is catabolised by a variety of proteolytic enzymes such as insulin-degrading enzyme and neprilysin. Here, we describe a method that employs immunoprecipitation combined with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry to determine the pattern of C-terminally truncated Abeta peptides in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Using antibodies coupled to magnetic beads, we have detected 18 C-terminally and 2 N-terminally truncated Abeta peptides in CSF. By determining the identity and profile of the truncated Abeta peptides, more insight may be gained about differences in the metabolism and structural properties of Abeta in AD. Finally, the Abeta fragment signatures may prove useful as a diagnostic test for AD.
The study examined long-term outcomes (mortality, substance use, mental health, employment, criminal involvement) among a cocaine-dependent sample. This 12-year follow-up study, conducted in 2002-2003, updates information obtained at intake and two face-to-face interviews conducted in 1990-1991 and 1991-1992 among 321 male cocaine-dependent veterans admitted to drug treatment in 1988-1989. At the 2002-2003 follow-up, 28 had died and 266 were interviewed. A mixed model examining the longitudinal relationships demonstrated that treatment was associated with lower levels of cocaine use over the 12-year follow-up period after entry into the index treatment and more stable recovery (i.e., continuously abstinent from cocaine for at least 5 years). Few measures at intake predicted stable recovery at follow-up: only being White (vs. being African American) and having greater confidence in ability to avoid cocaine use in high-risk situations. Individuals achieving stable recovery reported less psychiatric symptoms, criminal involvement, and unemployment during the year prior to the interview. Adverse outcomes were apparent for a significant number of cocaine-dependent users who continued to use cocaine for a long period.

While scientific publishing is not typically taught to undergraduate students, we believe that an in-depth exposure to this topic might prove useful to those contemplating careers in neuroscience research or scientific writing and publishing. Here we describe a course designed to introduce students to most aspects of online publishing, from the details of editing to the ethics of scientific communication, from the specifics of how an online website works to the general debate between open-access and for-profit publishing. By having students learn about the theoretical issues in refereeing while actually reviewing submissions for the journal IMPULSE, the students gain practical knowledge about scientific publishing, a deeper understanding of the contemporary research environment, and intellectual confidence.
It is generally believed that students learn best through activities that require their direct participation. By using simulations as a tool for learning neuroscience, students are directly engaged in the activity and obtain immediate feedback and reinforcement. This paper describes a series of biophysical models and computer simulations that can be used by educators and students to explore a variety of basic principles in neuroscience. The paper also suggests 'virtual laboratory' exercises that students may conduct to further examine biophysical processes underlying neural function. First, the Hodgkin and Huxley (HH) model is presented. The HH model is used to illustrate the action potential, threshold phenomena, and nonlinear dynamical properties of neurons (e.g., oscillations, postinhibitory rebound excitation). Second, the Morris-Lecar (ML) model is presented. The ML model is used to develop a model of a bursting neuron and to illustrate modulation of neuronal activity by intracellular ions. Lastly, principles of synaptic transmission are presented in small neural networks, which illustrate oscillatory behavior, excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, and temporal summation.
Desirable objectives for laboratory-based science courses include fostering skills in problem solving and reasoning, enhancing data fluency, and encouraging consideration of science as an integrative enterprise. An effective means of reaching these objectives is to structure learning experiences around interesting problems in our own research. In this article, we explore the idea of using extracellular single-unit electrophysiological data as a substrate for student investigatory exercises as a means of achieving many of these objectives. In the article, we provide an overview of extracellular single-unit recording techniques and discuss the organization of single-unit data files. In addition, we describe a multi-week module recently administered in an intermediate-level laboratory course and provide suggestions both for more limited exercises and for more advanced projects. Finally, we describe a companion website that provides to instructors considering implementing similar exercises access to a variety of resources, including software, sample data, and additional information.
For over 20 years, the Division of Undergraduate Education (DUE) at the National Science Foundation (NSF) has been supporting undergraduate curricula in the sciences, including neuroscience. NSF's priorities in undergraduate education, however, have evolved during that period, and the competition for grants has increased. This history and overview of the current Course, Curriculum and Laboratory Improvement program (CCLI) illustrates the changing philosophy of DUE with regard to its curricular programs. It is hoped that understanding the current emphasis on assessing the outcomes of curricular changes and disseminating their results will help interested science faculty write better proposals and compete more effectively for funds.
Frogs rely upon vocal communication to advertise for potential mates, to defend territory and to alarm neighbors of danger. Cells in the auditory midbrain of an awake frog display tuning to the spectral energy present in calls based upon discharge rate and encode the temporal properties of calls in the timing of their discharges. This laboratory experiment is designed to allow students to explore the relationship between stimulus amplitude or frequency and response rate, and how the timing of responses can also be used to encode behaviorally relevant features of the stimulus. Action potentials in the midbrain auditory nucleus, the torus semicularis, are evoked by delivery of free field sounds and recorded. Most cells are broadly tuned to frequency, yet some can be fairly precise in preserving periodic structure. The use of a comparative model of study should help students understand principles common among all sensory systems, and an appreciation that the architecture of each system is adaptively matched to the ethological task at hand.
Many eukaryotic and viral regulatory proteins are known to undergo posttranslational modifications including phosphorylation, which plays a critical role in many aspects of cell function. Previous studies from our and other laboratories indicated that the JC virus (JCV) late regulatory protein, agnoprotein, plays an important role in the JCV life cycle. Agnoprotein contains several potential phosphorylation sites, including Ser7, Ser11, and Thr21, which are potential targets for the serine/threonine-specific protein kinase C (PKC). In this study, we investigated the functional significance of these phosphorylation sites for the activity of agnoprotein. In vitro and in vivo kinase assays demonstrated that agnoprotein is a target for phosphorylation by PKC. In addition, each of the PKC phosphorylation sites was mutated to Ala singly and in combination, and the effects of these mutations on the JCV life cycle were analyzed. Although the expression of each mutant agnoprotein was detectable during the infection cycle, virus containing each of these mutations failed to propagate. These results contrast with those obtained with an agnoprotein start codon point (Pt) mutant where agnoprotein expression was completely inhibited. The Pt mutant was viable but replicates less efficiently than the wild type (WT). Moreover, conservative substitutions at PKC phosphorylation sites (Ser7, Ser11, and Thr21 to Asp) resulted in a viable virus, which further demonstrate the importance of these sites on agnoprotein function. Further analysis of the mutants by viral release assay and electron microscopy studies revealed that viral particles were efficiently released from infected cells and morphologically indistinguishable from those of WT but were deficient in DNA content. This may account for the defective propagation of the mutants. These results imply that phosphorylated forms of agnoprotein may have essential functions in the viral life cycle and serve as potential targets for therapeutic interventions to limit JCV propagation and JCV-induced diseases.
The herpes simplex virus (HSV)-based amplicon vector, a bacterial-viral-mammalian cell shuttle system, holds promise as a versatile gene delivery vehicle because of its large transgene capacity. However, amplicon-mediated transgene expression is often transient. We hypothesized that the presence of prokaryotic DNA sequences within the packaged vector genome can trigger transcriptional silencing of the entire vector sequence. To test this, we constructed a novel amplicon vector devoid of bacterial sequences (minicircle [MC] amplicon). Although the same dose of the minicircle amplicon vector in normal human fibroblasts resulted in an expression of luciferase approximately 20 times higher than that caused by the conventional amplicon vector, no significant difference was observed in copy numbers of luciferase DNA between MC amplicon- and control-transduced cells. Quantitative analyses of levels of luciferase mRNA revealed that differential expression of luciferase was controlled at the transcriptional level. Chromatin immunoprecipitation PCR analyses of several regions of vector genomes revealed that the bacterial sequences found in the conventional amplicon DNA were associated with an inactive form of chromatin immediately after infection. The presence of bacterial sequences also affected the remaining vector sequences in the conventional amplicon vector. Finally, nude mice injected with the MC amplicon exhibited higher and more sustained expression of luciferase than those injected with the conventional amplicon, confirming the usefulness of the MC amplicon devoid of bacterial sequences. Although additional improvements are absolutely required, these findings are a significant first step toward developing a novel HSV amplicon vector that can achieve enhanced long-term transgene expression.
In 2003, under the auspices of the main UK funders of biological and biomedical research, a working group was established with a remit to review potential welfare issues for genetically altered (GA) mice, to summarize current practice, and to recommend contemporary best practice for welfare assessments. The working group has produced a report which makes practical recommendations for GA mouse welfare assessment and dissemination of welfare information between establishments using a 'mouse passport'. The report can be found at www.nc3rs.org.uk/GAmice and www.lal.org.uk/gaa and includes templates for the recommended welfare assessment scheme and the mouse passport. An overview is provided below.
In this review we discuss the epidemiological, clinical, and genetic characteristics of early-onset parkinsonism, defined as parkinsonism starting before age 40 (sometimes 50) years. Juvenile parkinsonism is very rare and is the result of various secondary or genetic causes. In patients with onset at or above age 21 years, secondary causes require exclusion but are rare; most cases with a fairly pure parkinsonian syndrome (eg, young-onset Parkinson's disease; YOPD) are due to typical Lewy-body Parkinson's disease or, less commonly, genetic causes. In comparison with patients with late-onset disease, most patients with YOPD progress more slowly in terms of motor features and have a longer disease course with preservation of cognitive function, but typically develop motor fluctuations and dyskinesias earlier. Patients with YOPD generally experience a greater effect in their lives than those with late onset, with poorer social adjustment, higher rates of depression, and lower quality of life. Management of YOPD must therefore aim to maintain occupational, social, and daily functioning, while delaying or ameliorating motor complications of treatment, providing psychological support, and, where possible, preventing psychiatric complications including depression.
The fiber tracts generated using diffusion MRI are usually simply displayed and assessed visually for a specific clinical or medical research purpose. This paper proposes computational techniques that can be used to study the shape of the tracts and make interindividual comparisons. These methods make use of fundamental geometric invariants, such as curvatures and torsions, or Fourier descriptors, together with the link of a pair of curves. Intersubject comparisons only require that the starting and ending points of the tracts can be defined and do not require point-by-point correspondences such as obtained using image registration. Principal component analysis-based shape analysis is also investigated. The invariants are tested on simulations and in vivo datasets, and the scale dependence and noise sensitivity of the measures are assessed. The potential for these techniques to be used in neuroscience research and clinical applications is demonstrated.

Cellular therapy is the replacement of unhealthy or damaged cells or tissues by new ones. Embryonic stem (ES) cells are undifferentiated cells that can generate all the cell types of the body, and therefore hold the potential to cure a broad range of diseases and injuries, ranging from diabetes, liver and heart diseases, to neurological diseases, such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. The derivation of human ES (hES) cells has been a major step toward bringing ES cell research to therapy. However, there are several challenges to the advent of ES cell research to therapy. Among them, the derivation of hES cell lines devoid of animal contaminants, the maintenance of their normal karyotypes, their potentials to form tumors upon grafting, and the derivation of isogenic hES cell lines. Stringent ethical and political guidelines are also limiting the use of human embryos for research, thereby limiting progress in ES cell research. Recently, several investigators have devised protocols to derive hES cells free of feeder layer and animal serum, reported that some established cell lines remain stable overtime, pre-differentiated ES cells in vitro to circumvent the risk of tumor formation, and derived ES cell lines without destroying embryos. In this manuscript, we will review and discuss these developments that may unlock ES cell research and therapy.
Proxies typically serve as information providers in studies of persons with intellectual disabilities. However, little is known about the concordance between different proxy categories and how proxy characteristics influence the information provided. We compared 89 pairs of relative and staff reports on the living conditions of persons with intellectual disabilities, using percentage agreement and Cohen's kappa statistics. Results demonstrate differences between relative and staff reports for most of the domains investigated, with moderate agreement for objective items and fair agreement for subjective items. Relative and staff proxies contributed different information related to diverse viewpoints and varying types of information. Thus, we suggest that information provided by proxies should not be treated as being interchangeable but, rather, as complementary.
Genetic defects in polymerase eta (pol eta; hRad30a gene) result in xeroderma pigmentosum variant syndrome (XP-V), and XP-V patients are sensitive to sunlight and highly prone to cancer development. Here, we show that pol eta plays a significant role in modulating cellular sensitivity to DNA-targeting anticancer agents. When compared with normal human fibroblast cells, pol eta-deficient cells derived from XP-V patients were 3-fold more sensitive to beta-d-arabinofuranosylcytosine, gemcitabine, or cis-diamminedichloroplatinum (cisplatin) single-agent treatments and at least 10-fold more sensitive to the gemcitabine/cisplatin combination treatment, a commonly used clinical regimen for treating a wide spectrum of cancers. Cellular and biochemical analyses strongly suggested that the higher sensitivity of XP-V cells to these agents was due to the inability of pol eta-deficient cells to help resume the DNA replication process paused by the gemcitabine/cisplatin-introduced DNA lesions. These results indicated that pol eta can play an important role in determining the cellular sensitivity to therapeutic agents. The findings not only illuminate pol eta as a potential pharmacologic target for developing new anticancer agents but also provide new directions for improving future chemotherapy regimen design considering the use of nucleoside analogues and cisplatin derivatives.
CrkRS is a Cdc2-related protein kinase that contains an arginine- and serine-rich (SR) domain, a characteristic of the SR protein family of splicing factors, and is proposed to be involved in RNA processing. However, whether it acts together with a cyclin and at which steps it may function to regulate RNA processing are not clear. Here, we report that CrkRS interacts with cyclin L1 and cyclin L2, and thus rename it as the long form of cyclin-dependent kinase 12 (CDK12(L)). A shorter isoform of CDK12, CDK12(S), that differs from CDK12(L) only at the carboxyl end, was also identified. Both isoforms associate with cyclin L1 through interactions mediated by the kinase domain and the cyclin domain, suggesting a bona fide CDK/cyclin partnership. Furthermore, CDK12 isoforms alter the splicing pattern of an E1a minigene, and the effect is potentiated by the cyclin domain of cyclin L1. When expression of CDK12 isoforms is perturbed by small interfering RNAs, a reversal of the splicing choices is observed. The activity of CDK12 on splicing is counteracted by SF2/ASF and SC35, but not by SRp40, SRp55, and SRp75. Together, our findings indicate that CDK12 and cyclin L1/L2 are cyclin-dependent kinase and cyclin partners and regulate alternative splicing.
A growing body of evidence suggests that axonal loss and neurodegeneration are responsible for the permanent neurological deficit that typically develops in the course of MS. To investigate the neurodegenerative component of MS pathogenesis, we examined the expression of alpha-synuclein, a protein whose accumulation is common to many neurodegenerative disorders, under conditions of immune-mediated inflammatory demyelination. alpha-Synuclein expression was examined in the spinal cord of myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in rats using immunofluorescence and in situ hybridization and in postmortem tissues from cases of secondary progressive MS using immunohistochemistry. alpha-Synuclein upregulation was detected in neurons and glia in and close by lesions and in normal appearing spinal cord EAE tissue at the protein and mRNA levels. alpha-Synuclein positive neurons and glia appeared early, and their number was maximal during EAE exacerbations, but some expression was maintained throughout the course of EAE. In addition, increased alpha-synuclein expression was detected in neurons and glia in and close to MS lesions. Although the increased expression of alpha-synuclein was detected as a granular cytoplasmic labeling rather than inclusion bodies, this result does suggest that neuronal cell death in immune-mediated demyelinating disease may share some common features with other neurodegenerative conditions.
During development of the neuromuscular junction, nerve-derived agrin and the cell substrate laminin stimulate postsynaptic nAChR clustering. This clustering is dependent on activation of the tyrosine kinase, MuSK, which signals receptor clustering via a rapsyn-dependent mechanism. Myogenin is a muscle-specific transcription factor that controls myoblast differentiation and nAChR gene expression. Here, we used RNA interference to investigate if myogenin is also necessary for nAChR clustering. We find that myogenin expression is essential for robust nAChR clustering and cannot be compensated by the muscle regulatory factors MyoD, myf5, and MRF4. In addition, we show that clustering cannot be rescued in myogenin-depleted myotubes by simply overexpressing the essential clustering molecules MuSK, rapsyn, and nAChRs. These data suggest that myogenin controls the expression of molecules crucial to nAChR clustering in addition to its role in regulating nAChR gene expression.
The histamine H3 receptor is an attractive G protein-coupled receptor drug target that regulates neurotransmission in the central nervous system and plays a role in cognitive and homeostatic functions. Drug discovery efforts by numerous pharmaceutical companies have focused on the preclinical development of H3 receptor antagonists for the potential treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, dementias, schizophrenia, as well as obesity and sleep disorders. This receptor exhibits molecular, pharmacological, and functional heterogeneity that informs the preclinical development of effective antagonists. Herein, we describe the biological and chemical implications for developing H3 receptor antagonists and their therapeutic potential as disclosed through animal models of cognition, sleep, and obesity.
The accumulation of amyloid-beta peptides in the brain is a major factor of Alzheimer Disease. Central to the production of the amyloid-beta peptides are the proteolytic secretases, which, recently, have been important targets of drug discovery. Newly published results indicate that the sorting protein-related receptor sorLA/LR11 regulates processing and trafficking of the precursor of the amyloid-beta peptides, revealing an alternative target for developing molecular clinical therapeutic compounds for Alzheimer Disease.
Recent studies of G protein-coupled receptors have highlighted two &quot;new&quot; and interactive elements involved in their function and regulation: their ability to localize to different cell surface and intracellular compartments and their ability to interact with partners other than their classic heterotrimeric G proteins. The effects mediated by these receptors can be markedly different depending on the compartment in which they reside and the partners with which they interact in each compartment. The studies in this issue of Molecular Pharmacology by Milojevi et al. (page 1083) merge these two themes by identifying the ubiquitin-specific protease Usp4 as a partner for the carboxyl-terminal tail of adenosine A2A receptors and showing that this interaction allows processing and delivery to the cell surface of newly synthesized A2A receptors, which are otherwise predominantly intracellular. Their studies suggest that the intracellular A2A receptors are ubiquitinated, presumably because of misfolding and intervention of the &quot;endoplasmic reticulum quality control&quot; mechanism leading to degradation of the receptors by proteasomes. Increasing Usp4 expression stimulates receptor de-ubiquitination and increases cell surface expression of functional receptors. Evidence is presented for tight specificity of this interaction, with another Usp family member failing to rescue A2A receptors and Usp4 failing to rescue another intracellular receptor. The background and significance of this study are highlighted here, including puzzles that remain to be solved and the potential for pharmacological targeting of such interactions to manipulate the expression, location, and function of G protein-coupled receptors for therapeutic benefit.
Neurotrophins are a family of secreted proteins that play an important role in the development, differentiation, and survival of neurons. Studies also suggest that aberrant neurotrophin signaling may play a role in processes underlying disease states such as schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease, and depression. Whereas the development of agents that selectively stimulate neurotrophin signaling has proven to be difficult, compounds have been identified that potentiate neurotrophin 3 (NT-3)-mediated activation of trk A. In the present studies, we extend those initial observations to identify compounds that also potentiate NT-3-mediated activation of trk B. Compound potentiation of NT-3 was observed using several readouts of transfected and endogenous trk receptor activity, including trk receptor phosphorylation, mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphorylation, reporter assay activity (beta-lactamase and luciferase), cell survival and neurite extension assays. Studies using chimeric trk receptors demonstrated that the extracellular domain is essential for compound potentiation and rule out interaction with intracellular signaling molecules as a mechanism of compound activity. Thus, the present studies demonstrate that trk B receptor activity can be potentiated by small-molecule compounds via the extracellular domain of the receptor and provide reagents for further evaluating the role of NT-3-mediated trk A and trk B activity in vivo.
We describe a peculiar parasomnia observed in four Costello infants, characterized by periodic rhythmic movements of the tongue. Ten Costello patients (4 male; age range 9 months to 29 years) underwent 1 full-night laboratory-based video polysomnography. The four youngest patients (2 male and 2 female; age range 9-31 months) presented during sleep repeated stereotyped movements of the tongue, producing a sucking-like or licking-like movement, mostly during non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep. Rhythmic tongue movements in Costello syndrome show the features of an NREM sleep parasomnia. Tongue movements during sleep probably originate from brainstem structures and could be facilitated by an impaired control of the oropharyngeal and tongue muscles.
There is a need for new medication for essential tremor (ET). Preliminary evidence suggests that amantadine may be effective in the treatment of ET. We studied the effects of amantadine in a double-blind, cross-over, placebo-controlled trial in ET patients. Sixteen patients with ET received amantadine 100 mg b.i.d. and placebo for 15 days, with a 1-week wash-out period between treatments. Major evaluation outcomes consisted of a tremor clinical rating scale, accelerometric recordings, and a self-reported disability scale obtained before drug intake and on study days 1 and 15 of each treatment period. A two-way repeated measures analysis of variance (treatment, time) was applied. Any P value &lt; 0.05 was considered significant. On day 15, amantadine did not demonstrate any significant efficacy in reducing tremor with respect to baseline in any tremor measures. An increase in postural tremor as an adverse effect of amantadine was referred by 37.5% of patients. Results from the present trial indicate amantadine at 100 mg b.i.d. is not effective as a treatment for ET.
Anticholinesterase (AChE) drugs are being prescribed off label for nonmotor symptoms in Parkinson's disease (PD). Theoretically, these drugs can impair motor function. A small literature suggests AChE therapy has little effect on clinical motor evaluation; however, no study has made objective motor kinematic measures or evaluated brain function. We hypothesized that even if clinical examination was normal in PD patients on dopamine therapy, (1) sensitive kinematic measures would be abnormal during AChE therapy or (2) normal kinematic measures would be maintained by compensatory brain activation. We carried out a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of 8 weeks donepezil (10 mg/day) in 17 PD subjects. Subjects carried out a computerized motor task during a positron emission tomography (PET) scan before starting the drug and again after 8 weeks of donepezil or placebo. Kinematic measures of motor function and PET scans were analyzed to compare the effects of donepezil and placebo. Neither placebo nor donepezil altered motor kinematic measures. Furthermore, movement integrity while on donepezil was maintained without compensatory brain activity. Donepezil 10 mg/day can be given for nonmotor symptoms in PD without adverse motor effects or compensatory brain activity.

This study evaluates the effects of dynamic foot orthoses (DFO) on walking and balance performance in people with multiple sclerosis (MS). Sixteen ambulant subjects with MS and ten age-matched healthy control subjects were studied on initial receipt of foot orthoses and after four weeks of daily wear. Walking speed, MS Walking Scale-12 (MSWS-12) and standing balance were assessed with and without orthoses at both these times. During standing, stance width and vision were varied, and performance was quantified using the velocity of the centre of pressure (COP), body sway velocity and the mean COP position relative to the shoe. People with MS walked slower (P &lt;0.001) and showed increased sway when standing (P &lt;0.001). At the first assessment, the foot orthoses caused an increase in sway and a medial and posterior shift of the COP position. At repeat measurement, the DFOs continued to increase sway compared to a shoe only condition. However, MS subjects reported an improvement in the MSWS-12 (P &lt;0.05) and, compared to the initial session, showed decreased sway when eyes were closed both with and without DFOs. Dynamic foot orthoses may increase sway and change COP position by altering foot alignment and/or plantar afferent stimulation. Improvement in body sway over time may be an overall training effect of the DFOs, as MS subjects adapt to the initial de-stabilization.


Calcium (Ca2+) influx through NMDA receptors (NMDARs) is essential for synaptogenesis, experience-dependent synaptic remodeling and plasticity. The NMDAR-mediated rise in postsynaptic Ca2+ activates a network of kinases and phosphatases that promote persistent changes in synaptic strength, such as long-term potentiation (LTP). Here we show that the Ca2+ permeability of neuronal NMDARs is under the control of the cyclic AMP-protein kinase A (cAMP-PKA) signaling cascade. PKA blockers reduced the relative fractional Ca2+ influx through NMDARs as determined by reversal potential shift analysis and by a combination of electrical recording and Ca2+ influx measurements in rat hippocampal neurons in culture and hippocampal slices from mice. In slices, PKA blockers markedly inhibited NMDAR-mediated Ca2+ rises in activated dendritic spines, with no significant effect on synaptic current. Consistent with this, PKA blockers depressed the early phase of NMDAR-dependent LTP at hippocampal Schaffer collateral-CA1 (Sch-CA1) synapses. Our data link PKA-dependent synaptic plasticity to Ca2+ signaling in spines and thus provide a new mechanism whereby PKA regulates the induction of LTP.
To better understand the molecular mechanisms of depression and antidepressant action, we administered chronic social defeat stress followed by chronic imipramine (a tricyclic antidepressant) to mice and studied adaptations at the levels of gene expression and chromatin remodeling of five brain-derived neurotrophic factor (Bdnf) splice variant mRNAs (I-V) and their unique promoters in the hippocampus. Defeat stress induced lasting downregulation of Bdnf transcripts III and IV and robustly increased repressive histone methylation at their corresponding promoters. Chronic imipramine reversed this downregulation and increased histone acetylation at these promoters. This hyperacetylation by chronic imipramine was associated with a selective downregulation of histone deacetylase (Hdac) 5. Furthermore, viral-mediated HDAC5 overexpression in the hippocampus blocked imipramine's ability to reverse depression-like behavior. These experiments underscore an important role for histone remodeling in the pathophysiology and treatment of depression and highlight the therapeutic potential for histone methylation and deacetylation inhibitors in depression.
Neural activity elicited by an event can predict whether the event is successfully encoded into memory. Here we assessed whether memory encoding relies not only on neural activity that follows an event, but also on activity that precedes it. In two experiments we found that human brain activity elicited by a cue presented just before a word could predict whether the word would be recollected in a later memory test.
Parkinson disease is a complex, multifactorial neurodegenerative disease. Although a heritable basis was originally thought unlikely, recent studies have implicated several genes in its pathogenesis, and molecular findings now allow accurate diagnosis and challenge past criteria for defining Parkinson disease. Most importantly, genetic insights provide the rationale for new strategies for prevention or therapy, and have led to animal models of disease in which these strategies can be tested. Neuroprotective therapies can now be designed to slow or halt disease progression in affected subjects and asymptomatic carriers.
Despite the explosive growth of bioinformatics, data sharing has not yet become routine in neuroscience, possibly because of several broad-spanning issues, from data heterogeneity to privacy regulations. We present the case of neuronal morphology as an ideal example of shareable data. Drawing from recent experience, we argue that the tremendous research potential of existing (and largely unused) digital reconstructions should diffuse any reticence to sharing this type of data.
Neuroscience is increasingly identifying associations between biology and violence that appear to offer courts evidence relevant to criminal responsibility. In addition, in a policy era of 'zero tolerance of risk', evidence of biological abnormality in some of those who are violent, or biological markers of violence, may be seized on as a possible basis for preventive detention in the interest of public safety. However, there is a mismatch between questions that the courts and society wish answered and those that neuroscience is capable of answering. This poses a risk to the proper exercise of justice and to civil liberties.
Everyone ages, but only some will develop a neurodegenerative disorder in the process. Disease might occur when cells fail to respond adaptively to age-related increases in oxidative, metabolic and ionic stress, thereby resulting in the accumulation of damaged proteins, DNA and membranes. Determinants of neuronal vulnerability might include cell size and location, metabolism of disease-specific proteins and a repertoire of signal transduction pathways and stress resistance mechanisms. Emerging evidence on protein interaction networks that monitor and respond to the normal ageing process suggests that successful neural ageing is possible for most people, but also cautions that cures for neurodegenerative disorders are unlikely in the near future.
Social interaction is a cornerstone of human life, yet the neural mechanisms underlying social cognition are poorly understood. Recently, research that integrates approaches from neuroscience and social psychology has begun to shed light on these processes, and converging evidence from neuroimaging studies suggests a unique role for the medial frontal cortex. We review the emerging literature that relates social cognition to the medial frontal cortex and, on the basis of anatomical and functional characteristics of this brain region, propose a theoretical model of medial frontal cortical function relevant to different aspects of social cognitive processing.
Recent studies have employed simple linear dynamical systems to model trial-by-trial dynamics in various sensorimotor learning tasks. Here we explore the theoretical and practical considerations that arise when employing the general class of linear dynamical systems (LDS) as a model for sensorimotor learning. In this framework, the state of the system is a set of parameters that define the current sensorimotor transformation-the function that maps sensory inputs to motor outputs. The class of LDS models provides a first-order approximation for any Markovian (state-dependent) learning rule that specifies the changes in the sensorimotor transformation that result from sensory feedback on each movement. We show that modeling the trial-by-trial dynamics of learning provides a substantially enhanced picture of the process of adaptation compared to measurements of the steady state of adaptation derived from more traditional blocked-exposure experiments. Specifically, these models can be used to quantify sensory and performance biases, the extent to which learned changes in the sensorimotor transformation decay over time, and the portion of motor variability due to either learning or performance variability. We show that previous attempts to fit such models with linear regression have not generally yielded consistent parameter estimates. Instead, we present an expectation-maximization algorithm for fitting LDS models to experimental data and describe the difficulties inherent in estimating the parameters associated with feedback-driven learning. Finally, we demonstrate the application of these methods in a simple sensorimotor learning experiment: adaptation to shifted visual feedback during reaching.
Many of our daily activities are supported by behavioural goals that guide the selection of actions, which allow us to reach these goals effectively. Goals are considered to be important for action observation since they allow the observer to copy the goal of the action without the need to use the exact same means. The importance of being able to use different action means becomes evident when the observer and observed actor have different bodies (robots and humans) or bodily measurements (parents and children), or when the environments of actor and observer differ substantially (when an obstacle is present or absent in either environment). A selective focus on the action goals instead of the action means furthermore circumvents the need to consider the vantage point of the actor, which is consistent with recent findings that people prefer to represent the actions of others from their own individual perspective. In this paper, we use a computational approach to investigate how knowledge about action goals and means are used in action observation. We hypothesise that in action observation human agents are primarily interested in identifying the goals of the observed actor's behaviour. Behavioural cues (e.g. the way an object is grasped) may help to disambiguate the goal of the actor (e.g. whether a cup is grasped for drinking or handing it over). Recent advances in cognitive neuroscience are cited in support of the model's architecture.
Recent computational approaches to action imitation have advocated the use of hierarchical representations in the perception and imitation of demonstrated actions. Hierarchical representations present several advantages, with the main one being their ability to process information at multiple levels of detail. However, the nature of the hierarchies in these approaches has remained relatively unsophisticated, and their relation with biological evidence has not been investigated in detail, in particular with respect to the timing of movements. Following recent neuroscience work on the modulation of the premotor mirror neuron activity during the observation of unpredictable grasping movements, we present here an implementation of our HAMMER architecture using the minimum variance model for implementing reaching and grasping movements that have biologically plausible trajectories. Subsequently, we evaluate the performance of our model in matching the temporal dynamics of the modulation of cortical excitability during the passive observation of normal and unpredictable movements of human demonstrators.
Brain metastases are an increasingly frequent and serious clinical problem for cancer patients, especially those with advanced melanoma. Given the extensive tropism of neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) for pathological areas in the central nervous system, we expanded investigations to determine whether NSPCs could also target multiple sites of brain metastases in a syngeneic experimental melanoma model. Using cytosine deaminase-expressing NSPCs (CD-NSPCs) and systemic 5-fluorocytosine (5-FC) pro-drug administration, we explored their potential as a cell-based targeted drug delivery system to disseminated brain metastases. Our results indicate a strong tropism of NSPCs for intracerebral melanoma metastases. Furthermore, in our therapeutic paradigm, animals with established melanoma brain metastasis received intracranial implantation of CD-NSPCs followed by systemic 5-FC treatment, resulting in a significant (71%) reduction in tumor burden. These data provide proof of principle for the use of NSPCs for targeted delivery of therapeutic gene products to melanoma brain metastases.
It is increasingly appreciated that failures in the ubiquitin-proteasome system play a pivotal role in the neuropathogenesis of many neurological disorders. This system, involved in protein quality control, should degrade misfolded proteins, but apparently during neuropathogenesis, it is unable to cope with a number of proteins that, by themselves, can consequently accumulate. Ubiquitin is essential for ATP-dependent protein degradation by the proteasome. Ubiquitin+1 (UBB+1) is generated by a dinucleotide deletion (DeltaGU) in UBB mRNA. The aberrant protein has a 19 amino acid extension and has lost the ability to ubiquitinate. Instead of targeting proteins for degradation, it has acquired a dual substrate-inhibitor function; ubiquitinated UBB+1 is a substrate for proteasomal degradation, but can at higher concentrations inhibit, proteasomal degradation. Furthermore, UBB+1 protein accumulates in neurons and glial cells in a disease-specific way, and this event is an indication for proteasomal dysfunction. Many neurological and non-neurological conformational diseases have the accumulation of misfolded proteins and of UBB+1 in common, and this combined accumulation results in the promotion of insoluble protein deposits and neuronal cell death as shown in a cellular model of Huntington's disease.
Most, if not all, neurodegenerative diseases are marked by the presence of ubiquitin-positive protein inclusions. How proteins within these inclusion bodies escape proteasomal degradation despite being enriched with ubiquitin remains a conundrum. Current evidence suggests a relationship between proteasomal impairment and inclusion formation, a persuasive explanation for the inability of the cell to remove ubiquitinated protein aggregates. Alternatively, the formation of ubiquitin-enriched inclusion may be uncoupled from the proteasome. Supporting this, we recently uncovered a novel, proteasomal-independent, catalytic activity for the Parkinson disease (PD)-linked ubiquitin ligase, parkin, that significantly enhances the formation of Lewy body (LB)-like inclusions generated in cultured cells by the co-expression of alpha-synuclein and synphilin-1. This unique activity of parkin mediates a non-classical, lysine (K) 63-linked ubiquitin multichain assembly on synphilin-1 that is distinct from the classical, degradation-associated, K48-linked ubiquitination. Interestingly, two other PD-linked gene products, alpha-synuclein and UCHL1, have recently also been associated with K63-linked ubiquitination. Inclusive of parkin, there are therefore now three PD-related gene products that are known to potentiate K63-linked ubiquitination, thus signalling an important functional relationship between this unique mode of ubiquitin tagging and PD pathogenesis. Mechanistically, the involvement of a &quot;non-degradative&quot; mode of ubiquitination in protein inclusion formation is an attractive explanation for how proteins are seemingly stabilized within inclusions.
Previous studies indicated there is an overall increase of proteolysis in aging rat brains. We monitored the potential degradation of cytoskeletal proteins in neuronal tissue taken from cerebral cortex and cerebellum of young (3 month) and aging (17, 21 and 23.5 month) Wistar rats. We found significant age-dependent proteolysis of cytoskeletal proteins (alphaII-spectrin and microtubule-associated protein MAP-2A/B) in the cerebral cortex and the cerebellum. The pattern of alphaII-spectrin breakdown shows a marked increase in 150- and 145-kDa fragments (SBDP150 and SBDP145, respectively), but we did not detect the caspase-3-mediated 120-kDa fragment (SBDP120) in aged rat brains, suggesting the involvement of the calpain proteases. The pattern of MAP-2A/B breakdown in aged rat brains mirrors that produced by in vitro calpain digestion of 3-month control rat brain MAP-2A/B. In aged rat brains, there is no significant increase in pro-caspase-3 processing; rather, there is a moderate reduction in pro-caspase-3 protein and caspase-3 hydrolytic activity in the cortex. These results point to selective susceptibility of cytoskeletal proteins to calpain-mediated degradation, but not caspase-3 in aging rat brains.
Evidence indicates that oxidative stress-induced damage to DNA, protein, and other cellular components contributes to the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Several studies indicate that postmitotic neurons have a reduced capacity for some types of DNA repair, which is further compromised by aging. Thus in AD, the cellular response to increased oxidative DNA damage may be inadequate to protect the genome. Mammalian cells use several mechanisms to repair DNA damage generated during normal oxidative metabolism or by genotoxic insults. The predominant mechanism to repair double strand breaks is non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) which utilizes the DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK) complex. A cell-free DNA end joining assay was employed to determine if NHEJ was reduced in nuclear cortical extracts from brains of AD versus normal subjects. This report demonstrates that end joining activity and protein levels of DNA-PK catalytic subunit are significantly lower in AD brains compared to normal controls. The amount of end joining activity correlates with the expression of DNA-PK and is dependent on DNA-PK catalytic activity. This indicates that repair of DNA double-strand breaks by the DNA-PK-dependent NHEJ pathway may be deficient in AD.
Early onset torsion dystonia is a movement disorder inherited as an autosomal dominant syndrome with reduced penetrance. Symptoms appear to result from altered neuronal circuitry within the brain with no evidence of neuronal loss. Most cases are caused by loss of a glutamic acid residue in the AAA+ chaperone protein, torsinA, encoded in the DYT1 gene. In this study, torsinA was found to move in conjunction with vimentin in three cell culture paradigms-recovery from microtubule depolymerization, expression of a dominant-negative form of kinesin light chain and respreading after trypsinization. Co-immune precipitation studies revealed association between vimentin and torsinA in a complex including other cytoskeletal elements, actin and tubulin, as well as two proteins previously shown to interact with torsinA-the motor protein, kinesin light chain 1, and the nuclear envelope protein, LAP1. Morphologic and functional differences related to vimentin were noted in primary fibroblasts from patients carrying this DYT1 mutation as compared with controls, including an increased perinuclear concentration of vimentin and a delayed rate of adhesion to the substratum. Overexpression of mutant torsinA inhibited neurite extension in human neuroblastoma cells, with torsinA and vimentin immunoreactivity enriched in the perinuclear region and in cytoplasmic inclusions. Collectively, these studies suggest that mutant torsinA interferes with cytoskeletal events involving vimentin, possibly by restricting movement of these particles/filaments, and hence may affect development of neuronal pathways in the brain.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1A (CMT1A) is commonly associated with duplication of the peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22) gene. Mice expressing seven copies of the human PMP22, termed C22, suffer from a demyelinating neuropathy and display phenotypic traits of CMT1A. In this article, we investigate whether protein aggregates play a role in the CMT1A-like pathology of C22 mice. Utilizing biochemical and immunochemical tools, we found slowed turnover rate of the newly-synthesized PMP22 and the presence of cytoplasmic protein aggregates in affected nerves. The formation of these aggregates correlates with reduced proteasome activity and the accumulation of detergent-insoluble ubiquitinated substrates. A fraction of the aggregates associates with autophagosomes and lysosomes. Together, these data indicate that as a result of missorting and inefficient proteasomal degradation, the aggregation of PMP22 and recruitment of autophagosomes and lysosomes are key factors in the subcellular pathogenesis of CMT1A neuropathies.
The nitric oxide-releasing derivative of flurbiprofen, NCX 2216, has a safer gastrointestinal profile than the parent drug flurbiprofen and a strong anti-amyloidogenic activity. Here, we show that in primary microglial cultures, in addition to the expected inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, NCX 2216 specifically activated the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma), a ligand-dependent transcription factor controlling several important microglial functions. Prolonged treatment (16 h) of microglial cultures with NCX 2216 induced PPAR-gamma nitration and prevented further activation of the receptor by specific agonists. At functional levels, NCX 2216 treatment of LPS-activated microglial cultures resulted in the transient reduction of TNF-alpha and NO production and in the protracted inhibition of IL-1beta and PGE2 synthesis. The dynamic regulation of the functional state of activated microglia by NCX 2216 helps explaining recent findings in Alzheimer's disease animal models and may offer new therapeutic opportunities for treating neurodegenerative diseases.
ALS is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder for which no effective treatment exists. Multiple molecular mechanisms are involved in the pathogenesis. We tested the catalytic antioxidant AEOL 10150, the histone deacetylase inhibitor phenylbutyrate (PBA), and the combination of PBA and AEOL 10150 in the G93A transgenic mouse model, administered from disease onset. AEOL 10150 alone improved motor function and extended survival by 11%, PBA alone significantly improved motor function and extended survival by 13%. PBA and AEOL 10150 together increased survival by 19%. Increased histone acetylation was confirmed by Western blot. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR analysis revealed upregulation of compounds capable of protecting cells against oxidative stress and apoptosis. Markers of oxidative damage were reduced in the lumbar spinal cord as compared to vehicle administration. These results suggest that agents inhibiting apoptosis and blocking oxidative stress show efficacy in treating mutant-SOD1-associated ALS and that a combination of agents targeting different disease mechanisms may exert additive therapeutic effects.
The beta-secretase cleaved Abeta-bearing carboxy-terminal fragments (betaCTFs) of amyloid precursor protein (APP) in neural cells have been suggested to be cytotoxic. However, the functional significance of betaCTFs in vivo remains elusive. We created a transgenic mouse line Tg-betaCTF99/B6 expressing the human betaCTF99 in the brain of inbred C57BL/6 strain. Tg-betaCTF99/B6 mouse brain at 12-16 months showed severely down-regulated calbindin, phospho-CREB, and Bcl-xL expression and up-regulated phospho-JNK, Bcl-2, and Bax expression. Neuronal cell density in the Tg-betaCTF99/B6 cerebral cortex at 16-18 months was lower than that of the non-transgenic control, but not at 5 months. At 11-14 months, Tg-betaCTF99/B6 mice displayed cognitive impairments and increased anxiety, which were not observed at 5 months. These results suggest that increased betaCTF99 expression is highly detrimental to the aging brain and that it produces a progressive and age-dependent AD-like pathogenesis.
The widely used antidepressants Specific Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRI) have been tried with success as anticonvulsants in cases of nonsymptomatic epilepsy. This attempt was performed on the basis of experimental data suggesting the involvement of impairments of the serotonin system in the genesis of epilepsy. This overview summarizes the clinical data and presents biochemical and neurochemical evidences suggesting the mechanism of the therapeutic effects of SSRI in nonsymptomatic epilepsy. In particular, studies on blood-borne neutral amino acids and platelet serotonin transporter (SERT) in epileptics suggest: (a) That a decreased brain availability of tryptophan may be related to some types of epilepsy. (b) That reduction of the density of SERT may be a homeostatic reaction in the brain following epileptic seizures.
Paediatric gastrointestinal motility disorders may present in the neonatal period as the result of a congenital insult that occurred during embryonic development or as a manifestation of an abnormal genetic background. Functional gastrointestinal and motility disorders may also be acquired and present during childhood as the first presentation of a condition that can persist or re-occur throughout adolescence and adulthood. These disorders can have a significant psychological and financial impact on the lives of the affected children and their families. Recently, enteric neuroscience research has advanced the understanding of the pathogenesis and treatment of uncommon congenital or developmental gastrointestinal motility disorders such as Hirschsprung disease and chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction. In addition, research has contributed to improvements in the understanding of more prevalent functional gastrointestinal disorders in children, such as chronic constipation and functional abdominal pain syndromes. The purpose of this review is to highlight these advances with particular regard to the clinical impact they have in the understanding and management of disorders in the field of paediatric neurogastroenterology and motility.
Previous neuroimaging studies have consistently reported bilateral activation to speech stimuli in the superior temporal gyrus (STG) and have identified an anteroventral stream of speech processing along the superior temporal sulcus (STS). However, little attention has been devoted to the possible confound of individual differences in hemispheric dominance for speech. The present study was designed to test for speech-selective activation while controlling for inter-individual variance in auditory laterality, by using only subjects with at least 10% right ear advantage (REA) on the dichotic listening test. Eighteen right-handed, healthy male volunteers (median age 26) participated in the study. The stimuli were words, syllables, and sine wave tones (220-2600 Hz), presented in a block design. Comparing words &gt; tones and syllables &gt; tones yielded activation in the left posterior MTG and the lateral STG (upper bank of STS). In the right temporal lobe, the activation was located in the MTG/STS (lower bank). Comparing left and right temporal lobe cluster sizes from the words &gt; tones and syllables &gt; tones contrasts on single-subject level demonstrated a statistically significant left lateralization for speech sound processing in the STS/MTG area. The asymmetry analyses suggest that dichotic listening may be a suitable method for selecting a homogenous group of subjects with respect to left hemisphere language dominance.
The aim of this functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study was to investigate the neuroanatomical substrates associated with the process of mental generation of specific (i.e., exemplar) and episodic autobiographical (i.e., an image of a unique life episode connected with an object) images. The fMRI paradigm in this experiment included a non-image generation baseline and two activation conditions requiring the generation of either specific or episodic autobiographical images. Image generation times and brain activation were recorded. Behavioral results showed that generating specific mental images took significantly less than generating episodic autobiographical images. Individuals generated specific images that were well distinct from the episodic autobiographical ones, semantic in nature without an episodic reference. Episodic autobiographical images did not show a significant bias towards preferential retrieval from any particular life period but were retrieved from across the entire life span. Conjunction analysis of the fMRI data showed that the two image generation conditions significantly activated a common set of neural structures, including mediofrontal areas. This shared pattern of activation might be the result of an underlying similar format and characteristics (e.g., richness in details) between the two types of images and might reflect the involvement of similar cognitive processes. Distinct patterns of significant activation were also present. Activation in the right parietal regions, cuneus, precuneus and left temporal regions was associated solely with the generation of specific images. Regions more specifically devoted to episodic memory retrieval and imagery, such as the left parahippocampal gyrus and precuneus, and the posterior cingulate cortex bilaterally, were significantly activated exclusively by the generation of episodic autobiographical images.
Previous studies have suggested the importance of bilateral anterior temporal regions in face-name associations, but there is little evidence concerning their precise role. In this fMRI study, we investigated the effects of person-related semantics (PS) and repeated learning (R) on activations in these regions during the retrieval of face-name associations. For encoding stimuli, we prepared four lists of faces. To control the factor of PS, people's and occupation names were attached to the faces in lists A and B, whereas only people's names were attached to the faces in lists C and D. To control the factor of R, the stimuli in lists A and C were learned twice, whereas the stimuli in lists B and D were learned seven times during encoding before fMRI. During fMRI after the encoding, subjects participated in the retrieval task of people's names from faces or in the retrieval task of faces from people's names. The left anterior temporal lobe was significantly activated during the retrieval of people's names from faces encoded with, compared to without, PS; whereas the right anterior temporal lobe was activated during the retrieval of people's faces from names, compared to without, this encoding. Also, activation of the left (but not the right) anterior temporal lobe was significantly reduced after R of face-name associations. These findings suggest that the three components of faces, names, and PS may be mutually mediated by the bilateral anterior temporal lobe, whose activity may be dynamically changed by the level of consolidation of face-name associations.
To examine the effect of gender on regional brain activity, we utilized functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) during a motor task and three cognitive tasks; a word generation task, a spatial attention task, and a working memory task in healthy male (n = 23) and female (n = 10) volunteers. Functional data were examined for group differences both in the number of pixels activated, and the blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) magnitude during each task. Males had a significantly greater mean activation than females in the working memory task with a greater number of pixels being activated in the right superior parietal gyrus and right inferior occipital gyrus, and a greater BOLD magnitude occurring in the left inferior parietal lobe. However, despite these fMRI changes, there were no significant differences between males and females on cognitive performance of the task. In contrast, in the spatial attention task, men performed better at this task than women, but there were no significant functional differences between the two groups. In the word generation task, there were no external measures of performance, but in the functional measurements, males had a significantly greater mean activation than females, where males had a significantly greater BOLD signal magnitude in the left and right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, the right inferior parietal lobe, and the cingulate. In neither of the motor tasks (right or left hand) did males and females perform differently. Our fMRI findings during the motor tasks were a greater mean BOLD signal magnitude in males in the right hand motor task, compared to females where males had an increased BOLD signal magnitude in the right inferior parietal gyrus and in the left inferior frontal gyrus. In conclusion, these results demonstrate differential patterns of activation in males and females during a variety of cognitive tasks, even though performance in these tasks may not vary, and also that variability in performance may not be reflected in differences in brain activation. These results suggest that in functional imaging studies in clinical populations it may be sensible to examine each sex independently until this effect is more fully understood.
Neurophysiological studies in monkeys show that multiple stimuli presented within the receptive field of a neuron are not processed independently but rather act in a mutually suppressive way. Recently, such suppressive interactions have also been reported in human neuroimaging studies. This is seen as evidence that stimuli compete for neural representation. According to the 'biased competition' approach, attention can bias this competition in favor of the attended stimulus, relieving it of the suppressive influences of the distracters. In this paper, we report data that support these findings. Specifically, the effect of attention on stimuli with different spatial separations was investigated more thoroughly. The biased competition approach would predict that, for a given spatial separation and eccentricity, the difference between attended and unattended displays depends on the receptive field size of an area. In a blocked fMRI experiment, participants viewed four simultaneously presented, colorful pictures under different attention conditions (attended and unattended). Stimuli were separated either 2 degrees , 4 degrees or 7 degrees . In line with previous experiments, we found that the effect of attention correlated with the estimated receptive field size of an area. In areas V1, V2 and VP, where estimated receptive field sizes are small, no significant attention effects were found in any of the spatial separation conditions. In V4, there was a significant difference between attended and unattended conditions for the 2 degrees and 4 degrees spatial separations, but not for 7 degrees . Finally in area TEO, significant differences between attended and unattended conditions were observed for all spatial separations.
When human microglia are co-cultured with activated human T lymphocytes, several cytokines become up-regulated in significant quantities. This condition can also occur at sites of inflammation in autoimmune inflammatory diseases of the central nervous system (CNS), including multiple sclerosis (MS), where T cells infiltrate the brain tissue and come in proximity to microglia. Therefore, T cell-microglia interaction is a potential avenue of drug therapy to decrease neuroinflammation. An immunomodulator used in autoimmune disorders is intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIg). The mechanisms of IVIg activity in diseases such as MS remain unclear. Here, we report that the application of IVIg to activated T cells leads to their decreased ability to engage microglia. As a result of IVIg treatment of T cells, there were reduced levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha a and interleukin-10 in T cell-microglia co-culture. Our results add to the understanding of how IVIg may affect inflammation of the CNS.
The etiology of multiple sclerosis (MS) remains unknown. However, both genetic and environmental factors play important roles in its pathogenesis. While demyelination of axons is a hallmark histological feature of MS, axonal and neuronal dysfunction may correlate better with clinical disability. All major immune cell types have been implicated in the pathogenesis of MS, with the CD4+ T-cells being the most commonly studied. In this review, we discuss the involvement of CD8+ T-cells in MS. In addition, we review the contribution of CD8+ T-cells to the pathogenesis of experimental autoimmune encephalitis (EAE) and Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV) mouse models of MS, including the concept of CD8+ T-cell mediated axonal damage.
The role of immune cells in promoting central nervous system (CNS) vascular permeability is poorly understood. In recent years, there is a growing body of literature that suggests CD8+ T-cells are potent mediators of vascular permeability in peripheral viral infections as well as in immune mediated neurological diseases. This review outlines the recent advances in tissue culture and animal models used to study vascular permeability. In addition, we put forth our hypothesis that CD8+ T-cells promote the opening of tight junctions between cerebral endothelial cells, enabling the infiltration of white blood cells and in certain models even leading to microhemorrhages in the CNS. Determining the mechanism by which CD8+ T-cells and other immune cells promote CNS vascular permeability in animal models could define new targets for immune mediated neurological conditions characterized by vascular permeability.
Demyelinating inflammatory diseases of central and peripheral myelin share similar aetiopathogenesis but rarely occur simultaneously in the same individual. Here we report two clinical cases of temporal association between multiple sclerosis (MS) and chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP). Our finding supports the hypothesis that clinically manifested central and peripheral demyelinating diseases could result from a common pathogenic event characterised by T-cell autoimmunity spreading from central to peripheral myelin.
An inflammatory response has been hypothesised to be involved in the pathogenesis of primary dementias, above all Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study was aimed at evaluating interleukin (IL)-12 and a panel of related cytokine levels in paired CSF and sera of demented patients. IL-12 (p70 heterodimer and total IL-12 p40 chain), interferon (IFN)-gamma, IL-10 and transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 levels were measured in 30 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (PrAD), 57 patients with other dementing disorders, including probable vascular dementia (PrVD), Parkinson's disease (PD) and normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH), and 25 cognitively normal control subjects. In the presence of unchanged concentrations of IL-12, IFN-gamma and IL-10, the mean CSF level of TGF-beta1 and the correspondent TGF-beta1 index, but not the serum level, were significantly increased in PrAD compared to controls and PrVD, whereas no difference was found vs. NPH and PD. Our results support the pathophysiological role of TGF-beta1 system in AD.
Several investigations have documented an increased incidence of right-to-left shunt (RLS) in migraine with aura (MA) and have emphasised its role in the physiopathology of aura; so far, however, no data are available concerning a possible correlation between the extent of the RLS and the clinical picture of MA patients. To investigate the possible relationship between the extent of the RLS, revealed by the number of microbubbles (MB) detected during transcranial Doppler with IV injection of ultrasound contrast (TCDc), and the clinical characteristics of MA (age at first onset of migraine, mean annual frequency of attacks and mean duration of the aura phase), 30 consecutive patients with typical aura and migraine headache positive on TCDc evaluation for RLS were enrolled. Permanent RLS was found in 12 patients and latent RLS was found in 18 patients; of these, 6 had a high-grade RLS, 5 medium-grade RLS and 7 low-grade RLS. No correlation has been documented between the number of MBs and the clinical parameters of both patients with latent shunts and those with permanent ones, nor between the clinical parameters of the two groups of patients. These data show that RLS does not seem to affect the clinical manifestation of MA and that the extent of RLS fails to correlate with the severity of the clinical picture of the disorder.

Clinical neurophysiology has always played an important interventional role throughout the perioperative stages in functional neurosurgery. On the one hand, some neurophysiologic procedures have become an integrated part of neurosurgery. On the other hand, in deep brain stimulation, although the surgical electrode implantation is an essential step, the therapeutic effects are actually produced by electrically modulating the physiologic activity of the brain. We review the topic of neurophysiologic intervention in the deep brain stimulation for movement disorders by presenting the evidence derived from our own experiences based on an integrated group located at two hospitals in London and Oxford, UK, and mainly covering tremor caused by multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease and dystonia.
Objectives. With respect to postoperative activities of daily living (ADL), we retrospectively investigated associated psychiatric symptoms that influenced beneficial effects of subthalamic nucleus (STN) stimulation in our Japanese patients with Parkinson disease (PD). Materials and Methods. Twenty-five patients underwent bilateral STN stimulation. Pre- and 3months after the surgery, their parkinsonian symptoms were evaluated with Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) and Schwab-England (S-E) ADL scale. Stepwise multiple analysis was performed to determine the factors affecting postoperative ADL. Results. Eleven out of 25 patients manifested drug-induced psychosis preoperatively, although their mean dosage of levodopa was small (366.4152.7mg). Disease duration positively affected the severity of the patients' psychiatric symptoms. Postoperative S-E score showed a significant improvement compared to the pretreatment baseline in both of &quot;on&quot; and &quot;off&quot; medication states, as all their cardinal motor symptoms were significantly ameliorated. Preoperative scores for thought disorder and axial disability negatively impact on the postoperative S-E score in &quot;on&quot; state (p&lt;0.01). Preoperative score for intellectual impairment was only a significant predictor of worse postoperative ADL in &quot;off&quot; state. Conclusions. The markedly lower dose of levodopa may suggest ethnic characteristics of our Japanese patients with respect to tolerance for antiparkinsonian medications. Preoperative manifestation of drug-induced psychosis and cognitive dysfunction were the major factor that strikingly suppressed daily activities after STN stimulation.
Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) is a common muscular disorder, but clinical and genetic complications make its diagnosis difficult. Southern blot analysis detects a smaller sized EcoRI fragment on chromosome 4q35 in most facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy patients, that contains integral number of 3.3-kb tandem repeats known as D4Z4. The problems for the genetic diagnosis are that southern blotting for facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy is quite laborious and time-consuming, and the D4Z4 number is only estimated from the size of the fragment. We developed a more simplified diagnostic method using a long polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification technique. Successful amplification was achieved in all facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy patients with an EcoRI fragment size ranging from 10 to 25 kb, and each patient had a specific polymerase chain reaction product which corresponded to the size calculated from the number of D4Z4. Using southern blot analysis, more than 90% of facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy patients have a smaller EcoRI fragment than 26kb in our series, and the number of D4Z4 repeats is precisely counted by this polymerase chain reaction method. We conclude that this long polymerase chain reaction method can be used as an accurate genetic screening technique for facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy patients.
Aberrant protein aggregation has been recognized as an important factor in the degeneration of melanized dopaminergic neurones in Parkinson's disease (PD). The constitutive (HSP73) and (heat)-inducible (HSP72) proteins of the heat shock 70 family form a major defence system against pathological protein aggregation. However, the distribution patterns of these chaperones in nigral neuromelanin-laden neurones are largely unknown. The present study determined the distribution of HSP72 and HSP73 in control and Parkinsonian substantia nigra, using immunohistochemistry. In the neuromelanin-laden neurones of controls, HSP72 was nondetectable, whereas HSP73 was weakly expressed in both the cytosol and the nucleus. Surprisingly, in PD subjects, marked nuclear HSP73, but not HSP72 immunoreactivity was observed, while cytosolic immunoreactivity of the two chaperones resembled the labelling pattern observed in controls. Furthermore, HSP73 immunoreactivity was observed in a subset of the Lewy bodies (LBs) detected in the substantia nigra of PD subjects, whereas only few of these LBs were labelled with HSP72. Interestingly, HSP72 and to a lesser extent HSP73 immunoreactivity was much stronger in nonmelanized neurones as compared with melanized neurones in this area. Thus, we conclude that the distribution pattern of HSP73 rather than HSP72 is changed in the nigral neuromelanin-laden neurones of PD subjects as compared with control subjects. The impaired ability of aged, dopaminergic neurones to express high levels of chaperones, may contribute to the preferential vulnerability of the latter cells in PD.
Affinity purified IgG from sera of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is claimed to enhance transmitter release, induce apoptotic death of cultured motoneurones, and elicit a distinctive cytopathology with raised Ca(2+) in mouse motoneurones. An alternative hypothesis attributes these events to serine proteases in ALS sera. To test this, motoneurones in BALB/c mice injected intraperitoneally with plasminogen affinity purified from sera of ALS patients and healthy controls were analysed using immunochemical and ultrastructural morphometric methods. The responses were validated in motoneurones of mice injected with commercially purified plasminogen, tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), or plasmin. Motoneurones in non-injected mice had normal morphology and ultrastructure without evidence of electron-dense degeneration. Purified plasminogen from both ALS patients and healthy controls, evoked electron-dense motoneurone degeneration, as did commercially purified plasminogen and tPA. The common cytopathology comprised disruption and distension of Nissl body rough endoplasmic reticulum, cytoplasmic polyribosomal proliferation, and significant Ca(2+) enhancement in mitochondria. By contrast, using affinity purified serum immunoglobulins, ALS-IgG but not IgG from healthy or disease controls, elicited necrosis, with 30% of ALS-IgGs tested evoking electron-dense degeneration in 40% of motoneurones. The primary cytopathology was extensive swelling of Golgi endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria, with enhancement of Ca(2+) in Golgi endoplasmic reticulum and presynaptic boutons. We conclude that serine proteases purified from sera of ALS patients elicits a distinctive cytopathology and pattern of Ca(2+) enhancement in motoneurones different from that found on passive transfer of affinity purified ALS-IgG.
Clinicopathological observations suggest there is considerable overlap between vascular dementia (VaD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). We used immunochemical methods to compare quantities of amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides in post mortem brain samples from VaD, AD subjects and nondemented ageing controls. Total Abeta peptides extracted from temporal and frontal cortices were quantified using a previously characterized sensitive homogenous time-resolved fluorescence (HTRF) assay. The HTRF assays and immunocapture mass spectrometric analyses revealed that the Abeta(42) species were by far the predominant form of extractable peptide compared with Abeta(40) peptide in VaD brains. The strong signal intensity for the peak representing Abeta(4-42) peptide confirmed that these N-terminally truncated species are relatively abundant. Absolute quantification by HTRF assay showed that the mean amount of total Abeta(42) recovered from VaD samples was approximately 50% of that in AD, and twice that in the age-matched controls. Linear correlation analysis further revealed an increased accumulation with age of both Abeta peptides in brains of VaD subjects and controls. Interestingly, VaD patients surviving beyond 80 years of age exhibited comparable Abeta(42) concentrations with those in AD in the temporal cortex. Our findings suggest that brain Abeta accumulates increasingly with age in VaD subjects more so than in elderly without cerebrovascular disease and support the notion that they acquire Alzheimer-like pathology in older age.
Parkinsonism-dementia complex (PDC) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are fatal neurological diseases. The incidence on Guam was very high between 1950 and 1965 but decreased dramatically after 1965. It is thought that drinking water containing low levels of calcium (Ca) and magnesium (Mg), and high levels of aluminum and of a plant excitatory neurotoxin are involved in the pathogenesis of these diseases. The present experiment was performed in rats that were exposed to low Ca and/or Mg intake over two generations, thus simulating the conditions of human life on Guam, where several generations live continuously in the same environment. Significant loss of dopaminergic neurons was identified exclusively in the substantia nigra in 1-year-old rats that had been exposed continuously to low Mg intake (one-fifth of the normal level) over generations. The present study suggests that low Mg intake over generations may be involved in the pathogenesis of substantia nigra degeneration in humans.
The peptide, nociceptin, was discovered as the endogenous ligand for the opioid-like receptor, ORL1. Since its discovery, this peptide has been shown to modulate the perception of pain, modulate feeding and produce behavioral effects in rodent models of mood disorders. Recently, the non-peptide agonist {(1S,3aS)-8-(2,3,3a,4,5,6-hexahydro-1H-phenalen-1-yl)-1-phenyl-1,3,8-triaza-spiro[4,5]decan-4-one} (Ro64-6198) of the ORL1 receptor has been reported in the literature. In the present study, we compared the distribution and potency of Ro64-6198 with nociceptin for their ability to stimulate [(35)S]-GTPgammaS binding to sections of rat brain. In initial studies, Ro64-6198 inhibited (125)I-nociceptin binding to the hORL1 receptors with a K(i) of 1.75 nM compared with 0.20 nM for nociceptin. To assess agonist potency in a whole cell assay, a cell line expressing the hORL1 receptor and G(alpha15) was created and used for calcium mobilization studies. In this assay system, Ro64-6198 increased intracellular calcium with an EC(50) of 52nM compared with 24 nM for nociceptin. Having verified the agonist properties of Ro64-6198, we then assessed the potency and distribution of ORL1 receptor activation in rat brain sections. In dose-response studies, Ro64-6198 increased [(35)S]-GTPgammaS binding to a variety of brain regions with EC(50) values ranging from 84.9 to 2,143 nM depending on the brain regions evaluated. These potencies were similar to that seen for nociceptin, but substantially lower than values established using [(125)I] nociceptin binding to the cloned human ORL1 receptor. In general, the brain distribution of agonist stimulated [(35)S]-GTPgammaS binding was similar when either Ro64-6198 or nociceptin were used. Using these techniques, we have demonstrated, for the first time that Ro64-6198 activates [(35)S]-GTPgammaS binding to rat brain sections and this compound stimulates a similar population of receptors as nociceptin.
The increased pro-inflammatory cytokine production was previously observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We sought to explore whether acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (AChEI) therapy ameliorates clinical symptoms in AD through down-regulation of inflammation. Expression and release of monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1), a positive regulator of Th2 differentiation, and interleukin (IL)-4, an anti-inflammatory cytokine from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in AD patients, were investigated. PBMC were purified from AD patients at time of enrollment (T0) and after 1 month of treatment with AChEI (T1) and from healthy controls (HC). Supernatants were analyzed for cytokine levels by ELISA methods. mRNA expression were determined by RT-PCR. Expression and production of MCP-1 and IL-4 were significantly increased in AD subjects under therapy with the AChEI Donepezil, compared to the same AD patients at time of enrollment (P &lt; 0.001). Our data suggest another possible explanation for the ability of Donepezil [diethyl(3,5-di-ter-butyl-4-hydroxybenzyl)phosphonate] to delay the progression of AD; in fact, Donepezil may modulate MCP-1 and IL-4 production, which may reflect a general shift towards type Th0/Th2 cytokines which could be protective in AD disease. The different amounts of MCP-1 and IL-4 observed might reflect the different states of activation and/or responsiveness of PBMC, that in AD patients could be kept in an activated state by pro-inflammatory cytokines.
Disruption of spinal GABAergic circuits, which regulate the conveyance of sensory information to spinal cord neurones from the primary afferent system, leads to miscoding of afferent input and often results in hyperresponsiveness states. In the present work, extracellular field potentials elicited by electrical peripheral nerve activation were recorded in the urethane-anaesthetised rat following spinal administration of GABA(A) or GABA(B) receptor-antagonists, and the involvement of glutamate receptors of the NMDA and metabotropic types in changes induced by altered GABAergic function was examined by pre-treating the spinal dorsal horn with appropriate antagonist drugs. Spinal administration of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline (BIC) dose-dependently augmented poly- but not monosynaptic field potentials elicited by activation of A fibres or potentials elicited by activation of C fibres, whereas application of the GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP35348 significantly increased the amplitudes of C- but not A fibre-evoked potentials. BIC-induced augmentation was blocked by pre-treatment with the NMDA receptor antagonist D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (D-AP5) or the group I or II metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)-antagonists (RS)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid (AIDA) or (2S)-alpha-ethylglutamic acid (EGLU), respectively, but not by the group III mGluR-antagonist (RS)-alpha-methylserine-O-phosphate (MSOP). Augmentation of spinal field potentials induced by CGP35348 was prevented by pre-treatment with D-AP5 but not with mGluR-antagonists. The present findings provide novel evidence that disparate synaptic mechanisms subserved by metabotropic and NMDA glutamate receptors may be involved in spinal hyperresponsiveness states secondary to decreased GABA(A) or GABA(B) receptor activity.
The dopamine D4 receptor has been investigated for its potential role in several CNS disorders, notably schizophrenia and more recently, erectile dysfunction. Whereas studies have investigated dopamine D4 receptor-mediated signaling in vitro, there have been few, if any, attempts to identify dopamine D4 receptor signal transduction pathways in vivo. In the present studies, the selective dopamine D4 agonist PD168077 induces c-Fos expression and extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylation in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN), a site known to regulate proerectile activity. The selective dopamine D4 receptor antagonist A-381393 blocked both c-Fos expression and ERK1/2 phosphorylation produced by PD168077. In addition, PD168077-induced ERK1/2 phosphorylation was prevented by SL327, an inhibitor of ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Interestingly, treatment with A-381393 alone significantly reduced the amount of Fos immunoreactivity as compared to basal expression observed in vehicle-treated controls. Dopamine D4 receptor and c-Fos coexpression in the PVN was observed using double immunohistochemical labeling, suggesting that PD168077-induced signaling may result from direct dopamine D4 receptor activation. Our results demonstrate functional dopamine D4 receptor expression and natural coupling in the PVN linked to signal transduction pathways that include immediate early gene and MAP kinase activation. Further, the ability of the selective dopamine D4 antagonist A-381393 alone to reduce c-Fos expression below control levels may imply the presence of a tonic dopamine D4 receptor activation under basal conditions in vivo. These findings provide additional evidence that the PVN may be a site of dopamine D4 receptor-mediated proerectile activity.
The sex steroid hormone, estrogen, has been proposed to be protective against schizophrenia. This study examined the effects of estrogen treatment on modulation of prepulse inhibition (PPI) by the serotonin-1A (5-HT1A) receptor partial agonist, buspirone. PPI is a model of sensorimotor gating, which is deficient in schizophrenia and other mental illnesses. A total of 11 healthy women were tested following four acute treatment conditions: placebo, buspirone (Buspar; 5 mg), estradiol (Estrofem; 2 mg), and combined buspirone and estradiol. Electromyogram activity was measured across three interstimulus intervals (ISI): 30, 60, and 120 ms. There was no significant effect of either drug treatment on startle amplitude or habituation. At 120 ms ISI, buspirone caused a significant disruption of PPI and pretreatment with estrogen prevented this disruption. Estrogen treatment, administered in the appropriate experimental conditions, prevented PPI deficits induced by 5-HT(1A) receptor activation and may therefore also play a protective role in sensorimotor gating deficits in schizophrenia.
Salvia officinalis (sage) has previously been shown both to possess in vitro cholinesterase inhibiting properties, and to enhance mnemonic performance and improve mood in healthy young participants. In this double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study, 30 healthy participants attended the laboratory on three separate days, 7 days apart, receiving a different treatment in counterbalanced order on each occasion (placebo, 300, 600 mg dried sage leaf). On each day mood was assessed predose and at 1 and 4 h postdose. Each mood assessment comprised completion of Bond-Lader mood scales and the State Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) before and after 20 min performance of the Defined Intensity Stress Simulator (DISS) computerized multitasking battery. In a concomitant investigation, an extract of the sage leaf exhibited dose-dependent, in vitro inhibition of acetylcholinesterase and, to a greater extent, butyrylcholinesterase. Both doses of sage led to improved ratings of mood in the absence of the stressor (that is, in pre-DISS mood scores) postdose, with the lower dose reducing anxiety and the higher dose increasing 'alertness', 'calmness' and 'contentedness' on the Bond-Lader mood scales. The reduced anxiety effect following the lower dose was, however, abolished by performing the DISS, with the same dose also being associated with a reduction of alertness during performance. Task performance on the DISS battery was improved for the higher dose at both postdose sessions, but reduced for the lower dose at the later testing session. The results confirm previous observations of the cholinesterase inhibiting properties of S. officinalis, and improved mood and cognitive performance following the administration of single doses to healthy young participants.
Serotonin (5-HT) receptors are increasingly recognized as major targets for cognitive enhancement in schizophrenia. Several lines of evidence suggest a pathophysiological role for glutamate NMDA receptors in the prefrontal cortex in schizophrenia and associated disorders in attention and executive functioning. We investigated how the interactions between 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A and glutamate NMDA receptor mechanisms in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) contribute to the control of different aspects of attentional performance. Rats were trained on a five-choice serial reaction time (5-CSRT) task, which provides indices of attentional functioning (percentage of correct responses), executive control (measured by anticipatory and perseverative responses), and speed. The competitive NMDA receptor antagonist CPP (50 ng/side) was infused directly into the mPFC 5 min after infusion of either 8-OH-DPAT (30 and 100 ng/side) or M100907 (100 and 300 ng/side) into the same brain area. Impairments in attentional functioning induced by CPP were completely abolished by both doses of 8-OH-DPAT or M100907. In addition, M100907 abolished the CPP-induced anticipatory responding but had no effects on perseverative over-responding, while 8-OH-DPAT reduced the perseverative over-responding but had no effects on anticipatory responding induced by CPP. The selective 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY100635 (30 ng/side) antagonized the effects of 8-OH-DPAT (100 ng/side). 8-OH-DPAT at 30 ng/side reduced the latency of correct responses in controls and CPP-injected rats and lowered the percentage of omissions in CPP-injected rats. The data show that 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptors in the mPFC exert opposing actions on attentional functioning and demonstrate a dissociable contribution of 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptors in the mPFC to different aspects of executive control such as impulsivity and compulsive perseveration.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) and suicide are associated with deficient serotonergic neurotransmission. Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) is the rate-limiting biosynthetic enzyme for serotonin. Previously, we reported elevated levels of TPH protein in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) of depressed suicides and now examine expression of neuronal TPH2 mRNA in a cohort of matched controls and depressed suicides (n = 11 pairs). DRN TPH2 mRNA was measured by densitometric analysis of autoradiograms from in situ hybridization histochemistry experiments. TPH2 mRNA is confirmed as the raphe-specific isoform of TPH in human brain, and is expressed in neurons throughout the anteroposterior extent of the DRN and median raphe nucleus (MRN). TPH2 mRNA expression correlates with TPH protein distribution in the DRN, and has a negative correlation with age. In drug-free suicides, TPH2 expression is 33% higher in the DRN and 17% higher in the MRN as compared to matched nonpsychiatric controls. Higher levels of TPH2 mRNA were found throughout the entire extent of the rostrocaudal axis of the DRN, and were not specific to any single subnucleus. Higher TPH2 mRNA expression may explain more TPH protein observed in depressed suicides and reflect a homeostatic response to deficient brain serotonergic transmission.
Homer proteins modulate neuroplasticity in excitatory synapses and are dynamically regulated by cocaine. Whereas acute cocaine elevates immediate-early gene (short) isoforms of Homer1 in the nucleus accumbens, withdrawal from repeated cocaine administration downregulates the expression of constitutive Homer1 isoforms. The present study determined whether or not this downregulation in constitutive Homer expression in the accumbens is necessary for enduring alterations in cocaine-induced changes in the brain and behavior. The long vs short Homer isoforms were overexpressed in the rat nucleus accumbens during drug abstinence, and the adaptations elicited by repeated cocaine on glutamate transmission and motor behavior were measured. It was found that both chronic and acute overexpression of constitutive, but not short, Homer isoforms abolished cocaine-induced sensitization of locomotor hyperactivity and prevented the development of glutamate abnormalities in the accumbens, including the reduction in basal extracellular glutamate content and the sensitized glutamate response to a subsequent cocaine challenge injection. Together, these data indicate that the enduring reduction of long Homer isoforms in the nucleus accumbens of cocaine-withdrawn rats is necessary for the expression of cocaine-induced neuroplasticity.
The conversion of what has been interpreted as &quot;normal brain aging&quot; to Alzheimer's disease (AD) via a transition state, i.e. mild cognitive impairment, appears to be a continuous process caused primarily by aging-dependent accumulation of amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) in the brain. This notion give us a hope that, by manipulating the Abeta levels in the brain, we may be able not only to prevent and cure the disease but also to partially control some very significant aspects of brain aging. Abeta is constantly produced from its precursor and immediately catabolized under normal conditions, whereas dysmetabolism of Abeta seems to lead to pathological deposition upon aging. We have focused our attention on elucidation of the unresolved mechanism of Abeta catabolism in the brain. In this review, we describe a new approach to prevent AD development by reducing Abeta burdens in aging brains through up-regulation the catabolic mechanism involving neprilysin that can degrade both monomeric and oligomeric forms of Abeta. The strategy of combining presymptomatic diagnosis with preventive medicine seems to be the most pragmatic in both medical and socio-economical terms. We also introduce a novel non-invasive amyloid imaging approach using a high-power magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for the presymptomatic diagnosis of AD.




Chronic bilateral quadriceps tendon tear is an uncommon clinical entity when it is associated and caused by epilepsy resulting in repeated falls. We describe here a young male who presented with the inability to walk and a long history of seizures. The clinical exam, with plain radiographs and magnetic resonance imaging allowed accurate diagnosis as well as proper management.
During surgery for otosclerosis, it is common for the surgeon to cut the stapedius tendon. The absence of the stapedius muscle with its tendon is uncommon. In this study, we present a case of the absence of the unilateral stapedius tendon and muscle. During dissections of adult temporal bones, the absence of the stapedius tendon and muscle was found in one case. The tympanic cavity was explored with the help of a surgical microscope. The pyramidal process was not developed. A possible ontogenetic explanation was provided. In the presented case, the cause of the anomaly may be failure of the embryological development of the muscle. Awareness of the variations or anomalies of the stapedius muscle and tendon are important for surgeons who operate upon the tympanic cavity, especially during surgery for otosclerosis.
Homocysteine is a sulfurated amino acid with a central role in the metabolism of thiol compounds. Homocystinemia is a recognized independent potentially remediable risk factor for vascular disease. It is associated with both macro and micro vascular ischemic stroke. It can often be normalized by polyvitamin therapy. This inexpensive and well-tolerated treatment is considered effective in decreasing the incidence of stroke. We report 2 young strict vegetarians with no known vascular risk factors. The first suffered a left middle cerebral artery infarct, and the second multiple bilateral small cerebral infarctions. Extensive investigations showed moderately elevated homocysteine and low serum B12 levels, suggesting that these are most probably the underlying etiology. We believe that a high index of suspicion is needed, particularly in younger people with a potential underlying cause for B12 deficiency and no identifiable stroke risk factor.
We report 37-year-old man admitted to the psychiatric ward with acute depression. Antidepressive medications were initiated including: promethazine hydrochloride, hydroxyzine hydrochloride, lorazepam and haloperidol. In an attempt to control his depression, doctors increased the dose of haloperidol. Five days later he developed fever, cough, confusion and he was unable to eat. Accordingly, he was transferred to the medical ward for further assessment. On examination he was febrile, confused, there was neck stiffness and generalized rigidity with flexor planters. Both serum myoglobin and creatine kinase level were elevated. The urine myoglobin test result was positive. He was diagnosed with neuroleptic malignant syndrome. Dantrolene was started for 3 days, followed by bromocriptine. The clinical syndrome resolved over the next couple of days.






Hemispherectomy is the most successful operation for the control of seizures in a very select group of patients with infantile hemiplegia and intractable epilepsy. The efficacy of anatomical hemispherectomy has been offset to some degree by the fact that up to one third of those operated upon will subsequently develop obstructive hydrocephalus, and the so-called superficial subpial cerebral hemosiderosis, with potentially fatal complications. This review article details the operative technique of a modified `functional` hemispherectomy. In essence, the technique consists of removing the central (Rolandic) cortex and the temporal lobe of the affected hemisphere and leaving the remainder of the hemisphere intact, but neurogenically disconnected from the remaining brain.
Brodmann's cytoarchitectonic map of the human cortex designates area 4 as cortex in the anterior bank of the precentral sulcus and area 6 as cortex encompassing the precentral gyrus and the posterior portion of the superior frontal gyrus on both the lateral and medial surfaces of the brain. More than 70 years ago, Fulton proposed a functional distinction between these two areas, coining the terms primary motor area for cortex in Brodmann area 4 and premotor area for cortex in Brodmann area 6. The parcellation of the cortical motor system has subsequently become more complex. Several nonprimary motor areas have been identified in the brain of the macaque monkey, and associations between anatomy and function in the human brain are being tested continuously using brain mapping techniques. In the present review, the authors discuss the unique properties of the primary motor area (M1), the dorsal portion of the premotor cortex (PMd), and the ventral portion of the premotor cortex (PMv). They end this review by discussing how the premotor areas influence M1.
Multiple techniques are available to study failure of neuromuscular transmission. Electrophysiological techniques used in patients are well suited to detect failure of neuromuscular transmission; however, these methods offer little insight into the mechanisms underlying failure of transmission. More detailed techniques that are better suited for studying the underlying mechanisms can be performed in animal models of neuromuscular disease. However, it is often difficult to compare studies using different techniques to measure neuromuscular transmission. In this review, I discuss different techniques that are available to study failure of neuromuscular transmission. The strengths and weaknesses of various techniques are compared using several diseases as examples. The review concludes with a discussion of mechanisms that may contribute to failure of neuromuscular transmission during repetitive stimulation.
Axonal branching is an important process for establishing the final pattern of connections between a neuron and its target cells. Cortical connections between upper-layer cells in the neocortex have provided insights into the cellular mechanisms by which electrical activity regulates neural connectivity, including branch formation. Recent evidence further indicates that spontaneous firing and synaptic transmission contribute to axonal branching of cortical neurons through postsynaptic activation.

Botulinum toxin injected into a muscle may diffuse to nearby muscles thus producing unwanted effects. In patients with hemifacial spasm, we evaluated clinically and neurophysiologically, whether botulinum toxin type A (BoNT-A) diffuses from the injection site (orbicularis oculi) to untreated muscles (orbicularis oris from the affected side and orbicularis oculi and oris from the unaffected side). We studied 38 patients with idiopathic hemifacial spasm. Botulinum toxin was injected into the affected orbicularis oculi muscle alone (at 3 standardized sites) at a clinically effective dose. Patients were studied before (T0) and 3-4 weeks after treatment (T1). We evaluated the clinical effects of botulinum toxin and muscle strength in the affected and unaffected muscles. We also assessed the peak-to-peak amplitude compound muscle action potential (CMAP) recorded from the orbicularis oculi and orbicularis oris muscles on both sides after supramaximal electrical stimulation of the facial nerve at the stylomastoid foramen. In all patients, botulinum toxin treatment reduced muscle spasms in the injected orbicularis oculi muscle and induced no muscle weakness in the other facial muscles. The CMAP amplitude significantly decreased in the injected orbicularis oculi muscle, but remained unchanged in the other facial muscles (orbicularis oris muscle on the affected side and contra-lateral unaffected muscles). In conclusion, in patients with hemifacial spasm, botulinum toxin, at a clinically effective dose, induces no clinical signs of diffusion and does not reduce the CMAP size in the nearby untreated orbicularis oris or contralateral facial muscles.
Botulinum neurotoxin (BoNT) serotype A is commonly used in the treatment of focal dystonia, but some patients are primarily or become secondarily resistant to it. Consequently, other serotypes have to be used when immuno-resistance is proven. In the literature, patients with focal dystonia have been treated with BoNT serotype F with clinical benefit but with short lasting effects. Recently, BoNT serotype C has been used with positive clinical outcome. An update on the clinical use of BoNT serotype F and BoNT serotype C is provided.
A review of the literature studying possible correlations between hearing function and cardiovascular disease (CVD) reveals a complex and somewhat contradictory picture. Most studies favor the concept of an association between hearing loss and CVD. The issue of interactions between noise-induced hearing loss and CVD, as well as between age-related hearing loss and CVD, has been discussed in numerous publications. The present study utilizes information from an epidemiological study of elderly people in Gothenburg, Sweden. We found a probable correlation between high systolic blood pressure and hearing loss in the low and mid frequencies in elderly women, 79 years old. A tendency of a similar correlation was also found in a group of 85-year-old women. An association between high diastolic blood pressure and low- and mid-frequency hearing loss was also found in the group of women aged 85 years. No consistent associations between blood pressure or hypertension and auditory function were found in 70- and 75-year-old women or in men 70 to 85 years old.
Peripheral nerve injury promotes an enduring increase in the excitability of the spinal dorsal horn. This change, that likely underlies the development of chronic pain, may be a consequence of prolonged exposure of dorsal horn neurons to mediators such as neurotrophins, cytokines, and neurotransmitters. The long-term effects of such mediators can be analyzed by applying them to spinal neurons in organotypic slice culture. To assess the validity of this approach, we established serum-free, defined-medium organotypic cultures (DMOTC) from E13-14 prenatal rats. Whole-cell recordings were made from neurons maintained in DMOTC for up to 42 days. These were compared with recordings from neurons of similar age in acute spinal cord slices from 15- to 45-day-old rats. Five cell types were defined in acute slices as 'Tonic', 'Irregular', 'Delay', 'Transient' or 'Phasic' according to their discharge patterns in response to depolarizing current. Although fewer 'Phasic' cells were found in cultures, the proportions of 'Tonic', 'Irregular', 'Delay', and 'Transient' were similar to those found in acute slices. GABAergic, glycinergic, and 'mixed' inhibition were observed in neurons in acute slices and DMOTC. Pure glycinergic inhibition was absent in 7d cultures but became more pronounced as cultures aged. This parallels the development of glycinergic inhibition in vivo. These and other findings suggest that fundamental developmental processes related to neurotransmitter phenotype and neuronal firing properties are preserved in DMOTC. This validates their use in evaluating the cellular mechanisms that may contribute to the development of chronic pain.
This study examines the contribution of central corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) to pain behavior. CRF is the principal modulator of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, in addition to acting on many other areas of the central nervous system. We compared nociceptive thresholds (heat and mechanical) and pain behavior in response to a sustained stimulus (formalin test) between Fischer and Lewis rats that have different HPA axis activity. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of CRF produced dose-dependent antinociception at a lower dose in Lewis (40 ng, paw pinch 71+/-0 g) compared to Fischer rats (200 ng, 112+/-3 g). The antinociceptive effect of CRF was mostly preserved in adrenalectomized Fischer rats. The i.c.v. administration of the CRF receptor antagonist, astressin, had a hyperalgesic effect, suggesting that CRF is tonically active. Lewis rats required higher doses of astressin (5 ng, paw pinch 51+/-1 g) to show nociceptive effects compared to Fischer rats (1 ng, 79+/-1 g). Only Lewis rats vocalized during mechanical stimulus, and this behavior was prevented by diazepam or morphine but was worsened by CRF, despite its antinociceptive property. In the formalin test, CRF and astressin had the largest effect on the interphase suggesting that they act on the endogenous pain inhibitory system. CRF also increased anxiety/fear-like behaviors in the forced swim and predator odor tests. Our results establish that central CRF is a key modulator of pain behavior and indicates that CRF effects on nociception are largely independent of its mood modulating effect as well as its control of the HPA axis.


