Individuals can learn by interacting with the environment and experiencing a difference between predicted and obtained outcomes (prediction error). However, many species also learn by observing the actions and outcomes of others. In contrast to individual learning, observational learning cannot be based on directly experienced outcome prediction errors. Accordingly, the behavioral and neural mechanisms of learning through observation remain elusive. Here we propose that human observational learning can be explained by two previously uncharacterized forms of prediction error, observational action prediction errors (the actual minus the predicted choice of others) and observational outcome prediction errors (the actual minus predicted outcome received by others). In a functional MRI experiment, we found that brain activity in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and the ventromedial prefrontal cortex respectively corresponded to these two distinct observational learning signals.
Biological processes are governed by extensive networks of dynamic molecular interactions. Yet, establishing a spatial and temporal map of these interactions and their direct relationship to specific cell functions has remained a challenge. Here, we implement sensitized emission Frster resonance energy transfer (FRET) stoichiometry under total internal reflection fluorescence (TIRF) microscopy. We demonstrate through quantitative analysis and modeling that evanescent fields must be precisely matched between FRET excitation wavelengths to isolate dynamic interactions between bimolecular FRET pairs that are not entirely membrane-delimited. We then use TIRF-FRET to monitor the behavior of individual insulin-containing secretory granules at the plasma membrane of living cells, while simultaneously tracking the dynamic interaction between the GTPase Rab27A and its effector Slp4A, on those same granules. Notably, insulin granules that underwent exocytosis demonstrated a specific increase in Rab27A-GTP/Slp4A FRET in the 5 s before membrane fusion, which coincided temporally with an increase in granule displacement and mobility. These results demonstrate an initial spatiotemporal mapping of a dynamic protein-protein interaction on individual secretory granules that is linked to a specific granule behavior in living cells.
Recently, I put forth the hypothesis that the signaling molecule, norepinephrine (NE), is an etiological factor in a number of types of cancer. In this brief commentary, I summarize evidence that NE plays a role in cancer and describe details involved in testing the hypothesis in humans through epidemiological investigation of existing medical records of persons who have taken pharmaceutical drugs that affect NE. If NE plays an etiological role in cancers of a number of organs, then taking a single pharmaceutical drug (such as clonidine, prazosin, or propranolol) that weakens NE signaling systemically, may simultaneously prevent or treat many different types of cancer, and this may represent a breakthrough in pharmaceutical prevention and possibly treatment of cancer.
Taste buds are aggregates of 50-100 polarized neuroepithelial cells that detect nutrients and other compounds. Combined analyses of gene expression and cellular function reveal an elegant cellular organization within the taste bud. This review discusses the functional classes of taste cells, their cell biology, and current thinking on how taste information is transmitted to the brain.

Fear conditioning is a widely used paradigm in non-human animal research to investigate the neural mechanisms underlying fear and anxiety. A major challenge in conducting conditioning studies in humans is the ability to strongly manipulate or simulate the environmental contexts that are associated with conditioned emotional behaviors. In this regard, virtual reality (VR) technology is a promising tool. Yet, adapting this technology to meet experimental constraints requires special accommodations. Here we address the methodological issues involved when conducting fear conditioning in a fully immersive 6-sided VR environment and present fear conditioning data. In the real world, traumatic events occur in complex environments that are made up of many cues, engaging all of our sensory modalities. For example, cues that form the environmental configuration include not only visual elements, but aural, olfactory, and even tactile. In rodent studies of fear conditioning animals are fully immersed in a context that is rich with novel visual, tactile and olfactory cues. However, standard laboratory tests of fear conditioning in humans are typically conducted in a nondescript room in front of a flat or 2D computer screen and do not replicate the complexity of real world experiences. On the other hand, a major limitation of clinical studies aimed at reducing (extinguishing) fear and preventing relapse in anxiety disorders is that treatment occurs after participants have acquired a fear in an uncontrolled and largely unknown context. Thus the experimenters are left without information about the duration of exposure, the true nature of the stimulus, and associated background cues in the environment. In the absence of this information it can be difficult to truly extinguish a fear that is both cue and context-dependent. Virtual reality environments address these issues by providing the complexity of the real world, and at the same time allowing experimenters to constrain fear conditioning and extinction parameters to yield empirical data that can suggest better treatment options and/or analyze mechanistic hypotheses. In order to test the hypothesis that fear conditioning may be richly encoded and context specific when conducted in a fully immersive environment, we developed distinct virtual reality 3-D contexts in which participants experienced fear conditioning to virtual snakes or spiders. Auditory cues co-occurred with the CS in order to further evoke orienting responses and a feeling of &quot;presence&quot; in subjects. Skin conductance response served as the dependent measure of fear acquisition, memory retention and extinction.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and peptide YY (PYY) share approximately 70% of their 36 amino acids and bind to the same three human receptor subtypes, Y1, Y2 and Y5, even though these receptors only share approximately 30% sequence identity. Based on our previous investigation of human Y1 we describe here a mutagenesis study of three corresponding positions in human Y2, i.e. Tyr2.64, Val6.58 and Tyr7.31. Pharmacological characterization was performed with the four peptide agonists PYY, NPY, PYY(3-36) and NPY(13-36) as well as the non-peptide antagonist BIIE0246. Results from mutants where Tyr2.64 has been substituted by Ala suggest that Tyr2.64 is involved in the interaction with all investigated ligands whereas position Tyr7.31 seems to be more important for interaction with the truncated peptide PYY(3-36) than with intact NPY. Surprisingly, substitution of Tyr7.31 with His, the corresponding residue in Y1, resulted in total loss of binding of iodinated porcine PYY. The third position, Val6.58, did not influence binding of any of the ligands. These findings differ from those obtained for Y1 where Ala substitution resulted in lost or changed binding for each of the three positions. Although Tyr2.64 and Tyr7.31 in Y2 are involved in ligand binding, their interactions with the peptide ligands seem to be different from the corresponding positions in Y1. This suggests that the receptor-ligand interactions have changed during evolution after Y1 and Y2 arose from a common ancestral receptor.
In southwestern USA, the jimsonweed Datura wrightii and the nocturnal moth Manduca sexta form a pollinator-plant and herbivore-plant association. Because the floral scent is probably important in mediating this interaction, we investigated the floral volatiles that might attract M. sexta for feeding and oviposition. We found that flower volatiles increase oviposition and include small amounts of both enantiomers of linalool, a common component of the scent of hawkmoth-pollinated flowers. Because (+)-linalool is processed in a female-specific glomerulus in the primary olfactory centre of M. sexta, we hypothesized that the enantiomers of linalool differentially modulate feeding and oviposition. Using a synthetic mixture that mimics the D. wrightii floral scent, we found that the presence of linalool was not necessary to evoke feeding and that mixtures containing (+)- and/or (-)-linalool were equally effective in mediating this behaviour. By contrast, females oviposited more on plants emitting (+)-linalool (alone or in mixtures) over control plants, while plants emitting (-)-linalool (alone or in mixtures) were less preferred than control plants. Together with our previous investigations, these results show that linalool has differential effects in feeding and oviposition through two neural pathways: one that is sexually isomorphic and non-enantioselective, and another that is female-specific and enantioselective.
Over the past decade, neuroimaging and electrophysiological studies of working memory (WM) have made progress in distinguishing the neural substrates of central executive (CE) functions from substrates of temporary storage subsystems. However, the degree to which CE-related processes and their substrates may be further fractionated is less clear. The present study measured event-related potentials (ERPs) in a running memory paradigm, to study modality-specific CE-related processes in verbal and spatial WM. Participants were asked to remember either verbal (digit identity) or spatial (digit location) information for the first or last three items in a variable length sequence of spatially distributed digit stimuli. Modality-specific WM demand-sensitive ERP amplitude effects were selectively observed over left prefrontal areas under verbal WM performance and over right prefrontal areas under spatial WM performance. In addition, distinct patterns of item-by-item sensitivity under high-CE-demand conditions suggested qualitatively different processing strategies for verbal versus spatial tasks. These results suggest that both modality-specific and task-general CE-related processes are likely operational in many WM situations and that careful dissociative methods will be needed to properly further fractionate and characterize these component CE-related processes and their neurological substrates.
There is increasing evidence that high magnetic fields interact with the vestibular system of humans and rodents. In rats, exposure to high magnetic fields of 7 T or above induces locomotor circling and leads to a conditioned taste aversion if paired with a novel taste. Sex differences in the behavioral responses to magnetic field exposure have been found, such that female rats show more locomotor circling and enhanced conditioned taste aversion compared to male rats. To determine if estrogen modulates the neural response to high magnetic fields, c-Fos expression after 14 T magnetic field exposure was compared in ovariectomized rats and ovariectomized rats with estradiol replacement. Compared to sham exposure, magnetic field exposure induced significantly more c-Fos positive cells in the nucleus of the solitary tract and the parabrachial, medial vestibular, prepositus, and supragenualis nuclei. Furthermore, there was a significant asymmetry in c-Fos induction between sides of the brainstem in several regions. In ovariectomized rats, there was more c-Fos expressed in the right side compared to left side in the locus coeruleus and parabrachial, superior vestibular, and supragenualis nuclei; less expression in the right compared to left side of the medial vestibular; and no asymmetry in the prepositus nucleus and the nucleus of the solitary tract. Chronic estradiol treatment modulated the neural response in some regions: less c-Fos was induced in the superior vestibular nucleus and locus coeruleus after estradiol replacement; estradiol treatment eliminated the asymmetry of c-Fos expression in the locus coeruleus and supragenualis nucleus, created an asymmetry in the prepositus nucleus and reversed the asymmetry in the parabrachial nucleus. These results suggest that ovarian steroids may mediate sex differences in the behavioral responses to magnetic field exposure at the level of visceral and vestibular nuclei of the brainstem.
Neural precursor cells (NPCs) reside in the subventricular zone in association with blood vessels and ependymal cells. In this issue of Cell Stem Cell, Kokovay et al. (2010) show that SDF1 directs the association of NPCs with this niche and regulates their lineage progression in a stage-specific manner.
Dopamine is a neurotransmitter that plays a major role in a variety of brain functions, as well as in disorders such as Parkinson disease and schizophrenia. In cultured astrocytes, we have found that dopamine induces sporadic cytoplasmic calcium ([Ca(2+)](c)) signals. Importantly, we show that the dopamine-induced calcium signaling is receptor-independent in midbrain, cortical, and hippocampal astrocytes. We demonstrate that the calcium signal is initiated by the metabolism of dopamine by monoamine oxidase, which produces reactive oxygen species and induces lipid peroxidation. This stimulates the activation of phospholipase C and subsequent release of calcium from the endoplasmic reticulum via the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor mechanism. These findings have major implications on the function of astrocytes that are exposed to dopamine and may contribute to understanding the physiological role of dopamine.
alpha and beta dystrobrevins are cytoplasmic components of the dystrophin-associated protein complex that are thought to play a role as scaffold proteins in signal transduction and intracellular transport. In the search of new insights into the functions of beta-dystrobrevin, the isoform restricted to non-muscle tissues, we performed a two-hybrid screen of a mouse cDNA library to look for interacting proteins. Among the positive clones, one encodes iBRAF/HMG20a, a high mobility group (HMG)-domain protein that activates REST (RE-1 silencing transcription factor)-responsive genes, playing a key role in the initiation of neuronal differentiation. We characterized the beta-dystrobrevin-iBRAF interaction by in vitro and in vivo association assays, localized the binding region of one protein to the other, and assessed the kinetics of the interaction as one of high affinity. We also found that beta-dystrobrevin directly binds to BRAF35/HMG20b, a close homologue of iBRAF and a member of a co-repressor complex required for the repression of neural specific genes in neuronal progenitors. In vitro assays indicated that beta-dystrobrevin binds to RE-1 and represses the promoter activity of synapsin I, a REST-responsive gene that is a marker for neuronal differentiation. Altogether, our data demonstrate a direct interaction of beta-dystrobrevin with the HMG20 proteins iBRAF and BRAF35 and suggest that beta-dystrobrevin may be involved in regulating chromatin dynamics, possibly playing a role in neuronal differentiation.
In addition to its primary role as a fundamental component of the SNARE complex, SNAP-25 also modulates voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs) in various overexpression systems. Although these studies suggest a potential negative regulatory role of SNAP-25 on VGCC activity, the effects of endogenous SNAP-25 on native VGCC function in neurons are unclear. In the present study, we investigated the VGCC properties of cultured glutamatergic and GABAergic rat hippocampal neurons. Glutamatergic currents were dominated by P/Q-type channels, whereas GABAergic cells had a dominant L-type component. Also, glutamatergic VGCC current densities were significantly lower with enhanced inactivation rates and shifts in the voltage dependence of activation and inactivation curves compared with GABAergic cells. Silencing endogenous SNAP-25 in glutamatergic neurons did not alter P/Q-type channel expression or localization but led to increased VGCC current density without changes in the VGCC subtype proportions. Isolation of the P/Q-type component indicated that increased current in the absence of SNAP-25 was correlated with a large depolarizing shift in the voltage dependence of inactivation. Overexpressing SNAP-25 in GABAergic neurons reduced current density without affecting the VGCC subtype proportion. Accordingly, VGCC current densities in glutamatergic neurons from Snap-25(+/-) mice were significantly elevated compared with wild type glutamatergic neurons. Overall, this study demonstrates that endogenous SNAP-25 negatively regulates native VGCCs in glutamatergic neurons which could have important implications for neurological diseases associated with altered SNAP-25 expression.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) acts via G-protein-coupled receptors on gonadotrophs to stimulate synthesis and secretion of luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone. It is secreted in pulses, and its effects depend on pulse frequency, but decoding mechanisms are unknown. Here we have used an extracellular signal regulated kinase-green fluorescent protein (ERK2-GFP) reporter to monitor GnRH signaling. GnRH caused dose-dependent ERK2-GFP translocation to the nucleus, providing a live-cell readout for activation. Pulsatile GnRH caused dose- and frequency-dependent ERK2-GFP translocation. These responses were rapid and transient, showed only digital tracking, and did not desensitize under any condition tested (dose, frequency, and receptor number varied). We also tested for the effects of cycloheximide (to prevent induction of nuclear-inducible MAPK phosphatases) and used GFP fusions containing ERK mutations (D319N, which prevents docking domain-dependent binding to MAPK phosphatases, and K52R, which prevents catalytic activity). These manipulations had little or no effect on the translocation responses, arguing against a role for MAPK phosphatases or ERK-mediated feedback in shaping ERK activation during pulsatile stimulation. GnRH also caused dose- and frequency-dependent activation of the alpha-gonadotropin subunit-, luteinizing hormone beta-, and follicle-stimulating hormone beta- luciferase reporters, and the latter response was inhibited by ERK1/2 knockdown. Moreover, GnRH caused frequency-dependent activation of an Egr1-luciferase reporter, but the response was proportional to cumulative pulse duration. Our data suggest that frequency decoding is not due to negative feedback shaping ERK signaling in this model.
Visual, acoustic, and olfactory stimuli associated with a highly charged emotional situation take on the affective qualities of that situation. Where the emotional meaning of a given sensory experience is stored is a matter of debate. We found that excitotoxic lesions of auditory, visual, or olfactory secondary sensory cortices impaired remote, but not recent, fear memories in rats. Amnesia was modality-specific and not due to an interference with sensory or emotional processes. In these sites, memory persistence was dependent on ongoing protein kinase Mzeta activity and was associated with an increased activity of layers II-IV, thus suggesting a synaptic strengthening of corticocortical connections. Lesions of the same areas left intact the memory of sensory stimuli not associated with any emotional charge. We propose that secondary sensory cortices support memory storage and retrieval of sensory stimuli that have acquired a behavioral salience with the experience.

Changes in the physiological properties of senescent V1 neurons suggest that the mechanisms encoding spatial frequency in primate cortex may become more broadly tuned in old age (Zhang et al., European Journal of Neuroscience, 2008, 28, 201-207). We examined this possibility in two psychophysical experiments that used masking to estimate the bandwidth of spatial frequency-selective mechanisms in younger (age approximately 22years) and older (age approximately 65years) human adults. Contrary to predictions from physiological studies, in both experiments, the spatial frequency selectivity of masking was essentially identical in younger and older subjects.
The involvement of environmental factors such as endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) in the timing of onset of puberty is suggested by recent changes in age at onset of puberty and pattern of distribution that are variable among countries, as well as new forms of sexual precocity after migration. However, the evidence of association between early or late pubertal timing and exposure to EDCs is weak in humans, possibly due to heterogeneity of effects likely involving mixtures and incapacity to assess fetal or neonatal exposure retrospectively. The neuroendocrine system which is crucial for physiological onset of puberty is targeted by EDCs. These compounds also act directly in the gonads and peripheral sex-steroid sensitive tissues. Feedbacks add to the complexity of regulation so that changes in pubertal timing caused by EDCs can involve both central and peripheral mechanisms. In experimental conditions, several neuroendocrine endpoints are affected by EDCs though only few studies including from our laboratory aimed at EDC involvement in the pathophysiology of early sexual maturation. Recent observations support the concept that EDC cause disturbed energy balance and account for the obesity epidemic. Several aspects are linking this system and the reproductive axis: coexisting neuroendocrine and peripheral effects, dependency on fetal/neonatal programming and the many factors cross-linking the two systems, for instance leptin, adiponectin, Agouti Related Peptide (AgRP). This opens perspectives for future research and, hopefully, measures preventing the disturbances of homeostasis caused by EDCs.
At puberty, the mammalian reproductive axis is activated by neuroendocrine events within the hypothalamus that initiate pulsatile secretion of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) to activate the pituitary/gonadal axis. Thus, puberty is critically dependent on the integrity of GnRH neuronal activity. Defects in the migration of GnRH neurons into the forebrain during development or in GnRH synthesis or release prevent pubertal maturation of the reproductive axis. Both naturally occurring and genetically modified mutant mice have provided valuable information about the cellular and molecular events required for normal pubertal development. This review focuses specifically on the molecules that have been identified from studies in mutant mice that act centrally to control entry into puberty.
A sustained increase in pulsatile release of gonadotrophin releasing hormone (GnRH) from the hypothalamus is an essential, final event that defines the initiation of mammalian puberty. This increase depends on coordinated changes in transsynaptic and glial-neuronal communication, consisting of activating neuronal and glial excitatory inputs to the GnRH neuronal network and the loss of transsynaptic inhibitory tone. It is now clear that the prevalent excitatory systems stimulating GnRH secretion involve a neuronal component consisting of excitatory amino acids (glutamate) and at least one peptide (kisspeptin), and a glial component that uses growth factors and small molecules for cell-cell signaling. GABAergic and opiatergic neurons provide transsynaptic inhibitory control to the system, but GABA neurons also exert direct excitatory effects on GnRH neurons. The molecular mechanisms that provide encompassing coordination to this cellular network are not known, but they appear to involve a host of functionally related genes hierarchically arranged. We envision that, as observed in other gene networks, the highest level of control in this network is provided by transcriptional regulators that, by directing expression of key subordinate genes, impose an integrative level of coordination to the neuronal and glial subsets involved in initiating the pubertal process. The use of high-throughput and gene manipulation approaches coupled to systems biology strategies should provide not only the experimental bases supporting this concept, but also unveil the existence of crucial components of network control not yet identified.

Understanding the principles governing axonal and dendritic branching is essential for unravelling the functionality of single neurons and the way in which they connect. Nevertheless, no formalism has yet been described which can capture the general features of neuronal branching. Here we propose such a formalism, which is derived from the expression of dendritic arborizations as locally optimized graphs. Inspired by Ramn y Cajal's laws of conservation of cytoplasm and conduction time in neural circuitry, we show that this graphical representation can be used to optimize these variables. This approach allows us to generate synthetic branching geometries which replicate morphological features of any tested neuron. The essential structure of a neuronal tree is thereby captured by the density profile of its spanning field and by a single parameter, a balancing factor weighing the costs for material and conduction time. This balancing factor determines a neuron's electrotonic compartmentalization. Additions to this rule, when required in the construction process, can be directly attributed to developmental processes or a neuron's computational role within its neural circuit. The simulations presented here are implemented in an open-source software package, the &quot;TREES toolbox,&quot; which provides a general set of tools for analyzing, manipulating, and generating dendritic structure, including a tool to create synthetic members of any particular cell group and an approach for a model-based supervised automatic morphological reconstruction from fluorescent image stacks. These approaches provide new insights into the constraints governing dendritic architectures. They also provide a novel framework for modelling and analyzing neuronal branching structures and for constructing realistic synthetic neural networks.
Disturbances in intracellular calcium homeostasis are likely prominent and causative factors leading to neuronal cell death in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Familial AD (FAD) is early-onset and exhibits autosomal dominant inheritance. FAD-linked mutations have been found in the genes encoding the presenilins and amyloid precursor protein (APP). Several studies have shown that mutated presenilin proteins can directly affect calcium release from intracellular stores independently of Abeta production. Although less well established, there is also evidence that APP may directly modulate intracellular calcium homeostasis. Here, we directly examined whether overexpression of FAD-linked APP mutants alters intracellular calcium dynamics. In contrast to previous studies, we found that overexpression of mutant APP has no effects on basal cytosolic calcium, ER calcium store size or agonist-induced calcium release and subsequent entry. Thus, we conclude that mutated APP associated with FAD has no direct effect on intracellular calcium homeostasis independently of Abeta production.

Living cells maintain a huge transmembrane electric field across their membranes. This electric field exerts a force on the membrane because the membrane surfaces are highly charged. We have measured electromechanical force generation by cell membranes using optically trapped beads to detach the plasma membrane from the cytoskeleton and form long thin cylinders (tethers). Hyperpolarizing potentials increased and depolarizing potentials decreased the force required to pull a tether. The membrane tether force in response to sinusoidal voltage signals was a function of holding potential, tether diameter, and tether length. Membrane electromechanical force production can occur at speeds exceeding those of ATP-based protein motors. By harnessing the energy in the transmembrane electric field, cell membranes may contribute to processes as diverse as outer hair cell electromotility, ion channel gating, and transport.
Beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) is generated via sequential proteolysis of amyloid precursor protein (APP) by beta- and gamma-secretases. Cell-based screening experiments disclosed that the MEK (MAP kinase kinase) inhibitors, U0126 and PD184352, suppress Abeta secretion from human neuronal SH-SY5Y cells expressing Swedish mutant APP. These inhibitors did not affect the cellular levels of APP but significantly reduced those of the APP beta-C-terminal fragment (beta-CTF). Additionally, beta-CTF levels were markedly reduced by these inhibitors in cells expressing the fragment in a gamma-secretase-independent and proteasome-dependent manner. Our results suggest that MEK inhibitors reduce Abeta generation via secretase-independent alteration of beta-CTF levels.
Spontaneous, highly rhythmic episodes of propagating bursting activity are present early during the development of chick and mouse spinal cords. Acetylcholine, and GABA and glycine, which are both excitatory at this stage, provide the excitatory drive. It was previously shown that a moderate decrease in the frequency of bursting activity, caused by in ovo application of the GABA(A) receptor blocker, picrotoxin, resulted in motoneurons making dorsal-ventral (D-V) pathfinding errors in the limb and in the altered expression of guidance molecules associated with this decision. To distinguish whether the pathfinding errors were caused by perturbation of the normal frequency of bursting activity or interference with GABA(A) receptor signaling, chick embryos were chronically treated in ovo with picrotoxin to block GABA(A) receptors, while light activation by channelrhodopsin-2 was used to restore bursting activity to the control frequency. The restoration of normal patterns of neural activity in the presence of picrotoxin prevented the D-V pathfinding errors in the limb and maintained the normal expression levels of EphA4, EphB1, and polysialic acid on neural cell adhesion molecule, three molecules previously shown to be necessary for this pathfinding choice. These observations demonstrate that developing spinal motor circuits are highly sensitive to the precise frequency and pattern of spontaneous activity, and that any drugs that alter this activity could result in developmental defects.
With each eye movement, the image of the world received by the visual system changes dramatically. To maintain stable spatiotopic (world-centered) visual representations, the retinotopic (eye-centered) coordinates of visual stimuli are continually remapped, even before the eye movement is completed. Recent psychophysical work has suggested that updating of attended locations occurs as well, although on a slower timescale, such that sustained attention lingers in retinotopic coordinates for several hundred milliseconds after each saccade. To explore where and when this &quot;retinotopic attentional trace&quot; resides in the cortical visual processing hierarchy, we conducted complementary functional magnetic resonance imaging and event-related potential (ERP) experiments using a novel gaze-contingent task. Human subjects executed visually guided saccades while covertly monitoring a fixed spatiotopic target location. Although subjects responded only to stimuli appearing at the attended spatiotopic location, blood oxygen level-dependent responses to stimuli appearing after the eye movement at the previously, but no longer, attended retinotopic location were enhanced in visual cortical area V4 and throughout visual cortex. This retinotopic attentional trace was also detectable with higher temporal resolution in the anterior N1 component of the ERP data, a well established signature of attentional modulation. Together, these results demonstrate that, when top-down spatiotopic signals act to redirect visuospatial attention to new retinotopic locations after eye movements, facilitation transiently persists in the cortical regions representing the previously relevant retinotopic location.
Animals select their optimal environmental temperature, even when faced with alternatives that differ only slightly. This behavior is critical as small differences in temperature of only several degrees can have a profound effect on the survival and rate of development of poikilothermic animals, such as the fruit fly. Here, we demonstrate that Drosophila larvae choose their preferred temperature of 17.5 degrees C over slightly cooler temperatures (14-16 degrees C) through activation of chordotonal neurons. Mutations affecting a transient receptor potential (TRP) vanilloid channel, Inactive (Iav), which is expressed specifically in chordotonal neurons, eliminated the ability to choose 17.5 degrees C over 14-16 degrees C. The impairment in selecting 17.5 degrees C resulted from absence of an avoidance response, which is normally mediated by an increase in turns at the lower temperatures. We conclude that the decision to select the preferred over slightly cooler temperatures requires iav and is achieved by activating chordotonal neurons, which in turn induces repulsive behaviors, due to an increase in high angle turns.
Oligomers of the beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptide have been indicated in early neuropathologic changes in Alzheimer's disease. Here, we present a synthetic Abeta(20-42) oligomer (named globulomer) with a different conformation to monomeric and fibrillar Abeta peptide, enabling the generation of highly Abeta oligomer-specific monoclonal antibodies. The globulomer-derived antibodies specifically detect oligomeric but not monomeric or fibrillar Abeta in various Abeta preparations. The globulomer-specific antibody A-887755 was able to prevent Abeta oligomer binding and dynamin cleavage in primary hippocampal neurons and to reverse globulomer-induced reduced synaptic transmission. In amyloid precursor protein (APP) transgenic mice, vaccination with Abeta globulomer and treatment with A-887755 improved novel object recognition. The cognitive improvement is likely attributable to reversing a deficit in hippocampal synaptic spine density in APP transgenic mice as observed after treatment with A-887755. Our findings demonstrate that selective reduction of Abeta oligomers by immunotherapy is sufficient to normalize cognitive behavior and synaptic deficits in APP transgenic mice.
Prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP) is expressed in nociceptive dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, functions as an ectonucleotidase, and generates adenosine extracellularly. Here, we found that PAP inhibits noxious thermal sensitivity and sensitization that is associated with chronic pain through sustained activation of the adenosine A(1) receptor (A(1)R) and phospholipase C-mediated depletion of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP(2)). In mice, intrathecal injection of PAP reduced PIP(2) levels in DRGs, inhibited thermosensation through TRPV1, and enduringly reduced thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia caused by inflammation, nerve injury, and pronociceptive receptor activation. This included inhibitory effects on lysophosphatidic acid, purinergic (ATP), bradykinin, and protease-activated (thrombin) receptors. Conversely, PIP(2) levels were significantly elevated in DRGs from Pap(-/-) mice, and this correlated with enhanced thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia in Pap(-/-) mice. To directly test the importance of PIP(2) in nociception, we intrathecally injected PIP(2) into mice. This transiently (2 h) elevated PIP(2) levels in lumbar DRGs and transiently (2 h) enhanced thermosensation. Additionally, thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia were enduringly enhanced when PIP(2) levels were elevated coincident with injury/pronociceptive receptor stimulation. Nociceptive sensitization was not affected if PIP(2) levels were elevated in the absence of ongoing pronociceptive receptor stimulation. Together, our data suggest that PIP(2) levels in DRGs directly influence thermosensation and the magnitude of nociceptive sensitization. Moreover, our data suggest there is an underlying &quot;phosphoinositide tone&quot; that can be manipulated by an adenosine-generating ectonucleotidase. This tone regulates how effectively acute nociceptive insults promote the transition to chronic pain.
Netrin G-2 ligand (NGL-2) and synaptic adhesion like molecules induce synapses in vitro. We investigated the expression of these molecules in a model of CNS synaptic detachment and restoration in vivo. After axotomy of spinal motoneurons, synapses are lost from the somata of lesioned motoneurons. We could not detect any synaptic adhesion like molecule mRNA in the spinal cord, but signal for NGL-2 mRNA was seen in motoneurons. The signal for NGL-2 decreased after sciatic nerve transection and sciatic nerve crush. After regeneration, the levels of NGL-2 mRNA were partially restored after sciatic nerve transection, but completely restored after sciatic nerve crush. We conclude that axotomized motoneurons decrease their NGL-2 expression and that the restoration of NGL-2 expression mirrors the restoration of synaptic inputs.
Sleep disorders are observed in Parkinson's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, and Alzheimer's disease; however, the underlying mechanisms are unclear. Reduced hypocretin (orexin) levels are reported in Parkinson's disease and sleep disorders, including narcolepsy; however, its levels in dementia with Lewy bodies and Alzheimer's disease and its relationship with sleep disturbances in these disorders remain undetermined. We examined hypocretin levels in dementia with Lewy bodies and Alzheimer's disease cases and correlated these with sleep habits and clinical characteristics. Although limited hypocretin alterations were observed in Alzheimer's disease, we show reduced neocortical hypocretin immunoreactivity in dementia with Lewy bodies patients correlating with hypersomnolence and alpha-synuclein levels. These results suggest the involvement of hypocretin in sleep disorders in dementia with Lewy bodies.
Lesions or pharmacological inhibition of the ventral hippocampus or the lateral septum suppress rats' defensive responses in various rat models of anxiety. Although these two structures are extensively connected, it was not clear whether they regulate anxiety in a parallel (independent) or serial (integrated) fashion. In Experiment 1, bilateral infusions of the GABA-A receptor agonist muscimol (5 ng/side) into the lateral septum increased rats' open-arm exploration in the elevated plus-maze test, whereas unilateral infusions of muscimol did not. Similar anxiolytic-like effects were observed in Experiment 2, following bilateral infusions of muscimol (500 ng/side) into the ventral hippocampus. In Experiment 3, we confirmed that unilateral infusions of muscimol into either the lateral septum (5 ng) or the ventral hippocampus (500 ng) did not alter rats' normal open-arm avoidance. Importantly, dramatic increases in open-arm exploration were evident when muscimol was co-infused into one side of the lateral septum (5 ng) and the contralateral ventral hippocampus (500 ng). By contrast, open-arm exploration was not altered when these same doses of muscimol were co-infused into one side of the lateral septum and the ipsilateral ventral hippocampus. These results support the contention that the ventral hippocampus and the lateral septum regulate rats' open-arm exploration in a serial fashion, and that this involves ipsilateral projections from the former to the latter site.
Social defeat is a complex, multi-faceted behavioral interaction capable of eliciting a wide range of physiological and behavioral responses. The behavioral components responsible for eliciting these changes, however, remain unspecified. The goal of the present study was to examine the effects of chronic social defeat on serum cortisol concentration as well as innate and acquired immune responses in adult male Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus). Specifically, we experimentally manipulated the nature of the social interaction among conspecific animals (i.e., no social interaction, exposure to the sight or smell of a conspecific, or full social defeat) in order to determine the important components contributing to potential stress-induced changes in immunity. We found that immunoglobulin G (IgG) levels were decreased in defeated animals relative to both control animals and those exposed only to the olfactory cues of conspecifics. In contrast, serum bactericidal activity was increased in the defeated animals relative to controls. Prolonged social defeat did not elevate serum cortisol levels as compared with control animals. The results of this study suggest that social defeat alters immune responses and that specific behavioral components (i.e., defeat) contribute to this response. Importantly, these findings also demonstrate that social defeat exerts opposite effects on innate and acquired measures of immunity. Collectively, these results contribute to our understanding of complex social behaviors and their differential effects on endocrine and immune responses in vertebrates.
Concerted actions of various ion channels that are precisely targeted along axons are crucial for action potential initiation and propagation, and neurotransmitter release. However, the dynamics of channel protein transport in axons remain unknown. Here, using time-lapse imaging, we found fluorescently tagged Kv1.2 voltage-gated K(+) channels (YFP-Kv1.2) moved bi-directionally in discrete puncta along hippocampal axons. Expressing Kvbeta2, a Kv1 accessory subunit, markedly increased the velocity, the travel distance, and the percentage of moving time of these puncta in both anterograde and retrograde directions. Suppressing the Kvbeta2-associated protein, plus-end binding protein EB1 or kinesin II/KIF3A, by siRNA, significantly decreased the velocity of YFP-Kv1.2 moving puncta in both directions. Kvbeta2 mutants with disrupted either Kv1.2-Kvbeta2 binding or Kvbeta2-EB1 binding failed to increase the velocity of YFP-Kv1.2 puncta, confirming a central role of Kvbeta2. Furthermore, fluorescently tagged Kv1.2 and Kvbeta2 co-moved along axons. Surprisingly, when co-moving with Kv1.2 and Kvbeta2, EB1 appeared to travel markedly faster than its plus-end tracking. Finally, using fission yeast S. pombe expressing YFP-fusion proteins as reference standards to calibrate our microscope, we estimated the numbers of YFP-Kv1.2 tetramers in axonal puncta. Taken together, our results suggest that proper amounts of Kv1 channels and their associated proteins are required for efficient transport of Kv1 channel proteins along axons.
The neural mechanisms underlying primate locomotion are largely unknown. While behavioral and theoretical work has provided a number of ideas of how navigation is controlled, progress will require direct physiolgical tests of the underlying mechanisms. In turn, this will require development of appropriate animal models. We trained three monkeys to track a moving visual target in a simple virtual environment, using a joystick to control their direction. The monkeys learned to quickly and accurately turn to the target, and their steering behavior was quite stereotyped and reliable. Monkeys typically responded to abrupt steps of target direction with a biphasic steering movement, exhibiting modest but transient overshoot. Response latencies averaged approximately 300 ms, and monkeys were typically back on target after about 1 s. We also exploited the variability of responses about the mean to explore the time-course of correlation between target direction and steering response. This analysis revealed a broad peak of correlation spanning approximately 400 ms in the recent past, during which steering errors provoke a compensatory response. This suggests a continuous, visual-motor loop controls steering behavior, even during the epoch surrounding transient inputs. Many results from the human literature also suggest that steering is controlled by such a closed loop. The similarity of our results to those in humans suggests the monkey is a very good animal model for human visually guided steering.
Bipolar disorder (BD) is a chronic and often severe psychiatric illness characterized by manic and depressive episodes. Among the most effective treatments, mood stabilizers represent the keystone in acute mania, depression, and maintenance treatment of BD. However, treatment response is a highly heterogeneous trait, thus emphasizing the need for a structured informational framework of phenotypic and genetic predictors. In this paper, we present the current state of pharmacogenomic research on long-term treatment in BD, specifically focusing on mood stabilizers. While the results provided so far support the key role of genetic factors in modulating the response phenotype, strong evidence for genetic predictors is still lacking. In order to facilitate implementation of pharmacogenomics into clinical settings (i.e., the creation of personalized therapy), further research efforts are needed.
Cluster headache (CH) is a rare and disabling primary headache disorder. CH attacks are unilateral, short, severe headaches associated with ipsilateral autonomic symptoms that occur in a periodic fashion. We provide a systematic review and meta-analysis of existing trials of pharmacotherapy for CH and evidence-based suggestions for acute abortive treatment and preventive therapy for cluster headache. Prospective, double-blind, randomized controlled trials of any pharmacologic agent for the symptomatic relief or prevention of CH were included in this evidence-based review. The main outcomes considered were headache response and pain-free response at 15 and 30 minutes for acute treatment trials, and the cessation of CH attacks within a specific time period or the number of days on which CH attacks occurred for preventive trials. Twenty-seven trials were included in the analysis. The American Academy of Neurology quality criteria were used to assess trial quality and to grade advisements. Based on the evidence, for acute treatment of CH, Level A advice can be given for subcutaneous sumatriptan 6 mg, zolmitriptan nasal spray 5 mg and 10 mg, and 100% oxygen 6-12 L/min. Level B advice can be given for sumatriptan nasal spray 20 mg and oral zolmitriptan 5 mg and 10 mg. For the prevention of CH, Level B advice can be given for intranasal civamide 100 microg daily and suboccipital steroid injections, and Level C advice can be given for verapamil 360 mg, lithium 900 mg, and melatonin 10 mg.



Slow and persistent synaptic inhibition is mediated by metabotropic GABAB receptors (GABABRs). GABABRs are responsible for the modulation of neurotransmitter release from presynaptic terminals and for hyperpolarization at postsynaptic sites. Postsynaptic GABABRs are predominantly found on dendritic spines, adjacent to excitatory synapses, but the control of their plasma membrane availability is still controversial. Here, we explore the role of glutamate receptor activation in regulating the function and surface availability of GABABRs in central neurons. We demonstrate that prolonged activation of NMDA receptors (NMDA-Rs) leads to endocytosis, a diversion from a recycling route, and subsequent lysosomal degradation of GABABRs. These sorting events are paralleled by a reduction in GABABR-dependent activation of inwardly rectifying K+ channel currents. Postendocytic sorting is critically dependent on phosphorylation of serine 783 (S783) within the GABABR2 subunit, an established substrate of AMP-dependent protein kinase (AMPK). NMDA-R activation leads to a rapid increase in phosphorylation of S783, followed by a slower dephosphorylation, which results from the activity of AMPK and protein phosphatase 2A, respectively. Agonist activation of GABABRs counters the effects of NMDA. Thus, NMDA-R activation alters the phosphorylation state of S783 and acts as a molecular switch to decrease the abundance of GABABRs at the neuronal plasma membrane. Such a mechanism may be of significance during synaptic plasticity or pathological conditions, such as ischemia or epilepsy, which lead to prolonged activation of glutamate receptors.
Cognitive decline is a virtually universal aspect of the aging process. However, its neurophysiological basis remains poorly understood. We describe here more than 20 age-related cortical processing deficits in the primary auditory cortex of aging versus young rats that appear to be strongly contributed to by altered cortical inhibition. Consistent with these changes, we recorded in old rats a decrease in parvalbumin-labeled inhibitory cortical neurons. Furthermore, old rats were slower to master a simple behavior, with learning progressions marked by more false-positive responses. We then examined the effect of intensive auditory training on the primary auditory cortex in these aged rats by using an oddball discrimination task. Following training, we found a nearly complete reversal of the majority of previously observed functional and structural cortical impairments. These findings suggest that age-related cognitive decline is a tightly regulated plastic process, and demonstrate that most of these age-related changes are, by their fundamental nature, reversible.
The intranasal entry of biological and artificial nanoparticles can induce inflammatory responses both locally and more widely in surrounding tissues. The aim of this study was to assess the microglia activation induced by nanoparticles with different surfaces in (i) a transgenic mouse (Toll-like receptor (TLR)-2-luciferase (Luc) reporter) which allowed the biophotonic imaging of microglial activation/innate immune response after intranasal delivery of nanoparticles and (ii) in microglial dispersed cells in vitro. Cadmium selenide nanoparticles (quantum dots, QD), surface-exchanged with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to form micelles, were tested to assess microglia activation and lipid droplet formation in both model systems. In vivo imaging revealed a robust increase in the extent of microglial activation/TLR2 response, initially in the olfactory bulb, but also in other more caudal brain regions. The increased TLR2 expression was complemented with enhanced CD68 expression in activated microglia in the same regions. Intense in vitro microglial activation by LPS-QD micelles was accompanied by a significant enhancement of nitric oxide production and formation of large lipid droplets, suggesting the possibility of this organelle acting as an inflammatory biomarker in response to nanoparticles, and not simply as a storage site in fat tissues.
The role of the posterior parietal cortex in working memory (WM) is poorly understood. We previously found that patients with parietal lobe damage exhibited a selective WM impairment on recognition but not recall tasks. We hypothesized that this dissociation reflected strategic differences in the utilization of attention. One concern was that these findings, and our subsequent interpretation, would not generalize to normal populations because of the patients' older age, progressive disease processes, and/or possible brain reorganization following injury. To test whether our findings extended to a normal population we applied transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) to right inferior parietal cortex. tDCS is a technique by which low electric current applied to the scalp modulates the resting potentials of underlying neural populations and can be used to test structure-function relationships. Eleven normal young adults received cathodal, anodal, or sham stimulation over right inferior posterior parietal cortex and then performed separate blocks of an object WM task probed by recall or recognition. The results showed that cathodal stimulation selectively impaired WM on recognition trials. These data replicate and extend our previous findings of preserved WM recall and impaired WM recognition in patients with parietal lobe lesions.

The incidence of Bell's palsy has been estimated in a health district of a major Italian city, taking also into consideration the potential risk factors that might influence the occurrence of Bell's palsy. A matched case-control was therefore designed, by collecting data from the Emergency Departments of four Hospitals belonging to the same Health District in Rome (Italy), coordinated by a tertiary referral centre University Hospital. All patients affected by Bell's palsy within the health district and four controls for each case were included. Controls were selected from other ENT patients, and were matched for hospital admission, week of disease onset, and climate conditions. Information regarding possible risk factors was collected using standardized telephone interviews. The resulting dataset was analyzed using multiple conditional logistic regression. The study group comprised 381 patients with acute, unilateral, peripheral facial palsy, clinically diagnosed as Bell's palsy observed between 1st January 2006 and 31st December 2008. The cumulative incidence of Bell's palsy was found to be 53.3/100.000/year. Among the risk factors, age was found to influence onset of Bell's palsy, with an odds ratio of 2% for each one-year increase in age, with a linear trend (95% CI = 1-3%; p = 0.005). Bell's palsy was found to occur with an annual incidence close to previous reports. Among the possible known risk factors (diabetes, pregnancy, etc.), only aging was found to play a significant role.
Nine healthy volunteers (6 males, 3 females), mean age 34.5 years (SD = 11.52), underwent a vestibulo-postural rehabilitation cycle with a visuo-proprioceptive-type stimulus. All subjects in the study group were evaluated by means of stabilometric bipodalic and monopodalic tests both before and immediately after treatment, and again 3 month thereafter. The Delos Postural Proprioceptive System, DPPS (Delos, srl, Turin, Italy), was used in performing these stabilometric tests and in the rehabilitation exercises. The first aim of the study was to evaluate to what extent the functional level of the proprioceptive system was reliable, in healthy subjects, in the control of postural stability; the second was to demonstrate the possibility to increase this level by means of a novel visuo-proprioceptive feedback training; the last was to establish whether or not the increase achieved was permanent. The bipodalic test did not reveal any deficit in posture either before or after rehabilitation. The monopodalic test prior to treatment, with eyes closed, revealed, in 2/3 of the study group, evidence of the risk of falling, expressed as the precautional strategy (8.57  6.18% SD). An increase in the proprioceptive activity, obtained in the subjects examined immediately after the visuo-proprioceptive vestibulo-postural rehabilitation, led, in the monopodalic test, with eyes closed, to a significant reduction in the risk of falling (with the precautional strategy equal to 1.09  2.63% SD, p = 0.004). The monopodalic test, with eyes closed, 3 months after rehabilitation, demonstrated results not unlike those pre-treament with values, therefore, not more significant than those emerging from the pre-treatment test. Thus, from the above-mentioned data, it can be observed that, also in healthy subjects, there may be different levels of postural proprioceptive control related to a high risk of falling. These levels can be maintained constant for a certain period of time, until a significant reduction in the risk of falling is achieved, only if continuously stimulated by appropriate sensorial information.
The aim of this study was to determine the effects of selection, educational background, age and gender on strength of motivation to attend and pursue medical school. Graduate entry (GE) medical students (having Bachelor's degree in Life Sciences or related field) and Non-Graduate Entry (NGE) medical students (having only completed high school), were asked to fill out the Strength of Motivation for Medical School (SMMS) questionnaire at the start of medical school. The questionnaire measures the willingness of the medical students to pursue medical education even in the face of difficulty and sacrifice. GE students (59.64  7.30) had higher strength of motivation as compared to NGE students (55.26  8.33), so did females (57.05  8.28) as compared to males (54.30  8.08). 7.9% of the variance in the SMMS scores could be explained with the help of a linear regression model with age, gender and educational background/selection as predictor variables. Age was the single largest predictor. Maturity, taking developmental differences between sexes into account, was used as a predictor to correct for differences in the maturation of males and females. Still, the gender differences prevailed, though they were reduced. Pre-entrance educational background and selection also predicted the strength of motivation, but the effect of the two was confounded. Strength of motivation appears to be a dynamic entity, changing primarily with age and maturity and to a small extent with gender and experience.

Recent pathologic and MR imaging studies have challenged the classic view of MS as a chronic inflammatory-demyelinating condition affecting solely the WM of the central nervous system. Indeed, an involvement of the GM has been shown to occur from the early stages of the disease, to progress with time, and to be only moderately correlated with the extent of WM injury. In this review, we summarize how advances in MR imaging technology and methods of analysis are contributing to ameliorating the detection of focal lesions and to quantifying the extent of &quot;occult&quot; pathology and atrophy, as well as to defining the topographic distribution of such changes in the GM of patients with MS. These advances, combined with the imaging of brain reorganization occurring after tissue injury, should ultimately result in an improved understanding and monitoring of MS clinical manifestations and evolution, either natural or modified by treatment.
The aims of this study were to study suicide rates in youths aged 15-29 years in the European Union (EU), to identify differences between early members and new members to the EU since 2004, and to evaluate the association between alcohol-related variables and suicide rates, while controlling for indicators of social stress. We explored temporal trends in age-adjusted suicide rates for youths aged 15-29 years resident in EU nations since 1980. Social changes in EU nations were associated with increased inequalities between the countries in suicide, especially in male youths (new/early EU members: relative risk=1.55; 95% confidence interval: 1.48/1.61). Pure alcohol consumption predicts suicide rates in female youths, whereas social stress related to violence against youths predicts suicide rates in male youths. EU political and heath agencies should devise policies to prevent youth suicide with a focus on alcohol misuse and societal stress associated with violence against youths.
In this study, alcohol was administered intravenously to study whether its effects on mood should preferably be studied as a bi- or unipolar phenomenon. This was studied in a double-blind, placebo-balanced, design on six healthy male volunteers. Of the three bipolar aspects of mood (calmness, activity, and pleasantness), only calmness was significantly affected by intravenous alcohol. In contrast, there were significant differences between alcohol and placebo for five of the six unipolar indexes. This support the hypothesis that subjective effects of alcohol on mood are preferably studied with self-ratings that allows positive and negative aspects to be analyzed separately. Further, our data suggest that the effects of alcohol are primarily on negative aspects of mood rather than on positive.
A serotonin deficiency state has been implicated in alcohol-dependent individuals' experience of obsessive-compulsive alcohol craving. Because the serotonin transporter (5-HTT) functions to remove serotonin from the synapse, it is thought that increased reuptake (indicated by the number of high-expressing L(A) alleles present in the 5-HTT gene-linked polymorphic region [5-HTTLPR] of the SLC6A4 gene) is associated with an increase in obsessive-compulsive alcohol craving. The current pilot investigation sought to explore this hypothesis by examining the extent to which obsessive-compulsive alcohol craving varies by 5-HTTLPR genotype among participants enrolled in an ongoing pharmacogenetics trial. All participants were screened with a semi-structured diagnostic interview, completed self-report measures of alcohol-related behavior, and underwent peripheral venous blood draw for DNA genotyping. Cross-sectional data obtained at baseline from 176 currently drinking alcohol-dependent individuals were analyzed using multiple regression. Preliminary findings suggest that 5-HTTLPR is not predictive of Obsessive Compulsive Drinking Scale total and factor scores. Although the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism was not related to obsessive-compulsive alcohol craving in this pilot study, additional research is needed to clarify the possible role of serotonergic mechanisms in alcohol craving.




Carboxypeptidase E (CPE) is a prohormone/proneuropeptide processing enzyme, and mice bearing CPE mutations exhibit an obese and diabetic phenotype. Studies on CPE knockout (KO) mice revealed poor prohormone processing, resulting in deficiencies in peptide hormones/neuropeptides such as insulin, gonadotropin-releasing hormone, and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART). Here, we show that CPE KO mice, an obese animal model, have low bone mineral density (BMD) accompanied by elevated plasma CTX-1 (carboxy-terminal collagen crosslinks), and osteocalcin, indicators of increased bone turnover. Receptor activator for NF-kappaB ligand (RANKL) expression was elevated approximately 2-fold relative to osteoprotegerin in the femur of KO animals, suggesting increased osteoclastic activity in the KO mice. In the hypothalamus, mature CART, a peptide involved in eating behavior and implicated in bone metabolism, was undetectable. The melanocortin and neuropeptide Y (NPY) systems in the hypothalamus have also been implicated in bone remodeling, since MC4R KO and NPY KO mice have increased BMD. However, reduction of alpha-MSH, the primary ligand of MC4R by up to 94% and the lack of detectable NPY in the hypothalamus of CPE KO do not recapitulate the single-gene KO phenotypes. This study highlights the complex physiological interplay between peptides involved in energy metabolism and bone formation and furthermore suggests the possibility that patients, bearing CPE and CART mutations leading to inactive forms of these molecules, may be at a higher risk of developing osteoporosis.
Transport of phosphate across intestinal and renal epithelia is essential for normal phosphate balance, yet we know less about the mechanisms and regulation of intestinal phosphate absorption than we do about phosphate handling by the kidney. Recent studies have provided strong evidence that the sodium-phosphate cotransporter NaPi-IIb is responsible for sodium-dependent phosphate absorption by the small intestine, and it might be that this protein can link changes in dietary phosphate to altered renal phosphate excretion to maintain phosphate balance. Evidence is also emerging that specific regions of the small intestine adapt differently to acute or chronic changes in dietary phosphate load and that phosphatonins inhibit both renal and intestinal phosphate transport. This review summarizes our current understanding of the mechanisms and control of intestinal phosphate absorption and how it may be related to renal phosphate reabsorption; it also considers the ways in which the gut could be targeted to prevent, or limit, hyperphosphatemia in chronic and end-stage renal failure.
Common marmosets vocalize phee calls as isolation calls, which seem to facilitate their reunion with family groups. To identify multiple acoustic properties with different time courses, we examined acoustic modulations of phees during different social contexts of isolation. Subject marmosets were totally isolated in one condition, were visually isolated and could exchange vocalizations in another condition, and were visually isolated and subsequently totally isolated in a third condition. We recorded 6,035 phees of 10 male-female marmoset pairs and conducted acoustic analysis. The marmosets frequently vocalized phees that were temporally elongated and louder during isolation, with varying time courses of these changes in acoustic parameters. The vocal rates and sound levels of the phees increased as soon as the marmosets saw their pair mates being taken away, and then gradually calmed down. The phee duration was longer in conditions during which there were no vocal responses from their pair mates. Louder vocalizations are conspicuous and seem to be effective for long-distance transmission, whereas shorter call duration during vocal exchanges might avoid possible vocal overlap between mates.

Currently, ALS clinical trials require large sample size and the participation of many clinical evaluators to perform the outcome measure. High variability due to testers, instruments, or patients performance errors may result in systematic bias or random error leading to erroneous or uninterpretable results. Consequently, a quality control system that aims to produce high quality data in terms of reproducibility and accuracy to ensure reliability of the primary outcome measure is essential. In this paper we report our experience in preparing and executing a prospective quality control system that was implemented in conjunction with a large multicenter, multinational randomized placebo-controlled phase III clinical trial in ALS. We have shown that a prospective quality control system is highly effective to ensure inter- and intra-rater reliability of vital capacity as a primary outcome measure during the entire trial.
Although overlap exists between the clinical manifestations in patients with acquired peripheral nerve hyperexcitibility and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), the presence of VGKC antibodies has not been associated with the development or clinical manifestations of motor neuron disease. We present the finding of elevated potassium channel antibodies in a cohort of patients with ALS and demonstrate a higher number of abnormal titer levels and higher mean titer levels in ALS patients compared to a cohort of patients with peripheral nervous system disorders. These results suggest the possibility of a subset of ALS patients where autoimmunity could play a role in disease development and progression.
The brain integrates complex types of information, and executes a wide range of physiological and behavioral processes. Trillions of tiny organelles, the synapses, are central to neuronal communication and information processing in the brain. Synaptic transmission involves an intricate network of synaptic proteins that forms the molecular machinery underlying transmitter release, activation, and modulation of transmitter receptors and signal transduction cascades. These processes are dynamically regulated and underlie neuroplasticity, crucial to learning and memory formation. In recent years, interaction proteomics has increasingly been used to elucidate the constituents of synaptic protein complexes. Unlike classic hypothesis-based assays, interaction proteomics detects both known and novel interactors without bias. In this trend article, we focus on the technical aspects of recent proteomics to identify synapse protein complexes, and the complementary methods used to verify the protein-protein interaction. Moreover, we discuss the experimental feasibility of performing global analysis of the synapse protein interactome.

The surprising discovery in 1990 that estrogen modulates hippocampal structural plasticity launched a whole new field of scientific inquiry. Over the past two decades, estrogen-induced spinogenesis has been described in several brain areas involved in cognition in a number of species, in both sexes and on multiple time scales. Exploration into the interaction between estrogen and aging has illuminated some of the hormone's neuroprotective effects, most notably on age-related cognitive decline in nonhuman primates. Although there is still much to be learned about the mechanisms by which estrogen exerts its actions, key components of the signal transduction pathways are beginning to be elucidated and nongenomic actions via membrane bound estrogen receptors are of particular interest. Future studies are focused on identifying the most clinically relevant hormone treatment, as well as the potential identification of new therapeutics that can prevent or reverse age-related cognitive impairment by intercepting specific signal transduction pathways initiated by estrogen.
The prevailing view on multiple sclerosis etiopathogenesis has been challenged by the suggested new entity chronic cerebrospinal venous insufficiency. To test this hypothesis, we studied 21 relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis cases and 20 healthy controls with phase-contrast magnetic resonance imaging. In addition, in multiple sclerosis cases we performed contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography. We found no differences regarding internal jugular venous outflow, aqueductal cerebrospinal fluid flow, or the presence of internal jugular blood reflux. Three of 21 cases had internal jugular vein stenoses. In conclusion, we found no evidence confirming the suggested vascular multiple sclerosis hypothesis.
Although several studies have described dual-tasking ability in normal aging, Mild Cognitive Impairment and Alzheimer's disease, no normative data for dual-task performance exist. Dual-tasking ability of 436 healthy individuals, aged 16-88 years, was assessed using a new paper-and-pencil dual-task paradigm. In this study, no age effect was detected, providing strong evidence that age does not affect dual-tasking abilities. Psychometric data for this new assessment are presented, which may enable clinicians and researchers to use this paradigm as a means of examining attentional control in dual-tasking.



Myasthenia gravis is a prototype anti-receptor autoimmune disease. Antibodies against proteins at the neuromuscular junction cause a defect in the signal transmission from nerve terminal to the damaged postsynaptic membrane. This issue of Autoimmunity reviews the mechanisms that lead to the destruction of the neuromuscular junction and the role of the thymus in myasthenia gravis and its animal models. In addition, this issue explores recent advances in diagnosis and treatment of this disease.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disorder caused by autoantibodies that are either directed to the muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) or to the muscle-specific tyrosine kinase (MuSK). These autoantibodies define two distinct subforms of the disease-AChR-MG and MuSK-MG. Both AChR and MuSK are expressed on the postsynaptic membrane of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ), which is a highly specialized region of the muscle dedicated to receive and process signals from the motor nerve. Autoantibody binding to proteins of the postsynaptic membrane leads to impaired neuromuscular transmission and muscle weakness. Pro-inflammatory antibodies of the human IgG1 and IgG3 subclass modulate the AChR, cause complement activation, and attract lymphocytes; together acting to decrease levels of the AChR and AChR-associated proteins and to reduce postsynaptic folding. In patients with anti-MuSK antibodies, there is no evidence of loss of junctional folds and no apparent loss of AChR density. Anti-MuSK antibodies are predominantly of the IgG4 isotype, which functionally differs from other IgG subclasses in its anti-inflammatory activity. Moreover, IgG4 undergoes a posttranslational modification termed Fab arm exchange that prevents cross-linking of antigens. These findings suggest that MuSK-MG may be different in etiological and pathological mechanisms from AChR-MG. The effector functions of IgG subclasses on synapse structure and function are discussed in this review.
Myasthenia Gravis (MG) is an antibody-mediated autoimmune disorder affecting the postsynaptic membrane of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ). MG is characterized by an impaired signal transmission between the motor neuron and the skeletal muscle cell, caused by auto-antibodies directed against NMJ proteins. The auto-antibodies target the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) in about 90% of MG patients. In approximately 5% of MG patients, the muscle specific kinase (MuSK) is the auto-antigen. In the remaining 5% of MG patients, however, antibodies against the nAChR or MuSK are not detectable (idiopathic MG, iMG). Although only the anti-nAChR and anti-MuSK auto-antibodies have been demonstrated to be pathogenic, several other antibodies recognizing self-antigens can also be found in MG patients. Various auto-antibodies associated with thymic abnormalities have been reported, as well as many non-MG-specific auto-antibodies. However, their contribution to the cause, pathology and severity of the disease is still poorly understood. Here, we comprehensively review the reported auto-antibodies in MG patients and discuss their role in the pathology of this autoimmune disease.

The medial preoptic area (MPOA) is critical for male sexual behavior. Glutamate is released in the MPOA of male rats during copulation, and increasing glutamate levels by reverse dialysis of glutamate uptake inhibitors facilitates mating. Conversely, increased release of serotonin (5-HT) inhibits sexual behavior. In both rats and men, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) impair erection, ejaculation, and libido. Here we reverse-dialyzed 5-HT through concentric microdialysis probes in the MPOA of male rats; concurrently we collected 2-min samples for analysis of glutamate and measured sexual behavior. Sexual activity, and especially ejaculation, increased levels of glutamate in the MPOA. However, reverse dialysis of 5-HT into the MPOA impaired ejaculatory ability and attenuated glutamate release. Implications of these results for impairment of sexual behavior that results from administration of SSRIs are discussed.
Offensive aggression in golden hamsters is inhibited by 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)1A receptors and facilitated by 5-HT3 receptor activation. As such, we sought to determine whether these receptors function similarly between animals expressing an impulsive-aggressive phenotype, as compared to normal animals. Animals were screened for aggressive and impulsive choice behaviors and categorized into Low-Aggression (L-Agg) and High-Aggression (H-Agg) groups, and then tested for behavior under effective doses of 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-N, N-dipropyl-2-aminotetralin (DPAT; 0.1 mg/kg and 0.3 mg/kg) or 5-HT3 receptor antagonist tropisetron (0.3 mg/kg) treatment. Low-dose DPAT treatment inhibited both behaviors in H-Agg animals, however yielding more modest effects in L-Agg animals; while high-dose DPAT effects were confounded by side effects on locomotion. Tropisetron, on the other hand, had differential effects between groups, as aggression and impulsive choice were both inhibited in H-Agg animals, while enhanced in L-Agg individuals. In addition, while the effects of the 5-HT1A receptor were limited, the broad effects of 5-HT3 receptor included repetitive and impulsive elements of behavior, pointing to the importance of the receptor's role in the modulation of these particular aspects within the phenotype.
Hemispheric specializations for language perception constitute one of the classic topic in cognitive neuroscience. Evidence has accumulated to suggest that lateralized acoustic processing is not restricted to humans but is also found in numerous animal species. One of the methods used to track such lateralization is the orienting-asymmetry paradigm, a simple, noninvasive means to study lateralization that has been applied to a range of different species ranging from harpy eagles to humans. Here we summarize and compare the results of studies employing the orienting-asymmetry paradigm, showing that these studies yield largely inconsistent results. We critically discuss the methodology's implicit assumptions and conclude that the empirical inconsistencies produced by the orienting-asymmetry paradigm, and the lack of sufficient evidence supporting the paradigm's underlying assumptions, warrant serious caution when interpreting results obtained by the method. Nontrivial interpretations of orienting-asymmetry results will require a much better understanding of how lateralized brain functions interact with overt behaviors.
Pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy are generally effective treatments for major depressive disorder (MDD); however, research suggests that patient preferences may influence outcomes. We examined the effects of treatment preference on attrition, therapeutic alliance, and change in depressive severity in a longitudinal randomized clinical trial comparing pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy. Prior to randomization, 106 individuals with MDD reported whether they preferred psychotherapy, antidepressant medication, or had no preference. A mismatch between preferred and actual treatment was associated with greater likelihood of attrition, fewer expected visits attended, and a less positive working alliance at session 2. There was a significant indirect effect of preference match on depression outcomes, primarily via effects of attendance. These findings highlight the importance of addressing patient preferences, particularly in regard to patient engagement, in the treatment of MDD.
hESCs (human embryonic stem cells) offer great potential for pharmaceutical research and development and, potentially, for therapeutic use. However, improvements in cell culture are urgently required to allow the scalable production of large numbers of cells that maintain pluripotency. Supplementing feeder-free conditions with either EHNA [erythro-9-(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adenine] or readily synthesized analogues of this compound maintains hESC pluripotency in the absence of exogenous cytokines. When the hESC lines SA121 or SA461 were maintained in feeder-free conditions with EHNA they displayed no reduction in stem-cell-associated markers such as Nanog, Oct4 (octamer-binding protein 4) and SSEA4 (stage-specific embryonic antigen 4) when compared with cells maintained in full feeder-free conditions that included exogenously added bFGF (basic fibroblast growth factor). Spontaneous differentiation was reversibly suppressed by the addition of EHNA, but EHNA did not limit efficient spontaneous or directed differentiation following its removal. We conclude that EHNA or related compounds offers a viable alternative to exogenous cytokine addition in maintaining hESC cultures in a pluripotent state and might be a particularly useful replacement for bFGF for large-scale or GMP (good manufacturing practice)-compliant processes.
Deposition of highly phosphorylated tau in the brain is the most significant neuropathological and biochemical characteristic of the group of neurodegenerative disorders termed the tauopathies. The discovery of tau fragments in these diseases suggests that tau cleavage and tau phosphorylation, both of which induce conformational changes in tau, could each have roles in disease pathogenesis. The identities of the proteases responsible for degrading tau, resulting in the appearance of truncated tau species in physiological and pathological conditions, are not known. Several fragments of tau are reported to have pro-aggregation properties, but the lack of disease-relevant cell models of tau aggregation has hampered investigation of the effects of tau aggregation on normal cellular functioning. In the present paper, we describe our findings of N-terminally truncated tau in the brain in a subgroup of the tauopathies in which tau isoforms containing four microtubule-binding domains predominate. We also discuss the evidence for the involvement of proteases in the generation of tau pathology in neurodegenerative disease, since these enzymes warrant further investigation as potential therapeutic targets in the tauopathies.
Tau is an abundant microtubule-associated protein which regulates the stability of the cytoskeleton. Tau binds microtubules directly through microtubule-binding domains in its C-terminus. However, tau is not only located in the cytosol of cells, but also associated with other intracellular domains, including the plasma membrane, suggesting that tau may have additional functions other than stabilizing the neuronal cytoskeleton. Localization of tau at the cell surface appears to be dependent on interactions of the N-terminal projection domain of tau. Furthermore, membrane-associated tau is dephosphorylated at serine/threonine residues, suggesting that the phosphorylation state of tau regulates its intracellular trafficking. Dephosphorylation of tau may increase the association of tau with trafficking proteins which target tau to the plasma membrane. Thus it is possible that the hyperphosphoryation of tau may contribute to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease by promoting the formation of neurofibrillary tangles from cytosolic tau, and also by inhibiting additional tau functions through disruption of its targeting to the plasma membrane.
Many preclinical and clinical studies have implied a role for cholesterol in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this review we will discuss the movement of intracellular cholesterol and how normal distribution, transport, and export of cholesterol are vital for regulation of the AD related protein, Abeta. We focus on cholesterol distribution in the plasma membrane, transport through the endosomal/lysosomal system, control of cholesterol intracellular signaling at the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi, the HMG-CoA reductase pathway and finally export of cholesterol from the cell.
In its sporadic form Alzheimer's disease (AD) results from a combination of genetic and environmental risk factors with abnormal oxidative reactions, which result in free radical mediated injury of the brain. Isoprostanes are oxidized lipids formed by a free radical mediated mechanism, which in recent years have emerged as a reliable and sensitive marker of lipid peroxidation and oxidative stress. Consistent data show that they are increased in the brain of human AD as well as AD animal models. Besides their role as biomarkers, isoprostanes possess important biological effects, functioning as mediators of the cellular response to oxidative stress within the CNS. Recent evidence indicates that these lipid oxidation products, by activating the thromboxane receptor system, mediate the pro-amyloidotic neuronal response to oxidative stress in an experimental model of AD. This novel observation has important clinical implication, since pharmacologic modulation of the TP receptor system by selective antagonists, some of which are already available, could represent a novel therapeutic opportunity for AD as disease-modifying agents.
Identification and analysis of directed influences in multivariate systems is an important problem in many scientific areas. Recent studies in neuroscience have provided measures to determine the network structure of the process and to quantify the total effect in terms of energy transfer. These measures are based on joint stationary representations of a multivariate process using vector auto-regressive (VAR) models. A few important issues remain unaddressed though. The primary outcomes of this study are (i) a theoretical proof that the total coupling strength consists of three components, namely, the direct, indirect, and the interference produced by the direct and indirect effects, (ii) expressions to estimate/calculate these effects, and (iii) a result which shows that the well-known directed measure for linear systems, partial directed coherence (PDC) only aids in structure determination but does not provide a normalized measure of the direct energy transfer. Simulation case studies are shown to illustrate the theoretical results.






Structure-activity relationships (SAR) of analogues of lead compound 1 were investigated and compound 16 was selected for further study in animal models of pain. Compound 16 was shown to be a potent antihyperalgesic agent in both the rat acute complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) model of inflammatory pain [Iadarola, M. J.; Douglass, J.; Civelli, O.; Naranjo, J. R. rain Res.1988, 455, 205] and the knee joint model of chronic inflammatory pain [Wilson, A. W.; Medhurst, S. J.; Dixon, C. I.; Bontoft, N. C.; Winyard, L. A.; Brackenborough, K. T.; De Alba, J.; Clarke, C. J.; Gunthorpe, M. J.; Hicks, G. A.; Bountra, C.; McQueen, D. S.; Chessell, I. P. Eur. J. Pain2006, 10, 537].
A direct and specific comparison of a trifluoromethyl group with the corresponding pentafluorosulfanyl group is made in terms of primary affinity and pharmacokinetic properties.
Optimization of the novel alpha-2-delta-1 ligand 4 provided compounds 37 and 38 which have improved DMPK profiles, good in vivo analgesic activity and in vitro selectivity over alpha-2-delta-2. An in-house P-gp prediction programme and the MetaSite software package were used to help solve the specific problems of high P-gp efflux and high in vivo clearance.
Axonal pathology has been clearly implicated in neurodegenerative diseases making the compartmental culture of neurons a useful research tool. Primary neurons have already been cultured in compartmental microfluidic devices but their derivation from an animal is a time-consuming and difficult work and has a limit in their sources. Embryonic stem cell (ESC)-derived neurons (ESC_Ns) overcome this limit, since ESCs can be renewed without limit and can be differentiated into ESC_Ns by robust and reproducible protocols. In this research, ESC_Ns were derived from mouse ESCs in compartmental microfluidic devices, and their axons were isolated from the somal cell bodies. Once embryoid bodies (EBs) were localized in the microfluidic culture chamber, ESC_Ns spread out from the EBs and occupied the cell culture chamber. Their axons traversed the microchannels and finally were isolated from the somata, providing an arrangement comparable to dissociated primary neurons. This ESC_N compartmental microfluidic culture system not only offers a substitute for the primary neuron counterpart system but also makes it possible to make comparisons between the two systems.


Neural tube defects (NTDs) represent some of the most common congenital malformations in humans. The causes of NTDs are complex with both genetic and environmental contributing factors. Periconception nutrition is an important environmental factor influencing the penetrance of NTDs. NTDs arise from failure to close the neural tube completely during development, an event that occurs before establishment of the chorioallantoic placenta. During neurulation, nutrients are absorbed by histotrophic mechanisms and absorbed by endocytosis in the endoderm-derived cell layer of the visceral yolk sac (VYS). Here we review the histotrophic mechanisms by which nutrients are delivered to the human embryo during this critical time period. Because more detailed studies on the molecular mechanisms regulating uptake of nutrients have been performed using rodent models, most importantly mouse and rat models, we will also review nutrient uptake in these model organisms to set the stage for presentation of experimental data that have provided valuable information about how nutrients are delivered to the neurulating embryo.
Persistent developmental stuttering (PDS) has been treated by speech and language and psychotherapy with limited success. We report the case of a 69-year-old with PDS since the age of five. A left perisylvian meningioma was successfully resected following investigation for generalised seizure. Spontaneous significant improvement in stuttering after surgery in the perisylvian area to the best of our knowledge has not been reported.
Penetrating civilian shrapnel injuries to brainstem are quite uncommon, but invariably fatal. We report a rare case of a child who survived following shrapnel injury to tectum of midbrain.


A logical, rational and reasonable guideline for the management of patients with suspected cauda equina syndrome (CESS) is proposed. This article is intended to promote debate. Ideally spinal surgeons can agree a standard of care that can be applied nationally to the benefit of our patients, our colleagues and, as neurosurgeons and spinal surgeons, ourselves.
Serotonergic hypofunction is associated with a depressive mood state, an increased drive to eat and preference for sweet (SW) foods. High-trait anxiety individuals are characterised by a functional shortage of serotonin during stress, which in turn increases their susceptibility to experience a negative mood and an increased drive for SW foods. The present study examined whether an acute dietary manipulation, intended to increase circulating serotonin levels, alleviated the detrimental effects of a stress-inducing task on subjective appetite and mood sensations, and preference for SW foods in high-trait anxiety individuals. Thirteen high- (eleven females and two males; anxiety scores 45.5 (sd 5.9); BMI 22.9 (sd 3.0)kg/m(2)) and twelve low- (ten females and two males; anxiety scores 30.4 (sd 4.8); BMI 23.4 (sd 2.5) kg/m(2)) trait anxiety individuals participated in a placebo-controlled, two-way crossover design. Participants were provided with 40 g alpha-lactalbumin (LAC; l-tryptophan (Trp):large neutral amino acids (LNAA) ratio of 7.6) and 40 g casein (placebo) (Trp:LNAA ratio of 4.0) in the form of a snack and lunch on two test days. On both the test days, participants completed a stress-inducing task 2 h after the lunch. Mood and appetite were assessed using visual analogue scales. Changes in food hedonics for different taste and nutrient combinations were assessed using a computer task. The results demonstrated that the LAC manipulation did not exert any immediate effects on mood or appetite. However, LAC did have an effect on food hedonics in individuals with high-trait anxiety after acute stress. These individuals expressed a lower liking (P = 0.012) and SW food preference (P = 0.014) after the stressful task when supplemented with LAC.
Cognitive processes require a functional interaction between specialized multiple, local and remote brain regions. Although these interactions can be strongly altered by an acquired brain injury, brain plasticity allows network reorganization to be principally responsible for recovery. The present work evaluates the impact of brain injury on functional connectivity patterns. Networks were calculated from resting-state magnetoencephalographic recordings from 15 brain injured patients and 14 healthy controls by means of wavelet coherence in standard frequency bands. We compared the parameters defining the network, such as number and strength of interactions as well as their topology, in controls and patients for two conditions: following a traumatic brain injury and after a rehabilitation treatment. A loss of delta- and theta-based connectivity and conversely an increase in alpha- and beta-band-based connectivity were found. Furthermore, connectivity parameters approached controls in all frequency bands, especially in slow-wave bands. A correlation between network reorganization and cognitive recovery was found: the reduction of delta-band-based connections and the increment of those based on alpha band correlated with Verbal Fluency scores, as well as Perceptual Organization and Working Memory Indexes, respectively. Additionally, changes in connectivity values based on theta and beta bands correlated with the Patient Competency Rating Scale. The current study provides new evidence of the neurophysiological mechanisms underlying neuronal plasticity processes after brain injury, and suggests that these changes are related with observed changes at the behavioural level.

Treatment of early relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis with the lymphocyte-depleting humanized monoclonal antibody alemtuzumab (Campath [registered trade mark]) significantly reduced the risk of relapse and accumulation of disability compared with interferon -1a in a phase 2 trial [Coles et al., (Alemtuzumab vs. interferon -1a in early multiple sclerosis. N Engl J Med 2008; 359: 1786-801)]. Patients treated with alemtuzumab experienced an improvement in disability at 6 months that was sustained for at least 3 years. In contrast, those treated with interferon -1a steadily accumulated disability. Here, by post hoc subgroup analyses of the CAMMS223 trial, we show that among participants with no clinical disease activity immediately before treatment, or any clinical or radiological disease activity on-trial, disability improved after alemtuzumab but not following interferon -1a. This suggests that disability improvement after alemtuzumab is not solely attributable to its anti-inflammatory effect. So we hypothesized that lymphocytes, reconstituting after alemtuzumab, permit or promote brain repair. Here we show that after alemtuzumab, and only when specifically stimulated with myelin basic protein, peripheral blood mononuclear cell cultures produced increased concentrations of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, platelet-derived growth factor and ciliary neurotrophic factor. Analysis by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction of cell separations showed that the increased production of ciliary neurotrophic factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor after alemtuzumab is attributable to increased production by T cells. Media from these post-alemtuzumab peripheral blood mononuclear cell cultures promoted survival of rat neurones and increased axonal length in vitro, effects that were partially reversed by neutralizing antibodies against brain-derived nerve growth factor and ciliary neurotrophic factor. This conditioned media also enhanced oligodendrocyte precursor cell survival, maturation and myelination. Taken together, the clinical analyses and laboratory findings support the interpretation that improvement in disability after alemtuzumab may result, in part, from neuroprotection associated with increased lymphocytic delivery of neurotrophins to the central nervous system.
Chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans in the extracellular matrix restrict plasticity in the adult central nervous system and their digestion with chondroitinase reactivates plasticity. However the structures in the extracellular matrix that restrict plasticity are unknown. There are many changes in the extracellular matrix as critical periods for plasticity close, including changes in chondroitin sulphate proteoglycan core protein levels, changes in glycosaminoglycan sulphation and the appearance of dense chondroitin sulphate proteoglycan-containing perineuronal nets around many neurons. We show that formation of perineuronal nets is triggered by neuronal production of cartilage link protein Crtl1 (Hapln1), which is up-regulated in the visual cortex as perineuronal nets form during development and after dark rearing. Mice lacking Crtl1 have attenuated perineuronal nets, but the overall levels of chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans and their pattern of glycan sulphation are unchanged. Crtl1 knockout animals retain juvenile levels of ocular dominance plasticity and their visual acuity remains sensitive to visual deprivation. In the sensory pathway, axons in knockout animals but not controls sprout into the party denervated cuneate nucleus. The organization of chondroitin sulphate proteoglycan into perineuronal nets is therefore the key event in the control of central nervous system plasticity by the extracellular matrix.
Erythropoietin, a member of the type 1 cytokine superfamily, controls proliferation and differentiation of erythroid progenitor cells through binding to and dimerization of the erythropoietin receptor. Both erythropoietin and its receptor are also expressed in the central nervous system, where they are involved in tissue protection. However, the use of erythropoietin as a neuroprotective agent may be hampered by its erythropoietic activity. Therefore, developing non-haematopoietic erythropoietin mimetics is important. Based on the crystal structure of the complex of erythropoietin and its receptor, we designed a peptide, termed Epotris, corresponding to the C -helix region (amino-acid residues 92-111) of human erythropoietin. The peptide specifically bound to the erythropoietin receptor and promoted neurite outgrowth and survival of primary neurons with the same efficiency as erythropoietin, but with 10(3)-fold lower potency. Knockdown of the erythropoietin receptor or interference with its downstream signalling inhibited the Epotris-induced neuritogenic and pro-survival effect. Similarly to erythropoietin, Epotris penetrated the blood-brain barrier. Moreover, treatment with the peptide attenuated seizures, decreased mortality and reduced neurodegeneration in an in vivo model of kainic acid-induced neurotoxicity. In contrast to erythropoietin, Epotris did not stimulate erythropoiesis upon chronic administration. Thus, Epotris is a novel neuroprotective non-haematopoietic erythropoietin mimetic that may offer new opportunities for the treatment of neurological disorders.
The role of inflammation in the progression of neurodegenerative disease remains unclear. We have shown that systemic bacterial insults accelerate disease progression in animals and in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Disease exacerbation is associated with exaggerated CNS inflammatory responses to systemic inflammation mediated by microglia that become 'primed' by the underlying neurodegeneration. The impact of systemic viral insults on existing neurodegenerative disease has not been investigated. Polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid (poly I:C) is a toll-like receptor-3 (TLR3) agonist and induces type I interferons, thus mimicking inflammatory responses to systemic viral infection. In the current study we hypothesized that systemic challenge with poly I:C, during chronic neurodegenerative disease, would amplify CNS inflammation and exacerbate disease. Using the ME7 model of prion disease and systemic challenge with poly I:C (12 mg/kg i.p.) we have shown an amplified expression of IFN-alpha and beta and of the pro-inflammatory genes IL-1beta and IL-6. Similarly amplified expression of specific IFN-dependent genes confirmed that type I IFNs were secreted and active in the brain and this appeared to have anti-inflammatory consequences. However, prion-diseased animals were susceptible to heightened acute sickness behaviour and acute neurological impairments in response to poly I:C and this treatment also accelerated disease progression in diseased animals without effect in normal animals. Increased apoptosis coupled with double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase (PKR) and Fas transcription suggested activation of interferon-dependent, pro-apoptotic pathways in the brain of ME7+poly I:C animals. That systemic poly I:C accelerates neurodegeneration has implications for the control of systemic viral infection during chronic neurodegeneration and indicates that type I interferon responses in the brain merit further study.
One of the more recently described members of the interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor family, single-Ig-interleukin-1 related receptor (SIGIRR), has been identified as a negative regulator of inflammation in several tissues. It modulates the responses triggered by stimulation of Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 and IL-1 in several peripheral cell types, possibly in an NFkappaB-dependent manner. Consistently, responses to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) are exaggerated in SIGIRR-deficient mice and the symptoms of experimental inflammatory conditions are more profound in these animals. Here, we set out to establish whether the absence of SIGIRR was associated with inflammatory changes in the brain and report that, LPS-induced a greater effect on CD40 and ICAM mRNA in mixed glia prepared from SIGIRR(-/-), compared with wildtype mice. This was associated with parallel changes in TNFalpha and IL-6 at mRNA and protein levels, an effect which was observed in purified microglia but not astrocytes. Similarly, LPS exerted a more profound effect on microglial activation and cytokine production in hippocampal tissue prepared from SIGIRR(-/-), compared with wildtype mice. The effect of LPS on exploratory behaviour was also accentuated in SIGIRR(-/-) mice. The evidence suggests that these changes are a likely consequence of increased hippocampal expression of CD14 and TLR4, and NFkappaB activation in SIGIRR(-/-) mice.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAchRs) are not only key receptors in the autonomic nervous system, but also are present on immune cells. The alpha seven subunit of nAchR (alpha7nAchR) suppresses pro-inflammation in peripheral monocytes by decreasing pro-inflammatory cytokine production. In spinal cord, alpha7nAchRs are found on microglia, which are known to induce and maintain pain. We predicted that alpha7nAchR agonists might attenuate intrathecal HIV-1 gp120-induced, pro-inflammatory cytokine- and microglia-dependent mechanical allodynia. Choline, a precursor for acetylcholine and selective agonist for alpha7nAchR, was administered intrathecally either with, or 30 min after, intrathecal gp120. Choline significantly blocked and reversed gp120-induced mechanical allodynia for at least 4 h after drug administration. In addition, intrathecal choline, delivered either with or 30 min after gp120, reduced gp120-induced IL-1beta protein and pro-inflammatory cytokine mRNAs within the lumbar spinal cord. A second alpha7nAchR agonist, GTS-21, also significantly reversed gp120-induced mechanical allodynia and lumbar spinal cord levels of pro-inflammatory cytokine mRNAs and IL-1beta protein. A role of microglia is suggested by the observation that intrathecal choline suppressed the gp120-induced expression of, cd11b, a macrophage/microglial activation marker. Taken together, the data support that alpha7nAchR may be a novel target for treating pain where microglia maintain the pro-inflammatory state within the spinal cord.
Some Lyme disease patients report debilitating chronic symptoms of pain, fatigue, and cognitive deficits despite recommended courses of antibiotic treatment. The mechanisms responsible for these symptoms, collectively referred to as post-Lyme disease syndrome (PLS) or chronic Lyme disease, remain unclear. We investigated the presence of immune system abnormalities in PLS by assessing the levels of antibodies to neural proteins in patients and controls. Serum samples from PLS patients, post-Lyme disease healthy individuals, patients with systemic lupus erythematosus, and normal healthy individuals were analyzed for anti-neural antibodies by immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry. Anti-neural antibody reactivity was found to be significantly higher in the PLS group than in the post-Lyme healthy (p&lt;0.01) and normal healthy (p&lt;0.01) groups. The observed heightened antibody reactivity in PLS patients could not be attributed solely to the presence of cross-reactive anti-borrelia antibodies, as the borrelial seronegative patients also exhibited elevated anti-neural antibody levels. Immunohistochemical analysis of PLS serum antibody activity demonstrated binding to cells in the central and peripheral nervous systems. The results provide evidence for the existence of a differential immune system response in PLS, offering new clues about the etiopathogenesis of the disease that may prove useful in devising more effective treatment strategies.

Neurologically normal observers misperceive the midpoint of horizontal lines as systematically leftward of veridical center, a phenomenon known as pseudoneglect. Pseudoneglect is attributed to a tonic asymmetry of visuospatial attention favoring left hemispace. Whereas visuospatial attention is biased toward left hemispace, some evidence suggests that audiospatial attention may possess a right hemispatial bias. If spatial attention is supramodal, then the leftward bias observed in visual line bisection should also be expressed in auditory bisection tasks. If spatial attention is modality specific then bisection errors in visual and auditory spatial judgments are potentially dissociable. Subjects performed a bisection task for spatial intervals defined by auditory stimuli, as well as a tachistoscopic visual line bisection task. Subjects showed a significant leftward bias in the visual line bisection task and a significant rightward bias in the auditory interval bisection task. Performance across both tasks was, however, significantly positively correlated. These results imply the existence of both modality specific and supramodal attentional mechanisms where visuospatial attention has a prepotent leftward vector and audiospatial attention has a prepotent rightward vector of attention. In addition, the biases of both visuospatial and audiospatial attention are correlated.
Electrophysiological and functional neuroimaging evidence points to the existence of neural populations that respond strongly and selectively to the appearance of the human body and its parts. However, the relationship between ERP and fMRI markers of these populations remains unclear. Here we used a previously identified functional dissociation between two body-selective regions identified with fMRI (extrastriate body area or EBA; fusiform body area or FBA) in order to better understand the source of a body-selective N1 ERP component. Specifically, we compared the magnitude of the N1 elicited by images of fingers, hands, arms and bodies to that obtained for hierarchically-matched control stimuli. We found close agreement between the pattern of body-part selectivity exhibited by N1, and the pattern of BOLD selectivity elicited in a previous study by the same type of stimuli in EBA (in contrast to FBA). We interpret these findings as evidence for EBA as the primary generator of the body-selective N1 component. Our results are an example of the use of functional criteria to distinguish among the possible neural sources of ERP markers.
Listening and reading comprehension of paragraph-length material are considered higher-order language skills fundamental to social and academic functioning. Using ecologically relevant language stimuli that were matched for difficulty according to developmental level, we analyze the effects of task, age, neuropsychological skills, and post-task performance on fMRI activation and hemispheric laterality. Areas of supramodal language processing are identified, with the most robust region being left-lateralized activation along the superior temporal sulcus. Functionally, this conjunction has a role in semantic and syntactic processing, leading us to refer to this conjunction as &quot;comprehension cortex.&quot; Different from adults, supramodal areas for children include less extensive inferior frontal gyrus but more extensive right cerebellum and right temporal pole. Broader neuroanatomical pathways are recruited for reading, reflecting the more active processing and larger set of cognitive demands needed for reading compared to listening to stories. ROI analyses reveal that reading is a less lateralized language task than listening in inferior frontal and superior temporal areas, which likely reflects the difficulty of the task as children in this study are still developing their reading skills. For listening to stories, temporal activation is stable by age four with no correlations with age, neuropsychological skills or post-task performance. In contrast, frontal activation during listening to stories occurs more often in older children, and frontal activation is positively correlated with better performance on comprehension questions, suggesting that the activation of frontal networks may reflect greater integration and depth of story processing.
Recent advances in social cognitive neuroscience have led to the concept of the &quot;social brain&quot;. The social brain includes neural processes specialized for processing social information necessary for the recognition of self and others, and interpersonal relationships. Because of its unique behavioral phenotypic features which includes 'hypersociability', Williams syndrome has gained popularity among social cognitive neuroscientists. Individuals with Williams syndrome share the same genetic risk factor for cognitive-behavioral dysfunction utilizing brain imaging to elucidate endophenotype provides us with an unprecendented opportunity to study gene, brain and behavior relationships especially those related to social cognition. In this review, we provide an overview of neuroimaging studies on social cognition in Williams syndrome and discuss the neural basis of the social brain.
Reduction in the amount of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in corticostriatal afferents is thought to contribute to the vulnerability of medium spiny striatal neurons in Huntington's disease. In young Bdnf heterozygous ((+/-)) mice, striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs) express less preprodynorphin (PPD), preproenkephalin (PPE), and D(3) receptor mRNA than wildtype mice. Further, in aged Bdnf (+/-) mice, opioid, trkB receptor, and glutamic acid decarboxylase gene expression, and the number of dendritic spines on MSNs are more affected than in wildtype or younger Bdnf (+/-) mice. In this study, the possibility that intrastriatal infusions of BDNF would elevate gene expression in the striatum of Bdnf (+/-) mice was investigated. Wildtype and Bdnf (+/-) mice received a single, bilateral microinjection of BDNF or PBS into the dorsal striatum. Mice were killed 24h later and semi-quantitative in situ hybridization histochemical analysis confirmed that PPD, PPE, and D(3) receptor mRNA was less in the caudate-putamen (CPu) and nucleus accumbens (NAc) core of Bdnf (+/-) mice than in wildtype mice. A BDNF infusion increased PPD mRNA in the CPu and NAc core of wildtype mice and restored PPD mRNA levels in the NAc core of Bdnf (+/-) mice. BDNF also restored the gene expression of PPE in the CPu of Bdnf (+/-) mice to wildtype levels; however, PPE mRNA in the NAc did not differ among groups. Furthermore, BDNF increased D(3) receptor mRNA in the NAc core of wildtype and Bdnf (+/-) mice. These results demonstrate that exogenous BDNF restores striatal opioid and D(3)R gene expression in mice with genetically reduced levels of endogenous BDNF.
In humans the planum temporale is usually larger in the left hemisphere and related to Wernicke's language complex. A slighter leftward asymmetry, unrelated to vocal perception, was reported in the chimpanzee. Searching for differences between the human brain and that of the chimpanzee, we analyzed the fiber composition in the sector of the corpus callosum containing fibers from the planum temporale. This sector was identified in chimpanzee and human myelin-stained materials by comparison with anatomical tract-tracing in the macaque monkey. The axon diameters in the planum temporale sector of the corpus callosum were not different in human and chimpanzee, suggesting that this feature of the output of the planum temporale was preserved since the common ancestor of both species and may not be uniquely related to language. However, the larger size of the human brain probably amplified slow and temporally dispersed conduction between the hemispheres. A trend with thicker axons dorsally and thinner axons ventrally in the corpus callosum was evident in human brain, but was much weaker, or absent in the chimpanzee.

Nasal epitheliums are the first sites of the respiratory tract in contact with the external environment and may therefore be susceptible to damage from exposure to many toxic volatile substances (i.e., volatile organic components, vapors, and gases). In the field of inhalation toxicology, a number of studies have considered the main olfactory epithelium, but few have dealt with the epithelium of the vomeronasal organ (VNO). However, in several species such as in rodents, the VNO (an organ of pheromone detection) plays an important role in social interactions, and alterations of this organ are known to induce adaptative behavioral disturbances. Among volatile toxicants, health effects of inhaled gases have been thoroughly investigated, especially during CO(2) inhalation because of its increasing atmospheric concentration. Therefore, this work was designed to examine the effects of 3% CO(2) inhalation on VNO in two different exposure conditions (5 h/day and 12 h/day) in mice. Behavioral sensitivity tests to urine of congener and histological measurements of VNO were conducted before, during (weeks 1-4), and after (weeks 5-8) CO(2) inhalation exposures. Results showed no significant modifications of behavioral responses to urine, but there were significant changes of both cell number and thickness of the VNO epithelium. Moreover, the findings indicated a selectively dose-dependent effect of CO(2), and further research could use other gases in the same manner for comparison.
Dopamine is one of the key neurotransmitters in the central nervous system and plays an important role in physiological processes, as well as in the development of many diseases. Here we report a receptor-independent signalling pathway induced by dopamine in CNS neurons. In cultured neurons from midbrain, cortex and hippocampus, dopamine uptake via dopamine or monoamine transporters induces plasmalemmal membrane depolarization, leading to opening of voltage gated calcium channels and a cytosolic calcium signal. This dopamine-induced calcium signal is unaffected by inhibition of the known dopamine receptors. In anaesthetized rats, application of dopamine in the presence of dopamine receptor antagonists to brainstem structures controlling cardiovascular activity results in an increase in heart rate, arterial blood pressure and sympathetic nerve activity. These data identify a novel dopamine-induced signalling pathway in CNS neurons which may have an important functional role in the central mechanisms controlling complex behaviours.
Myotonic dystrophy (DM) is caused by a (CTG)(n) expansion in the 3'-untranslated region of DMPK gene. Mutant transcripts are retained in nuclear RNA foci, which sequester RNA binding proteins thereby misregulating the alternative splicing. Controversy still surrounds the pathogenesis of the DM1 muscle distress, characterized by myotonia, weakness and wasting with distal muscle atrophy. Eight primary human cell lines from adult-onset (DM1) and congenital (cDM1) patients, (CTG)(n) range 90-1800, were successfully differentiated into aneural-immature and contracting-innervated-mature myotubes. Morphological, immunohistochemical, RT-PCR and western blotting analyses of several markers of myogenesis indicated that in vitro differentiation-maturation of DM1 myotubes was comparable to age-matched controls. In all pathological muscle cells, (CTG)(n) expansions were confirmed by long PCR and RNA fluorescence in situ hybridization. Moreover, the DM1 myotubes showed the splicing alteration of insulin receptor and muscleblind-like 1 (MBNL1) genes associated with the DM1 phenotype. Considerable myotube loss and atrophy of 15-day-differentiated DM1 myotubes indicated activated catabolic pathways, as confirmed by the presence of apoptotic (caspase-3 activation, cytochrome c release, chromatin fragmentation) and autophagic (P62/LC3) markers. Z-VAD treatment significantly reduced the decrease in myonuclei number and in average width in 15-day-differentiated DM1 myotubes. We thus propose that the muscle wasting typical in DM1 is due to impairment of muscle mass maintenance-regeneration, through premature apoptotic-autophagic activation, rather than altered myogenesis.

Growing evidence supports a major contribution of cortical serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) to the modulation of cognitive flexibility and the cognitive inflexibility evident in neuropsychiatric disorders. The precise role of 5-HT and the influence of 5-HT gene variation in mediating this process is not fully understood. Using a touch screen-based operant system, we assessed reversal of a pairwise visual discrimination as an assay for cognitive flexibility. Effects of constitutive genetic or pharmacological inactivation of the 5-HT transporter (5-HTT) on reversal were examined by testing 5-HTT null mice and chronic fluoxetine-treated C57BL/6J mice, respectively. Effects of constitutive genetic loss or acute pharmacological depletion of 5-HT were assessed by testing Pet-1 null mice and para-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA)-treated C57BL/6J mice, respectively. Fluoxetine-treated C57BL/6J mice made fewer errors than controls during the early phase of reversal when perseverative behavior is relatively high. 5-HTT null mice made fewer errors than controls in completing the reversal task. However, reversal in Pet-1 null and PCPA-treated C57BL/6J mice was not different from controls. These data further support an important role for 5-HT in modulating reversal learning and provide novel evidence that inactivating the 5-HTT improves this process. These findings could have important implications for understanding and treating cognitive inflexibility in neuropsychiatric disease.
The brain determines positions and movements of body parts from inputs arising at least from vision and proprioception. Using the brain event-related potential called the lateralized readiness potential, which reflects motor cortical activity during motor programming, we showed in a motor task that viewing one hand in a sagittal mirror-giving the impression to see the opposite hand-generated activity in the motor cortex of the seen hand (i.e., of the nonmoving hand hidden behind the mirror). The visual influence on cortical motor region occurred even when the proprioceptive input related to the real opposite effector was not aligned on the visual feedback of the hand given by the mirror. This dominance vision over proprioception was greatly reduced when the task was executed in the dark with hand position represented by small lights fixed on the moving hand, with no motor activity being recorded in the cortical area of the inactive hand. These results give new insights into how the brain weights and integrates visual and proprioceptive information in motor control.
When we talk we communicate our intentions. Although the origin of intentional action is debated in cognitive neuroscience, the question of how the brain generates the intention in speech remains still open. Using magnetoencephalography, we investigated the cortical dynamics engaged when healthy subjects attended to either their intention to speak or their actual speech. We found that activity in the right and left parietal cortex increased before subjects became aware of intending to speak. Within the time window of parietal activation, we also observed a transient left frontal activity in Broca's area, a crucial region for inner speech. During attention to speech, neural activity was detected in left prefrontal and temporal areas and in the temporoparietal junction. In agreement with previous results, our findings suggest that the parietal cortex plays a multimodal role in monitoring intentional mechanisms in both action and language. The coactivation of parietal regions and Broca's area may constitute the cortical circuit specific for controlling intentional processes during speech.
Face processing can be modified by bottom-up and top-down influences, but it is unknown how these processes interact in patients with face-recognition impairments (prosopagnosia). We investigated a prosopagnosic with lesions in right occipital and left fusiform cortex but whose right fusiform gyrus is intact and still activated during face-processing tasks. P.S., a patient with a well-established and selective agnosia for faces, was instructed to detect the presence of either faces or houses in pictures with different amounts of noise. The right fusiform face area (FFA) showed reduced responses to face information when visual images were degraded with noise. However, her right FFA still activated to noise-only images when she was instructed to detect faces. These results reveal that fusiform activation is still selectively modulated by task demands related to the anticipation of a face, despite severe face-recognition deficits and the fact that no reliable stimulus-driven response is evoked by actual facial information. Healthy controls showed stimulus-driven responses to faces in fusiform, and in right but not left occipital cortex, suggesting that the latter area alone might provide insufficient facial information in P.S. These results provide a novel account for residual activation of the FFA and underscore the importance of controlling task demands during functional magnetic resonance imaging.

We report the case of a woman with Mnchausen syndrome who surreptitiously injected epinephrine causing recurrent ventricular tachyarrhythmias accompanied by dramatically high plasma levels of epinephrine and normal norepinephrine levels.
A sensitive and specific fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) biosensor was developed by Mizutani and colleagues and applied to detect the activity of BCR-ABL kinase in live cells. This biosensor allowed the detection of cancerous and drug-resistant cells, and the evaluation of kinase inhibitor efficacy. Future biosensor development and imaging can increasingly contribute to cancer diagnosis and therapeutics.




A critical requirement in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) therapeutics is a demonstration of the in vivo efficacy of compounds in pre-clinical disease relevant models. One of the most frequently used models in AD research are transgenic mice overexpressing mutant forms of human amyloid precursor protein (APP) that are associated with early-onset familial AD. These mice exhibit an age-dependent accumulation and deposition of amyloid -peptide (A) as extracellular plaques in the brain, and thereby depict one of the key pathologies observed in the brains of AD patients. Although these mouse models do not recapitulate all the pathological features of AD, they have been invaluable in the development of therapeutic agents aimed at lowering A production, inhibiting A deposition or facilitating A clearance. Further development of these APP transgenic models led to the incorporation of transgenes for human mutant presenilins, resulting in an accelerated A deposition rate and human mutant tau protein leading to neurofibrillary tangle-like pathology. The latter was a major advance in the development of AD models, as it allowed researchers to investigate the interplay between the two key pathologies of AD. This review highlights how APP transgenic mouse models have successfully been used in drug discovery to support the progression of A lowering therapeutics to clinical trials to ultimately test the 'amyloid hypothesis' of AD.
Tauopathies, including Alzheimer's disease, are neurodegenerative diseases characterized by the deposition of hyperphosphorylated tau protein in the central nervous system, and are the major cause of dementia in later life. Considerable advances have been made in developing mouse models that recapitulate, to varying extents, the development of human tau pathology, and the learning and memory deficits characteristic of some tauopathies. Furthermore, such models have been used to show promising disease-modifying effects in pre-clinical testing of new therapeutics. Various strategies have been utilised to generate mouse models of tauopathies. Some of the most enlightening models developed to date either constitutively or inducibly express pathogenic tau mutations. These animals have been instrumental in defining critical disease-related mechanisms, including the observation that tangles are not the toxic form of tau in disease. Here, we discuss the strengths and weaknesses of well characterised transgenic models that emulate human tauopathy, and include a comprehensive listing of the main phenotypic characteristics of all reported tau transgenic rodents. We summarise the use of tau mice for the development and evaluation of new therapeutic approaches, and their utility in identifying novel drug targets. In addition, we review the parameters to be considered in the development of the next generation of mouse models of tauopathy, aimed at further increasing our understanding of disease aetiology and in evaluating novel treatments.
The classical animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD) rely on the use of neurotoxins, including 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), 6-hydroxydopamine and, more recently, the agricultural chemicals paraquat and rotenone, to deplete dopamine (DA). These neurotoxins elicit motor deficits in different animal species although MPTP fails to induce a significant dopaminergic neurodegeneration in rats. In the attempt to better reproduce the key features of PD, in particular the progressive nature of neurodegeneration, alternative PD models have been developed, based on the genetic and neuropathological links between -synuclein ( -syn) and PD. In vivo microdialysis was used to investigate extracellular striatal DA dynamics in MPTP- and -syn-generated rodent models of PD. Acute and sub-acute MPTP intoxication of mice both induce prolonged release of striatal DA. Such DA release may be considered the first step in MPTP-induced striatal DA depletion and nigral neuron death, mainly through reactive oxygen species generation. Although MPTP induces DA reduction, neurochemical and motor recovery starts immediately after the end of treatment, suggesting that compensatory mechanisms are activated. Thus, the MPTP mouse model of PD may be unsuitable for closely reproducing the features of the human disease and predicting potential long-term therapeutic effects, in terms of both striatal extracellular DA and behavioral outcome. In contrast, the -syn-generated rat model of PD does not suffer from a massive release of striatal DA during induction of the nigral lesion, but rather is characterized by a prolonged reduction in baseline DA and nicotine-induced increases in dialysate DA levels. These results are suggestive of a stable nigrostriatal lesion with a lack of dopaminergic neurochemical recovery. The -syn rat model thus reproduces the initial stage and slow development of PD, with a time-dependent impairment in motor function. This article will describe the above experimental PD models and demonstrate the utility of microdialysis for their characterization.
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), which accounts for the majority of motor neuron disorders, is a progressive and fatal neurodegenerative disease leading to complete paralysis of skeletal muscles and premature death usually from respiratory failure. About 10% of all ALS cases are inherited, with the responsible gene having been identified in approximately 25% of these individuals. Mutations in the copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene were the first to be recognized nearly twenty years ago, and since then different animal models, in particular transgenic rodents, have been developed. They replicate many of the clinical, neuropathological and molecular features of ALS patients and have contributed significantly to our understanding of the pathogenic mechanisms of this disease. Although results obtained so far with mutant SOD1 mice have not translated into effective therapies in ALS patients, these models still represent the only experimentally accessible system to study multiple aspects of disease pathogenesis and to provide proof-of-principle for the development of new therapeutic strategies. This review will examine the most recent discoveries obtained from these animal models in an attempt to elucidate the complex mechanisms of the disease. In particular it will focus on the contribution of multiple cell types in governing the disease development and progression.
Human neurodegenerative diseases are devastating illnesses that predominantly affect elderly people. The majority of the diseases are associated with pathogenic oligomers from misfolded proteins, eventually causing the formation of aggregates and the progressive loss of neurons in the brain and nervous system. Several of these proteinopathies are sporadic and the cause of pathogenesis remains elusive. Heritable forms are associated with genetic defects, suggesting that the affected protein is causally related to disease formation and/or progression. The limitations of human genetics, however, make it necessary to use model systems to analyse affected genes and pathways in more detail. During the last two decades, research using the genetically amenable fruitfly has established Drosophila melanogaster as a valuable model system in the study of human neurodegeneration. These studies offer reliable models for Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and motor neuron diseases, as well as models for trinucleotide repeat expansion diseases, including ataxias and Huntington's disease. As a result of these studies, several signalling pathways including phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt and target of rapamycin (TOR), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signalling, have been shown to be deregulated in models of proteinopathies, suggesting that two or more initiating events may trigger disease formation in an age-related manner. Moreover, these studies also demonstrate that the fruitfly can be used to screen chemical compounds for their potential to prevent or ameliorate the disease, which in turn can directly guide clinical research and the development of novel therapeutic strategies for the treatment of human neurodegenerative diseases.
Many pre-school children show closing-in behaviour (CIB) in graphic copying tasks: a tendency to place their copy abnormally close to or even on top of the model. Similar phenomena have been studied in patients with dementia, though it is unclear whether the superficial similarities between CIB in development and dementia reflect common underlying cognitive mechanisms. The aim of the present study was to investigate the cognitive functions involved in CIB in pre-school children. Forty-one children (3-5 years) were assessed for CIB, and completed a neuropsychological battery targeting visuospatial abilities, short term memory (verbal and spatial) and attention (sustained attention, selective attention and attention switching). Binary logistic regression found that performance on the attention subtests was the best unique predictor of CIB. A second analysis, in which the three attention subtests were entered as separate predictors, suggested that attention switching ability was most strongly related to CIB. These results support the view that CIB in children reflects inadequate attentional control. The convergence of these results with similar observations in patients with dementia further suggests that similar cognitive factors underlie CIB in these two populations.
A fundamental part of growing up is going beyond routines. Children become increasingly skilled over the first years of life at actively maintaining goals in the service of flexible behavior, allowing them to break out of habits and switch from one task to another. Their early successes often occur with exogenous (externally-provided) goals, and only later with endogenous (internally-driven) goals--a developmental progression that may reflect the greater demands on selection processes inherent in deciding what to do. Three studies investigated the mechanisms supporting endogenous flexibility, using a verbal fluency task in which children generated members of a category and could decide on their own when to switch from one subcategory to another. Children's verbal fluency related to their performance in a more constrained and well-established switching task (Experiment 1), suggesting that the more complex verbal fluency measure taps the flexibility processes of interest. Children's verbal fluency was also linked to their abstract, categorical representations in both individual difference analyses (Experiment 2) and experimental manipulation (Experiment 3). We interpret these results in terms of the role of abstract representations in reducing selection demands to aid the development of endogenous control.
There has been increasing commentary about the degree to which Assertive Community Treatment (ACT) teams provide recovery-oriented services, often centered around the question of the use of coercion. The present study was designed to contribute to this discussion through an examination of recovery-oriented service provision and ACT fidelity among 67 teams in the province of Ontario, Canada. The findings indicated a moderate to high degree of recovery orientation in service provision, with no significant relationship between ACT fidelity and consumer and family/key support ratings of recovery orientation. A significant relationship was found, however, between the 'nature of services' domain of the Dartmouth Assertive Community Treatment Scale (DACTS) and ratings of recovery orientation provided by staff and ACT coordinators. These findings extend the existing dialogue regarding the evaluation of ACT intervention process factors and indicate that current measures of fidelity may not be adequately addressing dimensions of recovery-oriented service provision.
The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of a music intervention (MI) on physiological parameters, pain and mood states in the neuroscience patient. This study enrolled and randomized subjects to 1 of 2 groups, usual care (UC) group (n=29) or UC plus MI (n=24). Data collected were physiologic parameters, pain and mood states pre and post a 30 min MI with UC compared to UC. The sample was 16 males/37 females, mean age of 55.8 years, with similar baseline characteristics. There were significant reductions in heart rate (t=-2.1, p&lt;0.04), respirations (t=-3.4, p&lt;0.001), perceived anxiety (t=-4.1, p&lt;0.000), depression (t=-4.3, p&lt;0.000), and total mood score (t=-4.1, p&lt;0.000) in subjects who received UC plus MI compared to UC. The inclusion of MI as a therapeutic intervention for neuroscience patients appears to decrease the emotional burden of hospitalization.
To evaluate the frequency and determinants of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) use in children attending a pediatric neurology clinic in North Jordan, a parent completed questionnaire survey of children attending the pediatric neurology clinic at King Abdullah University Hospital from March to July 2008 was conducted. A review of 176 completed questionnaires showed that 99 parents (56%) had used CAM for their child's specific neurological illness. The most common modalities were prayer/reciting the Quran (77%), religious healers (30%), massage with olive oil (32%), and consumption of honey products (29%). The most common reason was religious beliefs in 68%. None reported lack of trust in conventional medicine as the reason behind seeking CAM. Factors significantly associated with CAM use were speech delay, belief in its usefulness, father's age more than 30 years, and mothers with education less than high school. CAM had a supplementary role in relation to traditional western medicine use.
Social cognitive neuroscience is a novel field of interdisciplinary research that examines socio-emotional cognition and behavior by emphasizing the neural substrates of these processes. Insights from this biological perspective have established that socio-emotional processing does not happen in a sequential order but in a recursive and interlinked fashion; that individual brain regions are not associated with one, but multiple, distinct social functions; and that brain regions are organized into dynamically interacting networks. These factors explain why it is difficult to pinpoint the neural substrates of particular social deficits in patients with brain diseases. With that said, there are specific brain regions that are highly specialized for the perception, regulation, and modulation of emotion and behavior. This article will review key aspects of social processing beginning with their underlying neural substrates, including (1) perception of social signals, (2) social and emotional evaluation, and (3) behavioral response generation and selection. Case studies will be used to illustrate the real-life social deficits resulting from distinct patterns of neuroanatomic damage, highlighting the brain regions most critical for adequate social behavior. Continuum Lifelong Learning Neurol 2010;16(4):69-85.
Over the last ten years, several new and therapeutically relevant cancer drugs targeting tyrosine kinases signaling pathways have been developed. Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are a pharmaceutical class of small molecules, orally available, well-tolerated, worldwide approved drugs for the treatment of several neoplasms, including lung, breast, kidney and pancreatic cancer as well as gastro-intestinal stromal tumors and chronic myeloid leukemia. This comprehensive review focuses on the most relevant members of the first and the second generation TKIs designed to interact with receptor and nonreceptor TKs. Attention is mainly focused on molecular mechanisms in in vitro and in vivo models related to the clinical activity of the drugs and to the development of resistance to treatment, still the major challenge in cancer research and care.
Acute ischemic stroke is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in Europe, North America, and Asia. Its treatment has completely changed over the past decade with different interventional approaches, such as intravenous trials, intra-arterial trials, combined intravenous/intra-arterial trials, and newer devices to mechanically remove the clot from intracranial arteries. Intravenous thrombolysis with tissue plaminogen activator (tPA) within 4.5 hours of symptoms onset significantly improved clinical outcomes in patients with acute ischemic stroke. Pharmacological intra-arterial thrombolysis has been shown effective until 6 hours after middle cerebral artery occlusion and offers a higher rate of recanalization compared with intravenous thrombolysis, whereas combined intravenous/ intra-arterial thrombolysis seems to be as safe as isolated intravenous thrombolysis. The more recent advances in reperfusion therapies have been done in mechanical embolus disruption or removal. Merci Retriever and Penumbra System have been approved for clot removal in brain arteries, but not as a therapeutic modality for acute ischemic stroke since it is no clear whether mechanical thrombectomy improves clinical outcome in acute stroke. However, mechanical devices are being used in clinical practice for patients who are ineligible for tPA or who have failed to respond to intravenous tPA. We summarize the results of the major thrombolytic trials and the latest neurointerventional approaches to ischemic stroke.

New neurons are continuously produced in most, if not all, mammals. This Neurogenesis occurs only in discrete regions of the adult brain: the subventricular zone (SVZ) and the subgranular zone (SGZ). In these areas, there are neural stem cells (NSCs), multipotent and selfrenewing, which are regulated by a number of molecules and signaling pathways that control their cell fate choices, survival and proliferation rates. It was believed that growth and morphogenic factors were the unique mediators that controlled NSCs in vivo. Recently, chemokines and cytokines have been identified as important regulators of NSCs functions. Some of the most studied immunological effectors are leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), interferon-gamma (IFN-), insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-), and the chemokines MCP-1 and SDF-1. These substances exert a considerable regulation on proliferation, cell-fate choices, migration and survival of NSCs. Hence, the immune system is emerging as an important regulator of neurogenic niches in the adult brain, but further studies are necessary to fully establish the biological meaning of these neural effects.


Morphogens act during development to provide graded spatial information that controls patterning and cell lineage specification in the nervous system. The role of morphogen signaling in instructing the expression of downstream effector transcription factors has been well established. However, a key requirement for morphogen signaling is the existence of functional intracellular machinery able to mediate the appropriate response in target cells. Here we suggest that dynamic changes in the temporal responses to Shh in the developing ventral telencephalon occur through alterations in progenitor competence. We suggest these developmental changes in competence are mediated by a transcriptional mechanism that intrinsically integrates information from the distinct signaling pathways that act to pattern the telencephalic neuroepithelium.
Microglia are increasingly recognized as critical in the pathogenesis of pain hypersensitivity caused by injury to peripheral nerves. The core signalling pathway is through P2X4 purinergic receptors on the microglia which, via the release of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, cause disinhibition of nociceptive dorsal horn neurons by raising intracellular chloride levels. This disinhibition works in synergy with enhanced excitatory synaptic transmission in the dorsal horn to transform the output of the nociceptive network. There is increased discharge output, unmasking of responses to innocuous peripheral inputs and spontaneous activity in neurons that otherwise only signal nociception. Together the changes caused by microglia-neuron signalling may account for the main symptoms of neuropathic pain in humans.
The conventional view of dendritic function is that dendrites collect synaptic input and deliver it to the soma. This view has been challenged in recent years by new results demonstrating that dendrites can act as independent processing and signalling units, performing local computations that are then broadcast to the rest of the neuron, or to other neurons via dendritic transmitter and neuromodulator release. Here we describe these findings and discuss the notion that the single dendritic branch may represent a fundamental unit of signalling in the mammalian nervous system. This view proposes that the dendritic branch is a basic organizational unit for integrating synaptic input, implementing synaptic and homeostatic plasticity, and controlling local cellular processes such as protein translation.
Chromatin remodeling is a dynamic alteration of chromatin structure that regulates several important biological processes. It is brought about by enzymatic activities that catalyze covalent modifications of histone tail or movement of nucleosomes along the DNA, and these activities often require multisubunit protein complexes for its proper functions. In concert with DNA methylation and noncoding RNA-mediated processes, histone modification such as acetylation and methylation regulates gene expression epigenetically, without affecting DNA sequence. Recent advances have revealed that this intrinsic regulation, together with protein complexes such as RE1 silencer of transcription/neuron-restrictive silencer factor (REST/NRSF) and switch/sucrose nonfermentable (SWI/SNF), play critical roles in neural stem cell fate determination.
Major progress has been carried out in the last two decades in the identification of genetic alterations associated with mental retardation and autism spectrum disorders. In many instances these defects concern genes coding for synaptic proteins or proteins involved in regulation of synaptic properties. Analyses of the underlying mechanisms using gain and loss of function approaches have revealed alterations of spine morphology, density or plasticity, raising the possibility that these disorders result from synaptopathies. Also the multiplicity of genes and proteins involved points to the implication of specific signaling pathways among which small GTPases appear to play a central role. We review here this evidence and discuss the mechanisms through which they might lead to synaptic network dysfunction.







There has been intense controversy about postconcussion syndrome (PCS) since Erichsen's publication in 1866 on railway brain and spine. Headache as a result of trauma is one of the most common secondary headache types. Posttraumatic headache (PTH) remains a very controversial disorder, particularly with relation to chronic PTH following mild closed-head injury. PTH is one of several symptoms of PCS, and therefore may be accompanied by additional cognitive, behavioral, and somatic problems. PTH also is an important public health issue due to its associated disability and often refractory clinical course. While current awareness of PTH has become more prominent due to increased scrutiny given to both combat-related and sports-related head injuries, directed treatment remains a difficult challenge for physicians. Because of the frequently associated medicolegal aspects, PTH is one of physicians' least favorite types to treat. The article reviews both PCS and PTH.
Hypnic headache is a rare short-lasting headache occurring exclusively during sleep in the elderly population. First described in 1988 by Raskin, this headache syndrome was adopted by the International Classification of Headache Disorders in 2004 within the &quot;other primary headache&quot; group (code 4.5). Since then, additional case reports and case series were published and provided data to best understand hypnic headache. This review highlights new findings to discuss the relevance of actual diagnostic criteria and the treatment approach of this nocturnal headache syndrome. We also consider hypnic headache pathophysiology that remains speculative.
Headache is a common disorder in the general population. Fasting headache is coded to Group 10 of the second edition of the International Classification of Headache Disorders (&quot;Headache attributed to disorder of homeostasis&quot;). A study conducted in Denmark's general population found a lifetime prevalence rate of 4.1% for fasting headache. Fasting headache is usually diffuse or located in the frontal region, and the pain is nonpulsating and of mild or moderate intensity. In most cases, the headache occurs after at least 16 h of fasting and resolves within 72 h after resumption of food intake. The likelihood of developing fasting headache increases directly with the duration of the fast. Headache sufferers have a higher risk of developing headache during fasting than people who do not usually suffer from headache. Hypoglycemia and caffeine withdrawal have been especially implicated as causative factors, but much remains to be understood about this topic.
The hypothesis that alterations of cortical inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurons are a central element in the pathology of schizophrenia has emerged from a series of postmortem studies. How such abnormalities may contribute to the clinical features of schizophrenia has been substantially informed by a convergence with basic neuroscience studies revealing complex details of GABA neuron function in the healthy brain. Importantly, activity of the parvalbumin-containing class of GABA neurons has been linked to the production of cortical network oscillations. Furthermore, growing knowledge supports the concept that gamma band oscillations (30-80 Hz) are an essential mechanism for cortical information transmission and processing. Herein we review recent studies further indicating that inhibition from parvalbumin-positive GABA neurons is necessary to produce gamma oscillations in cortical circuits; provide an update on postmortem studies documenting that deficits in the expression of glutamic acid decarboxylase67, which accounts for most GABA synthesis in the cortex, are widely observed in schizophrenia; and describe studies using novel, noninvasive approaches directly assessing potential relations between alterations in GABA, oscillations, and cognitive function in schizophrenia.
Although initially identified and best characterized for their role in innate antiviral defence, type I interferons (IFN-I) are also known to have an important impact on the adaptive immune response. In part, this is linked to another long-recognised property of IFN-I, namely their ability to modify cellular proliferation and survival. Here, we review the influence of IFN-I on immune cell homeostasis, focusing on their effects on T cells and antigen-presenting cells.
The central nervous system (CNS) is composed of three major cell types - neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes - which differentiate from common multipotent neural stem cells (NSCs). This differentiation process is regulated spatiotemporally during the course of mammalian development. It is becoming apparent that epigenetic regulation is an important cell-intrinsic program, which can interact with transcription factors and environmental cues to modulate the differentiation of NSCs. This knowledge is important given the potential of NSCs to produce specific CNS cell types that will be beneficial for clinical applications. Here we review recent findings that address molecular mechanisms of epigenetic and transcription factor-mediated regulation that specify NSC fate during CNS development, with a particular focus on the developing mammalian forebrain.




The hippocampus develops rapidly during the late fetal and early postnatal periods. Fetal/neonatal iron deficiency anemia (IDA) alters the genomic expression, neurometabolism and electrophysiology of the hippocampus during the period of IDA and, strikingly, in adulthood despite neonatal iron treatment. To determine how early IDA affects the structural development of the apical dendrite arbor in hippocampal area CA1 in the offspring, pregnant rat dams were given an iron-deficient (ID) diet between gestational day 2 and postnatal day (P) 7 followed by rescue with an iron-sufficient (IS) diet. Apical dendrite morphology in hippocampus area CA1 was assessed at P15, P30 and P70 by Scholl analysis of Golgi-Cox-stained neurons. Messenger RNA levels of nine cytoplasmic and transmembrane proteins that are critical for dendrite growth were analyzed at P7, P15, P30 and P65 by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. The ID group had reduced transcript levels of proteins that modify actin and tubulin dynamics [e.g. cofilin-1 (Cfl-1), profilin-1 (Pfn-1), and profilin-2 (Pfn-2)] at P7, followed at P15 by a proximal shift in peak branching, thinner third-generation dendritic branches and smaller-diameter spine heads. At P30, iron treatment since P7 resulted in recovery of all transcripts and structural components except for a continued proximal shift in peak branching. Nevertheless, at P65-P70, the formerly ID group showed a 32% reduction in 9 mRNA transcripts, including Cfl-1 and Pfn-1 and Pfn-2, accompanied by 25% fewer branches, that were also proximally shifted. These alterations may be due to early-life programming of genes important for structural plasticity during adulthood and may contribute to the abnormal long-term electrophysiology and recognition memory behavior that follows early iron deficiency.
Fluctuations in the shape of amnioserosa (AS) cells during Drosophila dorsal closure (DC) provide an ideal system with which to understand contractile epithelia, both in terms of the cellular mechanisms and how tissue behaviour emerges from the activity of individual cells. Using quantitative image analysis we show that apical shape fluctuations are driven by the medial cytoskeleton, with periodic foci of contractile myosin and actin travelling across cell apices. Shape changes were mostly anisotropic and neighbouring cells were often, but transiently, organised into strings with parallel deformations. During the early stages of DC, shape fluctuations with long cycle lengths produced no net tissue contraction. Cycle lengths shortened with the onset of net tissue contraction, followed by a damping of fluctuation amplitude. Eventually, fluctuations became undetectable as AS cells contracted rapidly. These transitions were accompanied by an increase in apical myosin, both at cell-cell junctions and medially, the latter ultimately forming a coherent, but still dynamic, sheet across cells. Mutants with increased myosin activity or actin polymerisation exhibited precocious cell contraction through changes in the subcellular localisation of myosin. thick veins mutant embryos, which exhibited defects in the actin cable at the leading edge, showed similar timings of fluctuation damping to the wild type, suggesting that damping is an autonomous property of the AS. Our results suggest that cell shape fluctuations are a property of cells with low and increasing levels of apical myosin, and that medial and junctional myosin populations combine to contract AS cell apices and drive DC.
Cell-cell signalling mediated by Notch regulates many different developmental and physiological processes and is involved in a variety of human diseases. Activation of Notch impinges directly on gene expression through the Suppressor of Hairless [Su(H)] DNA-binding protein. A major question that remains to be elucidated is how the same Notch signalling pathway can result in different transcriptional responses depending on the cellular context and environment. Here, we have investigated the factors required to confer this specific response in Drosophila adult myogenic progenitor-related cells. Our analysis identifies Twist (Twi) as a crucial co-operating factor. Enhancers from several direct Notch targets require a combination of Twi and Notch activities for expression in vivo; neither alone is sufficient. Twi is bound at target enhancers prior to Notch activation and enhances Su(H) binding to these regulatory regions. To determine the breadth of the combinatorial regulation we mapped Twi occupancy genome-wide in DmD8 myogenic progenitor-related cells by chromatin immunoprecipitation. Comparing the sites bound by Su(H) and by Twi in these cells revealed a strong association, identifying a large spectrum of co-regulated genes. We conclude that Twi is an essential Notch co-regulator in myogenic progenitor cells and has the potential to confer specificity on Notch signalling at over 170 genes, showing that a single factor can have a profound effect on the output of the pathway.
The ventrally expressed secreted polypeptide endothelin1 (Edn1) patterns the skeleton derived from the first two pharyngeal arches into dorsal, intermediate and ventral domains. Edn1 activates expression of many genes, including hand2 and Dlx genes. We wanted to know how hand2/Dlx genes might generate distinct domain identities. Here, we show that differential expression of hand2 and Dlx genes delineates domain boundaries before and during cartilage morphogenesis. Knockdown of the broadly expressed genes dlx1a and dlx2a results in both dorsal and intermediate defects, whereas knockdown of three intermediate-domain restricted genes dlx3b, dlx4b and dlx5a results in intermediate-domain-specific defects. The ventrally expressed gene hand2 patterns ventral identity, in part by repressing dlx3b/4b/5a. The jaw joint is an intermediate-domain structure that expresses nkx3.2 and a more general joint marker, trps1. The jaw joint expression of trps1 and nkx3.2 requires dlx3b/4b/5a function, and expands in hand2 mutants. Both hand2 and dlx3b/4b/5a repress dorsal patterning markers. Collectively, our work indicates that the expression and function of hand2 and Dlx genes specify major patterning domains along the dorsoventral axis of zebrafish pharyngeal arches.
We recently observed that social interactions influence morphine responsiveness in adolescent males. Given sex-related differences in both social interactions and responses to morphine, the present study examines social influences on morphine sensitization in adolescent female mice. Four experimental groups were examined: (1) morphine-treated mice (twice daily, 10-40 mg/kg, s.c.) housed physically and visually separated from saline-treated mice ('morphine only'), (2) morphine-treated mice housed together with saline-treated mice ('morphine cage-mates (of saline)'), (3) saline-treated mice housed together with morphine-treated mice ('saline cage-mates (of morphine)'), and (4) saline-treated mice housed physically and visually separated from morphine-treated mice ('saline only'). Following the treatment period, mice were tested individually for their locomotor response to 20 mg/kg morphine (s.c.). There were no significant differences in morphine-induced hyper-locomotion between saline only and saline cage-mates (of morphine) female adolescent mice. Notably, morphine only mice exhibited significantly greater morphine sensitization as compared to morphine cage-mates (of saline). Thus, this study demonstrates social influences on morphine sensitization in adolescent females. Drug use during early adolescence is a key predictor of later drug abuse and dependence during adulthood. Thus, understanding the specific vulnerabilities to drug use in this age group may represent a first step in helping develop more effective treatment programs.
In vitro inhibition assays are used to screen new chemical entities (NCEs) for inhibition studies by using human liver microsomes. High-throughput inhibition assays using pooling methods have been developed to keep pace with screening requirements at the lead ADME stage. This method can determine IC(50) NCEs using microsomes from various organs from any species. A cassette analysis inhibition assay for five of the major CYP enzymes (phenacetin for CYP1A2, diclofenac for CYP2C9, (S)-mephenytoin for CYP2C19, bufurarol for CYP2D6 and midazolam, nifedipine and atorvastatin for CYP3A4) in pooled human liver microsomes using ultraperformance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) were developed. The major metabolites of seven CYP-specific probe substrates for the five P450 isoforms were monitored and quantified to determine IC(50) values. Human liver microsomal incubation samples at each test compound concentration were combined and analyzed simultaneously by the LC/MS/MS method. The incubation was performed using the selective CYP inhibitors for each isoform: fluvoxamine (CYP1A2), sulphaphenazole (CYP2C9), ticlopidine (CYP2C19), quinidine (CYP2D6), and Ketoconazole (CYP3A4). Similar IC(50) results were obtained using the cassette analysis and discrete analysis method. The IC(50) values determined for typical CYP inhibitors were reproducible and consistent with those reported in the literature. The assay was fully automated in 96 well plate formats using Microlab 4000 series (Hamilton) coupled with two termomixer comfort (Eppendorf). An overall 70% time savings was achieved by pooling four isoforms samples (1A2, 2C9, 2C19 and 2D6) into one sample and also by pooling three CYP 3A4 substrate samples (MDZ, ATR, NIF) into one sample. Cassette analysis minimized the number of injections on LC/MS/MS analysis which results in a decrease in the LC/MS/MS analysis time.
During the past decade, there has been a substantial increase in the prescribing of antipsychotics to young patients for a variety of pediatric psychiatric disorders. Quetiapine (Seroquel) received its initial indication from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for treatment of schizophrenia in 1997, and it received its second indication for the treatment of mania-associated bipolar disorder in 2004. Currently, in young patients, authorized quetiapine indications are schizophrenia in individuals aged 13 or older and manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder in children 10 to 17 years old. Quetiapine has different pharmacological actions and acts as an antagonist for following receptors: D(2) receptor, serotonin 5-HT(2A) also known as (1)-adrenoceptor, histamine 1 receptor and muscarinic acetylcholine receptor. Several studies have shown its favorable profile of effectiveness and tolerability in young bipolar and schizophrenic patients. However, the current data make it very clear that the risks and benefits of this drug need to be weighed individually for each patient.
The reduced verbal long-term memory capacities often reported in dyslexics are generally interpreted as a consequence of their deficit in phonological coding.The present study was aimed at evaluating whether the learning deficit exhibited by dyslexics was restricted only to the verbal component of the long-term memory abilities or also involved visual-object and visual-spatial domain. A further goal of the present study was to investigate the predictive value of non-verbal long-term memory abilities with respect to word and non-word reading in dyslexic children.In accordance with these aims, performances of 60 dyslexic children were compared with that of 65 age-matched normal readers on verbal, visual-spatial and visual-object task.Results documented a generalized impairment of episodic long-term memory capacities in dyslexic children and the results did not vary as a function of children's age.Furthermore, in addition to verbal measures, also individual differences in non-verbal long-term memory tasks turn out to be good predictors of reading difficulties in dyslexics.Our findings indicate that the long-term memory deficit in dyslexia is not limited to the dysfunction of phonological components but also involves visual-object and visual-spatial aspect, thus suggesting that dyslexia is associated to multiple cognitive deficits.
We have examined the effects of acute administration of the cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB(1)) antagonist AM251 on the rat hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis with respect to both gender and time of day. Blood samples were collected from conscious male and female rats every 5 min using an automated blood sampling system, and corticosterone concentrations were determined. In male rats, there was a distinct diurnal effect of AM251 with a greater activation of the HPA axis in the morning (diurnal trough) compared with the evening (diurnal peak). At both times of the day, circulating corticosterone concentrations were elevated for approximately 4 h after AM251 administration. In female rats, there was also diurnal variation in the activation of the HPA axis; however, these effects were not as profound as those in males. Corticosterone concentrations were only slightly elevated at the diurnal trough and for a shorter time period than in males (2 compared with 4 h). Moreover, there was no effect of AM251 on corticosterone concentrations when administered at the diurnal peak. Subsequent studies, only in males, in which both ACTH and corticosterone were measured, confirmed that the effects of AM251 on corticosterone were mediated by ACTH. Moreover, the elevation of both ACTH and corticosterone could be replicated using another CB(1) antagonist, AM281. These data demonstrate that the extent and duration of HPA axis activation after CB(1) blockade are clearly dependent on both gender and time of day.
The neuropeptides kisspeptin, neurokinin B, and dynorphin A (collectively abbreviated as KNDy) are, respectively, encoded by KiSS-1, NKB, and PDYN and are coexpressed by neurons of the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (ARC). Here, using quantitative real-time PCR, we examined age-related changes in the expression of genes encoding KNDy and associated receptors G protein-coupled receptor 54 (encoded by GPR54), neurokinin 3 receptor (encoded by NK3), and kappa-opioid receptor (encoded by KOR), in the female rhesus macaque ARC-median eminence (ARC-ME). Expression of KiSS-1 and NKB was highly elevated in old perimenopausal compared with young or middle-aged premenopausal animals. To test whether these age-related changes could be attributed to perimenopausal loss of sex steroids, we then examined KNDy, GPR54, NK3, and KOR expression changes in response to ovariectomy (OVX) and exposure to 17beta-estradiol (E(2)). Short-term (7 months) OVX (with or without 1 month of estrogen replacement) failed to modulate the expression of any of the KNDy-related genes. In contrast, long-term ( approximately 4 yr) OVX significantly increased KiSS-1 and NKB expression, and this was reversed by E(2) administration. Finally, we examined the expression of KNDy-related genes in young adult females during the early follicular, late follicular, or midluteal phases of their menstrual cycle but found no difference. Together, the results suggest that short-term alterations in circulating E(2) levels, such as those occurring during the menstrual cycle, may have little effect on the ARC-ME expression of KNDy and associated receptors. Nevertheless, they clearly demonstrate that loss of ovarian steroid negative feedback that occurs during perimenopause plays a major role in modulating the activity of KNDy circuits of the aging primate ARC-ME.
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are widely used as flame-retardant additives. But the application of PBDEs has been challenged due to their toxicity, especially neurotoxicity. In this study, we investigated the effects of decabrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE 209), the major PBDEs product, on voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSCs) in primary cultured rat hippocampal neurons. Employing the whole-cell patch-clamp technique, we found that PBDE 209 could irreversibly decrease voltage-gated sodium channel currents (I(Na)) in a very low dose and in a concentration-dependent manner. We had systematically explored the effects of PBDE 209 on I(Na) and found that PBDE 209 could shift the activation and inactivation of I(Na) toward hyperpolarizing direction, slow down the recovery from inactivation of I(Na), and decrease the fraction of activated sodium channels. These results suggested that PBDE 209 could affect VGSCs, which may lead to changes in electrical activities and contribute to neurotoxicological damages. We also showed that ascorbic acid, as an antioxidant, was able to mitigate the inhibitory effects of PBDE 209 on VGSCs, which suggested that PBDE 209 might inhibit I(Na) through peroxidation. Our findings provide new insights into the mechanism for the neurological symptoms caused by PBDE 209.
Persistent down-regulation in the expression of the hyperpolarization-activated HCN1 cation channel, a key determinant of intrinsic neuronal excitability, has been observed in febrile seizure, temporal lobe epilepsy, and generalized epilepsy animal models, as well as in patients with epilepsy. However, the role and importance of HCN1 down-regulation for seizure activity is unclear. To address this question we determined the susceptibility of mice with either a general or forebrain-restricted deletion of HCN1 to limbic seizure induction by amygdala kindling or pilocarpine administration. Loss of HCN1 expression in both mouse lines is associated with higher seizure severity and higher seizure-related mortality, independent of the seizure-induction method used. Therefore, down-regulation of HCN1 associated with human epilepsy and rodent models may be a contributing factor in seizure behavior.





Fyodor Dostoevsky is a great Russian writer who had epilepsy. As a consequence, there are many references to seizure-related phenomena in his work. His epilepsy syndrome has been a focus of debate. The goal of this article is to delineate his epilepsy syndrome based on a semiological description of seizures, which could be considered one of the most reliable pieces of circumstantial evidence available. It was hypothesized that seizure-related descriptions in his books were based on his own personal experience. The semiology of seizures and related phenomena was compiled from Dostoevsky's own work, his letters to family and friends, and reminiscences of his wife and friend. Those descriptions were analyzed in detail to elicit localizing and lateralizing features of seizures. On the basis of this evidence, it was postulated that Dostoevsky had a partial epilepsy syndrome most probably arising from the dominant temporal lobe.
Many people with epilepsy experience cognitive problems as a consequence of their epilepsy and its treatment. However, relatively few longitudinal studies have been conducted to investigate how these problems progress during the course of the disorder, particularly in those who are newly diagnosed. Fifty patients with newly diagnosed epilepsy were assessed using a comprehensive neuropsychological test battery before they started antiepileptic treatment and after a mean of 5 years. At the 5-year follow-up, the majority of cognitive measures remained stable, although significant (but subtle) declines were noted for memory and psychomotor speed domains in 38% of people with epilepsy.
The present study examines the influence of diagnostic comorbidity on the demographic, psychiatric, and functional status of youth with a primary diagnosis of obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD). Two hundred and fifteen children (ages 5-17) referred to a university-based OCD specialty clinic were compared based on DSM-IV diagnostic profile: OCD without comorbid anxiety or externalizing disorder, OCD plus anxiety disorder, and OCD plus externalizing disorder. No age or gender differences were found across groups. Higher OCD severity was found for the OCD + ANX group, while the OCD + EXT group reported greater functional impairment than the other two groups. Lower family cohesion was reported by the OCD + EXT group compared to the OCD group and the OCD + ANX group reported higher family conflict compared to the OCD + EXT group. The OCD + ANX group had significantly lower rates of tic disorders while rates of depressive disorders did not differ among the three groups. The presence of comorbid anxiety and externalizing psychopathology are associated with greater symptom severity and functional and family impairment and underscores the importance of a better understanding of the relationship of OCD characteristics and associated disorders. Results and clinical implications are further discussed.


Upper limb spasticity affecting elbow, wrist, and finger flexors can be safely and effectively reduced with injections of botulinum toxin type-A (BoNT-A). It has been best studied in adults in the context of post-stroke spasticity. The clinical benefits include reduction in pain and deformity, improvement in washing and dressing the upper limb, and a reduction in caregiver burden (Class I evidence, recommendation level A). Some patients show improvement in function performed by active movement of the affected upper limb (Class III evidence, recommendation C), but predicting and measuring this is difficult, and further research is needed. An individually based approach to treatment and outcome measurement is preferred (Class IV, recommendation U). More research is needed to resolve many unknown issues of assessment and treatment, using research methods appropriate to the question.


Golgi cells are important players in the function of the cerebellar cortex, controlling the flow of incoming information from mossy fibres to the granule cells, which excite other cortical neurons. We recently showed that in anaesthetized rats most Golgi cells respond to stimulation of afferents from a very wide peripheral receptive field with a long-lasting depression of firing. These responses are mediated via a crossed ascending afferent pathway but the supraspinal part of this pathway is unknown. Here we have examined the hypothesis that the lateral reticular nucleus, a brainstem nucleus with known broad afferent convergence that projects mossy fibres to much of the cerebellum, is involved. First, we showed that single-pulse electrical microstimulation within the lateral reticular nucleus can elicit long-lasting depressions in Golgi cells, which are qualitatively similar to those evoked by peripheral afferent stimulation. Second, we showed that the amplitude of the depressions of Golgi cell firing evoked by peripheral stimulation can be reduced by pharmacological manipulation of the lateral reticular nucleus, either ipsilateral or contralateral to the stimulus site, with local injections of either the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol or the AMPA receptor blocker 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. This evidence suggests that the lateral reticular nucleus is a relay nucleus in the brainstem for peripheral afferent information in a pathway that generates Golgi cell long-lasting depression responses.
Although previous in vitro studies revealed inhibitory synaptic connections of fast-spiking interneurons to principal cells in the striatum, uncertainty remains about the nature of the behavioural events that correlate with changes in interneuron activity and about the temporal coordination of interneuron firing with spiking of principal cells under natural conditions. Using in vivo tetrode recordings from the ventral striatum in freely moving rats, fast-spiking neurons were distinguished from putative medium-sized spiny neurons on the basis of their spike waveforms and rates. Cross-correlograms of fast-spiking and putative medium-sized spiny neuron firing patterns revealed a variety of temporal relationships, including peaks of concurrent firing and transient decrements in medium-sized spiny neuron spiking around fast-spiking unit activity. Notably, the onset of these decrements was mostly in advance of the fast-spiking unit firing. Many of these temporal relationships were dependent on the sleep-wake state. Coordinated activity was also found amongst pairs of the same phenotype, both fast-spiking units and putative medium-sized spiny neurons, which was often marked by a broad peak of concurrent firing. When studying fast-spiking neurons in a reward-searching task, they generally showed a pre-reward ramping increment in firing rate but a decrement specifically when the rat received reward. In conclusion, our data indicate that various forms of temporally coordinated activity exist amongst ventral striatal interneurons and principal cells, which cannot be explained by feed-forward inhibitory circuits alone. Furthermore, firing patterns of ventral striatal fast-spiking interneurons do not merely correlate with the general arousal state of the animal but display distinct reward-related changes in firing rate.
In Syrian hamsters, reproductive behavior relies on the perception of chemical signals released from conspecifics. The medial amygdala (MEA) processes sexual odors through functionally distinct, but interconnected, sub-regions; the anterior MEA (MEAa) appears to function as a chemosensory filter to distinguish between opposite-sex and same-sex odors, whereas the posterodorsal MEA (MEApd) is critical for generating attraction specifically to opposite-sex odors. To identify how these sub-regions interact during odor processing, we measured odor-induced Fos expression, an indirect marker of neuronal activation, in the absence of either MEAa or MEApd processing. In Experiment 1, electrolytic lesions of the MEAa decreased Fos expression throughout the posterior MEA in male hamsters exposed to either female or male odors, whereas MEApd lesions had no effect on Fos expression within the MEAa. These results indicate that the MEAa normally enhances processing of sexual odors within the MEApd and that this interaction is primarily unidirectional. Furthermore, lesions of the MEAa, but not the MEApd, decreased Fos expression within several connected forebrain nuclei, suggesting that the MEAa provides the primary excitatory output of the MEA during sexual odor processing. In Experiment 2, we observed a similar pattern of decreased Fos expression, using fiber-sparing, NMDA lesions of the MEAa, suggesting that the decreases in Fos expression were not attributable exclusively to damage to passing fibers. Taken together, these results provide the first direct test of how the different sub-regions within the MEA interact during odor processing, and highlight the role of the MEAa in transmitting sexual odor information to the posterior MEA, as well as to related forebrain nuclei.
Most early human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) strains are macrophage (M)-tropic HIV variants and use the chemokine receptor CCR5 for infection. Neuronal loss and dementia are less severe among individuals infected with M-tropic strains. However, after several years, the T-cell (T)-tropic HIV strain, which uses the CXCR4 variant, can emerge in conjunction with brain abnormalities, suggesting strain-specific differences in neuropathogenicity. The molecular and cellular mechanisms of such diversity remain under investigation. We have previously demonstrated that HIV envelope protein gp120IIIB, which binds to CXCR4, causes neuronal apoptosis in rodents. Thus, we have used a similar experimental model to examine the neurotoxic effects of M-tropic gp120BaL. gp120BaL was microinjected in the rat striatum and neuronal apoptosis was examined in the striatum, as well as in anatomically connected areas, such as the somatosensory cortex and the substantia nigra. gp120BaL promoted neuronal apoptosis and tissue loss that were confined to the striatum. Apoptosis was associated with microglial activation and increased levels of interleukin-1beta. Intriguingly, gp120BaL increased brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the striatum. Overall, our data show that gp120BaL demonstrates a different neuropathological profile than gp120IIIB. A better understanding of the pathogenic mechanisms mediating HIV neurotoxicity is vital for developing effective neuroprotective therapies against AIDS-associated dementia complex.
Brodmann areas 6, 44 and 45 in the ventrolateral frontal cortex of the left hemisphere of the human brain constitute the anterior language production zone. The anatomical connectivity of these areas with parietal and temporal cortical regions was recently examined in an autoradiographic tract-tracing study in the macaque monkey. Studies suggest strong correspondence between human resting state functional connectivity (RSFC) based on functional magnetic resonance imaging data and experimentally demonstrated anatomical connections in non-human primates. Accordingly, we hypothesized that areas 6, 44 and 45 of the human brain would exhibit patterns of RSFC consistent with patterns of anatomical connectivity observed in the macaque. In a primary analysis, we examined the RSFC associated with regions-of-interest placed in ventrolateral frontal areas 6, 44 and 45, on the basis of local sulcal and gyral anatomy. We validated the results of the primary hypothesis-driven analysis with a data-driven partitioning of ventrolateral frontal cortex into regions exhibiting distinct RSFC patterns, using a spectral clustering algorithm. The RSFC of ventrolateral frontal areas 6, 44 and 45 was consistent with patterns of anatomical connectivity shown in the macaque. We observed a striking dissociation between RSFC for the ventral part of area 6 that is involved in orofacial motor control and RSFC associated with Broca's region (areas 44 and 45). These findings indicate rich and differential RSFC patterns for the ventrolateral frontal areas controlling language production, consistent with known anatomical connectivity in the macaque brain, and suggest conservation of connectivity during the evolution of the primate brain.
Morphine remains one of the most potent analgesic compounds used to control chronic pain despite its known adverse effects. It binds to the opioid receptors mu, delta and kappa, which are involved in aspects of neuronal fate such as cell proliferation, neuroprotection and neuronal differentiation. However, the effect of morphine on these processes is controversial and in vitro studies, as well as in vivo studies on adults and neonates in mammalian models, have not been able to clarify the diverse roles of morphine in the central nervous system. We have used zebrafish embryos to determine in vivo how morphine affects neuronal fate and opioid receptor gene expression and to elucidate if there is a link between these processes. Our results show that at 24 and 48 h post fertilization (hpf) morphine enhances cell proliferation, although it has opposing effects as an inducer of neuronal differentiation at these two stages, increasing the number of certain neuronal populations at 24 hpf and decreasing it at 48 hpf. The present study also demonstrates that in 24-hpf embryos morphine acts as a neuroprotector against glutamate damage in motor neurons and Pax-6-positive neurons. Furthermore, the gene expression of the opioid receptors is altered by embryonic exposition to morphine. In conclusion, our study sheds new light on the in vivo roles of morphine, and it indicates for the first time that its implication in cell proliferation and neuroprotection might be related to changes in the gene expression of opioid receptors.
The nigra substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) and substantia pars reticulata (SNr) form two major basal ganglia components with different functional roles. SNc dopaminergic (DA) neurones are vulnerable to cell death in Parkinson's disease, and NMDA receptor activation is a potential contributing mechanism. We have investigated the sensitivity of whole-cell and synaptic NMDA responses to intracellular ATP and GTP application in the SNc and SNr from rats on postnatal day (P) 7 and P28. Both NMDA current density (pA/pF) and desensitization to prolonged or repeated NMDA application were greater in the SNr than in the SNc. When ATP levels were not supplemented, responses to prolonged NMDA administration desensitized in P7 SNc DA neurones but not at P28. At P28, SNr neurones desensitized more than SNc neurones, with or without added ATP. Responses to brief NMDA applications and synaptic NMDA currents were not sensitive to inclusion of ATP in the pipette solution. To investigate these differences between the SNc and SNr, NR2 subunit-selective antagonists were tested. NMDA currents were inhibited by ifenprodil (10 microM) and UBP141 (4 microM), but not by Zn(2+) (100 nm), in both the SNr and SNc, suggesting that SNc and SNr neurones express similar receptor subunits; NR2B and NR2D, but not NR2A. The different NMDA response properties in the SNc and SNr may be caused by differences in receptor modulation and/or trafficking. The vulnerability of SNc DA neurones to cell death is not correlated with NMDA current density or receptor subtypes, but could in part be related to inadequate NMDA receptor desensitization.
In Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus), the expression of reproductive behavior requires the perception of social odors. The behavioral response to these odors is mediated by a network of ventral forebrain nuclei, including the posterior bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (pBNST). Previous studies have tested the role of the pBNST in reproductive behavior, but the use of large, fiber-damaging lesions in these studies make it difficult to attribute post-lesion deficits to the pBNST specifically. Thus, the current study used discrete, excitotoxic lesions of the pBNST to test the role of the pBNST in opposite-sex odor preference and copulatory behavior in both sexually-naive and sexually-experienced males. Lesions of the pBNST decreased sexually-naive males' investigation of volatile female odors, resulting in an elimination of opposite-sex odor preference. This elimination of preference was not due to a sensory deficit, as males with pBNST lesions were able to discriminate between odors. When, however, subjects were given sexual experience prior to pBNST lesions, their preference for volatile opposite-sex odors remained intact post-lesion. Similarly, when sexually-naive or sexually-experienced subjects were allowed to contact the social odors during the preference test, lesions of the pBNST decreased males' investigation of female odors but did not eliminate preference for opposite-sex odors, regardless of sexual experience. Finally, lesions of the pBNST delayed the copulatory sequence in sexually-naive, but not sexually-experienced, males such that they took longer to mount, intromit, ejaculate and display long intromissions. Together, these results demonstrate that the pBNST plays a unique and critical role in both appetitive and consummatory aspects of male reproductive behaviors.
In this study, we wished to test, using magnetic resonance imaging and voxel-based morphometry (VBM), whether specific cortical and subcortical patterns of brain grey (GM) and white matter (WM) tissue loss can be detected in patients with Richardson's syndrome (PSP-RS) and progressive supranuclear palsy-parkinsonism (PSP-P), and possibly account for their clinical heterogeneity. Twenty patients with PSP, classified as PSP-RS (10 patients) or PSP-P (10 patients), and 24 healthy controls were studied. The Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM5) and the Diffeomorphic Anatomical Registration using Exponentiated Lie algebra method were used to perform a VBM analysis. Compared with controls, both patient groups showed GM loss in the central midbrain, cerebellar lobes, caudate nuclei, frontotemporal cortices and right hippocampus. WM loss was detected in both conditions in the midbrain, left superior cerebellar peduncle, internal capsulae, and left premotor and bilateral prefrontal regions. Compared with PSP-P, patients with PSP-RS showed additional regions of GM loss in the midbrain, left cerebellar lobe and dentate nuclei. PSP-RS was also associated with a more severe WM loss in the midbrain, internal capsulae, and orbitofrontal, prefrontal and precentral/premotor regions, bilaterally. Patients with PSP-P showed a more pronounced GM loss only in the frontal cortex, bilaterally. This study shows that, albeit the overall pattern of brain atrophy associated with PSP appears remarkably consistent across the spectrum of clinical features recorded in life, major anatomical differences between these two conditions do exist. Such a different topographical distribution of tissue damage may account for the clinical differences between PSP-RS and PSP-P.
Ghrelin, a hormone produced by the stomach, is generally associated with feeding responses and the regulation of food intake. Recent evidence, however, suggests that ghrelin is also a stress hormone, given that it is released following acute and chronic stressors. The present study examined the role of ghrelin in producing normal metabolic and neurochemical responses to chronic stress. This was achieved by examining these responses in mice with targeted deletions of the ghrelin receptor gene (GHSR KO mice), and comparing them with the same responses in their wild-type (WT) littermates. As expected, WT stressed mice decreased their caloric intake, body weight gain and caloric efficiency while maintaining adiposity. GHSR KO mice, however, did not show these alterations despite having normal glucocorticoid responses to stress. In parallel with these changes, chronic unpredictable stress caused changes in norepinephrine, dopamine and serotonin in a number of brain regions. Of these, norepinephrine neurotransmission in the arcuate nucleus and prefrontal cortex was differentially altered in GHSR KO mice. Within the nucleus acumbens, dopamine utilization was increased in WT mice but not in GHSR KO mice. Finally, there were strain differences in serotonin neurotransmission that may explain interstrain body weight and adiposity differences. These results suggest that the metabolic changes necessary to deal with the energetic challenge presented by repeated exposure to stressors do not occur in GHSR KO mice, and they are discussed within the context of the potential vulnerability to stress-induced pathology.

Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are among the first line treatments clinically recommended against neuropathic pain. However, the mechanism by which they alleviate pain is still unclear. Pharmacological and genetic approaches evidenced a critical role of delta-opioid receptors (DORs) in the therapeutic action of chronic TCA treatment. It is however unclear whether mu-opioid receptors (MORs) are also necessary to the pain-relieving action of TCAs. The lack of highly selective MOR antagonists makes difficult to conclude based on pharmacological studies. In the present work, we thus used a genetic approach and compared mutant mice lacking MORs and their wild-type littermates. The neuropathy was induced by unilateral sciatic nerve cuffing. The threshold for mechanical response was evaluated using von Frey filaments. MOR-deficient mice displayed the same baseline for mechanical sensitivity as their wild-type littermates. After sciatic nerve cuffing, both wild-type and MOR-deficient mice displayed an ipsilateral mechanical allodynia. After about 10 days of treatment, nortriptyline suppressed this allodynia in both wild-type and MOR-deficient mice. MORs are thus not critical for nortriptyline action against neuropathic pain. An acute injection of the DOR antagonist naltrindole induced a relapse of neuropathic allodynia in both wild-type and MOR-deficient mice, thus confirming the critical role of DORs in nortriptyline action. Moreover, morphine induced an acute analgesia in control and in neuropathic wild-type mice, but was without effect in MOR-deficient mice. While MORs are crucial for morphine action, they are not critical for nortriptyline action. Our results highlight the functional difference between DORs and MORs in mechanisms of pain relief.
Our brain is a network. It consists of spatially distributed, but functionally linked regions that continuously share information with each other. Interestingly, recent advances in the acquisition and analysis of functional neuroimaging data have catalyzed the exploration of functional connectivity in the human brain. Functional connectivity is defined as the temporal dependency of neuronal activation patterns of anatomically separated brain regions and in the past years an increasing body of neuroimaging studies has started to explore functional connectivity by measuring the level of co-activation of resting-state fMRI time-series between brain regions. These studies have revealed interesting new findings about the functional connections of specific brain regions and local networks, as well as important new insights in the overall organization of functional communication in the brain network. Here we present an overview of these new methods and discuss how they have led to new insights in core aspects of the human brain, providing an overview of these novel imaging techniques and their implication to neuroscience. We discuss the use of spontaneous resting-state fMRI in determining functional connectivity, discuss suggested origins of these signals, how functional connections tend to be related to structural connections in the brain network and how functional brain communication may form a key role in cognitive performance. Furthermore, we will discuss the upcoming field of examining functional connectivity patterns using graph theory, focusing on the overall organization of the functional brain network. Specifically, we will discuss the value of these new functional connectivity tools in examining believed connectivity diseases, like Alzheimer's disease, dementia, schizophrenia and multiple sclerosis.




Objective: The pathophysiology of arachnoiditis ossificans (AO) and its association with syringomyelia remains a rare and poorly understood phenomenon. Here, we present a case of AO associated with syringomyelia, a review of literature, and a discussion of current understanding of disease pathophysiology. Methods: A literature review was performed using MEDLINE (January 1900-May 2010) and Embase (January 1900-May 2010) to identify all English-language studies that described AO with syringomyelia. The current report was added to published cases. Results: Over 50 cases of AO are reported in literature, of which only eight are associated with syringomyelia. The various presumptive etiologies of syrinx formation include abnormalities in blood circulation, ischemia, hydrodynamic alternations in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) flow, tissue damage, or incidental coexistence. Changing CSF dynamics related to decreased compliance of the subarachnoid space and subsequent paracentral dissection of the spinal cord may be implicated in the disease process. magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanning may identify the syrinx but fail to diagnose the calcified arachnoid. Five patients, including the current case, improved clinically following laminectomy and decompression. Conclusions: Syringomyelia in association in AO is a rare phenomenon. A high index of suspicion is required and both MRI and computed tomography (CT) are recommended for diagnosis. The pathophysiology of syringomyelia in AO remains an area of ongoing research.
Pain is a conscious experience, crucial for survival. To investigate the neural basis of pain perception in humans, a large number of investigators apply noxious stimuli to the body of volunteers while sampling brain activity using different functional neuroimaging techniques. These responses have been shown to originate from an extensive network of brain regions, which has been christened the Pain Matrix and is often considered to represent a unique cerebral signature for pain perception. As a consequence, the Pain Matrix is often used to understand the neural mechanisms of pain in health and disease. Because the interpretation of a great number of experimental studies relies on the assumption that the brain responses elicited by nociceptive stimuli reflect the activity of a cortical network that is at least partially specific for pain, it appears crucial to ascertain whether this notion is supported by unequivocal experimental evidence. Here, we will review the original concept of the &quot;Neuromatrix&quot; as it was initially proposed by Melzack and its subsequent transformation into a pain-specific matrix. Through a critical discussion of the evidence in favor and against this concept of pain specificity, we show that the fraction of the neuronal activity measured using currently available macroscopic functional neuroimaging techniques (e.g., EEG, MEG, fMRI, PET) in response to transient nociceptive stimulation is likely to be largely unspecific for nociception.
Secondary brain damage following traumatic brain injury in part depends on neuroinflammation, a process where genetic factors may play an important role. We examined the response to a standardized cortical contusion in two different inbred rat strains, Dark Agouti (DA) and Piebald Virol Glaxo (PVG). Both are well characterized in models of autoimmune neuroinflammation, where DA is susceptible and PVG resistant. We found that infiltration of polymorphonuclear granulocytes (PMN) at 3-day postinjury was more pronounced in PVG. DA was more infiltrated by T cells at 3-day postinjury, showed an enhanced glial activation at 7-day postinjury and higher expression of C3 complement at 7-day postinjury. Neurodegeneration, assessed by Fluoro-Jade, was also more pronounced in the DA strain at 30-day postinjury. These results demonstrate differences in the response to cortical contusion injury attributable to genetic influences and suggest a link between injury-induced inflammation and neurodegeneration. Genetic factors that regulate inflammation elicited by brain trauma may be important for the development of secondary brain damage.
The role of attention in grasping movements directed at common objects has not been examined in Parkinson's disease (PD), though these movements are critical to activities of daily living. Our primary objective was to determine whether patients with PD demonstrate automaticity in grasping movements directed toward common objects. Automaticity is assumed when tasks can be performed with little or no interference from concurrent tasks. Grasping performance in three patient groups (newly diagnosed, moderate, and advanced/surgically treated PD) on and off of their medication or deep brain stimulation was compared to performance in an age-matched control group. Automaticity was demonstrated by the absence of a decrement in grasping performance when attention was consumed by a concurrent spatial-visualization task. Only the control group and newly diagnosed PD group demonstrated automaticity in their grasping movements. The moderate and advanced PD groups did not demonstrate automaticity. Furthermore, the well-known effects of pharmacotherapy and surgical intervention on movement speed and muscle activation patterns did not appear to reduce the impact of attention-demanding tasks on grasping movements in those with moderate to advanced PD. By the moderate stage of PD, grasping is an attention-demanding process; this change is not ameliorated by dopaminergic or surgical treatments. These findings have important implications for activities of daily living, as devoting attention to the simplest of daily tasks would interfere with complex activities and potentially exacerbate fatigue.
Mirror neurons are a distinct class of neurons that discharge both during the execution of a motor act and during observation of the same or similar motor act performed by another individual. However, the extent to which mirror neurons coding a motor act with a specific goal (e.g., grasping) might also respond to the observation of a motor act having the same goal, but achieved with artificial effectors, is not yet established. In the present study, we addressed this issue by recording mirror neurons from the ventral premotor cortex (area F5) of two monkeys trained to grasp objects with pliers. Neuron activity was recorded during the observation and execution of grasping performed with the hand, with pliers and during observation of an experimenter spearing food with a stick. The results showed that virtually all neurons responding to the observation of hand grasping also responded to the observation of grasping with pliers and, many of them to the observation of spearing with a stick. However, the intensity and pattern of the response differed among conditions. Hand grasping observation determined the earliest and the strongest discharge, while pliers grasping and spearing observation triggered weaker responses at longer latencies. We conclude that F5 grasping mirror neurons respond to the observation of a family of stimuli leading to the same goal. However, the response pattern depends upon the similarity between the observed motor act and the one executed by the hand, the natural motor template.
Vision and proprioception are the main sensory modalities that convey hand location and direction of movement. Fusion of these sensory signals into a single robust percept is now well documented. However, it is not known whether these modalities also interact in the spatial allocation of attention, which has been demonstrated for other modality pairings. The aim of this study was to test whether proprioceptive signals can spatially cue a visual target to improve its detection. Participants were instructed to use a planar manipulandum in a forward reaching action and determine during this movement whether a near-threshold visual target appeared at either of two lateral positions. The target presentation was followed by a masking stimulus, which made its possible location unambiguous, but not its presence. Proprioceptive cues were given by applying a brief lateral force to the participant's arm, either in the same direction (validly cued) or in the opposite direction (invalidly cued) to the on-screen location of the mask. The d' detection rate of the target increased when the direction of proprioceptive stimulus was compatible with the location of the visual target compared to when it was incompatible. These results suggest that proprioception influences the allocation of attention in visual space.
Prehension, the capacity to reach and grasp, is the key behavior that allows humans to change their environment. It continues to serve as a remarkable experimental test case for probing the cognitive architecture of goal-oriented action. This review focuses on recent experimental evidence that enhances or modifies how we might conceptualize the neural substrates of prehension. Emphasis is placed on studies that consider how precision grasps are selected and transformed into motor commands. Then, the mechanisms that extract action relevant information from vision and touch are considered. These include consideration of how parallel perceptual networks within parietal cortex, along with the ventral stream, are connected and share information to achieve common motor goals. On-line control of grasping action is discussed within a state estimation framework. The review ends with a consideration about how prehension fits within larger action repertoires that solve more complex goals and the possible cortical architectures needed to organize these actions.
Mild uncoupling of mitochondrial respiration is considered to prolong life span of organisms by reducing the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Experimental evidence against this hypothesis has been brought forward by premature senescence in cell cultures treated with uncouplers. Exposing HUVEC to a mixture of nutritionally important fatty acids (oil extract of chicken yolk) mild uncoupling with &quot;naturally acting substances&quot; was performed. This treatment also resulted in premature senescence although ROS production did not increase. Fatty acids activate uncoupling proteins (UCP) in the inner mitochondrial membrane. UCP2 expression proved to be sensitive to the presence of fatty acids but remains unchanged during the ageing process. UCP3 expression in senescent HUVEC and avUCP expression in senescent CEF were considerably less than in young cultures. No indication for protonophoric reduction of mitochondrial membrane potential was found in UCP2 overexpressing HeLa cells and only little in HUVEC. ROS levels increased instead of being reduced in these cells. Stable transfection with UCP2-GFP was possible only in chick embryo fibroblasts and HeLa cells and resulted in decreased proliferation. Stable transfection of HUVEC with UCP2-GFP resulted in death of cultures within one or two weeks. The reason for this behaviour most probably is apoptosis preceded by mitochondrial fragmentation and loss of membrane potential.
The effects of peripheral nerve grafts (PNG) and acidic fibroblast growth factor (alpha FGF) combined with step training on the locomotor performance of complete spinal cord-transected (ST, T8) adult rats were studied. Rats were assigned randomly to five groups (N=10 per group): sham control (laminectomy only), ST only, ST-step-trained, repaired (ST with PNG and alpha FGF treatment), or repaired-step-trained. Step-trained rats were stepped bipedally on a treadmill 20 min/day, 5 days/week for 6 months. Bipolar intramuscular EMG electrodes were implanted in the soleus and tibialis anterior (TA) muscles of ST-step-trained (n=3) and repaired-step-trained (n=2) rats. Gait analysis was conducted at 3 and 6 months after surgery. Stepping analysis was completed on the best continuous 10-s period of stepping performed in a 2-min trial. Significantly better stepping (number of steps, stance duration, swing duration, maximum step length, and maximum step height) was observed in the repaired and repaired-step-trained than in the ST and ST-step-trained rats. Mean EMG amplitudes in both the soleus and TA were significantly higher and the patterns of activation of flexors and extensors more reciprocal in the repaired-step-trained than ST-step-trained rats. 5-HT fibers were present in the lumbar area of repaired but not ST rats. Thus, PNG plus alpha FGF treatment resulted in a clear improvement in locomotor performance with or without step training. Furthermore, the number of 5-HT fibers observed below the lesion was related directly to stepping performance. These observations indicate that the improved stepping performance in Repaired rats may be due to newly formed supraspinal control via regeneration.
Age is the most important independent risk factor for stroke; however aging animals are rarely used in stroke studies. Previous work demonstrated that young male mice had more edema formation after an induced stroke than aging animals. An important contributor to cerebral edema formation is the Na-K-Cl cotransporter (NKCC). We examined the expression of NKCC in young (10-12 weeks) and aging (15-16 months) C57BL6 male mice after middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and investigated the effect of pharmacological inhibition of NKCC with Bumetanide on cerebral edema formation. Both immunofluorescent staining and Western blotting analysis showed that NKCC expression was significantly higher in the ischemic penumbra of young compared to aging mice after stroke. Edema formation was significantly more robust in young mice and was reduced with Bumetanide. Bumetanide had no effect on cerebral edema in aging mice after MCAO. This suggests that NKCC expression and edema formation are age dependent after ischemic stroke.
Complex I is the first protein component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain and as such plays a crucial role in ATP production and mitochondrial function in general. Mitochondrial dysfunction has been identified in a number of neurodegenerative diseases. In some of these the mitochondrial abnormality is primary and in others secondary. Mitochondrial toxins are capable of producing relatively selective neuronal cell death and have been used to produce models of human neurodegenerative diseases e.g. 1-methyl 4-phenyl 1,2,3,6 tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) for Parkinson's disease, and 3-nitropropionic acid for Huntington's disease. Annonacin, an ingredient of local soursop, is a Complex I inhibitor and has been incriminated as the cause of a parkinsonian tauopathy disorder in Guadeloupe. A systematic analysis has identified several environmentally available potent lipophilic Complex I inhibitors that can induce neuronal cell death in striatal cultures and somatodendritic redistribution of tau protein. It is possible that these compounds may contribute to the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders, although further work must be done to confirm their potential participation in pathogenesis.

The American Academy of Neurology is an international professional organization of more than 22,000 neurologists and neuroscience professionals. This year the annual meeting was held in Toronto, ON, Canada. A large number of scientific sessions presented numerous advances in the diagnosis, molecular pathogenesis and treatment of Alzheimer's disease and dementia, cerebrovascular and neuromuscular disorders, as well as the rapidly changing areas of genetic testing and stem cell research. This meeting report focuses on the latest therapies in the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS).
These are really exciting times in the field of Parkinson's disease research. Although the etiology of sporadic disease still remains a mystery, many of the proteins associated with hereditary disease (5-10% of all disease) have now been identified. Only time will tell whether proteins associated with hereditary disease are involved in the development of sporadic disease. The most valuable proteomic studies performed to date are, and continue to be, those aimed at identifying endogenous binding partners, substrates, post-translational modifications and cellular pathways affected by these proteins. Similar to global proteomic approaches, even these approaches have surprisingly often been characterized by the production of very long lists of proteins. Consequently, the parallel development of more refined protein-protein interactions maps has aided the chance of identifying those protein complexes and/or cellular pathways, which, when disrupted, lead to the development of disease. The knowledge gained from these studies is essential, as targeting the activities of these proteins, or the pathways they operate in, currently offers the best opportunity to develop new therapeutic strategies to treat the disease. They may include agents to modulators of kinase activities (e.g., PINK1 and LRRK2), modulators of the activity of the ubiquitin-protein ligase, Parkin, proteostasis agents to block alpha-synuclein filament assembly and toxicity, or promote the refolding of mutant proteins, modulators of alpha-synuclein transfer between cells, reagents to regulate cargo dynamics along axonal microtubule networks, stimulators of autophagy and/or modulators of cellular stress pathways. The second major challenge will be to identify biomarkers to enable population screening to identify those with asymptomatic early-stage disease. Whether the analysis of blood or urine samples will yield such a marker, remains to be determined. Success or failure will be highly dependent on adopting strict standard operating procedures for the collection, processing and storage of samples, combined with the need for the identification of the most robust methods of prefractionation of samples to remove the most abundant proteins prior to proteomic screening.
Cytokines play an emerging role as neurotransmitters, neuromodulators, and neurohormones in the brain. This paradigm shift in cytokine function offers a new framework to understand their roles in ameliorating neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Molecular adjuvant therapy of AD animal models with glatiramer acetate induces anti-inflammatory responses and therapeutic effects. Although these effects are potentially mediated through anti-inflammatory cytokine signaling, the exact molecular identities and pathways are poorly understood. Here, we show that virus-mediated expression of the mouse interleukin (IL)-4 gene in beta-amyloid precursor protein + presenilin-1 (APP+PS1) bigenic mice attenuates AD pathogenesis. Introduction of an adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector encoding IL-4 into the hippocampus resulted in sustained expression of IL-4, reduced astro/microgliosis, amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) oligomerization and deposition, and enhanced neurogenesis. Moreover, increased levels of IL-4 improved spatial learning, promoted phosphorylation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 2B at Tyr 1472, and enhanced its cell surface retention both in vivo and in vitro. Our data suggest that neuronal anti-inflammatory cytokine signaling may be a potential alternative target for non-Abeta-mediated treatment of AD.
Tau-tubulin kinase-1 (TTBK1) phosphorylates microtubule-associated protein tau at specific serine/threonine residues found in paired helical filaments (PHFs), and its expression is up-regulated in the brain in Alzheimer disease, suggesting its role in tauopathy pathogenesis. To understand the effects of TTBK1 on tauopathy in vivo, we have developed bigenic mice overexpressing full-length TTBK1 and the P301L tau mutant. The bigenic mice show enhanced tau phosphorylation at multiple sites (AT8, 12E8, PHF-1, and pS422), tauC3-immunoreactive tau fragmentation, and accumulation of tau aggregates in cortical and hippocampal neurons at 12-13 mo of age. However, the phosphorylated tau aggregates were predominantly sarkosyl soluble and migrated in the light sucrose density fraction after discontinuous sucrose gradient ultracentrifugation, which suggests that they form small oligomers. The bigenic mice show significant locomotor dysfunction as determined by both rotorod and grip strength tests, as well as enhanced loss of motor neurons in the L4-L5 spinal cord. This neuronal dysfunction and degeneration was associated with increased levels of tau oligomers, cyclin-dependent protein kinase 5 activators p35 and p25, and pY216 phosphorylated glycogen synthase kinase 3-beta. These data suggest that TTBK1 up-regulation enhances tau phosphorylation and oligomerization, whose toxicity results in enhanced neurodegeneration and locomotor dysfunction in a tauopathy animal model.
Schizophrenia is a devastating disease that affects approximately 1% of the population across cultures. Its neurobiological underpinnings are still unknown. Accordingly, animal models of schizophrenia often lack construct validity. As concordance rate in monozygotic twins amounts to only 50%, environmental risk factors (e.g. neurotrauma, drug abuse, psychotrauma) likely act as necessary 'second hit' to trigger/drive the disease process in a genetically predisposed individual. Valid animal models would have to consider this genetic-environmental interaction. Based on this concept, we designed an experimental approach for modeling a schizophrenia-like phenotype in mice. As dysfunction in synaptic transmission plays a key role in schizophrenia, and complexin2 (CPLX2) gene expression is reduced in hippocampus of schizophrenic patients, we developed a mouse model with Cplx2 null mutation as genetic risk factor and a mild parietal neurotrauma, applied during puberty, as environmental 'second hit'. Several months after lesion, Cplx2 null mutants showed reduced pre-pulse inhibition, deficit of spatial learning and loss of inhibition after MK-801 challenge. These abnormalities were largely absent in lesioned wild-type mice and non-lesioned Cplx2 null mutants. Forced alternation in T-maze, object recognition, social interaction and elevated plus maze tests were unaltered in all groups. The previously reported mild motor phenotype of Cplx2 null mutants was accentuated upon lesion. MRI volumetrical analysis showed a decrease of hippocampal volume exclusively in lesioned Cplx2 null mutants. These findings provide suggestive evidence for the 'second hit' hypothesis of schizophrenia and may offer new tools for the development of advanced treatment strategies.
Impaired spatial learning is a prominent deficit in fragile X syndrome (FXS). Previous studies using the Fmr1 knockout (KO) mouse model of FXS have not consistently reported a deficit in spatial learning. Fmr1 KO mice bred onto an albino C57BL/6J-Tyr(c-Brd) background showed significant deficits in several primary measures of performance during place navigation and probe trials in the Morris water maze. Fmr1 KO mice were also impaired during a serial reversal version of the water maze task. We examined fear conditioning as an additional cognitive screen. Knockout mice exhibited contextual memory deficits when trained with unsignaled shocks; however, deficits were not found in a separate group of KO mice trained with signaled shocks. No potentially confounding genotypic differences in locomotor activity were observed. A decreased anxiety-like profile was apparent in the open field, as others have noted, and also in the platform test. Also as previously reported, startle reactivity to loud auditory stimuli was decreased, prepulse inhibition and social interaction increased in KO mice. Female Fmr1 KO mice were tested along with male KO mice in all assays, except for social interaction. The female and male KO exhibited very similar impairments indicating that sex does not generally drive the behavioral symptoms of the disorder. Our results suggest that procedural factors, such as the use of albino mice, may help to reliably detect spatial learning and memory impairments in both sexes of Fmr1 KO mice, making it more useful for understanding FXS and a platform for evaluating potential therapeutics.
We report the expression pattern and construction of a transgenic zebrafish line for a transcription factor involved in otic vesicle formation and skeletogenesis. The zinc finger transcription factor sp7 (formerly called osterix) is reported as a marker of osteoblasts. Using bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC)-mediated transgenesis, we generated a zebrafish transgenic line for studying skeletal development, Tg(sp7:EGFP)b1212. Using a zebrafish BAC, EGFP was introduced downstream of the regulatory regions of sp7 and injected into one cell-stage embryos. In this transgenic line, GFP expression reproduces endogenous sp7 gene expression in the otic placode and vesicle, and in forming skeletal structures. GFP-positive cells were also detected in adult fish, and were found associated with regenerating fin rays post-amputation. This line provides an essential tool for the further study of zebrafish otic vesicle formation and the development and regeneration of the skeleton.
Alexander disease is a rare and usually fatal neurological disorder characterized by the abundant presence of protein aggregates in astrocytes. Most cases result from dominant missense de novo mutations in the gene encoding glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), but how these mutations lead to aggregate formation and compromise function is not known. A transgenic mouse line (Tg73.7) over-expressing human GFAP produces astrocytic aggregates indistinguishable from those seen in the human disease, making them a model of this disorder. To investigate possible metabolic changes associated with Alexander disease Tg73.7 mice and controls were injected simultaneously with [1-(13)C]glucose to analyze neuronal metabolism and [1,2-(13)C]acetate to monitor astrocytic metabolism. Brain extracts were analyzed by (1)H magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) to quantify amounts of several key metabolites, and by (13)C MRS to analyze amino acid neurotransmitter metabolism. In the cerebral cortex, reduced utilization of [1,2-(13)C]acetate was observed for synthesis of glutamine, glutamate, and GABA, and the concentration of the marker for neuronal mitochondrial metabolism, N-acetylaspartate (NAA) was decreased. This indicates impaired astrocytic and neuronal metabolism and decreased transfer of glutamine from astrocytes to neurons compared with control mice. In the cerebellum, glutamine and GABA content and labeling from [1-(13)C]glucose were increased. Evidence for brain edema was found in the increased amount of water and of the osmoregulators myo-inositol and taurine. It can be concluded that astrocyte-neuronal interactions were altered differently in distinct regions.
Neuroglobin (Ngb) is proposed to be a neuron-specific, hypoxia-responsive, neuroprotective protein. However, results are conflicting concerning both Ngb's physiological and pathological significance. This study was designed to investigate the in vivo localization and regulation of Ngb in different neuropathological models representing traumatic injury, infectious, autoimmune, and excitotoxic pathogeneses. We profiled Ngb immunohistochemistry in murine models of traumatic brain injury, cerebral malaria, experimental autoimmune encephalitis, and kainic acid (KA)-mediated epileptic seizures that, to our knowledge, have not been studied in the context of Ngb. In control mice Ngb was expressed exclusively in neurons. In all pathological models except KA, in addition to neurons Ngb was present in reactive astrocytes. Ngb positive astrocytes were found within regions associated with most severe pathology and the astroglial scar. This is the first report of Ngb present in reactive astroglia and in scar-forming astrocytes in response to different pathological conditions relevant to human disease. In light of previously reported cyto-protective properties of Ngb, further insight may result in therapeutic ramifications.
Glycosphingolipids (GSLs) occur in all mammalian plasma membranes. They are most abundant in neuronal cells and have essential roles in brain development. Glucosylceramide (GlcCer) synthase, which is encoded by the Ugcg gene, is the key enzyme driving the synthesis of most neuronal GSLs. Experiments using conditional Nestin-Cre Ugcg knockout mice have shown that GSL synthesis in vivo is essential, especially for brain maturation. However, the roles of GSL synthesis in mature neurons remain elusive, since Nestin-Cre is expressed in neural precursors as well as in postmitotic neurons. To address this problem, we generated Purkinje cell-specific Ugcg knockout mice using mice that express Cre under the control of the L7 promoter. In these mice, Purkinje cells survived for at least 10-18 weeks after Ugcg deletion. We observed apparent axonal degeneration characterized by the accumulation of axonal transport cargos and aberrant membrane structures. Dendrites, however, were not affected. In addition, loss of GSLs disrupted myelin sheaths, which were characterized by detached paranodal loops. Notably, we observed doubly myelinated axons enveloped by an additional concentric myelin sheath around the original sheath. Our data show that axonal GlcCer-based GSLs are essential for axonal homeostasis and correct myelin sheath formation.
Stage-specific embryonic antigen-1 (SSEA-1) is a well-known carbohydrate antigenic epitope of undifferentiated cells, including neural stem cells (NSCs). However, the exact nature of the carrier proteins has not been fully characterized. Using proteomics analyses, we herein report that a lysosomal protein, LAMP-1, is a major carrier protein of SSEA-1 in NSCs, despite the common belief that SSEA-1 is mainly expressed on the cell surface and constitutes a component of the extracellular matrix. Furthermore, we found that SSEA-1 on LAMP-1 is completely ablated in differentiated cells derived from NSCs. Our finding raises the possibility that the expression of SSEA-1-positive LAMP-1 is associated with the &quot;stemness&quot; of NSCs.

Chronic sleep loss, a common feature of human life in industrialized countries, is associated to cardiovascular disorders. Variations in functional parameters of coagulation might contribute to explain this relationship. By exploiting the mouse model and a specifically designed protocol, we demonstrated that seven days of partial sleep deprivation significantly decreases (-30.5%) the thrombin generation potential in plasma evaluated upon extrinsic (TF/FVIIa pathway) but not intrinsic activation of coagulation. This variation was consistent with a decrease (-49.8%) in the plasma activity levels of factor VII (FVII), the crucial physiologicalal trigger of coagulation, which was even more pronounced at the liver mRNA level (-85.7%). The recovery in normal sleep conditions for three days completely restored thrombin generation and FVII activity in plasma. For the first time, we demonstrate that chronic sleep deprivation on its own reduces, in a reversible manner, the FVII expression levels, thus influencing the TF/FVIIa activation pathway efficiency.
Detailed understanding of neurofilament protein distribution in the inner ear can shed light on regulatory mechanisms involved in neuronal development of this tissue. We assessed the spatio-temporal changes in the distribution of neurofilaments in the developing rat inner ear between embryonic day 12 and 30 days after birth, using antibodies against phosphorylated as well as non-phosphorylated light (NFL), medium (NFM) and heavy (NFH) neurofilament subunits. Our results show that during development, the onset of neurofilament expression in the rat inner ear is on embryonic day 12, earlier than previously shown. We demonstrate that neurofilament subunits of different molecular weight emerge in a developmental stage-dependent order. In addition, we determined that neurofilaments of the vestibular nerve mature earlier than neurofilaments of the cochlear nerve. Cochlear neurofilament maturation progresses in a gradient from base to apex, and from inner to outer hair cells. The sequential pattern of neurofilament expression we describe may help understand the consequences of certain mutations, and contribute to develop therapeutic strategies.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are known to play a pivotal role in remodeling of the extracellular matrix and have been implicated in synaptic plasticity, learning and memory. In hippocampus, inhibition of MMPs impairs the maintenance of long term plasticity in Schaeffer collateral-CA1 (Sch/CA1) synapses while its effect on short term plasticity remains a matter of debate. Surprisingly little is known on the role of MMPs in other hippocampal synapses. In this study we have investigated the impact of a broad spectrum MMPs inhibitor, FN-439 on synaptic transmission in mossy fiber-CA3 (MF/CA3) synapses exhibiting profoundly different mechanism of long term potentiation (LTP) as well as robust short-term plasticity, features that clearly distinguish them from the Sch/CA1 synapses. We report, that MMPs blockade before and up to 30 minutes after LTP induction resulted in a severe disruption of the late phase of tetanically induced LTP. However, LTP time course was not changed when FN439 was administered 60 minutes post LTP induction indicating that MMPs activity is required for the consolidation of the synaptic plasticity within a specific time window. The paired-pulse facilitation ratio or post-tetanic potentiation or burst-like pattern of mossy fiber stimulation were not changed in the presence of FN-439 administered for 15 minutes suggesting that temporal pattern of presynaptic transmitter release and, in general, the MF-CA3 fidelity is not significantly affected by MMPs inhibition. We conclude that although the mechanisms of long-term plasticity in MF/CA3 and in Sch/CA1 are profoundly different, MMPs play a crucial role in both pathways in the maintenance of LTP, which is believed to play an important role in learning and memory in the hippocampus.
Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) is a valuable tool for assessing presumptive white matter alterations in human disease and animal models. The current study used DTI to examine the effects of selective neurotoxic lesions of the hippocampus on major white matter tracts and anatomically related brain regions in macaque monkeys. Two years postlesion, structural MRI, and DTI sequences were acquired for each subject. Volumetric assessment revealed a substantial reduction in the size of the hippocampus in experimental subjects, averaging 72% relative to controls, without apparent damage to adjacent regions. DTI images were processed to yield measures of fractional anisotropy (FA), apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC), parallel diffusivity (lADC), and perpendicular diffusivity (tADC), as well as directional color maps. To evaluate potential changes in major projection systems, a region of interest (ROI) analysis was conducted including the corpus callosum, fornix, temporal stem, cingulum bundle, ventromedial prefrontal white matter, and optic radiations. Lesion-related abnormalities in the integrity of the fiber tracts examined were limited to known hippocampal circuitry, including the fornix and ventromedial prefrontal white matter. These findings are consistent with the notion that hippocampal damage results in altered interactions with multiple memory-related brain regions, including portions of the prefrontal cortex.
Calcium-dependent secretion of neurotransmitters and hormones is essential for brain function and neuroendocrine-signaling. Prior to exocytosis, neurotransmitter-containing vesicles dock to the target membrane. In electron micrographs of neurons and neuroendocrine cells, like chromaffin cells many synaptic vesicles (SVs) and large dense-core vesicles (LDCVs) are docked. For many years the molecular identity of the morphologically docked state was unknown. Recently, we resolved the minimal docking machinery in adrenal medullary chromaffin cells using embryonic mouse model systems together with electron-microscopic analyses and also found that docking is controlled by the sub-membrane filamentous (F-)actin. Currently it is unclear if the same docking machinery operates in synapses. Here, I will review our docking assay that led to the identification of the LDCV docking machinery in chromaffin cells and also discuss whether identical docking proteins are required for SV docking in synapses.
Sexual behavior is a natural reward for many rodent species, and it often includes chemosensory-directed components. Chemosensory stimuli themselves may also be rewarding. Conditioned place preference (CPP) is one paradigm frequently used to test the rewarding properties of a range of stimuli. Males and females of several rodent species show a CPP for sexual behavior; however, it is currently unknown whether sexual behavior can induce a CPP in male Syrian hamsters. As male Syrian hamsters are an animal model commonly used for investigation of the neurobiology of sexual behavior, understanding the rewarding components of sexual stimuli will better direct future research on brain regions and neurotransmitters involved in these behaviors. Experiment 1 tested the prediction that male hamsters show a CPP for sexual behavior. Female chemosensory stimuli are essential for the display of sexual behavior in male hamsters; however, the rewarding properties of female chemosensory stimuli contained in vaginal secretions (VS) are uncertain. Therefore, experiment 2 tested the prediction that male hamsters show a CPP for VS. This study is the first demonstration that both sexual behavior and VS induce a CPP in male hamsters. Thus, female chemosensory stimuli are a natural reward in a species that is dependent on these stimuli for reproductive fitness.
Previous studies have shown that situations relevant for human mating can affect the levels of many hormones. This study focused on the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis by measuring salivary cortisol levels in 84 young men prior to and after a period of short social contact with a woman or man. Results showed that after contact with another man the cortisol levels of the participants declined according to the circadian release pattern of cortisol. However, cortisol levels in men declined less when they had contact with a woman. Furthermore, cortisol levels of men increased when they perceived the woman with whom they had contact as attractive. Our findings provide indirect evidence for the role of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis in human courtship. During social contact with attractive women, moderate increases in cortisol levels may reflect apprehension over an opportunity for courtship.
Methamphetamine (METH) is a psychomotor stimulant strongly associated with increases in sexual drive and behavior in women and men. Even though men and women are equally as likely to be addicted to or use METH, studies of sexual behavior often focus on male users. The paucity in studies examining the effect of METH in women is of great concern, when one considers the high correlation with sexually transmitted diseases such as HIV/AIDS and unplanned pregnancies. In fact, why METH so profoundly increases sexual drive is unknown. We have demonstrated that repeated exposure to METH enhances both receptivity and proceptivity in hormonally primed female rats. The current study examined whether a repeated exposure to METH enhanced female-initiated sexual behaviors in hormonally primed rats. In a paced mating paradigm, METH treatment significantly decreased the female's return latency following a mount (57%) and an ejaculation (44%), and the likelihood to leave the male following an intromission (37%) compared to controls. The METH-induced changes in paced mating behavior were accompanied by a 60% increase in spinophilin levels in the medial amygdala following hormonal priming and METH treatment. Taken together, these findings suggest that METH increases female sexual motivation and behavior in the rat potentially via changes in the neural substrate that require repeated exposure to the drug.

Activity within the default-mode network (DMN) is thought to be related to self-referential processing, such as thinking about one's preferences or personality traits. Although the DMN is generally considered to function as a network, evidence is starting to accumulate that suggests that areas of the DMN are each specialized for different subfunctions of self-referential processing. Here, we address the issue of functional specialization by investigating changes in coupling between areas of the DMN during self-referential processing. To this aim, brain activity was assessed during a task in which subjects had to indicate whether a trait adjective described their own personality (self-referential, Self condition), that of another person (other-referential, Other condition), or whether the trait was socially desirable (nonreferential, Control condition). To exclude confounding effects of cardiorespiratory processes on activity and functional coupling, we corrected the fMRI signal for these effects. Activity within areas of the DMN was found to be modulated by self-referential processing. More specifically, during the Self condition compared to the Other and Control condition, activity within the dorsal medial prefrontal cortex, ventral medial prefrontal cortex, and posterior cingulate cortex was increased. Moreover, coupling between areas of the DMN was reduced during the Self condition compared to the Other and Control condition, while coupling between regions of the DMN and regions outside the network was increased. As such, these results provide an indication for functional specialization within the DMN and support the notion that each area of the DMN is involved in different subfunctions of self-referential processing.
Simultaneous electroencephalography and functional magnetic resonance imaging (EEG/fMRI) have been proposed to contribute to the definition of the epileptic seizure onset zone. Following interictal epileptiform discharges, one usually assumes a canonical hemodynamic response function (HRF), which has been derived from fMRI studies in healthy subjects. However, recent findings suggest that the hemodynamic properties of the epileptic brain are likely to differ significantly from physiological responses. Here, we propose a simple and robust approach that provides HRFs, defined as a limited set of gamma functions, optimized so as to elicit strong activations after standard model-driven statistical analysis at the single subject level. The method is first validated on healthy subjects using experimental data acquired during motor, visual and memory encoding tasks. Second, interictal EEG/fMRI data measured in 10 patients suffering from epilepsy are analyzed. Results show dramatic changes of activation patterns, depending on whether physiological or pathological assumptions are made on the hemodynamics of the epileptic brain. Our study suggests that one cannot assume a priori that HRFs in epilepsy are similar to the canonical model. This may explain why a significant fraction of EEG/fMRI exams in epileptic patients are inconclusive after standard data processing. The heterogeneous perfusion in epileptic regions indicates that the properties of brain vasculature in epilepsy deserve careful attention.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is widely used in brain imaging research (neuroimaging) to explore structural and functional changes across dispersed neural networks visible only via multisubject experiments. Multicenter investigations are an effective way to increase recruitment rates. This article describes image-based power calculations for a two-group, cross-sectional design specified by the mean effect size and its standard error, sample size, false discovery rate (FDR), and size of the network (i.e., proportion of image locations) that truly demonstrates an effect. Minimum sample size (for fixed effect size) and the minimum effect size (for fixed sample size) are calculated by specifying the acceptable power threshold. Within-center variance was estimated in five participating centers by repeat MRI scanning of 12 healthy participants from whom distributions of gray matter were estimated. The effect on outcome measures when varying FDR and the proportion of true positives is presented. Their spatial patterns reflect within-center variance, which is consistent across centers. Sample sizes 3-6 times larger are needed when detecting effects in subcortical regions compared to the neocortex. Hypothesized multicenter studies of patients with first episode psychosis and control participants were simulated with varying proportions of the cohort recruited at each center. There is little penalty to sample size for recruitment at five centers compared to the center with the lowest variance alone. At 80% power 80 participants per group are required to observe differences in gray matter in high variance regions.
The amyloid-beta 42 (Abeta42) peptide has been suggested to promote tau phosphorylation and toxicity in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis; however, the underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. Using transgenic Drosophila expressing both human Abeta42 and tau, we show here that tau phosphorylation at Ser262 plays a critical role in Abeta42-induced tau toxicity. Co-expression of Abeta42 increased tau phosphorylation at AD-related sites including Ser262, and enhanced tau-induced neurodegeneration. In contrast, formation of either sarkosyl-insoluble tau or paired helical filaments was not induced by Abeta42. Co-expression of Abeta42 and tau carrying the non-phosphorylatable Ser262Ala mutation did not cause neurodegeneration, suggesting that the Ser262 phosphorylation site is required for the pathogenic interaction between Abeta42 and tau. We have recently reported that the DNA damage-activated Checkpoint kinase 2 (Chk2) phosphorylates tau at Ser262 and enhances tau toxicity in a transgenic Drosophila model. We detected that expression of Chk2, as well as a number of genes involved in DNA repair pathways, was increased in the Abeta42 fly brains. The induction of a DNA repair response is protective against Abeta42 toxicity, since blocking the function of the tumor suppressor p53, a key transcription factor for the induction of DNA repair genes, in neurons exacerbated Abeta42-induced neuronal dysfunction. Our results demonstrate that tau phosphorylation at Ser262 is crucial for Abeta42-induced tau toxicity in vivo, and suggest a new model of AD progression in which activation of DNA repair pathways is protective against Abeta42 toxicity but may trigger tau phosphorylation and toxicity in AD pathogenesis.
In mutant superoxide dismutase (SOD1)-linked amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), accumulation of misfolded mutant SOD1 in spinal cord mitochondria is thought to cause mitochondrial dysfunction. Whether mutant SOD1 is toxic per se or whether it damages the mitochondria through interactions with other mitochondrial proteins is not known. We previously identified Bcl-2 as an interacting partner of mutant SOD1 specifically in spinal cord, but not in liver, mitochondria of SOD1 mice and patients. We now show that mutant SOD1 toxicity relies on this interaction. Mutant SOD1 induces mitochondrial morphological changes and compromises mitochondrial membrane integrity leading to release of Cytochrome C only in the presence of Bcl-2. In cells, mouse and human spinal cord with SOD1 mutations, the binding to mutant SOD1 triggers a conformational change in Bcl-2 that results in the uncovering of its toxic BH3 domain and conversion of Bcl-2 into a toxic protein. Bcl-2 carrying a mutagenized, non-toxic BH3 domain fails to support mutant SOD1 mitochondrial toxicity. The identification of Bcl-2 as a specific target and active partner in mutant SOD1 mitochondrial toxicity suggests new therapeutic strategies to inhibit the formation of the toxic mutant SOD1/Bcl-2 complex and to prevent mitochondrial damage in ALS.
Research has found an advantage for an external focus of attention in motor control and learning; instructing subjects to focus on the effects of their actions, rather than on body movements, can improve performance during training and retention testing. Previous research has mostly concentrated on movement outcomes, not on the quality of the movement itself. Thus, this study combined surface electromyography (EMG) with motion analysis and outcome measures in a dart throwing task, making this the first study that includes a comprehensive analysis of changes in motor performance as a function of attentional focus. An external focus of attention led to better performance (less absolute error), decreased preparation time between throws, and reduced EMG activity in the triceps brachii. There was also some evidence of increased variability for kinematic measures of the shoulder joint under an external focus relative to an internal focus. These results suggest improved movement economy with an external focus of attention.
Effective therapies are needed for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a debilitating and fatal motor neuron disease. Cell and animal models of ALS are beginning to reveal possible principles governing the biology of motor neuron-selective vulnerability that implicate mitochondria and the mitochondrial permeability pore (mPTP). Proteins associated with the mPTP are known to be enriched in motor neurons and the genetic deletion of a major regulator of the mPTP has robust effects in ALS transgenic mice, delaying disease onset and extending survival. Thus, the mPTP is a rational, mechanism-based target for the development of drugs designed to treat ALS. Trophos SA has discovered olesoxime (TRO-19622), a small-molecule with a cholesterol-like structure, which has remarkable neuroprotective properties for motor neurons in cell culture and in rodents. Olesoxime appears to act on mitochondria, possibly at the mPTP. Phase I clinical trials of olesoxime have been completed successfully. Olesoxime is well tolerated and achieves levels predicted to be clinically effective when administered orally. It has been granted orphan drug status for the treatment of ALS in the US and for the treatment of spinal muscular atrophy in the EU. Phase II/III clinical trials are in progress in Europe.
For some years a mixture of anecdotal report and data from animal models have implied a potential role for cannabis-based medicines in ameliorating a variety of symptoms of multiple sclerosis. Only recently however have large randomised controlled trials (RCTs) examined these potential effects rigorously. At present the results of RCTs have lacked a coherent message to the prescribing clinician and reasons for such heterogeneity in cannabinoid trials are discussed.
The stress response is associated with a broad spectrum of physiological and behavioural effects including hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activation, altered central nervous system activity, neuroimmune alterations, anxiety- and depressive-like behaviour and analgesia. While the acute stress response has essential survival value, chronic stress and dysfunction of the stress response can be maladaptive, contributing to the development and severity of psychiatric and pain disorders. The endogenous cannabinoid (endocannabinoid) system has emerged as an important lipid signalling system playing a key role in mediating and/or modulating behavioural, neurochemical, neuroendocrine, neuroimmune and molecular responses to stress. The weight of evidence, reviewed here, points largely to a system which serves to constrain HPA axis activity, facilitate adaptation or habituation of HPA axis and behavioural responses to stress, reduce anxiety- and depressive-like behaviour and mediate analgesic responses to unconditioned or conditioned stress. Possible involvement of the immune system and associated signalling molecules (e.g. cytokines) in endocannabinoid-mediated modulation of neuroendocrine and behavioural responses to stress is considered. The goal now should be to exploit our understanding of the role of the endocannabinoid system in fundamental stress physiology and pathophysiological processes to better understand and treat a range of stress-related disorders including anxiety, depression and pain.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a neurological disorder that affects more than a million people world-wide. The aetiology of MS is not known and there is no medical treatment available that can cure MS. Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is a T-cell-mediated autoimmune disease model of MS. The pathogenesis of EAE/MS is a complex process involving activation of immune cells, secretion of inflammatory cytokines and destruction of myelin sheath in the central nervous system (CNS). Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are nuclear hormone receptor transcription factors that regulate cell growth, differentiation and homeostasis. PPAR agonists have been used in the treatment of obesity, diabetes, cancer and inflammation. We and others have shown that PPARgamma, alpha and delta agonists inhibit CNS inflammation and demyelination in the EAE model of MS. In this study we show that the PPARdelta agonists GW501516 and L165041 ameliorate MOGp35-55-induced EAE in C57BL/6 mice by blocking interferon (IFN)-gamma and interleukin (IL)-17 production by T helper type 1 (Th1) and Th17 cells. The inhibition of EAE by PPARdelta agonists was also associated with a decrease in IL-12 and IL-23 and an increase in IL-4 and IL-10 expression in the CNS and lymphoid organs. These findings indicate that PPARdelta agonists modulate Th1 and Th17 responses in EAE and suggest their use in the treatment of MS and other autoimmune diseases.

The LRRK2 gene was recently found to have multiple mutations that are causative for the most common inherited form of late onset Parkinson's disease. In the adult brain, LRRK2 mRNA is broadly expressed, also in regions other than the nigrostriatal system. In order to establish a basis for assessing more detailed functional implications of LRRK2 in development, we provide here an in-depth analysis of its mRNA expression patterns in neural and extra-neural tissues with a focus on murine embryonic development. LRRK2 mRNA is detectable at E8.5 in non-neural and at E10.5 in neural tissues. From E12.5 to E16.5, LRRK2 mRNA is prominently expressed throughout the neocortex and subsequently highly concentrated in ventricular and subventricular zones and cortical plate. In addition, developing cerebellar granule and Purkinje neurons and spinal cord neurons display robust LRRK2 expression. In non-neural tissues LRRK2 was highly expressed in limb interdigital zones, developing kidney glomeruli, and spermatogenetic cells. Together, our results suggest roles for LRRK2 in controlling proliferation, migration, and differentiation of neural cells as well as in morphogenesis of extra-neural tissues.
Re-exposure to drug-related cues elicits drug-seeking behaviour and relapse in humans even after months of abstinence. Similarly, in laboratory rats, drug-associated stimuli reinstate cocaine seeking after prolonged withdrawal periods, thus providing a model to study mechanisms underlying cocaine relapse. 5-HT6 receptors (5-HT6Rs) are abundantly expressed in brain areas such as the nucleus accumbens and prefrontal cortex, which are critically involved in cocaine reinforcement and relapse. Nevertheless, the role of 5-HT6Rs in relapse mechanisms has not been investigated. We report here that the 5-HT6R antagonists SB-271046 and Ro-04-6790 significantly attenuate cue-induced cocaine seeking. However, effective doses of both 5-HT6R antagonists did not affect cocaine self-administration. This indicates that 5-HT6Rs are specifically involved in the secondary reinforcing properties of cocaine, leaving primary reinforcement and ability to perform an operant response unaffected. As such, 5-HT6Rs may represent a novel target for the prevention of relapse to cocaine seeking.
Acute administration of antipsychotic drugs increases dopamine (DA) neuron activity and DA release via D2 receptor blockade. However, it is unclear whether the DA neuron activation produced by antipsychotic drugs is due to feedback from post-synaptic blockade or is due to an action on DA neuron autoreceptors. This was evaluated using two drugs: the first-generation antipsychotic drug haloperidol that has potent D2 blocking properties, and the second-generation drug sertindole, which is unique in that it is reported to fail to reverse the apomorphine-induced decrease in firing rate typically associated with DA neuron autoreceptor stimulation. Using single-unit extracellular recordings from ventral tegmental area (VTA) DA neurons in anaesthetized rats, both drugs were found to significantly increase the number of spontaneously active DA neurons (population activity). Apomorphine administered within 10 min either before or after sertindole reversed the sertindole-induced increase in population activity, but had no effect when administered 1 h after sertindole. Moreover, both sertindole- and haloperidol-induced increase in population activity was prevented when nucleus accumbens feedback was interrupted by local infusion of the GABAA antagonist bicuculline into the ventral pallidum. Taken together, these data suggest that antipsychotics increase DA neuron population activity via a common action on the nucleus accumbens-ventral pallidum-VTA feedback pathway and thus provide further elucidation on the mechanism by which antipsychotic drugs affect DA neuron activity. This provides an important insight into the relationship between altered DA neuron activity and potential antipsychotic efficacy.
Neurologically normal individuals demonstrate leftward biases in tasks of line bisection and judgments of brightness, numerosity, and size. Normals also report and demonstrate a right-sided bias when bumping into objects. Collectively, these results suggest that normals relatively neglect the right hemispace. The present experiment investigated the possibility that normals will also demonstrate leftward biases for judgments of distance. Participants viewed two equivalent but mirror-reversed three-dimensional shapes (&quot;boxes&quot; and &quot;pyramids&quot;) of various orientations, sizes, and angles, making judgments about the perceived closeness of the stimuli. Significant leftward biases were exhibited for judgments of the closeness of boxes, but not for pyramids. The findings of the current study support the hypothesis that the normal tendency to bump into objects with the right side of one's body might be due to a perceptual asymmetry for distance judgments.
In this paper we have made a broadband analysis to detect the electroencephalogram (EEG) frequencies that change selectively during the presentation of normal and &quot;thatcherized&quot; faces. Referential recordings to linked ears were obtained in 21 leads in 48 right-handed healthy male volunteers. Increase of delta power (1.75-3.91 Hz) was observed, related to the detection of distortion in faces at bifrontal and left temporoparietal cortex. The other bands had no contribution, when normal and modified faces were compared. These results support our hypothesis that a change in EEG power spectral may be related to discrimination between normal and thatcherized faces.
ABSTRACT Background: In Parkinson's disease (PD), the impact of nonmotor symptoms can outweigh the effect of worsening physical mobility on Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL). As PD progresses, patients may experience more severe changes in fluctuating nonmotor symptoms. Objective: This review summarizes nonmotor symptom assessments in patients with fluctuating symptoms, focusing on scales utilizing a daily-diary format for a broad spectrum of nonmotor symptoms. Methods: Medline on PubMed and EMBASE were searched for relevant articles published between January 2002 and October 2009. Results: Several nonmotor symptom scales were found, but no single scale with all desirable characteristics was identified. The Scales for Outcomes in Parkinson's Disease (SCOPA) battery of assessments, the Nonmotor Symptoms Scale (NMSS), and the Movement Disorder Society-sponsored revision of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS) Part I offered a majority of the desirable characteristics, while practical, valid, and reliable. Conclusion: A single daily-diary instrument for assessing a broad spectrum of fluctuating nonmotor symptoms was not identified; however, the battery of SCOPA scales, the NMSS, and the MDS-UPDRS Part I provide useful nonmotor symptom severity assessment. The development of a diary assessment would be helpful in evaluating treatment interventions to improve HRQoL in patients with fluctuating symptoms.
Recent neuroscience studies using visual mismatch negativity (visual MMN), an event-related brain potential (ERP) index of memory-mismatch processes in the visual sensory system, have shown that although sequential regularities embedded in successive visual stimuli can be automatically represented in the visual sensory system, an existence of sequential regularity itself does not guarantee that the sequential regularity will be automatically represented. In the present study, we investigated the effects of top-down attention on sequential regularity representation in the visual sensory system. Our results showed that a sequential regularity (SSSSD) embedded in a modified oddball sequence where infrequent deviant (D) and frequent standard stimuli (S) differing in luminance were regularly presented (SSSSDSSSSDSSSSD...) was represented in the visual sensory system only when participants attended the sequential regularity in luminance, but not when participants ignored the stimuli or simply attended the dimension of luminance per se. This suggests that top-down attention affects sequential regularity representation in the visual sensory system and that top-down attention is a prerequisite for particular sequential regularities to be represented.
The neural correlates of gist and verbatim encoding of episodes sharing semantically related components were investigated. At study, participants were presented with lists of word pairs formed by pairing one of two associated words with different associates of an unstudied theme word. At test, participants discriminated Old pairs from rearranged pairs generated by re-pairing study pairs belonging to the same study list (Intra pairs) or different study lists (Inter pairs). ERPs were recorded for each study pair. For the study pairs that later served as Old pairs, the ERPs were more positive when these pairs were subsequently correctly identified than when they were incorrectly rejected. For the study pairs containing words that subsequently appeared in Intra pairs, the ERPs were also more positive when the Intra pair was correctly rejected than when it was incorrectly accepted. However, the topographies of the subsequent memory effects for accepted Old pairs and rejected Intra pairs were different. We argue that specific information is more important for rejecting Intra pairs than accepting Old pairs. The different topographies of these two subsequent memory effects therefore reflect qualitatively distinct encoding operations for specific and non-specific information.


Fibromuscular dysplasia is an uncommon, segmental, nonatherosclerotic arterial disease of unknown aetiology. The disease primarily affects women and involves intermediate-sized arteries in many areas of the body, including cervical and intracranial arteries. Although often asymptomatic, fibromuscular dysplasia can also be associated with spontaneous dissection, severe stenosis that compromises the distal circulation, or intracranial aneurysm, and is therefore responsible for cerebral ischaemia or subarachnoid haemorrhage. Fibromuscular dysplasia affects middle and distal portions of the internal carotid and vertebral arteries, and occasionally, intracranial arteries. Several pathological and angiographic patterns exist. The most frequent pathological type is medial fibromuscular dysplasia, which is associated with the 'string of beads' angiographic pattern. Unifocal lesions are less common and can be associated with several pathological subtypes. The pathophysiology of the disease is widely unknown. Fibromuscular dysplasia may in fact result from various causes and reflect a non-specific response to different insults. The poor knowledge of the natural history and the lack of randomised trials that compared the different treatment options do not allow any satisfactory judgement to be made regarding the need for or the efficacy of any treatment.

Notch signaling pathway, originally discovered in Drosophila, impinges on a wide array of cellular processes including cell proliferation, cell differentiation, and cell apoptosis. Recent accumulating evidences implicated the important roles of Notch signal pathway in different aspects of stem cell biology of neural stem cell (NSC). In vivo and in vitro studies illustrated that Notch signal pathway could promote gliogenesis, inhibit premature neurogenesis, and be involved in self-renew of NSC. This short review summarizes the roles of the Notch signaling pathway on gliogenesis, neurogenesis, and self-renew of NSC and their underlying molecular mechanisms.


Morquio syndrome is a hereditary mucopolysaccharide disorder presenting with an abnormality of the craniocervical junction from childhood. We describe an adult patient who presented with Morquio syndrome who had subglottic narrowing of the airway, restrictive pulmonary disease, and mild mitral regurgitation and trivial aortic regurgitation. The anesthetic management of this patient for atlantoaxial stabilization is presented.
The Impact of Event Scale (IES) and the Impact of Event Scale-Revised (IES-R) are often used as self-report instruments for symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). However, there are few validations of the IES and the IES-R against structured clinical interviews. In this study the two scales, together with the three subscales of the IES-R, were assessed for their agreement with a diagnosis of PTSD in patients with burns 1 year after injury. Sixty patients with burns were evaluated 1 year after injury using the Structured Clinical Interview for the DSM-IV Axis I (SCID-I) psychiatric disorders and a Swedish version of the IES-R. The total score of the IES-R had the best discriminant ability (0.89) with a sensitivity of 1.0 and a specificity of 0.78. In conclusion, the total IES-R had good properties as a screening tool for PTSD and subsyndromal PTSD 1 year after burn injury.
Biological processes, such as thrombus organization, endothelialization, and foreign body response, that occur following embolization of intracranial aneurysms are poorly understood. We examined 13 human aneurysms (retrieved at autopsy 1-74 days postembolization) treated with hybrid hydrogel-platinum coil devices and platinum coils. The specimens were embedded in methyl methacrylate and ground sections were surface stained. Using light microscopy, thrombus organization in the sac, endothelialization of the neck, and foreign body response to the embolic devices were determined. The area percentages of the sac occupied by embolic devices and unorganized thrombus were quantified using image analysis. Thrombus organization increased over time, but was incomplete up to 74 days post-treatment. Neointima formation had started at 5 days upon dense fibrin depositions and progressed to form a new vessel wall at 74 days. The foreign body response to the hydrogel was characterized by mononuclear macrophages, while platinum coils were surrounded by multinuclear foreign body giant cells. Histometric aneurysm occlusion ranged from 89 to 100% and embolic devices occupied 31-64% of the aneurysm sac. These findings showed that the hydrogel-based devices occupied a large percentage of the aneurysm sac, provided a framework for thrombus organization to occur, and elicited less severe foreign body response than platinum coils.
The neuropeptide Y (NPY) system has been implicated in the regulation of bone homeostasis and osteoblast activity, but the mechanism behind this is unclear. Here we show that Y1 receptor signaling is directly involved in the differentiation of mesenchymal progenitor cells isolated from bone tissue, as well as the activity of mature osteoblasts. Importantly, the mRNA levels of two key osteogenic transcription factors, runx2 and osterix, as well as the adipogenic transcription factor PPAR-gamma, were increased in long bones of Y1(-/-) mice compared with wild-type mice. In vitro, bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) isolated from Y1(-/-) mice formed a greater number of mineralized nodules under osteogenic conditions and a greater number of adipocytes under adipogenic conditions than controls. In addition, both the number and size of fibroblast colony-forming units formed in vitro by purified osteoprogenitor cells were increased in the absence of the Y1 receptors, suggestive of enhanced proliferation and osteogenesis. Furthermore, the ability of two specific populations of mesenchymal progenitor cells isolated from bone tissue, an immature mesenchymal stem cell population and a more committed osteoprogenitor cell population, to differentiate into osteoblasts and adipocytes in vitro was enhanced in the absence of Y1 receptor signaling. Finally, Y1 receptor deletion also enhanced the mineral-producing ability of mature osteoblasts, as shown by increased in vitro mineralization by BMSCs isolated from osteoblast-specific Y1(-/-) mice. Together these data demonstrate that the NPY system, via the Y1 receptor, directly inhibits the differentiation of mesenchymal progenitor cells as well as the activity of mature osteoblasts, constituting a likely mechanism for the high-bone-mass phenotype evident in Y1(-/-) mice.
External (but not internal) application of beta-estradiol (E2) increased the current amplitude of voltage-gated Na(+) channels (VGSCs) in MDA-MB-231 human breast cancer (BCa) cells. The G-protein activator GTP-gamma-S, by itself, also increased the VGSC current whilst the G-protein inhibitor GDP-beta-S decreased the effect of E2. Expression of GPR30 (a G-protein-coupled estrogen receptor) in MDA-MB-231 cells was confirmed by PCR, Western blot and immunocytochemistry. Importantly, G-1, a specific agonist for GPR30, also increased the VGSC current amplitude in a dose-dependent manner. Transfection and siRNA-silencing of GPR30 expression resulted in corresponding changes in GPR30 protein expression but only internally, and the response to E2 was not affected. The protein kinase A inhibitor, PKI, abolished the effect of E2, whilst forskolin, an adenylate cyclase activator, by itself, increased VGSC activity. On the other hand, pre-incubation of the MDA-MB-231 cells with brefeldin A (a trans-Golgi protein trafficking inhibitor) had no effect on the E2-induced increase in VGSC amplitude, indicating that such trafficking ('externalisation') of VGSC was not involved. Finally, acute application of E2 decreased cell adhesion whilst the specific VGSC blocker tetrodotoxin increased it. Co-application of E2 and tetrodotoxin inhibited the effect of E2 on cell adhesion, suggesting that the effect of E2 was mainly through VGSC activity. Pre-treatment of the cells with PKI abolished the effect of E2 on adhesion, consistent with the proposed role of PKA. Potential implications of the E2-induced non-genomic upregulation of VGSC activity for BCa progression are discussed.
The primary objective of this study was to verify the suitability of reference tissue-based quantification methods of the metabotropic glutamate receptor type 5 (mGluR(5)) with [(11)C]ABP688. This study presents in vivo (Positron Emission Tomography (PET)) and in vitro (autoradiography) measurements of mGluR(5) densities in the same rats and evaluates both noninvasive and blood-dependent pharmacokinetic models for the quantification of [(11)C]ABP688 binding. Eleven rats underwent [(11)C]ABP688 PET scans. In five animals, baseline scans were compared with blockade experiments with the antagonist 1,2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP), and arterial blood samples were drawn and corrected for metabolites. Afterward, saturation-binding autoradiography was performed. Blocking with MPEP resulted in an average decrease of the total distribution volume (V(T)) between 43% and 58% (thalamus and caudate-putamen, respectively) but had no significant effect on cerebellar V(T) (mean reduction: -0.01%). Comparing binding potential (BP(ND)) based on the V(T) with noninvasively determined BP(ND) revealed an average negative bias of 0.7% in the caudate-putamen and an average positive bias of 3.1% in the low-binding regions. Scan duration of 50 minutes is required. The cerebellum is a suitable reference region for the quantification of mGluR(5) availability as measured with [(11)C]ABP688 PET in rats. Blood-based and reference region-based PET quantification shows a significant linear relationship to autoradiographic determinations.
Collateral vasculature may provide an alternative route for blood flow to reach the ischemic tissue and partially maintain oxygen and nutrient support during ischemic stroke. However, much about the dynamics of stroke-induced collateralization remains unknown. In this study, we used laser speckle contrast imaging to map dynamic changes in collateral blood flow after middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats. We identified extensive anastomatic connections between the anterior and middle cerebral arteries that develop after vessel occlusion and persist for 24 hours. Augmenting blood flow through these persistent yet dynamic anastomatic connections may be an important but relatively unexplored avenue in stroke therapy.
The antiglutamatergic drug riluzole (Rilutek) is presently being used off label in the treatment of psychiatric conditions in adult patients and, increasingly, in children. This article briefly reviews the pharmacology of this drug and its current investigative and clinical uses and adverse effects. It also reports on our experience to date in the study of the drug in children, with emphasis on adverse effects noted so far in these younger patients.
Since face recognition is the most powerful source of information for identifying familiar people, patients showing a multimodal defect in people recognition have been sometimes considered as affected by &quot;prosopagnosia&quot;-namely, by a form of visual agnosia, specifically affecting face recognition. In this note we report two anatomoclinical observations and a neuroanatomical study in which an inappropriate use of the term &quot;prosopagnosia&quot; was made, because the person recognition defect was not confined to the visual (face) modality, but also concerned voice and/or name of the target person. The dangers of this inappropriate use of the term prosopagnosia are briefly discussed.
Febrile seizures are a common childhood seizure disorder and a defining feature of genetic epilepsy with febrile seizures plus (GEFS+), a syndrome frequently associated with Na+ channel mutations. Here, we describe the creation of a knockin mouse heterozygous for the C121W mutation of the beta1 Na+ channel accessory subunit seen in patients with GEFS+. Heterozygous mice with increased core temperature displayed behavioral arrest and were more susceptible to thermal challenge than wild-type mice. Wild-type beta1 was most concentrated in the membrane of axon initial segments (AIS) of pyramidal neurons, while the beta1(C121W) mutant subunit was excluded from AIS membranes. In addition, AIS function, an indicator of neuronal excitability, was substantially enhanced in hippocampal pyramidal neurons of the heterozygous mouse specifically at higher temperatures. Computational modeling predicted that this enhanced excitability was caused by hyperpolarized voltage activation of AIS Na+ channels. This heat-sensitive increased neuronal excitability presumably contributed to the heightened thermal seizure susceptibility and epileptiform discharges seen in patients and mice with beta1(C121W) subunits. We therefore conclude that Na+ channel beta1 subunits modulate AIS excitability and that epilepsy can arise if this modulation is impaired.
Huntington disease in the very elderly patient described by Dennhardt and LeDoux in this issue of the Journal of Clinical Neuroscience (J Clin Neurosci 2010;17:1066-67) may have been unrecognised before diagnostic genetic testing. Huntington disease in this age group poses significant counselling challenges as some members of up to four generations may have inherited the mutation. In late onset patients gait disorder rather than chorea may be the most prominent feature at presentation. The range of phenotypic variation is evolving.
We present a 67-year-old right-handed male with a brachium pontis arteriovenous malformation on continuous anti-emetic therapy who demonstrated acute withdrawal symptoms after the abrupt discontinuation of ondansetron, a 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist. Removal of anti-emetic therapy led to the development of extreme flushing and tremor, but subsequent return of ondansetron resulted in the resolution of these symptoms. This is the first clinical report demonstrating acute withdrawal from an anti-emetic agent and we further highlight the need for future studies evaluating not only arterial supply with pressure gradients and anatomical location, but also the association with periventricular venous drainage, venous drainage stenosis, and mass effect from venous stasis as this may contribute partly to the sensitivity of the serotonergic receptors seen here.



The medial temporal lobes (MTLs) are critical for episodic memory but the functions of MTL subregions are controversial. According to memory strength theory, MTL subregions collectively support declarative memory in a graded manner. In contrast, other theories assert that MTL subregions support functionally distinct processes. For instance, one view is that perirhinal cortex (PRc) processes item information, parahippocampal cortex (PHc) processes context information, and the hippocampus binds item and context. Here, we report two experiments that tested competing predictions from these models. In these studies, subjects encoded color-word associations by imagining color either as a contextual association (context detail condition) or as a feature of the item to be encoded (item detail condition). Results showed that encoding color information as an item detail improved source recognition in amnesic patients with recollection deficits. Furthermore, event-related fMRI data from healthy subjects revealed PRc activation associated with successful retrieval of item details, whereas activation in the hippocampus and PHc was associated with recollection-based source retrieval. The qualitatively different patterns of results observed in PRc and hippocampus/PHc are inconsistent with a memory strength account and are consistent with the idea that different MTL regions process different types of episodic information.
The fluency and the reliability of speech production suggest a mechanism that links motor commands and sensory feedback. Here, we examined the neural organization supporting such links by using fMRI to identify regions in which activity during speech production is modulated according to whether auditory feedback matches the predicted outcome or not and by examining the overlap with the network recruited during passive listening to speech sounds. We used real-time signal processing to compare brain activity when participants whispered a consonant-vowel-consonant word (&quot;Ted&quot;) and either heard this clearly or heard voice-gated masking noise. We compared this to when they listened to yoked stimuli (identical recordings of &quot;Ted&quot; or noise) without speaking. Activity along the STS and superior temporal gyrus bilaterally was significantly greater if the auditory stimulus was (a) processed as the auditory concomitant of speaking and (b) did not match the predicted outcome (noise). The network exhibiting this Feedback Type x Production/Perception interaction includes a superior temporal gyrus/middle temporal gyrus region that is activated more when listening to speech than to noise. This is consistent with speech production and speech perception being linked in a control system that predicts the sensory outcome of speech acts and that processes an error signal in speech-sensitive regions when this and the sensory data do not match.
When a single flash of light is presented interposed between two brief auditory stimuli separated by 60-100 msec, subjects typically report perceiving two flashes [Shams, L., Kamitani, Y., &amp; Shimojo, S. Visual illusion induced by sound. Brain Research, Cognitive Brain Research, 14, 147-152, 2002; Shams, L., Kamitani, Y., &amp; Shimojo, S. Illusions. What you see is what you hear. Nature, 408, 788, 2000]. Using ERP recordings, we previously found that perception of the illusory extra flash was accompanied by a rapid dynamic interplay between auditory and visual cortical areas that was triggered by the second sound [Mishra, J., Martnez, A., Sejnowski, T. J., &amp; Hillyard, S. A. Early cross-modal interactions in auditory and visual cortex underlie a sound-induced visual illusion. Journal of Neuroscience, 27, 4120-4131, 2007]. In the current study, we investigated the effect of attention on the ERP components associated with the illusory extra flash in 15 individuals who perceived this cross-modal illusion frequently. All early ERP components in the cross-modal difference wave associated with the extra flash illusion were significantly enhanced by selective spatial attention. The earliest attention-related modulation was an amplitude increase of the positive-going PD110/PD120 component, which was previously shown to be correlated with an individual's propensity to perceive the illusory second flash [Mishra, J., Martnez, A., Sejnowski, T. J., &amp; Hillyard, S. A. Early cross-modal interactions in auditory and visual cortex underlie a sound-induced visual illusion. Journal of Neuroscience, 27, 4120-4131, 2007]. The polarity of the early PD110/PD120 component did not differ as a function of the visual field (upper vs. lower) of stimulus presentation. This, along with the source localization of the component, suggested that its principal generator lies in extrastriate visual cortex. These results indicate that neural processes previously shown to be associated with the extra flash illusion can be modulated by attention, and thus are not the result of a wholly automatic cross-modal integration process.
We tested whether the emergence of familiarity to a melody may trigger or co-occur with the processing of the concept(s) conveyed by emotions to, or semantic association with, the melody. With this objective, we recorded ERPs while participants were presented with highly familiar and less familiar melodies in a gating paradigm. The ERPs time locked to a tone of the melody called the &quot;familiarity emergence point&quot; showed a larger fronto-central negativity for highly familiar compared with less familiar melodies between 200 and 500 msec, with a peak latency around 400 msec. This latency and the sensitivity to the degree of familiarity/conceptual information suggest that this component was an N400, a marker of conceptual processing. Our data suggest that the feeling of familiarity evoked by a musical excerpt could be accompanied by other processing mechanisms at the conceptual level. Coupling the gating paradigm with ERP analyses might become a new avenue for investigating the neurocognitive basis of implicit musical knowledge.

Acetyl coenzyme A synthetase-1 (AceCS1) catalyzes the synthesis of acetyl coenzyme A from acetate and coenzyme A and is thought to play diverse roles ranging from fatty acid synthesis to gene regulation. By using an affinity-purified antibody generated against an 18-mer peptide sequence of AceCS1 and a polyclonal antibody directed against recombinant AceCS1 protein, we examined the expression of AceCS1 in the rat brain. AceCS1 immunoreactivity in the adult rat brain was present predominantly in cell nuclei, with only light to moderate cytoplasmic staining in some neurons, axons, and oligodendrocytes. Some nonneuronal cell nuclei were very strongly immunoreactive, including those of some oligodendrocytes, whereas neuronal nuclei ranged from unstained to moderately stained. Both antibodies stained some neuronal cell bodies and axons, especially in the hindbrain. AceCS1 immunoreactivity was stronger and more widespread in the brains of 18-day-old rats than in adults, with increased expression in oligodendrocytes and neurons, including cortical pyramidal cells. Expression of AceCS1 was substantially up-regulated in neurons throughout the brain after controlled cortical impact injury. The strong AceCS1 expression observed in the nuclei of CNS cells during brain development and after injury is consistent with a role in nuclear histone acetylation and therefore the regulation of chromatin structure and gene expression. The cytoplasmic staining observed in some oligodendrocytes, especially during postnatal brain development, suggests an additional role in CNS lipid synthesis and myelination. Neuronal and axonal localization implicates AceCS1 in cytoplasmic acetylation reactions in some neurons.
Neural networks receive input that is transformed before being sent as output to higher centers of processing. These transformations are often mediated by local interneurons (LNs) that influence output based on activity across the network. In primary olfactory centers, the LNs that mediate these lateral interactions are extremely diverse. For instance, the antennal lobes (ALs) of bumblebees possess both gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)- and histamine-immunoreactive (HA-ir) LNs, and both are neurotransmitters associated with fast forms of inhibition. Although the GABAergic network of the AL has been extensively studied, we sought to examine the anatomical features of the HA-ir LNs in relation to the other cellular elements of the bumblebee AL. As a population, HA-ir LNs densely innervate the glomerular core and sparsely arborize in the outer glomerular rind, overlapping with the terminals of olfactory receptor neurons. Individual fills of HA-ir LNs revealed heavy arborization of the outer ring of a single &quot;principal&quot; glomerulus and sparse arborization in the core of other glomeruli. In contrast, projection neurons and GABA-immunoreactive LNs project throughout the glomerular volume. To provide insight into the selective pressures that resulted in the evolution of HA-ir LNs, we determined the phylogenetic distribution of HA-ir LNs in the AL. HA-ir LNs were present in all but the most basal hymenopteran examined, although there were significant morphological differences between major groups within the Hymenoptera. The ALs of other insect taxa examined lacked HA-ir LNs, suggesting that this population of LNs arose within the Hymenoptera and underwent extensive morphological modification.
During the reproductive season, male Hyla versicolor produce advertisement calls to attract females. Females exhibit phonotaxis and approach the individual callers, resulting in amplexus. For frogs that call from dense choruses, the extent to which and the range from which a male's advertisement call within a chorus can be heard by a receptive female leading to phonotaxis is unclear. We investigated females' responses to natural choruses in the field and found that they were attracted and showed directed orientation to breeding choruses at distances up to 100 m. To assess the role of acoustic cues in the directed orientation, we conducted acoustic playback experiments in the laboratory using conspecific call and noise as stimuli, as well as chorus sounds (that contained calls from a focal male) recorded at various distances, all played at naturalistic intensities. Using two response metrics (females' normalized response times and their phonotaxis trajectories) we found that, unlike the field experiments, females oriented and were attracted to chorus sounds from 1 to 32 m only, but not from &gt;32 m, or to band-limited noise. Possible reasons for the observed difference in phonotaxis behavior in the two experimental conditions were discussed.
This study examined whether daily periods of maternal separation during the first two weeks of life would decrease attraction to familiar nest odors in CD-1 mice 10 and 14 days old. We also investigated whether placing a group of mice (Mus musculus) in nest shavings during the 180-min separation period would mitigate possible separation-induced deficits. The maternal separation procedure has been widely used as a rodent model for the effects of inconsistent or inadequate early caretaking on human development. From postnatal day (PND) 1 to 14, litters were separated from the dam, but not littermates for either 15 or 180 min, or were facility-reared controls. Control, facility-reared mice preferred home-cage nest to clean familiar shaving odors on PND 10, but not PND 14. In contrast, home-cage nest odors attracted maternally separated mice on both test days. Our results suggest that maternal separation maintains the olfactory tether to the nest in a period when the attraction normally begins to weaken.
Dissociated networks of neurons typically exhibit bursting behavior, whose features are strongly influenced by the age of the culture, by chemical/electrical stimulation or by environmental conditions. To help the experimenter in identifying the changes possibly induced by specific protocols, we developed a self-adapting method for detecting both bursts and network bursts from electrophysiological activity recorded by means of micro-electrode arrays. The algorithm is based on the computation of the logarithmic inter-spike interval histogram and automatically detects the best threshold to distinguish between inter- and intra-burst inter-spike intervals for each recording channel of the array. An analogous procedure is followed for the detection of network bursts, looking for sequences of closely spaced single-channel bursts. We tested our algorithm on recordings of spontaneous as well as chemically stimulated activity, comparing its performance to other methods available in the literature.
Kernel smoother and a time-histogram are classical tools for estimating an instantaneous rate of spike occurrences. We recently established a method for selecting the bin width of the time-histogram, based on the principle of minimizing the mean integrated square error (MISE) between the estimated rate and unknown underlying rate. Here we apply the same optimization principle to the kernel density estimation in selecting the width or &quot;bandwidth&quot; of the kernel, and further extend the algorithm to allow a variable bandwidth, in conformity with data. The variable kernel has the potential to accurately grasp non-stationary phenomena, such as abrupt changes in the firing rate, which we often encounter in neuroscience. In order to avoid possible overfitting that may take place due to excessive freedom, we introduced a stiffness constant for bandwidth variability. Our method automatically adjusts the stiffness constant, thereby adapting to the entire set of spike data. It is revealed that the classical kernel smoother may exhibit goodness-of-fit comparable to, or even better than, that of modern sophisticated rate estimation methods, provided that the bandwidth is selected properly for a given set of spike data, according to the optimization methods presented here.
For the analysis of neuronal cooperativity, simultaneously recorded extracellular signals from neighboring neurons need to be sorted reliably by a spike sorting method. Many algorithms have been developed to this end, however, to date, none of them manages to fulfill a set of demanding requirements. In particular, it is desirable to have an algorithm that operates online, detects and classifies overlapping spikes in real time, and that adapts to non-stationary data. Here, we present a combined spike detection and classification algorithm, which explicitly addresses these issues. Our approach makes use of linear filters to find a new representation of the data and to optimally enhance the signal-to-noise ratio. We introduce a method called &quot;Deconfusion&quot; which de-correlates the filter outputs and provides source separation. Finally, a set of well-defined thresholds is applied and leads to simultaneous spike detection and spike classification. By incorporating a direct feedback, the algorithm adapts to non-stationary data and is, therefore, well suited for acute recordings. We evaluate our method on simulated and experimental data, including simultaneous intra/extra-cellular recordings made in slices of a rat cortex and recordings from the prefrontal cortex of awake behaving macaques. We compare the results to existing spike detection as well as spike sorting methods. We conclude that our algorithm meets all of the mentioned requirements and outperforms other methods under realistic signal-to-noise ratios and in the presence of overlapping spikes.
Multivariate time series data of which some components are continuous time series and the rest are point processes are called hybrid data. Such data sets routinely arise while working with neuroscience data, EEG and spike trains would perhaps be the most obvious example. In this paper, we discuss the modeling of a hybrid time series, with the continuous component being the physiological tremors in the distal phalanx of the middle finger, and motor unit firings in the middle finger portion of the extensor digitorum communis (EDC) muscle. We employ a model for the two components based on Auto-regressive Moving Average (ARMA) type models. Another major issue to arise in the modeling of such data is to assess the goodness of fit. We suggest a visual procedure based on mutual information towards assessing the dependence pattern of hybrid data. The goodness of fit is also verified by standard model fitting diagnostic techniques for univariate data.
Spike time irregularity can be measured by the coefficient of variation. However, it overestimates the irregularity in the case of pronounced firing rate changes. Several alternative measures that are local in time and therefore relatively rate-independent were proposed. Here we compared four such measures: CV(2), LV, IR and SI. First, we asked which measure is the most efficient for time-resolved analyses of experimental data. Analytical results show that CV(2) has the less variable estimates. Second, we derived useful properties of CV(2) for gamma processes. Third, we applied CV(2) on recordings from the motor cortex of a monkey performing a delayed motor task to characterize the irregularity, that can be modulated or not, and decoupled or not from firing rate. Neurons with a CV(2)-rate decoupling have a rather constant CV(2) and discharge mainly irregularly. Neurons with a CV(2)-rate coupling can modulate their CV(2) and explore a larger range of CV(2) values.
A number of important data analysis problems in neuroscience can be solved using state-space models. In this article, we describe fast methods for computing the exact maximum a posteriori (MAP) path of the hidden state variable in these models, given spike train observations. If the state transition density is log-concave and the observation model satisfies certain standard assumptions, then the optimization problem is strictly concave and can be solved rapidly with Newton-Raphson methods, because the Hessian of the loglikelihood is block tridiagonal. We can further exploit this block-tridiagonal structure to develop efficient parameter estimation methods for these models. We describe applications of this approach to neural decoding problems, with a focus on the classic integrate-and-fire model as a key example.
In this paper, we develop a dynamical point process model for how complex sounds are represented by neural spiking in auditory nerve fibers. Although many models have been proposed, our point process model is the first to capture elements of spontaneous rate, refractory effects, frequency selectivity, phase locking at low frequencies, and short-term adaptation, all within a compact parametric approach. Using a generalized linear model for the point process conditional intensity, driven by extrinsic covariates, previous spiking, and an input-dependent charging/discharging capacitor model, our approach robustly captures the aforementioned features on datasets taken at the auditory nerve of chinchilla in response to speech inputs. We confirm the goodness of fit of our approach using the Time-Rescaling Theorem for point processes.
Torque steadiness and low-frequency fatigue (LFF) were examined in the human triceps brachii after concentric or eccentric fatigue protocols. Healthy young males (n=17) performed either concentric or eccentric elbow extensor contractions until the eccentric maximal voluntary torque decreased to 75% of pre-fatigue for both (concentric and eccentric) protocols. The number of concentric contractions was greater than the number of eccentric contractions needed to induce the same 25% decrease in eccentric MVC torque (52.2+/-2.9 vs. 41.5+/-2.1 for the concentric and eccentric protocols, respectively, p&lt;.01). The extent of peripheral fatigue was approximately 12% greater after the concentric compared to the eccentric protocol (twitch amplitude), whereas LFF (increase in double pulse torque/single pulse torque), was similar across protocols. Steadiness, or the ability for a subject to hold a submaximal isometric contraction, was approximately 20 % more impaired during the Ecc protocol (p=.052). Similarly, the EMG activity required to hold the torque steady was nearly 20% greater after the eccentric compared to concentric protocol. These findings support that task dependent eccentric contractions preferentially alter CNS control during a precision based steadiness task.
We investigate coding in a locust brain neuron, DNI, which transforms graded synaptic input from ocellar L-neurons into axonal spikes that travel to excite particular thoracic flight neurons. Ocellar neurons are naturally stimulated by fluctuations in light collected from a wide field of view, for example when the visual horizon moves up and down. We used two types of stimuli: fluctuating light from a light-emitting diode (LED), and a visual horizon displayed on an electrostatic monitor. In response to randomly fluctuating light stimuli delivered from the LED, individual spikes in DNI occur sparsely but are timed to sub-millisecond precision, carrying substantial information: 4.5-7 bits per spike in our experiments. In response to these light stimuli, the graded potential signal in DNI carries considerably less information than in presynaptic L-neurons. DNI is excited in phase with either sinusoidal light from an LED or a visual horizon oscillating up and down at 20 Hz, and changes in mean light level or mean horizon level alter the timing of excitation for each cycle. DNI is a multimodal interneuron, but its ability to time spikes precisely in response to ocellar stimulation is not degraded by additional excitation. We suggest that DNI is part of an optical proprioceptor system, responding to the optical signal induced in the ocelli by nodding movements of the locust head during each wing-beat.
The musical priming paradigm has shown facilitated processing for tonally related over less-related targets. However, the congruence between tonal relatedness and the psychoacoustical properties of music challenges cognitive interpretations of the involved processes. Our goal was to show that cognitive expectations (based on listeners' tonal knowledge) elicit tonal priming in melodies independently of sensory components (e.g., spectral overlap). A first priming experiment minimized sensory components by manipulating tonal relatedness with a single note change in the melodies. Processing was facilitated for related over less-related target tones, but an auditory short-term memory model succeeded in simulating this effect, thus suggesting a sensory-based explanation. When the same melodies were played with pure tones (instead of piano tones), the sensory model failed to differentiate between related and less-related targets, while listeners' data continued to show a tonal relatedness effect (Experiment 2). The tonal priming effect observed here thus provides strong evidence for the influence of listeners' tonal knowledge on music processing. The overall findings point out the need for controlled musical material (and notably beyond tone repetition) to study cognitive components in music perception.
Hypnic headache (HH) is a primary headache disorder, which occurs exclusively during sleep and usually begins after 50 years of age. There are no controlled trials for the treatment of HH. We reviewed all the available papers, including 119 cases published in literature up to date, reporting the efficacy of the medications used to treat HH. Acute treatment is not recommended, since no drug proved to be clearly effective and also because the intensity and the duration of the attacks do not require the intake of a medication in most cases. As for prevention, a wide variety of medications were reported to be of benefit in HH. The drugs that were found to be effective in at least five cases are: lithium, indomethacin, caffeine and flunarizine. Lithium was the most extensively studied compound and demonstrated to be an efficacious treatment in 32 cases. Unfortunately, despite its efficacy, significant adverse effects and poor tolerability are not rare, mainly in elderly patients. Many patients reported a good response to indomethacin, but some could not tolerate it. Caffeine and melatonin treatments did not yield robust evidence to recommend their use as single preventive agents. Nevertheless, their association with lithium or indomethacin seems to produce an additional therapeutic efficacy. A course of lithium should be tried first, followed 3-4 months later by tapering. If headache recurs during tapering, a longer duration of therapy may be needed. If lithium treatment does not provide a significant response, indomethacin can be commenced as second-line approach. If these treatments prove to be ineffective or poorly tolerated, other agents, such as caffeine and melatonin, can be administered.
The main aim of the present study was to do an update on studies on headache epidemiology as a preparation for the multinational European study on the prevalence and burden of headache and investigate the impact of different methodological issues on the results. The study was based on a previous study, and a systematic literature search was performed to identify the newest studies. More than 50% of adults indicate that they suffer from headache in general during the last year or less, but when asked specifically about tension-type headache, the prevalence was 60%. Migraine occurs in 15%, chronic headache in about 4% and possible medication overuse headache in 1-2%. Cluster headache has a lifetime prevalence of 0.2-0.3%. Most headaches are more prevalent in women, and somewhat less prevalent in children and youth. Some studies indicate that the headache prevalence is increasing during the last decades in Europe. As to methodological issues, lifetime prevalences are in general higher than 1-year prevalences, but the exact time frame of headache (1 year, 6 or 3 months, or no time frame stated) seems to be of less importance. Studies using personal interviews seem to give somewhat higher prevalences than those using questionnaires.
Locusts respond to the images of approaching (looming) objects with responses that include gliding while in flight and jumping while standing. For both of these responses there is good evidence that the DCMD neuron (descending contralateral movement detector), which carries spike trains from the brain to the thoracic ganglia, is involved. Sudden glides during flight, which cause a rapid loss of height, are last-chance manoeuvres without prior preparation. Jumps from standing require preparation over several tens of milliseconds because of the need to store muscle-derived energy in a catapult-like mechanism. Locusts' DCMD neurons respond selectively to looming stimuli, and make connections with some motor neurons and interneurons known to be involved in flying and jumping. For glides, a burst of high-frequency DCMD spikes is a key trigger. For jumping, a similar burst can influence timing, but neither the DCMD nor any other single interneuron has been shown to be essential for triggering any stage in preparation or take-off. Responses by the DCMD to looming stimuli can alter in different behavioural contexts: in a flying locust, arousal ensures a high level of both DCMD responsiveness and glide occurrence; and there are significant differences in DCMD activity between locusts in the gregarious and the solitarious phase.
Changes in the color of the cuticle, days after the completion of hardening, are rare in adult insects. Even more so when such changes are specific to one sexual form and coincide with sexual maturation. Adult males of the desert locust Schistocerca gregaria deposit a well characterized 'yellow protein' in their cuticle about 10 days after the adult molt, but only if they live under crowded (gregarious) conditions. Isolated-reared (solitarious) males do not turn yellow, neither do the females. Upon regrouping, yellowing is quickly induced, but again, only in the males. Juvenile hormone (JH) is involved, but its sex- and phase-specific effect suggests that other factors are also involved. We analyzed the recent and classical literature to find out what should be added or changed to the classical way of thinking on sex differentiation in insects so that a comprehensive conceptual framework could emerge. Undervalued and/or new data on male accessory glands as a possible second site of JH synthesis, on ecdysteroids as possible sex steroids, on the transcription factor fruitless in insects and on the evolutionarily highly conserved transcription factor Foxl2 that, when ablated in mice is responsible for the transdifferentiation of the ovaries into testes, are considered.
Retinal degenerative diseases result in retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) and photoreceptor cell loss. These cells are continuously exposed to the environment (light) and to potentially pro-oxidative conditions, as the retina's oxygen consumption is very high. There is also a high flux of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), a PUFA that moves through the blood stream toward photoreceptors and between them and RPE cells. Photoreceptor outer segment shedding and phagocytosis intermittently renews photoreceptor membranes. DHA is converted through 15-lipoxygenase-1 into neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1), a potent mediator that evokes counteracting cell-protective, anti-inflammatory, pro-survival repair signaling, including the induction of anti-apoptotic proteins and inhibition of pro-apoptotic proteins. Thus, NPD1 triggers activation of signaling pathway/s that modulate/s pro-apoptotic signals, promoting cell survival. This review provides an overview of DHA in photoreceptors and describes the ability of RPE cells to synthesize NPD1 from DHA. It also describes the role of neurotrophins as agonists of NPD1 synthesis and how photoreceptor phagocytosis induces refractoriness to oxidative stress in RPE cells, with concomitant NPD1 synthesis.

Aging is the major risk factor for neurodegenerative diseases and oxidative stress and is involved in their pathophysiology. Oxidative stress can induce neuronal damage and modulate intracellular signaling, ultimately leading to neuronal death by apoptosis or necrosis. In this study we investigated the neuroprotective properties of the natural polyphenolic antioxidant compound, curcumin, against homocysteine (Hcy) neurotoxicity. Curcumin (5, 15, or 45 mg/kg) was injected intraperitoneally once daily for a period of 10 days beginning 5 days prior to Hcy (0.2 micromol/microl) intracerebroventricular injection in rats. Biochemical and behavioral studies, including passive avoidance learning and locomotor activity tests, were evaluated 24 hours after the last injection of curcumin or vehicle. Results indicated that Hcy induces lipid peroxidation and increases malondialdehyde (MDA) and superoxide anion (SOA) levels in whole rat brain. In addition, Hcy impaired memory retention in the passive avoidance learning test. However, curcumin treatment significantly decreased MDA and SOA levels and improved learning and memory in rats. These results suggest that Hcy may induce lipid peroxidation in rat brain and that polyphenol treatment (curcumin) improves learning and memory deficits by protecting the nervous system against oxidative stress.
mWard is a project whose purpose is to enhance existing clinical and administrative decision support and to consider mobile computers, connected via wireless network, for bringing clinical information to the point of care. The mWard project allowed a limited number of users to test and evaluate a selected range of mobile-wireless infrastructure and mobile health care computing devices at the neuroscience ward at Southern Health's Monash Medical Centre, Victoria, Australia. Before the project commenced, the ward had two PC's which were used as terminals by all ward-based staff and numerous multi-disciplinary staff who visited the ward each day. The first stage of the research, outlined in this paper, evaluates a selected range of mobile-wireless infrastructure.
One promising neurorehabilitation therapy involves presenting neurotrophins directly into the brain to induce growth of new neural connections. The precise control of neurotrophin concentration gradients deep within neural tissue that would be necessary for such a therapy is not currently possible, however. Here we evaluate the theoretical potential of a novel method of drug delivery, discrete controlled release (DCR), to control effective neurotrophin concentration gradients in an isotropic region of neocortex. We do so by constructing computational models of neurotrophin concentration profiles resulting from discrete release locations into the cortex and then optimizing their design for uniform concentration gradients. The resulting model indicates that by rationally selecting initial neurotrophin concentrations for drug-releasing electrode coatings in a square 16-electrode array, nearly uniform concentration gradients (i.e. planar concentration profiles) from one edge of the electrode array to the other should be obtainable. DCR therefore represents a promising new method of precisely directing neuronal growth in vivo over a wider spatial profile than would be possible with single release points.
Generation of neurotoxic amyloid beta peptides and their deposition along with neurofibrillary tangle formation represent key pathological hallmarks in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent evidence suggests that inflammation may be a third important component which, once initiated in response to neurodegeneration or dysfunction, may actively contribute to disease progression and chronicity. Various neuroinflammatory mediators including complement activators and inhibitors, chemokines, cytokines, radical oxygen species and inflammatory enzyme systems are expressed and released by microglia, astrocytes and neurons in the AD brain. Degeneration of aminergic brain stem nuclei including the locus ceruleus and the nucleus basalis of Meynert may facilitate the occurrence of inflammation in their projection areas given the antiinflammatory and neuroprotective action of their key transmitters norepinephrine and acetylcholine. While inflammation has been thought to arise secondary to degeneration, recent experiments demonstrated that inflammatory mediators may stimulate amyloid precursor protein processing by various means and therefore can establish a vicious cycle. Despite the fact that some aspects of inflammation may even be protective for bystander neurons, antiinflammatory treatment strategies should therefore be considered. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have been shown to reduce the risk and delay the onset to develop AD. While, the precise molecular mechanism underlying this effect is still unknown, a number of possible mechanisms including cyclooxygenase 2 or gamma-secretase inhibition and activation of the peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma may alone or, more likely, in concert account for the epidemiologically observed protection.
One common feature of neurodegenerative diseases is neuroinflammation. In the case of Parkinson's disease (PD), neuroinflammation appears early and persists throughout the disease course. The principal cellular mediator of brain inflammation is the resident microglia which share many features with related hematopoietically derived macrophages. Microglia can become activated by misfolded proteins including the PD relevant example, alpha-synuclein, a presynaptic protein. When activated, microglia release pro-inflammatory diffusible mediators that promote dysfunction and contribute to the death of the PD vulnerable dopaminergic neurons in the midbrain. Recently, the orphan nuclear receptor Nurr1, well known as a critical determinant in dopaminergic neuron maturation, has been ascribed two new properties. First, it promotes the production and release of the neuropeptide vasoactive intestinal peptide that functions both to stimulate dopaminergic neuron survival and inhibit neuroinflammation. Second, Nurr1 suppresses the expression and release of pro-inflammatory cytokines in glial cells. Herein, we discuss these new findings in context of strategies to attenuate neuroinflammation in PD.
The serotonin transporter (SERT) mediates clearance of serotonin from the synapse, thereby, regulating extracellular serotonin concentrations. Radioligand uptake techniques are typically used to assess SERT function in tissue and heterologous expression systems. The need for sufficient protein in samples, however, requires use of homogenate preparations, potentially masking effects limited to specific cell populations. 4-(4-(dimethylamino)-styryl)-N-methylpyridinium (ASP(+)) is a fluorescent monoamine transporter substrate that has been used for real-time monitoring of dopamine and norepinephrine transporter function in single cells. The present live cell imaging studies examine the utility of ASP(+) for quantifying human SERT function in HEK293 and neuroblastoma cells. We show rapid membrane binding and intracellular ASP(+) accumulation in human SERT-expressing cells. Accumulation is saturable; dependent on temperature and the presence of sodium and chloride in the media, and attenuated by serotonin. Acute or prolonged exposure of cells to serotonin re-uptake inhibitors produces a concentration-dependent decrease in accumulation. Similar effects are produced by protein kinase C activation whereas p38 MAPK activation increases ASP(+) accumulation. These data demonstrate the validity of ASP(+) as a probe for monitoring SERT function in living cells. Alterations in SERT binding and uptake can be quantified in the same cell and use of a within-cell design permits analysis of time-related alterations in SERT function.
It is well established that pre-conditioning protects neuronal injury against ischemia. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying ischemic tolerance are not completely understood. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the role of Akt/forkhead transcription factor, class O (FoxO) pathway in hypoxic pre-conditioning (HPC) using a newly developed HPC to transient global cerebral ischemia (tGCI) model in adult rats. HPC for 30-120 min significantly reduced cell death in the CA1 subregion after 10 min of tGCI. HPC was effective only when applied 1-4 days before ischemia. The maximum protection was observed with 30 min of hypoxia and 1 day interval between hypoxia and ischemia. The phosphorylated Akt and FoxOs measured by western blot and immunohistochemistry were significantly increased after hypoxia-ischemia except for a transient decrease in the HPC group. Lateral ventricular infusion of LY294002 before HPC blocked the increase in phosphorylated Akt and FoxOs and increased neuronal damage in HPC animals. These results suggest that pre-exposure to hypoxia induces protection against tGCI in adult rats. Activation of Akt results in the inactivation of FoxOs which may mediate ischemic tolerance after HPC.
The alpha7* (*denotes the possible presence of additional subunits) nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subtype is widely expressed in the vertebrate nervous system and implicated in neuropsychiatric disorders that compromise thought and cognition. In this report, we demonstrate that the recently developed fluorescent ligand Cy3-ArIB[V11L;V16A] labels alpha7 nAChRs in cultured hippocampal neurons. However, photobleaching of this ligand during long image acquisition times prompted us to develop a new derivative. In photostability studies, this new ligand, Alexa Fluor 546-ArIB[V11L;V16A], was significantly more resistant to bleaching than the Cy3 derivative. The classic alpha7 ligand alpha-bungarotoxin binds to alpha1* and alpha9* nAChRs. In contrast, Alexa Fluor 546-ArIB[V11L;V16A] potently (IC(50) 1.8 nM) and selectively blocked alpha7 nAChRs but not alpha1* or alpha9* nAChRs expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Selectivity was further confirmed by competition binding studies of native nAChRs in rat brain membranes. The fluorescence properties of Alexa Fluor 546-ArIB[V11L;V16A] were assessed using human embryonic kidney-293 cells stably transfected with nAChRs; labeling was observed on cells expressing alpha7 but not cells expressing alpha3beta2, alpha3beta4, or alpha4beta2 nAChRs. Further imaging studies demonstrate that Alexa Fluor 546-ArIB[V11L;V16A] labels hippocampal neurons from wild-type mice but not from nAChR alpha7 subunit-null mice. Thus, Alexa Fluor 546-ArIB[V11L;V16A] represents a potent and selective ligand for imaging alpha7 nAChRs.
How synaptic vesicles (SVs) are localized to the pre-active zone (5-200 nm beneath the active zone) in the nerve terminal, which may represent the slow response SV pool, is not fully understood. Electron microscopy revealed the number of SVs located in the pre-active zone, was significantly decreased in hypothalamic neurons of carboxypeptidase E knockout (CPE-KO) mice compared with wild-type mice. Additionally, we found K(+)-stimulated glutamate secretion from hypothalamic embryonic neurons was impaired in CPE-KO mice. Biochemical studies indicate that SVs from the hypothalamus of wild-type mice and synaptic-like microvesicles from PC12 cells contain a transmembrane form of CPE, with a cytoplasmic tail (CPE(C10)), maybe involved in synaptic function. Yeast two-hybrid and pull-down experiments showed that the CPE cytoplasmic tail interacted with gamma-adducin, which binds actin enriched at the nerve terminal. Total internal reflective fluorescence (TIRF) microscopy using PC12 cells as a model showed that expression of GFP-CPE(C15) reduced the steady-state level of synaptophysin-mRFP containing synaptic-like microvesicles accumulated in the area within 200 nm from the sub-plasma membrane (TIRF zone). Our findings identify the CPE cytoplasmic tail, as a new mediator for the localization of SVs in the actin-rich pre-active zone in hypothalamic neurons and the TIRF zone of PC12 cells.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a highly reactive gas that participates in many physiological processes including neuroplasticity and neuronal survival. In brain neurons, NO is produced by two variants of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), nNOSalpha and nNOSbeta. The activity of nNOSalpha is tightly regulated at the transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. Heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) regulates nNOSalpha activity by facilitating heme insertion into the nNOSalpha monomer, resulting in increased NO production. HSP90 also regulates nNOSalpha degradation through the proteasome pathway. Here, we show in vitro that inhibition of HSP90 with geldanamycin increases nNOS mobility and induces formation of aggresome-like inclusions containing both nNOSalpha and nNOSbeta in primary cortical neurons. We also report the formation of endogenous nNOS-containing aggresome-like inclusions in healthy, untreated, mature primary cortical neurons. We propose that nNOS aggregation may be an additional mechanism for regulating nNOS activity, as has been proposed for inducible nitric oxide synthase. These findings reveal a new role for HSP90 in regulating nNOS sub-cellular localization and underscore the complexity of nNOS regulatory mechanisms.
Positron emission tomography (PET) radioligands that bind selectively to beta-amyloid plaques (Abeta) are promising imaging tools aimed at supporting the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and the evaluation of new drugs aiming to modify amyloid plaque load. For extended clinical use, there is a particular need for PET tracers labeled with fluorine-18, a radionuclide with 110 min half-life allowing for central synthesis followed by wide distribution. The development of fluorinated radioligands is, however, challenging because of the lipophilic nature of aromatic fluorine, rendering fluorinated ligands more prone to have high non-specific white matter binding. We have here developed the new benzofuran-derived radioligand containing fluorine, AZD4694 that shows high affinity for beta-amyloid fibrils in vitro (K(d) = 2.3 +/- 0.3 nM). In cortical sections from human Alzheimer's disease brain [(3)H]AZD4694 selectively labeled beta-amyloid deposits in gray matter, whereas there was a lower level of non-displaceable binding in plaque devoid white matter. Administration of unlabeled AZD4694 to rat showed that it has a pharmacokinetic profile consistent with good PET radioligands, i.e., it quickly entered and rapidly cleared from normal rat brain tissue. Ex vivo binding data in aged Tg2576 mice after intravenous administration of [(3)H]AZD4694 showed selective binding to beta-amyloid deposits in a reversible manner. In Tg2576 mice, plaque bound [(3)H]AZD4694 could still be detected 80 min after i.v. administration. Taken together, the preclinical profile of AZD4694 suggests that fluorine-18 labeled AZD4694 may have potential for PET-visualization of cerebral beta-amyloid deposits in the living human brain.
The possibility to selectively remove noradrenergic neurons in the locus coeruleus/subcoeruleus (LC/SubC) complex by the immunotoxin anti-dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH)-saporin has offered a powerful tool to study the functional role of this projection system. In the present study, the anatomical consequences of selective lesions of the LC/SubC on descending noradrenergic projections during early postnatal development have been investigated following bilateral intraventricular injections of anti-DBH-saporin or 6-hydroxydopamine to immature (4 day old) rats. Administration of increasing doses (0.25-1.0 microg) of the immunotoxin produced, about 5 weeks later, a dose-dependent loss of DBH-immunoreactive neurons in the LC/SubC complex (approximately 45-90%) paralleled by a similar reduction of noradrenergic innervation in the terminal territories in the lumbar spinal cord. Even at the highest dose used (1.0 microg) the immunotoxin did not produce any detectable effects on dopaminergic, adrenergic, serotonergic or cholinergic neuronal populations, which, by contrast, were markedly reduced after administration of 6-hydroxydopamine. The approximately 90% noradrenergic depletion induced by 0.5 and 1.0 microg of anti-DBH-saporin remained virtually unchanged at 40 weeks post-lesion. Conversely, the approximately 45% reduction of spinal innervation density estimated at 5 weeks in animals injected with the lowest dose (0.25 microg) of the immunotoxin was seen recovered up to near-normal levels at 40 weeks, possibly as a result of the intrinsic plasticity of the developing noradrenergic system. A similar reinnervation in the lumbar spinal cord was also seen promoted by grafts of fetal LC tissue implanted at the postnatal day 8 (i.e. 4 days after the lesion with 0.5 microg of anti-DBH-saporin). In these animals, the number of surviving neurons in the grafts and the magnitude of the reinnervation, with fibers extending in both the grey and white matter for considerable distances, were seen higher than those reported in previous studies using adult recipients. This would suggest that the functional interactions between the grafted tissue and the host may recapitulate the events normally occurring during the ontogenesis of the coeruleo-spinal projection system, and can therefore be developmentally regulated. Thus, the neonatal anti-DBH-saporin lesion model, with the possibility to produce graded noradrenergic depletions, holds promises as a most valuable tool to address issues of compensatory reinnervation and functional recovery in the severed CNS as well as to elucidate the mechanisms governing long-distance axon growth from transplanted neural precursors.
Gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurones control the onset and maintenance of fertility. Aberrant development of the GnRH system underlies infertility in Kallmann syndrome [KS; idiopathic hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (IHH) and anosmia]. Some KS patients harbour mutations in the fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (Fgfr1) and Fgf8 genes. The biological significance of these two genes in GnRH neuronal development was corroborated by the observation that GnRH neurones were severely reduced in newborn transgenic mice deficient in either gene. In the present study, we hypothesised that the compound deficiency of Fgf8 and its cognate receptors, Fgfr1 and Fgfr3, may lead to more deleterious effects on the GnRH system, thereby resulting in a more severe reproductive phenotype in patients harbouring these mutations. This hypothesis was tested by counting the number of GnRH neurones in adult transgenic mice with digenic heterozygous mutations in Fgfr1/Fgf8, Fgfr3/Fgf8 or Fgfr1/Fgfr3. Monogenic heterozygous mutations in Fgfr1, Fgf8 or Fgfr3 caused a 30-50% decrease in the total number of GnRH neurones. Interestingly, mice with digenic mutations in Fgfr1/Fgf8 showed a greater decrease in GnRH neurones compared to mice with a heterozygous defect in the Fgfr1 or Fgf8 alone. This compounding effect was not detected in mice with digenic heterozygous mutations in Fgfr3/Fgf8 or Fgfr1/Fgfr3. These results support the hypothesis that IHH/KS patients with digenic mutations in Fgfr1/Fgf8 may have a further reduction in the GnRH neuronal population compared to patients harbouring monogenic haploid mutations in Fgfr1 or Fgf8. Because only Fgfr1/Fgf8 compound deficiency leads to greater GnRH system defect, this also suggests that these fibroblast growth factor signalling components interact in a highly specific fashion to support GnRH neuronal development.
Two major biological players in the regulation of body weight are the gut and the brain. Peptides released from the gut convey information about energy needs to areas of the brain involved in homeostatic control of food intake. There is emerging evidence that human food intake is also under the control of cortical and subcortical areas related to reward and cognition. The extent to which gut hormones influence these brain areas is not fully understood. Novel methods combining the study of neural activity and hormonal signalling promise to advance our understanding of gut-brain interactions. Here, we review a growing number of animal and human studies using neuroimaging methods (functional magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography) to measure brain activation in relation to nutrient loads and infusion of gut peptides. Implications for current and future pharmacological treatments for obesity are discussed.
Regular physical exercise is beneficial for both physical and mental health. By contrast, stress is associated with deleterious effects on health and there is growing evidence that regular physical exercise counteracts some of the effects of stress. However, most previous studies have suggested that prior exercise does not alter the acute hypothalamic pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis responses to stress. The present series of studies provides evidence that in rats, 6 weeks (but not 1 or 3 weeks) of voluntary wheel running reduces the HPA axis responses to lower-intensity stressors such as an i.p. saline injection, exposure to a novel environment or exposure to moderate intensity noise, but not to more intense stressors such as predator odour exposure or restraint. Daily exercise does not appear to be necessary for the reduction in HPA axis responses, with intermittent access (24 h out of each 72-h period) to a running wheel for 6 weeks, resulting in similar decrements in adrenocorticotrophic hormone and corticosterone release in response to 85 dBA noise exposure. Data from in situ hybridisation for c-fos mRNA are consistent with the hypothesis that voluntary exercise results in a decrease in HPA axis responsiveness to a low-intensity stressor at a central level, with no changes in primary sensory processing. Together, these data suggest that 6 weeks of daily or intermittent exercise constrains the HPA axis response to mild, but not more intense stressors, and that this regulation may be mediated at a central level beyond the primary sensory input.
Thyroid dysfunction and dementia are conditions that become more prevalent with advancing age. Localised hypothyroidism of the central nervous system has been sugested in some patients with Alzheimer's disease. We investigated the consequence of adult-onset hypothyroidism on beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) degrading pathways in rats treated with propylthiouracyl over a period of 5 weeks. We evaluated the amount of 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine nuclear receptors (TRalpha1 and TRbeta) and the expression of some APP processing indicators (i.e. APP, ADAM 10, BACE and PS1). The activity of secretases and Abeta peptides has been also quantified. The results obtained show that hypoactivity of the thyroid signalling pathway in the hippocampus induced an increase in the APP770-751/APP695 ratio accompanied by a modification in the amyloidogenic pathway for APP processing, leading to an increased amount of Abeta peptides. In this area of the brain, modification in the non-amyloidogenic pathway of APP processing characterised by alpha-secretase activity was only approximately 10% in hypothyroid rats compared to control rats. We suggest that hypothyroidism, which becomes more prevalent with advancing age, increased the vulnerability to the formation of amyloid deposits.

Lower limb spasticity in post-stroke patients can impair ambulation and reduces activities of daily living (ADL) performance of patients. Botulinum toxin type A (BoNTA) has been shown effective for upper limb spasticity. This study assesses the treatment of lower limb spasticity in a large placebo-controlled clinical trial. In this multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled study, we evaluate the efficacy and safety of one-time injections of botulinum toxin type A (BoNTA) in Japanese patients with post-stroke lower limb spasticity. One hundred twenty patients with lower limb spasticity were randomized to a single treatment with BoNTA 300 U or placebo. The tone of the ankle flexor was assessed at baseline and through 12 weeks using the Modified Ashworth Scale (MAS). Gait pattern and speed of gait were also assessed. The primary endpoint was area under the curve (AUC) of the change from baseline in the MAS ankle score. Significant improvement in spasticity with BoNTA 300 U was demonstrated by a mean difference in the AUC of the change from baseline in the MAS ankle score between the BoNTA and placebo groups (-3.428; 95% CIs, -5.841 to -1.016; p = 0.006; t test). A significantly greater decrease from baseline in the MAS ankle score was noted at weeks 4, 6 and 8 in the BoNTA group compared to the placebo group (p &lt; 0.001). Significant improvement in the Clinicians Global Impression was noted by the investigator at weeks 4, 6 and 8 (p = 0.016-0.048, Wilcoxon test), but not by the patient or physical/occupational therapist. Assessments of gait pattern using the Physician's Rating Scale and speed of gait revealed no significant treatment differences but showed a tendency towards improvement with BoNTA. No marked difference was noted in the frequency of treatment-related adverse events between BoNTA and placebo groups. This was the first large-scale trial to indicate that BoNTA significantly reduced spasticity in lower limb muscles.
The objective of this study was to determine the degree of brain involvement in a cohort of myotonic dystrophy type 1 and type 2 (DM1, DM2) patients by brain studies and functional tests and to compare the results of the two groups. DM1, DM2 are multisystemic disorders due to polynucleotide expansions. Previous studies on brain involvement by neuroimaging and functional methods have led to contradictory results. Fifty molecularly defined DM1 patients and 14 DM2 patients, were recruited for the study. Age at recruitment, age at disease onset, disease duration and educational level were recorded. Neuromuscular assessment was done by MIRS. An extensive neuropsychological battery was performed in 48/50 DM1 and in a control group of 44 healthy matched subjects. Forty six of 50 DM1 and 12/14 DM2 underwent brain MRI; 21/50 DM1 and 9/14 DM2 underwent brain perfusion SPECT, with semiquantitative analysis of the results. MRI images were classified by ARWMC (age-related white matter changes) score, in order to quantify recurrence, localization and patterns of distribution of white matter hyperintense lesions (WMHLs) in our two cohorts. MRI results were matched to SPECT and to neuropsychological results. Thirty-seven of 46 DM1 and 10/12 DM2 had abnormal MRI imaging, showing scattered supratentorial, bilateral, symmetrical focal or diffuse WMHLs. A typical temporo-insular diffuse subcortical pattern was seen in DM1 subjects only, with no correlation with cognitive involvement. Major cognitive involvement was seen in the case of diffuse frontal lesions. A relationship with CTG expansion size was documented for DM1 subjects. SPECT showed minimal hypoperfusion in the posterior cortex planes in DM1 and, to a lesser extent, in DM2. Very mild degrees of involvement in the DM2 cohort were seen. Neuroimaging and functional investigations confirmed a more severe involvement of the brain in DM1 compared to DM2. A temporo-insular diffuse lesional pattern, specific for DM1, was found on MRI. This confirms greater expansion size as a risk factor for more extensive brain involvement in DM1.



Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is the most common genetic muscle disease affecting 1 in 3,500 live male births. It is an X-linked recessive disease caused by a defective dystrophin gene. The disease is characterized by progressive limb weakness, respiratory and cardiac failure, and premature death. Fibrosis is a prominent pathological feature of muscle biopsies from patients with DMD. It directly causes muscle dysfunction and contributes to the lethal DMD phenotype. Although gene therapy and cell therapy may ultimately provide a cure for DMD, currently the disease is devastating, with no effective therapies. Recent studies have demonstrated that ameliorating muscle fibrosis may represent a viable therapeutic approach for DMD. By reducing scar formation, antifibrotic therapies may not only improve muscle function but also enhance muscle regeneration and promote gene and stem cell engraftment. Antifibrotic therapy may serve as a necessary addition to gene and cell therapies to treat DMD in the future. Therefore, understanding cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying muscle fibrogenesis associated with dystrophin deficiency is key to the development of effective antifibrotic therapies for DMD.
Pairing tactile stimulation of whiskers with a tail shock is known to result in expansion of cortical representation of stimulated vibrissae and in the increase in synaptic GABAergic transmission. However, the impact of such sensory learning in classical conditioning paradigm on GABAergic tonic currents has not been addressed. To this end, we performed whole cell patch-clamp slice recordings of tonic currents from neurons (excitatory regular spiking, regular spiking nonpyramidal, and fast spiking interneurons) of layer 4 of the barrel cortex from naive and trained mice. Interestingly, endogenous tonic GABAergic currents measured from the excitatory neurons in the cortical representation of &quot;trained&quot; vibrissae were larger than in the &quot;nave&quot; or pseudoconditioned ones. On the contrary, sensory learning markedly reduced tonic currents in the fast spiking interneurons but not in regular spiking nonpyramidal neurons. Changes of tonic currents were accompanied by changes in the input resistances-decrease in regular spiking and increase in fast spiking neurons, respectively. Applications of nipecotic acid, a GABA uptake blocker, enhanced the tonic currents, but the impact of the sensory learning remained qualitatively the same as in the case of the tonic currents. Similar to endogenous tonic currents, sensory learning enhanced currents induced by THIP (superagonist for delta subunit-containing GABA(A) receptors) in regular spiking neurons, whereas the opposite was observed for the fast spiking interneurons. In conclusion, our data show that the sensory learning strongly affects the GABAergic tonic currents in a cell-specific manner and suggest that the underlying mechanism involves regulation of expression of delta subunit-containing GABA(A) receptors.
Initially reported in dopamine neurons, neural correlates of prediction errors have now been shown in a variety of areas, including orbitofrontal cortex, ventral striatum, and amygdala. Yet changes in neural activity to an outcome or cues that precede it can reflect other processes. We review the recent literature and show that although activity in dopamine neurons appears to signal prediction errors, similar activity in orbitofrontal cortex, basolateral amygdala, and ventral striatum does not. Instead, increased firing in basolateral amygdala to unexpected outcomes likely reflects attention, whereas activity in orbitofrontal cortex and ventral striatum is unaffected by prior expectations and may provide information on outcome expectancy. These results have important implications for how these areas interact to facilitate learning and guide behavior.
The understanding of others' feelings and emotional states is commonly defined by the term empathy. Here, I discuss recent findings regarding the differential contribution of anterior insula and anterior cingulate cortices to this function. For the first time, Gu and colleagues (2010) showed no direct involvement of the anterior cingulate during observation of another's pain and proposed the anterior insula as the main neural substrate for the mental representation of empathy.
We estimated the spectrotemporal receptive fields of neurons in the songbird auditory thalamus, nucleus ovoidalis, and compared the neural representation of complex sounds in the auditory thalamus to those found in the upstream auditory midbrain nucleus, mesencephalicus lateralis dorsalis (MLd), and the downstream auditory pallial region, field L. Our data refute the idea that the primary sensory thalamus acts as a simple, relay nucleus: we find that the auditory thalamic receptive fields obtained in response to song are more complex than the ones found in the midbrain. Moreover, we find that linear tuning diversity and complexity in ovoidalis (Ov) are closer to those found in field L than in MLd. We also find prevalent tuning to intermediate spectral and temporal modulations, a feature that is unique to Ov. Thus even a feed-forward model of the sensory processing chain, where neural responses in the sensory thalamus reveals intermediate response properties between those in the sensory periphery and those in the primary sensory cortex, is inadequate in describing the tuning found in Ov. Based on these results, we believe that the auditory thalamic circuitry plays an important role in generating novel complex representations for specific features found in natural sounds.
Rehabilitation following spinal cord injury is likely to depend on recovery of corticospinal systems. Here we investigate whether transmission in the corticospinal tract may explain foot drop (inability to dorsiflex ankle) in persons with spinal cord lesion. The study was performed in 24 persons with incomplete spinal cord lesion (C1 to L1) and 15 healthy controls. Coherence in the 10- to 20-Hz frequency band between paired tibialis anterior muscle (TA) electromyographic recordings obtained in the swing phase of walking, which was taken as a measure of motor unit synchronization. It was significantly correlated with the degree of foot drop, as measured by toe elevation and ankle angle excursion in the first part of swing. Transcranial magnetic stimulation was used to elicit motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) in the TA. The amplitude of the MEPs at rest and their latency during contraction were correlated to the degree of foot drop. Spinal cord injured participants who exhibited a large foot drop had little or no MEP at rest in the TA muscle and had little or no coherence in the same muscle during walking. Gait speed was correlated to foot drop, and was the lowest in participants with no MEP at rest. The data confirm that transmission in the corticospinal tract is of importance for lifting the foot during the swing phase of human gait.
Dorsal premotor cortex (PMd) is known to be involved in the planning and execution of reaching movements. However, it is not understood how PMd plan activity-often present in the very same neurons that respond during movement-is prevented from itself producing movement. We investigated whether inhibitory interneurons might &quot;gate&quot; output from PMd, by maintaining high levels of inhibition during planning and reducing inhibition during execution. Recently developed methods permit distinguishing interneurons from pyramidal neurons using extracellular recordings. We extend these methods here for use with chronically implanted multi-electrode arrays. We then applied these methods to single- and multi-electrode recordings in PMd of two monkeys performing delayed-reach tasks. Responses of putative interneurons were not generally in agreement with the hypothesis that they act to gate output from the area: in particular it was not the case that interneurons tended to reduce their firing rates around the time of movement. In fact, interneurons increased their rates more than putative pyramidal neurons during both the planning and movement epochs. The two classes of neurons also differed in a number of other ways, including greater modulation across conditions for interneurons, and interneurons more frequently exhibiting increases in firing rate during movement planning and execution. These findings provide novel information about the greater responsiveness of putative PMd interneurons in motor planning and execution and suggest that we may need to consider new possibilities for how planning activity is structured such that it does not itself produce movement.
Norepinephrine (NE) is widely implicated in various forms of associative olfactory learning in rodents, including early learning preference in neonates. Here we used patch-clamp recordings in rat olfactory bulb slices to assess cellular actions of NE, examining both acute, short-term effects of NE as well as the relationship between these acute effects and long-term cellular changes that could underlie learning. Our focus for long-term effects was on synchronized gamma frequency (30-70 Hz) oscillations, shown in prior studies to be enhanced for up to an hour after brief exposure of a bulb slice to NE and neuronal stimulation. In terms of acute effects, we found that a dominant action of NE was to reduce inhibitory GABAergic transmission from granule cells (GCs) to output mitral cells (MCs). This disinhibition was also induced by clonidine, an agonist specific for alpha(2) adrenergic receptors (ARs). Acute NE-induced disinhibition of MCs appeared to be linked to long-term enhancement of gamma oscillations, based, first, on the fact that clonidine, but not agonists specific for other AR subtypes, mimicked NE's long-term actions. In addition, the alpha(2) AR-specific antagonist yohimbine blocked the long-term enhancement of the oscillations due to NE. Last, brief exposure of the slice to the GABA(A) receptor antagonist gabazine, to block inhibitory synapses directly, also induced the long-term changes. Acute disinhibition is a plausible permissive effect of NE leading to olfactory learning, because, when combined with exposure to a specific odor, it should lead to neuron-specific increases in intracellular calcium of the type generally associated with long-term synaptic modifications.
It remains unclear how attention affects the tuning of individual neurons in visual cerebral cortex. Some observations suggest that attention preferentially enhances responses to low contrast stimuli, whereas others suggest that attention proportionally affects responses to all stimuli. Resolving how attention affects responses to different stimuli is essential for understanding the mechanism by which it acts. To explore the effects of attention on stimuli of different contrasts, we recorded from individual neurons in the middle temporal visual area (MT) of rhesus monkeys while shifting their attention between preferred and nonpreferred stimuli within their receptive fields. This configuration results in robust attentional modulation that makes it possible to readily distinguish whether attention acts preferentially on low contrast stimuli. We found no evidence for greater enhancement of low contrast stimuli. Instead, the strong attentional modulations were well explained by a model in which attention proportionally enhances responses to stimuli of all contrasts. These data, together with observations on the effects of attention on responses to other stimulus dimensions, suggest that the primary effect of attention in visual cortex may be to simply increase the strength of responses to all stimuli by the same proportion.
The primary motor cortex (M1) area recruitment enlarges while learning a finger tapping sequence. Also M1 excitability increases during procedural consolidation. Our aim was to investigate whether increasing M1 excitability by anodal transcranial DC stimulation (AtDCS) when procedural consolidation occurs was able to induce an early consolidation improvement. Forty-seven right-handed healthy participants were trained in a nine-element serial finger tapping task (SFTT) executed with the left hand. Random series blocks were interspersed with training series blocks. Anodal or sham tDCS was administered over the right M1 after the end of the training session. After stimulation, the motor skills of both trained and a new untrained sequential series blocks were tested again. For each block, performance was estimated as the median execution time of correct series. Early consolidation of the trained series, assessed by the performance difference between the first block after and the last block before stimulation normalized by the random, was enhanced by anodal and not by sham tDCS. Stimulation did not affect random series execution. No stimulation effect was found on the on-line learning of the trained and new untrained series. Our results suggest that AtDCS applied on M1 soon after training improves early consolidation of procedural learning. Our data highlight the importance of neuromodulation procedures for understanding learning processes and support their use in the motor rehabilitation setting, focusing on the timing of the application.
Approximately half of the cells in the mouse inferior colliculus have the hyperpolarization-activated mixed cation current I(h), yet little is known about its functional relevance in vivo. We therefore studied its contribution to the processing of sound information in single cells by making in vivo whole cell recordings from the inferior colliculus (IC) of young-adult anesthetized C57Bl/6 mice. Following pharmacological block of the endogenous channels, a dynamic clamp approach allowed us to study the responses to current injections or auditory stimuli in the presence and absence of I(h) within the same neuron, thus avoiding network or developmental effects. The presence of I(h) changed basic cellular properties, including depolarizing the resting membrane potential and decreasing resting membrane resistance. Sound-evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials were smaller but at the same time reached a more positive membrane potential when I(h) was present. With I(h), a subset of cells showed rebound spiking following hyperpolarizing current injection. Its presence also changed more complex cellular properties. It decreased temporal summation in response to both hyperpolarizing and depolarizing repetitive current stimuli, and resulted in small changes in the cycle-averaged membrane potential during sinusoidal amplitude modulated (SAM) tones. Furthermore, I(h) minimally decreased the response to a tone following a depolarization, an effect that may make a small contribution to forward masking. Our results thus suggest that previously observed differences in IC cells are a mixture of direct effects of I(h) and indirect effects due to the change in membrane potential or effects due to the co-expression with other channels.
The neocortex contains multiple types of inhibitory neurons whose properties suggest they may play different roles within the cortical circuit. By recording from three cell types during two distinct network states (UP and DOWN states) in vitro, we were able to quantify differences in firing characteristics between these cells during different network regimes. We recorded from regular-spiking (RS) excitatory cells and two types of inhibitory neurons, the fast-spiking (FS) neurons and GFP- (and somatostatin-) expressing inhibitory neurons (GIN), in layer 2/3 of slices from mouse somatosensory neocortex. Comparisons of firing characteristics between these cells during UP- and DOWN-states showed several patterns. First, of these cell types, only GIN cells fired persistently during DOWN-states, whereas all three cell types fired readily during UP-states. Second, the onset of firing and distribution of action potentials throughout UP-states differed by cell type, showing that FS cell UP-state firing occurred preferentially near the beginning of the UP-state, whereas the firing of RS cells was slower to develop at the start of the UP-state, and GIN cell firing was sustained throughout the duration of the UP-state. Finally, membrane potential and spike correlations between heterogeneous cell types were more pronounced during UP-states and, in the case of RS synapses onto GIN cells, varied throughout the UP-state. These results suggest that there is a division of labor between FS and GIN cells as the UP-state progresses and suggest that GIN cells could be important in the termination of UP-states.
Only some taste cells fire action potentials in response to sapid stimuli. Type II taste cells express many taste transduction molecules but lack well-elaborated synapses, bringing into question the functional significance of action potentials in these cells. We examined the dependence of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) transmitter release from taste cells on action potentials. To identify type II taste cells we used mice expressing a green fluorescence protein (GFP) transgene from the alpha-gustducin promoter. Action potentials were recorded by an electrode basolaterally attached to a single GFP-positive taste cell. We monitored ATP release from gustducin-expressing taste cells by collecting the electrode solution immediately after tastant-stimulated action potentials and using a luciferase assay to quantify ATP. Stimulation of gustducin-expressing taste cells with saccharin, quinine, or glutamate on the apical membrane increased ATP levels in the electrode solution; the amount of ATP depended on the firing rate. Increased spontaneous firing rates also induced ATP release from gustducin-expressing taste cells. ATP release from gustducin-expressing taste cells was depressed by tetrodotoxin and inhibited below the detection limit by carbenoxolone. Our data support the hypothesis that action potentials in taste cells responsive to sweet, bitter, or umami tastants enhance ATP release through pannexin 1, not connexin-based hemichannels.
Dysregulation of the cholinergic transmitter system is a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease and contributes to an age-associated decline in memory performance. The current study examined the influence of carbachol, a cholinergic receptor agonist, on synaptic transmission over the course of aging. Extracellular excitatory postsynaptic field potentials were recorded from CA3-CA1 synapses in acute hippocampal slices obtained from young adult (5-8 mo) and aged (22-24 mo) male Fischer 344 rats. Bath application of carbachol elicited a transient depression of synaptic transmission, which was followed by a long-lasting depression (CCh-LTD) observed 90 min after carbachol cessation in both age groups. However, the magnitude of CCh-LTD was significantly larger in senescent animals and was attenuated by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blockade in aged animals. Blockade of L-type Ca(2+) channels inhibited CCh-LTD to a greater extent in aged animals compared to young adults. Finally, the expression of CCh-LTD was dependent on protein synthesis. The results indicate that altered Ca(2+) homeostasis or muscarinic activation of Ca(2+) signaling contribute to the enhanced CCh-LTD during senescence.
Selective attention enables sensory input from behaviorally relevant stimuli to be processed in greater detail, so that these stimuli can more accurately influence thoughts, actions, and future goals. Attention has been shown to modulate the spiking activity of single feature-selective neurons that encode basic stimulus properties (color, orientation, etc.). However, the combined output from many such neurons is required to form stable representations of relevant objects and little empirical work has formally investigated the relationship between attentional modulations on population responses and improvements in encoding precision. Here, we used functional MRI and voxel-based feature tuning functions to show that spatial attention induces a multiplicative scaling in orientation-selective population response profiles in early visual cortex. In turn, this multiplicative scaling correlates with an improvement in encoding precision, as evidenced by a concurrent increase in the mutual information between population responses and the orientation of attended stimuli. These data therefore demonstrate how multiplicative scaling of neural responses provides at least one mechanism by which spatial attention may improve the encoding precision of population codes. Increased encoding precision in early visual areas may then enhance the speed and accuracy of perceptual decisions computed by higher-order neural mechanisms.
Neuronal oscillations of different frequencies can interact in several ways. There has been particular interest in the modulation of the amplitude of high-frequency oscillations by the phase of low-frequency oscillations, since recent evidence suggests a functional role for this type of cross-frequency coupling (CFC). Phase-amplitude coupling has been reported in continuous electrophysiological signals obtained from the brain at both local and macroscopic levels. In the present work, we present a new measure for assessing phase-amplitude CFC. This measure is defined as an adaptation of the Kullback-Leibler distance-a function that is used to infer the distance between two distributions-and calculates how much an empirical amplitude distribution-like function over phase bins deviates from the uniform distribution. We show that a CFC measure defined this way is well suited for assessing the intensity of phase-amplitude coupling. We also review seven other CFC measures; we show that, by some performance benchmarks, our measure is especially attractive for this task. We also discuss some technical aspects related to the measure, such as the length of the epochs used for these analyses and the utility of surrogate control analyses. Finally, we apply the measure and a related CFC tool to actual hippocampal recordings obtained from freely moving rats and show, for the first time, that the CA3 and CA1 regions present different CFC characteristics.
Notwithstanding its limited Food and Drug Administration-approved indications, rFVIIa has rapidly gained widespread use for the treatment of a variety of hemorrhagic conditions, including intracranial bleeding from spontaneous, traumatic, surgical, and coagulopathic causes. Although it appears that the drug only minimally increases the risk of thromboembolic events, its efficacy remains in question. The idea of finding a universal cure for hemorrhage in a medication bottle remains highly appealing, but enthusiasm for the concept is no replacement for evidence. Neuroscience nurses, who are the interface between patients and rFVIIa, need to balance hope and hype until the facts are all in.

Sleep in older adults with Alzheimer's disease can often be extremely fragmented, thus disturbing normal sleep-wake rhythms. This poor-quality sleep is challenging for caregivers and frequently results in admitting older adults to long-term care institutions. Many variables, such as genes, medications, depression, and environmental factors, influence sleep in persons with Alzheimer's disease. Interventions, such as exposure to light, melatonin therapy, sleep hygiene, and physical activity, are commonly used to treat or to prevent sleep problems. Neuroscience nurses can play an important role in assessing sleep characteristics and related factors, educating caregivers and staff, providing family members with emotional support, and conducting research.
Retinoic acid receptors (RARs), retinoid X receptors (RXRs), and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are transcription factors involved in many cellular processes, such as learning and memory. RAR and RXR mRNA levels decrease with ageing, and the decreases can be reversed by retinoic acid treatment, which also alleviates age-related memory deficits. The omega-3 fatty acids eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) have neuroprotective effects in the aged brain and are endogenous ligands of RXR and PPAR. We investigated whether dietary EPA and DHA supplementation reverses age-related declines in protein levels of these receptors in rat forebrain. Two studies were conducted comparing adult and old rats. In the first, old rats were fed standard or EPA/DHA-enriched (270 mg/kg/day, EPA to DHA ratio 1.5:1) diets for 12 weeks. Analysis by Western blot revealed significant decreases in RARalpha, RXRalpha, RXRbeta, and PPARgamma in the forebrain with ageing, which were reversed by supplementation. Immunohistochemical analysis of the hippocampus showed significant age-related decreases in RARalpha and RXRbeta expression in CA1 and the dentate gyrus, which were restored by supplementation. Decreases in hippocampal doublecortin expression were also partially alleviated, suggesting a positive effect on neurogenesis. We also investigated the effects of DHA supplementation (300 mg/kg/day for 12 weeks) on RARalpha, RXRalpha, and RXRbeta expression in the prefrontal cortex, striatum, and hippocampus. Overall, DHA supplementation appeared to increase receptor expression compared with the untreated old group. These observations illustrate additional mechanisms that might underlie the neuroprotective effects of omega-3 fatty acids in ageing.
The immediate-early gene Nurr1 is a member of the inducible orphan nuclear receptor family. Nurr1 is essential to the differentiation, maturation, and maintenance of midbrain dopaminergic neurons and is expressed in different brain regions. We have reported that adult mice with reduced Nurr1 expression displayed an increase in immobility response to acute stress. These mice were also deficient in the retention of emotional memory. Thus, Nurr1 expression seems to be relevant to normal cognitive processes. To investigate the response of Nurr1 to a stress stimulus, Nurr1 mRNA expression was examined by in situ hybridization in adult mice using a depression-like behavior paradigm, the forced swim test. The Nurr1 gene was rapidly and widely up-regulated throughout the brain, including cortical areas (i.e., prefrontal cortex, primary and secondary visual cortex, primary auditory cortex, and secondary somatosensory cortex), hippocampus (dentate gyrus, CA1, CA2, and CA3), and midbrain (substantia nigra pars compacta and ventral tegmental area) at 30 min and 3 hr after the forced swim test. Dopamine content was reduced in prefrontal cortex and midbrain following swim stress. These results suggest that the increase in Nurr1 expression might be a compensatory mechanism to counteract the changes in forebrain dopamine transmission in coping with acute stress.
When neurons within the motor cortex are fatally injured, their axons, many of which project into the spinal cord, undergo wallerian degeneration. Pathological processes occurring downstream of the cortical damage have not been extensively studied. We created a focal forelimb motor cortex injury in rats and found that axons from cell bodies located in the hindlimb motor cortex (spared by the cortical injury) become secondarily damaged in the spinal cord. To assess axonal degeneration in the spinal cord, we quantified silver staining in the corticospinal tract (CST) at 1 week and 4 weeks after the injury. We found a significant increase in silver deposition at the thoracic spinal cord level at 4 weeks compared to 1 week post-injury. At both time points, no degenerating neurons could be found in the hindlimb motor cortex. In a separate experiment, we showed that direct injury of neurons within the hindlimb motor cortex caused marked silver deposition in the thoracic CST at 1 week post-injury, and declined thereafter. Therefore, delayed axonal degeneration in the thoracic spinal cord after a focal forelimb motor cortex injury is indicative of secondary damage at the spinal cord level. Furthermore, immunolabeling of spinal cord sections showed that a local inflammatory response dominated by partially activated Iba-1-positive microglia is mounted in the CST, a viable mechanism to cause the observed secondary degeneration of fibers. In conclusion, we demonstrate that following motor cortex injury, wallerian degeneration of axons in the spinal cord leads to secondary damage, which is likely mediated by inflammatory processes.
Research in animals and humans has shown that mastication maintains cognitive function in the hippocampus, a brain area important for learning and memory. Reduced mastication, an epidemiological risk factor for the development of dementia in humans, attenuates spatial memory and causes hippocampal neurons to deteriorate morphologically and functionally, especially in aged animals. Active mastication rescues the stress-attenuated hippocampal memory process in animals and attenuates the perception of stress in humans by suppressing endocrinological and autonomic stress responses. Active mastication further improves the performance of sustained cognitive tasks by increasing the activation of the hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex, the brain regions that are essential for cognitive processing. Abnormal mastication caused by experimental occlusal disharmony in animals produces chronic stress, which in turn suppresses spatial learning ability. The negative correlation between mastication and corticosteroids has raised the hypothesis that the suppression of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis by masticatory stimulation contributes, in part, to preserving cognitive functions associated with mastication. In the present review, we examine research pertaining to the mastication-induced amelioration of deficits in cognitive function, its possible relationship with the HPA axis, and the neuronal mechanisms that may be involved in this process in the hippocampus.
Dopamine (DA) D3 and D2 receptor mechanisms are implicated in cocaine's abuse-related behavioral effects, but the relative contribution of the two receptor subtypes is only partially characterized. This study investigated the role of D3 and D2 subtype mechanisms by determining the degree to which the D3-preferring antagonist PG01037 [N-{4-[4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-piperazin- 1-yl]-trans-but-2-enyl}-4-pyridine-2-yl-benzamide HCl] and the D2-preferring antagonist L-741626 [3-[4-(4-chlorophenyl)-4- hydroxypiperidin-1-yl]methyl-1H-indole] attenuated several behavioral effects of cocaine in squirrel monkeys. Quantitative observational studies established doses of each antagonist that did not produce untoward effects, which were used in subsequent comparisons. In addition, the ability of the D3-preferring agonist PD128907 [(R-(+)-trans-3,4a,10b-tetrahydro-4-propyl-2H,5H-[1]benzopyrano[4,3-b]-1,4-oxazin-9-ol)] and the D2-preferring agonist sumanirole [(R)-5,6-dihydro-5-(methylamino)-4H- imidazo[4,5,1-ij]quinolin-2(1H)-one(Z)-2-butenedioate] to reproduce cocaine's discriminative stimulus (DS) and priming effects were compared. In monkeys trained to discriminate cocaine from vehicle, both DA antagonists attenuated and both DA agonists partially reproduced cocaine's DS effects. PG01037 also selectively attenuated the cocaine-like DS effects of PD128907, whereas L-741626 attenuated the cocaine-like DS effects of both agonists. In self-administration studies, L-741626 nonselectively reduced cocaine- and food-maintained responding, whereas PG01037 was ineffective against either reinforcer. In studies involving reinstatement of extinguished cocaine seeking, both antagonists attenuated cocaine-induced reinstatement of responding, and both agonists induced at least partial reinstatement of cocaine seeking. L-741626 also attenuated sumanirole-induced, but not PD128907-induced, reinstatement of responding, whereas PG01037 was ineffective against either DA agonist. The results are consistent with a role for D3 and D2 receptor mechanisms in cocaine's DS effects and cocaine-induced reinstatement of drug seeking, but provide no evidence for a major role of D3 receptors in the direct reinforcing effects of cocaine.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) is an amphetamine derivative that elicits complex biological effects in humans. One plausible mechanism for this phenomenon is that racemic MDMA is composed of two stereoisomers that exhibit qualitatively different pharmacological effects. In support of this, studies have shown that R(-)-MDMA tends to have hallucinogen-like effects, whereas S(+)-MDMA tends to have psychomotor stimulant-like effects. However, relatively little is known about whether these stereoisomers engender different endocrine and neurochemical effects. In the present study, the endocrine and neurochemical effects of each stereoisomer and the racemate were assessed in four rhesus monkeys after intravenous delivery at doses (1-3 mg/kg) that approximated voluntary self-administration by rhesus monkeys and human recreational users. Specifically, fluorescence-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to assess plasma prolactin concentrations, and in vivo microdialysis was used to assess extracellular dopamine and serotonin concentrations in the dorsal striatum. R(-)-MDMA, but not S(+)-MDMA, significantly increased plasma prolactin levels and the effects of S,R(+/-)-MDMA were intermediate to each of its component stereoisomers. Although S(+)-MDMA did not alter prolactin levels, it did significantly increase extracellular serotonin concentrations. In addition, S(+)-MDMA, but not R(-)-MDMA, significantly increased dopamine concentrations. Furthermore, as in the prolactin experiment, the effects of the racemate were intermediate to each of the stereoisomers. These studies demonstrate the stereoisomers of MDMA engender qualitatively different endocrine and neurochemical effects, strengthening the inference that differences in these stereoisomers might be the mechanism producing the complex biological effects of the racemic mixture of MDMA in humans.
We report that bath application of 3 mum carbachol (CCh), a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor agonist, reduces evoked IPSC amplitude recorded from hilar mossy cells in the rat dentate gyrus through a presynaptic mechanism. While CCh has been shown to inhibit evoked IPSCs in other systems, this effect is intriguing in that it does not require inhibitory action of either presynaptic muscarinic receptors or presynaptic cannabinoid receptors. Previous work from our lab has shown that identical application of CCh produces an action potential-dependent increase in ambient GABA in this system; however, inhibition of evoked IPSCs produced by both 3 and 10 mum CCh is insensitive to the GABA(B) antagonist CGP52432. Therefore we hypothesized that CCh-mediated inhibition of evoked IPSCs might be produced by activity-dependent increases in ambient GABA and subsequent activation of presynaptic GABA(A) receptors. Consistent with that hypothesis, we report that CCh-mediated inhibition of evoked IPSCs appears to be well correlated with CCh-mediated facilitation of spontaneous IPSCs and that CCh does not affect GABA(B)-mediated IPSCs recorded in the presence of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist picrotoxin. Intriguingly, however, we found that bath application of the GAT-1 transport blocker NO-711 (1 mum) produces inhibition of evoked IPSCs that is reversed by CGP52432, and that lower doses of CCh produce inhibition with greater CGP52432 sensitivity. These observations, combined with subsequent work on multiple pulse depression, reveal that feedback inhibition of GABAergic afferents to hilar mossy cells is governed by a complex relationship between two distinct and activity-dependent mechanisms.
Acute hippocampal slices and primary neuronal cultures are often used with a tacit assumption that basic characteristics of the two models closely resemble each other. The use of the cell cultures, however, may raise controversies because of non-physiological conditions resulting from e.g. glial cells deficit, random neuronal sprouting, lack of specificity in the synaptic connections, impaired homeostasis, etc. Importantly, alteration in neuronal environment, especially when occurring over a prolonged period of time, may give rise to a profound homeostatic modulation. In the present study we have compared the properties of GABAergic and glutamatergic (non-NMDA) currents in pyramidal neurons from hippocampal slices and neuronal cell culture. We show that, most strikingly, amplitude ratio of currents elicited by ultrafast applications of saturating GABA and glutamate was nearly one order of magnitude larger in cultured neurons than that in slices. Miniature IPSCs and EPSCs also showed substantial differences between these two models. In particular, mEPSC amplitudes were larger and more frequent in cultured neurons but their time duration was longer in slices. Miniature IPSCs did not show differences in amplitude when comparing slices and cultures but their time duration was faster and occurrence more frequent in slices. In conclusion, we provide evidence that expression pattern of GABA(A) and glutamate receptors as well as synaptic current properties in the neuronal cell culture show profound differences with respect to that in the physiological conditions.
Demanding conditions in acute psychiatric wards inhibit provision of safe, therapeutic care and leave nurses torn between humanistic ideals and the harsh reality of their daily work. The aim of this study was to describe nurses' caring approaches within this context. Data were collected from interviews with nurses working in acute psychiatric intensive care. Data were analysed using qualitative analysis, based on interpretive description. Results revealed a caring-approach continuum on which two approaches formed the main themes: the bulldozer and the ballet dancer. The bulldozer approach functioned as a shield of power that protected the ward from chaos. The ballet dancer approach functioned as a means of initiating relationships with patients. When examining the data from a theoretical perspective of caring and uncaring encounters in nursing, the ballet dancer approach was consistent with a caring approach, while the bulldozer approach was more complex and somewhat aligned with uncaring approaches. Conclusions drawn from the study are that although the bulldozer approach involves a risk for uncaring and harming actions, it also brings a potential for caring. This potential needs to be further explored and nurses should be encouraged to reflect on how they integrate paternalistic nursing styles with person-centred care.
Auditory-verbal hallucinations are a hallmark symptom of schizophrenia. In recent years, repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) targeting speech perception areas has been advanced as a potential treatment of medication-resistant hallucinations. However, the underlying neural processes remain unclear. This study aimed to assess whether 1 Hz rTMS treatment would affect functional connectivity of the temporo-parietal junction (TPJ). Resting state fMRI scans were obtained from 18 patients with schizophrenia. Patients were assessed before and after a 6 day treatment with 1 Hz rTMS to the left TPJ, or placebo treatment with sham rTMS to the same location. We assessed functional connectivity between a priori defined regions-of-interest (ROIs) comprising the putative AVH network and the bilateral TPJ seed regions, targeted with rTMS. Symptom improvement following rTMS treatment was observed in the left rTMS group, whereas no change at occurred in the placebo group. Although no corresponding changes were observed in the functional connections previously found to be associated with AVH severity, an increase in connectivity between the left TPJ and the right insula was observed in group receiving rTMS to the left TPJ. The placebo group conversely showed a decrease in connectivity between the left TPJ and left anterior cingulate. We conclude that application of 1 Hz rTMS to the left TPJ region may affect functional connectivity of the targeted region. However, the relationship between these functional changes during the resting state and the rate of clinical improvement needs further clarification.


Limit cycle oscillators that are coupled in a pulsatile manner are referred to as pulse coupled oscillators. In these oscillators, the interactions take the form of brief pulses such that the effect of one input dies out before the next is received. A phase resetting curve (PRC) keeps track of how much an input advances or delays the next spike in an oscillatory neuron depending upon where in the cycle the input is applied. PRCs can be used to predict phase locking in networks of pulse coupled oscillators. In some studies of pulse coupled oscillators, a specific form is assumed for the interactions between oscillators, but a more general approach is to formulate the problem assuming a PRC that is generated using a perturbation that approximates the input received in the real biological network. In general, this approach requires that circuit architecture and a specific firing pattern be assumed. This allows the construction of discrete maps from one event to the next. The fixed points of these maps correspond to periodic firing modes and are easier to locate and analyze for stability compared to locating and analyzing periodic modes in the original network directly. Alternatively, maps based on the PRC have been constructed that do not presuppose a firing order. Specific circuits that have been analyzed under the assumption of pulsatile coupling include one to one lockings in a periodically forced oscillator or an oscillator forced at a fixed delay after a threshold event, two bidirectionally coupled oscillators with and without delays, a unidirectional N-ring of oscillators, and N all-to-all networks.
Autism is being investigated through many different approaches. This paper suggests the genetic, perceptual, cognitive, and histological findings ultimately manifest themselves as variations of the same signal-processing problem of defective compression. The Savant Hypothesis is formulated from first principles of both mathematical signal-processing and primary neuroscience to reflect the failure of compression. The Savant Hypothesis is applied to the problem of autism in a surprisingly straightforward application. The enigma of the autistic savant becomes intuitive when observed from this approach.
Although contradictions with stored knowledge are common in daily life, people often fail to notice them. For example, in the Moses illusion, participants fail to notice errors in questions such as &quot;How many animals of each kind did Moses take on the Ark?&quot; despite later showing knowledge that the Biblical reference is to Noah, not Moses. We examined whether error prevalence affected participants' ability to detect distortions in questions, and whether this in turn had memorial consequences. Many of the errors were overlooked, but participants were better able to catch them when they were more common. More generally, the failure to detect errors had negative memorial consequences, increasing the likelihood that the errors were used to answer later general knowledge questions. Methodological implications of this finding are discussed, as it suggests that typical analyses likely underestimate the size of the Moses illusion. Overall, answering distorted questions can yield errors in the knowledge base; most importantly, prior knowledge does not protect against these negative memorial consequences.
Receptors of the 5-HT2C subtype are of importance for the influence of serotonin on food intake, and 2 single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene (HTR2C)--Cys23Ser (rs6318) and -759C&gt;T (rs3813929)--have been reported to be associated with weight and/or antipsychotic-induced weight gain. The present study aimed to replicate these associations; in addition, the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism in the promoter region of the serotonin transporter gene (SLC6A4) was assessed. The polymorphisms were genotyped in subjects recruited from the normal population (n = 510), and possible associations between genotype and body mass index (BMI) were assessed. The Ser23 allele was more common in underweight subjects (BMI &lt;20) than in normal- and overweight (BMI &gt; or =20) subjects (P = .006). The T allele of the -759C/T polymorphism was less common in the overweight group (BMI &gt; or =25) (P = .007). Homozygosity for the short allele of 5-HTTLPR was more frequent in underweight subjects (P = .015). Our results are in agreement with previous studies, suggesting polymorphisms in HTR2C to be associated with body weight, particularly in women; and they also suggest that 5-HTTLPR may influence this phenotype. Further studies on the importance of the investigated genes for eating disorders and drug-induced weight gain are warranted.
Synthesis of mitochondrial DNA is performed by DNA polymerase gamma. Mutations in POLG, the gene encoding the catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase gamma, are a major cause of neurological disease. A large proportion of patients carry rare nucleotide substitutions leading to single amino acid changes. Confirming that these replacements are pathogenic can be problematic without biochemical evidence. Here, we provide a hands-on protocol for an in vitro kinetic assay of DNA polymerase gamma which allows assessment of the K(m) and V(max) for the incoming nucleotide of the polymerization reaction. To avoid measurement of contaminating nuclear DNA polymerases, platelet extracts are used since platelets do not contain a nucleus. Moreover, platelets have the advantage of being obtainable relatively non-invasively. Polymerization activity is determined by measurement of the incorporation of radioactive thymidine 5'-triphosphate (dTTP) on the homopolymeric RNA substrate poly(rA).oligo(dT)(12-18). To further minimize nuclear DNA polymerase activity, aphidicolin, an inhibitor of most nuclear DNA polymerases, is included in the reaction. In addition, reactions are carried out in the absence and presence of the competitive inhibitor of DNA polymerase gamma, 2',3'-dideoxythymidine 5'-triphosphate (ddTTP), to allow calculation of the ddTTP-sensitive incorporation. With this method, platelets from healthy control subjects extracted with 3% Triton X-100 showed a K(m) for dTTP of 1.42 microM and a V(max) of 0.83 pmol min(-1)mg(-1).

Neurons are known to use large amounts of energy for their normal function and activity. In order to meet this demand, mitochondrial fission, fusion, and movement events (mitochondrial dynamics) control mitochondrial morphology, facilitating biogenesis and proper distribution of mitochondria within neurons. In contrast, dysfunction in mitochondrial dynamics results in reduced cell bioenergetics and thus contributes to neuronal injury and death in many neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease, and Huntington's disease. We recently reported that amyloid-beta peptide, thought to be a key mediator of AD pathogenesis, engenders S-nitrosylation and thus hyperactivation of the mitochondrial fission protein Drp1. This activation leads to excessive mitochondrial fragmentation, bioenergetic compromise, and synaptic damage in models of AD. Here, we provide an extended commentary on our findings of nitric oxide-mediated abnormal mitochondrial dynamics.
Indirubin-3'-oxime is an indirubin analogue that shows favorable inhibitory activity targeting glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK-3beta). In this study, we evaluated if acute treatment with indirubin-3'-oxime (Ind) prevents hepatic ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) damage. Wistar rats were subjected to 150 min of 70% warm ischemia and 16 h of reperfusion. In the treated group 1 microM indirubin-3'-oxime was administered in the hepatic artery 30 min before ischemia. Acute treatment with Ind decreased serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels, comparatively to I/R livers. Bax translocation to the mitochondria and cytochrome c release were higher in I/R livers. Ind treatment significantly attenuated Bax translocation and preserved mitochondrial cytochrome c content. Ind also protected mitochondria from calcium-induced mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT), as well as the decrease in state 3 mitochondrial respiration, the delay in the repolarization after a phosphorylative cycle and the decrease in ATP content caused by I/R. By addressing GSK-3beta activity and phosphorylated GSK-3beta at Ser(9) content in liver homogenates and isolated mitochondria, data suggests that inhibition of GSK-3beta by indirubin-3'-oxime prevents the increase in mitochondrial phosphorylated GSK-3beta at Ser(9) induced by I/R, thus correlating with MPT inhibition and preservation of cytochrome c content. Pre-treatment with indirubin-3'-oxime in conditions of hepatic I/R, protects the liver by maintaining mitochondrial function and hepatic energetic balance.
Impaired proteasomal function is a major hallmark in the pathophysiology of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here we investigated the biological properties of the secreted cleavage product of APP (sAPPalpha) in antagonizing stress signalling, dendritic degeneration and neuronal cell death induced by the proteasome inhibitor epoxomicin. Analysis of executioner caspase activation demonstrated that sAPPalpha was able to protect PC12 cells from apoptosis triggered by epoxomicin, as well as by genotoxic stress (UV irradiation). This anti-apoptotic effect of sAPPalpha was associated with inhibition of the stress-triggered c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)-signalling pathway. The anti-apoptotic effect of sAPPalpha could also be confirmed in organotypic slice cultures of Thy1-GFP mouse hippocampi. Confocal time-lapse imaging of CA1 pyramidal neurons revealed that preincubation with sAPPalpha preserves the structural integrity of neurons after epoxomicin treatment. Taken together, our data demonstrate that sAPPalpha is neuroprotective under conditions of proteasomal stress.
Precursors within the subventricular zone (SVZ) exhibit regional variations in the expression of transcription factors important for the regulation of their proliferation and differentiation. In the anterior SVZ (aSVZ) the homeobox transcription factor distalless (Dlx)2 modulates both processes by promoting neural stem cell (NSC) activation as well as neurogenesis. Activated NSCs and transit-amplifying precursors (TAPs) in the aSVZ both express high levels of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR(high)) and form clones in response to exogenous EGF. EGF-responsive cells are also present in the hippocampal subependyma (hSVZ). However, it is not clear whether they represent NSCs or TAPs and whether their proliferation and differentiation are regulated as in the aSVZ. Here we have purified EGFR(high) cells from both the aSVZ and hSVZ at different ages. When isolated from perinatal tissue both populations were enriched in multipotent clonogenic precursors, which generated GABAergic neurons. Although they differed in absolute expression levels, activated NSCs and TAPs in both regions displayed similar signatures of transcription factor expression. However, activated NSCs were less frequent in the hSVZ than in the aSVZ. Furthermore, increasing age had a greater inhibitory effect on NSC proliferation in the hSVZ than in the aSVZ. This suggests that NSC activation is differentially regulated in the two regions. Consistent with this hypothesis, we found that in hippocampal precursors Dlx2 promoted neurogenesis but not NSC activation. Thus, most clonogenic EGFR(high) precursors in the hSVZ represent TAPs and NSC proliferation in the aSVZ and hSVZ is regulated by different mechanisms.
The majority of fast inhibitory synaptic transmission in the mammalian nervous system is mediated by GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs). Here we report a novel interaction between the protein Maf1 and GABA(A)R beta-subunit intracellular domains. We find Maf1 to be highly expressed in brain and enriched in the hippocampus and cortex. In heterologous cells and neurons we show Maf1 co-localises with GABA(A)Rs in intracellular compartments and at the cell surface. In neurons, Maf1 is found localised in the cytoplasm in dendrites, partially overlapping with GABA(A)Rs and inhibitory synapses and in addition is enriched in the neuronal nucleus. We also report that Maf1 interacts with a novel coiled-coil domain containing protein that we have called Macoco (for Maf1 interacting coiled-coil protein). Like Maf1, Macoco can also be found localised to inhibitory synapses and directly interacts with GABA(A)Rs. Expressing Macoco in neurons increases surface GABA(A)R levels. Our results suggest that Maf1 and Macoco are novel GABA(A)R interacting proteins important for regulating GABA(A)R surface expression and GABA(A)R signalling in the brain.
Neurons and endocrine cells package peptides in secretory granules (large dense-core vesicles) for storage and stimulated release. Studies of peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM), an essential secretory granule membrane enzyme, revealed a pathway that can relay information from secretory granules to the nucleus, resulting in alterations in gene expression. The cytosolic domain (CD) of PAM, a type 1 membrane enzyme essential for the production of amidated peptides, is basally phosphorylated by U2AF homology motif kinase 1 (Uhmk1) and other Ser/Thr kinases. Proopiomelanocortin processing in AtT-20 corticotrope tumor cells was increased when Uhmk1 expression was reduced. Uhmk1 was concentrated in the nucleus, but cycled rapidly between nucleus and cytosol. Endoproteolytic cleavage of PAM releases a soluble CD fragment that localizes to the nucleus. Localization of PAM-CD to the nucleus was decreased when PAM-CD with phosphomimetic mutations was examined and when active Uhmk1 was simultaneously overexpressed. Membrane-tethering Uhmk1 did not eliminate its ability to exclude PAM-CD from the nucleus, suggesting that cytosolic Uhmk1 could cause this response. Microarray analysis demonstrated the ability of PAM to increase expression of a small subset of genes, including aquaporin 1 (Aqp1) in AtT-20 cells. Aqp1 mRNA levels were higher in wild-type mice than in mice heterozygous for PAM, indicating that a similar relationship occurs in vivo. Expression of PAM-CD also increased Aqp1 levels whereas expression of Uhmk1 diminished Aqp1 expression. The outlines of a pathway that ties secretory granule metabolism to the transcriptome are thus apparent.
Maple syrup urine disease (MSUD) is caused by a defect in branched chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogenase complex (BCKD), an essential metabolon for the catabolism of the branched chain amino acids. Here, we report four novel mutations in the DBT gene, encoding the transacylase subunit (E2) of BCKD, resulting in intermittent MSUD in seven Norwegian patients. The patients had episodes with neurological symptoms including lethargy and/or ataxia during childhood infections. All seven patients were heterozygous for the annotated R301C mutation. The second allelic mutations were identified in five patients; one nonsense mutation (G62X), two missense mutations (W84C and R376C) and a mutation in the 3' untranslated region (UTR; c. *358A&gt;C) in two patients. These four novel mutations result in near depletion of E2 protein, and the common R301C protein contributes predominantly to the residual (14%) cellular BCKD activity. Structural analyses of the mutations implied that the W84C and R376C mutations affect stability of intramolecular domains in E2, while the R301C mutation likely disturbs E2 trimer assembly as previously reported. The UTR mutated allele coincided with a strong reduction in mRNA levels, as did the non-R301C specific allele in two patients where the second mutation could not be identified. In summary, the pathogenic effect of the novel mutations is depletion of cellular protein, and the intermittent form of MSUD appears to be attributed to the residual R301C mutant protein in these patients.
Drug addiction is marked by long-lasting changes in behavior that result, in part, from altered patterns of gene expression within limbic forebrain regions, such as the nucleus accumbens (NAc). These changes in gene transcription are coordinated by a complex series of histone modifications surrounding DNA that result in either repression or activation of gene expression. Recent evidence has identified a network of gene expression changes, regulated by the transcription factor DeltaFosB, which alter the structure and function of NAc medium spiny neurons to control addictive-like behavior. In this review, we will discuss recent advances in our understanding of chromatin regulation by cocaine, as well as the consequences of such regulation on structural plasticity and its functional relevance to drug addiction.

The prognosis for patients with malignant gliomas is poor, but improvements may emerge from a better understanding of the pathophysiology of glioma signalling. Recent therapeutic developments have implicated lipid signalling in glioma cell death. Stress signalling in glioma cell death involves mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum. Lipid mediators also signal via extrinsic pathways in glioma cell proliferation, migration and interaction with endothelial and microglial cells. Glioma cell death and tumour regression have been reported using polyunsaturated fatty acids in animal models, human ex vivo explants, glioma cell preparations and in clinical case reports involving intratumoral infusion. Cell death signalling was associated with generation of reactive oxygen intermediates and mitochondrial and other signalling pathways. In this review, evidence for mitochondrial responses to stress signals, including polyunsaturated fatty acids, peroxidizing agents and calcium is presented. Additionally, evidence for interaction of glioma cells with primary brain endothelial cells is described, modulating human glioma peroxidative signalling. Glioma responses to potential therapeutic agents should be analysed in systems reflecting tumour connectivity and CNS structural and functional integrity. Future insights may also be derived from studies of signalling in glioma-derived tumour stem cells.
Platelet-activating factor (PAF) is a potent bioactive lipid generated in the cornea after injury whose actions are mediated through specific receptors. Studies from our laboratory have shown that PAF interactions with its receptors activate several transmembrane signals involved in apoptosis. Continuous exposure to PAF during prolonged inflammation increases keratocyte apoptosis and inhibition of epithelial adhesion to the basement membrane. As a consequence, there is a marked delay in wound healing, which is not countered by the action of growth factors. While apoptosis of stroma cells is rapid and potent, epithelial cells as well as myofibroblasts, which appear in the stroma during the repair phase, are resistant to apoptosis. However, PAF accelerates apoptosis of corneal epithelial cells exposed to oxidative stress by stimulating phospholipase A2, producing an early release of cytochrome C from mitochondria and activating caspase-3. In myofibroblasts, PAF has a synergistic action with tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), increasing apoptosis of the cells to 85%. PAF antagonists block the effects of PAF and could have a therapeutic role in maintaining a healthy and transparent cornea.
Aging is associated with an enhanced susceptibility to brain dysfunction, loss of memory, and cognitive decline and significantly influences the quality of life for the affected individual. Recent molecular-genetic approaches have provided powerful insights into common age-related diseases that are both progressive and multifactorial, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), and in vitro in AD models. These investigations have uncovered consistent deficits in brain gene signaling mechanisms and neurotrophic substances known to contribute to normal brain function. Inflammatory signaling pathways involving up-regulation of cytosolic phospholipase A(2) and the arachidonic acid cycle, the depletion of the brain-essential fatty acid docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and DHA-derived neuroprotectin D1, and changes in the expression of key proapoptotic and antiapoptotic members of the Bcl-2 gene family are thought to be major contributors to pathogenic processes in degenerating brain tissue. This review will focus on the roles of stress genes, apoptosis-related genes, and inflammation in the molecular genetics of AD with emphasis on the interactive nature of inflammatory, neurotrophic, and apoptotic signaling and will highlight areas of rapid progress in the characterization of action of DHA and neuroprotectin D1 and address important research challenges. We also attempt to integrate these molecular, genetic, and neurochemical changes with cellular pathways involved in brain aging to formulate an integrated understanding of multifactorial age-related neurologic disease and pharmacotherapeutic strategies that may be useful in the restoration of homeostatic brain function.
It has long been recognised that malignant tumours favour aerobic glycolysis to generate ATP and contain abnormalities of the intrinsic, mitochondria-dependent, apoptotic pathway, suggesting the involvement of dysfunctional mitochondria in tumour pathophysiology. However, the mechanisms underlying such processes in gliomas are poorly understood. Few recent studies have evaluated mitochondrial ultrastructure and proteomics in the pathophysiology of malignant gliomas. However, aberrant energy metabolism has been reported in gliomas and mitochondrial dysfunction links to glioma apoptotic signalling have been observed. Mitochondrial structural abnormalities and dysfunction in malignant gliomas is a neglected area of research. Definition of abnormalities in mitochondrial proteomics, membrane potential regulation, energy metabolism and intrinsic apoptotic pathway signalling in gliomas may open novel therapeutic opportunities.
Ivermectin is a macrocyclic lactone that acts as a positive allosteric modulator of alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) but has no modulatory activity on 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) type 3 (5-HT(3)) receptors. By examining the influence of ivermectin on subunit chimeras containing domains from the nAChR alpha7 subunit and the 5-HT3A subunit, we have concluded that the transmembrane domains play a critical role in influencing allosteric modulation by ivermectin. A series of mutations located within the alpha-helical transmembrane domains of the alpha7 subunit were examined, and seven were found to have significant effects on allosteric modulation by ivermectin. Four mutations (A225D, Q272V, T456Y, and C459Y) caused a significant reduction in the potency of ivermectin as an allosteric potentiator. Compared with wild-type alpha7 nAChRs, potentiation by ivermectin was reduced dramatically (by 89-97%) by these mutations. Somewhat unexpectedly, three mutations (S222M, M253L, and S276V located in TM1, TM2, and TM3) converted ivermectin from a positive allosteric modulator into an antagonist. Levels of inhibition of 56, 84, and 89% were observed on M253L, S276V, and S222M, respectively. Antagonism by ivermectin was insurmountable and had no effect on EC(50) of acetylcholine, indicating that it is acting noncompetitively. The seven mutations that influence allosteric modulation by ivermectin are located near a predicted intrasubunit transmembrane cavity. Computer docking simulations provide support for the hypothesis that ivermectin binds in close proximity to this cavity. We conclude that transmembrane mutations in alpha7 nAChRs are able to convert ivermectin from a positive to a negative allosteric modulator.
Long-term nicotine exposure changes neuronal acetylcholine nicotinic receptor (nAChR) subtype expression in the brains of smokers and experimental animals. The aim of this study was to investigate nicotine-induced changes in nAChR expression in two models commonly used to describe the effects of nicotine in animals: operant (two-lever presses) intravenous self-administration (SA) and passive subcutaneous nicotine administration via an osmotic minipump (MP). In the MP group, alpha4beta2 nAChRs were up-regulated in all brain regions, alpha6beta2* nAChRs were down-regulated in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and caudate-putamen, and alpha7 nAChRs were up-regulated in the caudal cerebral cortex (CCx); the up-regulation of alpha4beta2alpha5 nAChRs in the CCx was also suggested. In the SA group, alpha4beta2 up-regulation was lower and limited to the CCx and NAc; there were no detectable changes in alpha6beta2* or alpha7 nACRs. In the CCx of the MP rats, there was a close correlation between the increase in alpha4beta2 binding and alpha4 and beta2 subunit levels measured by means of Western blotting, demonstrating that the up-regulation was due to an increase in alpha4beta2 proteins. Western blotting also showed that the increase in the beta2 subunit exceeded that of the alpha4 subunit, suggesting that a change in alpha4beta2 stoichiometry may occur in vivo as has been shown in vitro. These results show that nicotine has an area-specific effect on receptor subtypes, regardless of its administration route, but the effect is quantitatively greater in the case of MP administration.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive dementing disorder characterized by age-related amyloid-beta (Abeta) deposition, neurofibrillary tangles, and synapse and neuronal loss. It is widely recognized that Abeta is a principal pathogenic mediator of AD. Our goal was to develop an immunotherapeutic approach, which would specifically lead to the clearance and/or neutralization of Abeta in the triple transgenic mouse model (3xTg-AD). These mice develop the amyloid and tangle pathologies and synaptic dysfunction reminiscent of human AD. Using a human single-chain variable fragment (scFv) antibody phage display library, a novel scFv antibody specific to Abeta was isolated, its activity characterized in vitro, and its open reading frame subsequently cloned into a recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) vector. Three-month-old 3xTg-AD mice were intrahippocampally infused with serotype-1 rAAV vectors encoding Abeta-scFv or a control vector using convection-enhanced delivery (CED). Mice receiving rAAV1-Abeta-scFv harbored lower levels of insoluble Abeta and hyperphosphorylated tau, and exhibited improved cognitive function as measured by the Morris Water Maze (MWM) spatial memory task. These results underscore the potential of gene-based passive vaccination for AD, and provide further rationale for the development of Abeta-targeting strategies for this debilitating disease.
Adeno-associated virus (AAV) is capable of mediating retrograde viral transduction of central and peripheral neurons. This occurs at a relatively low efficiency, which we previously found to be dependent upon capsid serotype. We sought to augment retrograde transduction by providing increased axonal access to peripherally delivered AAV. Others have described utilizing full transection of peripheral nerves to mediate retrograde viral transduction of motor neurons. Here, we examined the ability of a transient demyelinating event to modulate levels of retrograde AAV transduction. Transient demyelination does not cause lasting functional deficits. Ethidium bromide (EtBr)-induced transient demyelination of the sciatic nerve resulted in significant elevation of retrograde transduction of both motor and sensory neurons. Retrograde transduction levels of motor neurons and heavily myelinated, large-diameter sensory neurons increased at least sixfold following peripheral delivery of self-complementary AAV serotype 1 (scAAV1) and serotype 2 (scAAV2), when preceded by demyelination. These findings identify a means of significantly enhancing retrograde vector transport for use in experimental paradigms requiring either retrograde neuronal identification and gene expression, or translational treatment paradigms.
Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) is an uncommon cause of progressive weakness in childhood. The diagnosis is easy when the clinical history and findings are supported by unequivocal electrophysiologic and laboratory evidence of demyelination, but it can be challenging if the criteria for demyelination are not met. We report a case of atypical childhood CIDP to highlight the diagnostic difficulties and the importance of recognizing this treatable condition.
Mutations in the fused in sarcoma (FUS) gene have recently been found to cause familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS). We screened FUS in a cohort of 200 ALS patients [32 FALS and 168 sporadic ALS (SALS)]. In one FALS proband, we identified a mutation (p.R521C) that was also present in her affected daughter. Their clinical phenotype was remarkably similar and atypical of classic ALS, with symmetric proximal pelvic and pectoral weakness. Distal weakness and upper motor neuron features only developed late. Neuropathological examination demonstrated FUS-immunoreactive neuronal and glial inclusions in the spinal cord and many extramotor regions, but no TDP-43 pathology. We also identified a novel mutation (p.G187S) in one SALS patient. Overall, FUS mutations accounted for 3% of our non-SOD1, non-TARDBP FALS cases and 0.6% of SALS. This study demonstrates that the phenotype with FUS mutations extends beyond classical ALS cases. Our findings suggest there are specific clinicogenetic correlations and provide the first detailed neuropathological description.
Knowledge of the intraneural topography of peripheral nerves may help to improve nerve repair after injuries and the selectivity of neural interfaces. We studied the fascicular pattern of motor fibers of the rat sciatic-tibial nerve. We carried out an anatomical dissection of the muscular tributaries of the tibial nerve in the leg. Immunohistochemistry against choline acetyltransferase was used to identify motor axons. Retrograde tracing allowed localization of the muscular fascicles at proximal levels of the sciatic trunk. The distribution of motor fibers in transverse section of the tibial nerve is not homogeneous; two clusters were identified, each one containing fibers of functionally related muscles. Retrograde tracing allowed for the identification of motor fascicles, each one well localized along the sciatic nerve. In the rat there is a somatotopic organization of the sciatic nerve, with muscular fascicles maintaining the same relative position along the entire nerve.
Allocentric space is mapped by a widespread brain circuit of functionally specialized cell types located in interconnected subregions of the hippocampal-parahippocampal cortices. Little is known about the neural architectures required to express this variety of firing patterns. In rats, we found that one of the cell types, the grid cell, was abundant not only in medial entorhinal cortex (MEC), where it was first reported, but also in pre- and parasubiculum. The proportion of grid cells in pre- and parasubiculum was comparable to deep layers of MEC. The symmetry of the grid pattern and its relationship to the theta rhythm were weaker, especially in presubiculum. Pre- and parasubicular grid cells intermingled with head-direction cells and border cells, as in deep MEC layers. The characterization of a common pool of space-responsive cells in architecturally diverse subdivisions of parahippocampal cortex constrains the range of mechanisms that might give rise to their unique functional discharge phenotypes.
Although hippocampal theta oscillations represent a prime example of temporal coding in the mammalian brain, little is known about the specific biophysical mechanisms. Intracellular recordings support a particular abstract oscillatory interference model of hippocampal theta activity, the soma-dendrite interference model. To gain insight into the cellular and circuit level mechanisms of theta activity, we implemented a similar form of interference using the actual hippocampal network in mice in vitro. We found that pairing increasing levels of phasic dendritic excitation with phasic stimulation of perisomatic projecting inhibitory interneurons induced a somatic polarization and action potential timing profile that reproduced most common features. Alterations in the temporal profile of inhibition were required to fully capture all features. These data suggest that theta-related place cell activity is generated through an interaction between a phasic dendritic excitation and a phasic perisomatic shunting inhibition delivered by interneurons, a subset of which undergo activity-dependent presynaptic modulation.
Over-inhibition is thought to be one of the underlying causes of the cognitive deficits in Ts65Dn mice, the most widely used model of Down syndrome. We found a direct link between gene triplication and defects in neuron production during embryonic development. These neurogenesis defects led to an imbalance between excitatory and inhibitory neurons and to increased inhibitory drive in the Ts65Dn forebrain. We discovered that Olig1 and Olig2, two genes that are triplicated in Down syndrome and in Ts65Dn mice, were overexpressed in the Ts65Dn forebrain. To test the hypothesis that Olig triplication causes the neurological phenotype, we used a genetic approach to normalize the dosage of these two genes and thereby rescued the inhibitory neuron phenotype in the Ts65Dn brain. These data identify seminal alterations during brain development and suggest a mechanistic relationship between triplicated genes and these brain abnormalities in the Ts65Dn mouse.
Genetically targeted light-activated ion channels and pumps make it possible to determine the role of specific neurons in neuronal circuits, information processing and behavior. We developed a K+-selective ionotropic glutamate receptor that reversibly inhibits neuronal activity in response to light in dissociated neurons and brain slice and also reversibly suppresses behavior in zebrafish. The receptor is a chimera of the pore region of a K+-selective bacterial glutamate receptor and the ligand-binding domain of a light-gated mammalian kainate receptor. This hyperpolarizing light-gated channel, HyLighter, is turned on by a brief light pulse at one wavelength and turned off by a pulse at a second wavelength. The control is obtained at moderate intensity. After optical activation, the photocurrent and optical silencing of activity persists in the dark for extended periods. The low light requirement and bi-stability of HyLighter represent advantages for the dissection of neural circuitry.
Learning ultimately relies on changes in the flow of activity in neural microcircuits. The plasticity of neural dynamics is particularly relevant for the processing of temporal information. Chronic stimulation of cultured rat cortical networks revealed experience-dependent plasticity in neural dynamics. We observed changes in the temporal structure of activity that reflected the intervals used during training, suggesting that cortical circuits are inherently capable of temporal processing on short timescales.
Hyperexcitability of and aberrant spontaneous impulse generation by damaged first-order sensory neurons and their peripheral axons are well-established processes that strongly contribute to pain associated with diabetic neuropathy. Studies in the past 5 years, however, suggest that, as in many neuropathic pain disorders, central neuropathic mechanisms can also contribute to pain experienced with diabetes. These studies have demonstrated that thalamic dysfunction occurs in patients with diabetes mellitus, and that in experimental models of this disease neurons in the ventral posterolateral thalamus can become hyperexcitable, firing at abnormally high frequencies and generating aberrant spontaneous activity. In this article, we discuss these findings, which suggest that thalamic neurons can act as central generators or amplifiers of pain in diabetes.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is typically considered to be a chronic inflammatory-demyelinating disease of CNS white matter. In the past decade, however, pathological and MRI studies have shown that lesions are often located in the gray matter, especially in the cerebral cortex. The histopathological characteristics of these cortical lesions differ substantially from lesions located in the white matter, which suggests location-dependent expression of the MS immunopathological process. Double inversion recovery imaging--an MRI technique that selectively images gray matter and lesions--has enabled researchers to image cortical lesions in vivo. Double inversion recovery studies have shown that cortical lesions can be detected at the earliest clinical stages of MS, and cortical lesion burden positively correlates with the severity of physical and cognitive impairments. These gray matter lesions are also independent predictors of subsequent disease evolution. This Review provides a summary of the main histopathological and MRI findings with regard to cortical lesions in MS, and indicates that increasing our understanding of cortical lesions has increased our knowledge of MS pathobiology.
The effects of music training in relation to brain plasticity have caused excitement, evident from the popularity of books on this topic among scientists and the general public. Neuroscience research has shown that music training leads to changes throughout the auditory system that prime musicians for listening challenges beyond music processing. This effect of music training suggests that, akin to physical exercise and its impact on body fitness, music is a resource that tones the brain for auditory fitness. Therefore, the role of music in shaping individual development deserves consideration.
Sleep and circadian rhythm disruption are frequently observed in patients with psychiatric disorders and neurodegenerative disease. The abnormal sleep that is experienced by these patients is largely assumed to be the product of medication or some other influence that is not well defined. However, normal brain function and the generation of sleep are linked by common neurotransmitter systems and regulatory pathways. Disruption of sleep alters sleep-wake timing, destabilizes physiology and promotes a range of pathologies (from cognitive to metabolic defects) that are rarely considered to be associated with abnormal sleep. We propose that brain disorders and abnormal sleep have a common mechanistic origin and that many co-morbid pathologies that are found in brain disease arise from a destabilization of sleep mechanisms. The stabilization of sleep may be a means by which to reduce the symptoms of--and permit early intervention of--psychiatric and neurodegenerative disease.
Ion channel clustering at the axon initial segment (AIS) and nodes of Ranvier has been suggested to be a key evolutionary innovation that enabled the development of the complex vertebrate nervous system. This innovation epitomizes a signature feature of neurons, namely polarity. The mechanisms that establish neuronal polarity, channel clustering and axon-dendrite identity during development are becoming clearer. However, much less is known about how polarity is maintained throughout life. Here, I review the role of the AIS in the development and maintenance of neuronal polarity and discuss how disrupted polarity may be a common component of many diseases and injuries that affect the nervous system.
Point-process models have been shown to be useful in characterizing neural spiking activity as a function of extrinsic and intrinsic factors. Most point-process models of neural activity are parametric, as they are often efficiently computable. However, if the actual point process does not lie in the assumed parametric class of functions, misleading inferences can arise. Nonparametric methods are attractive due to fewer assumptions, but computation in general grows with the size of the data. We propose a computationally efficient method for nonparametric maximum likelihood estimation when the conditional intensity function, which characterizes the point process in its entirety, is assumed to be a Lipschitz continuous function but otherwise arbitrary. We show that by exploiting much structure, the problem becomes efficiently solvable. We next demonstrate a model selection procedure to estimate the Lipshitz parameter from data, akin to the minimum description length principle and demonstrate consistency of our estimator under appropriate assumptions. Finally, we illustrate the effectiveness of our method with simulated neural spiking data, goldfish retinal ganglion neural data, and activity recorded in CA1 hippocampal neurons from an awake behaving rat. For the simulated data set, our method uncovers a more compact representation of the conditional intensity function when it exists. For the goldfish and rat neural data sets, we show that our nonparametric method gives a superior absolute goodness-of-fit measure used for point processes than the most common parametric and splines-based approaches.
Rate-coded Hebbian learning, as characterized by the BCM formulation, is an established computational model of synaptic plasticity. Recently it has been demonstrated that changes in the strength of synapses in vivo can also depend explicitly on the relative timing of pre- and postsynaptic firing. Computational modeling of this spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) has demonstrated that it can provide inherent stability or competition based on local synaptic variables. However, it has also been demonstrated that these properties rely on synaptic weights being either depressed or unchanged by an increase in mean stochastic firing rates, which directly contradicts empirical data. Several analytical studies have addressed this apparent dichotomy and identified conditions under which distinct and disparate STDP rules can be reconciled with rate-coded Hebbian learning. The aim of this research is to verify, unify, and expand on these previous findings by manipulating each element of a standard computational STDP model in turn. This allows us to identify the conditions under which this plasticity rule can replicate experimental data obtained using both rate and temporal stimulation protocols in a spiking recurrent neural network. Our results describe how the relative scale of mean synaptic weights and their dependence on stochastic pre- or postsynaptic firing rates can be manipulated by adjusting the exact profile of the asymmetric learning window and temporal restrictions on spike pair interactions respectively. These findings imply that previously disparate models of rate-coded autoassociative learning and temporally coded heteroassociative learning, mediated by symmetric and asymmetric connections respectively, can be implemented in a single network using a single plasticity rule. However, we also demonstrate that forms of STDP that can be reconciled with rate-coded Hebbian learning do not generate inherent synaptic competition, and thus some additional mechanism is required to guarantee long-term input-output selectivity.
The efficient detection of higher-order synchronization in massively parallel data is of great importance in understanding computational processes in the cortex and represents a significant statistical challenge. To overcome the combinatorial explosion of different spike patterns taking place as the number of neurons increases, a method based on population measures would prove very useful. Following previous work in this direction, we examine the distribution of spike counts across neurons per time bin ('complexity distribution') and devise a method to reliably extract the size and temporal precision of synchronous groups of neurons, even in the presence of strong rate covariations.
The recent development of arrays of microelectrodes have enabled simultaneous recordings of the activities of more than 100 neurons. However, it is difficult to visualize activity patterns across many neurons and gain some intuition about issues such as whether the patterns are related to some functions, e.g. perceptual categories. To explore the issues, we used a variational Bayes algorithm to perform clustering and dimension reduction simultaneously. We employed both artificial data and real neuron data to examine the performance of our algorithm. We obtained better clustering results than in a subspace that were obtained by principal component analysis.
Multi-channel acquisition from neuronal networks, either in vivo or in vitro, is becoming a standard in modern neuroscience in order to infer how cell assemblies communicate. In spite of the large diffusion of micro-electrode-array-based systems, researchers usually find it difficult to manage the huge quantity of data routinely recorded during the experimental sessions. In fact, many of the available open-source toolboxes still lack two fundamental requirements for treating multi-channel recordings: (i) a rich repertoire of algorithms for extracting information both at a single channel and at the whole network level; (ii) the capability of autonomously repeating the same set of computational operations to 'multiple' recording streams (also from different experiments) and without a manual intervention. The software package we are proposing, named SPYCODE, was mainly developed to respond to the above constraints and generally to offer the scientific community a 'smart' tool for multi-channel data processing.
Recent advances in multi-electrode recording and imaging techniques have made it possible to observe the activity of large populations of neurons. However, to take full advantage of these techniques, new methods for the analysis of population responses must be developed. In this paper, we present an algorithm for optimizing population decoding with distance metrics. To demonstrate the utility of this algorithm under experimental conditions, we evaluate its performance in decoding both population spike trains and calcium signals with different correlation structures. Our results demonstrate that the optimized decoder outperforms other simple population decoders and suggest that optimization could serve as a tool for quantifying the potential contribution of individual cells to the population code.
Spiking neuron models have advanced to the stage of accurately predicting the spike times of individual biological neurons for given fluctuating current. Most of the successful models are based on deterministic mechanistic modeling. In order to describe the stochastic aspect of neuronal firing, I propose setting a deterministic model in a stochastic framework, namely, incorporating the multi-timescale adaptive threshold (MAT) model of neuronal spiking into the stochastic framework of the linear-nonlinear Poisson (LNP) model in the form of a generalized linear model (GLM). In this setting, the probability of spike occurrence is updated each time a spike is derived from the past probability. Accordingly, the model may account for nontrivial firing patterns of various neurons that cannot be realized with the inhomogeneous Poisson process. The stochastic MAT model is not only capable of characterizing firing mechanisms specific to individual neurons, but may render the statistical inference feasible for the underlying mechanisms from the data. I also examine here two plausible principles for adjusting the model parameters: maximizing the spike time coincidence between the model and data, and maximizing the likelihood. It is found that these principles bring about greatly different characteristics for an identical set of data.
Relating stimulus properties to the response properties of individual neurons and neuronal networks is a major goal of sensory research. Many investigators implant electrode arrays in multiple brain areas and record from chronically implanted electrodes over time to answer a variety of questions. Technical challenges related to analyzing large-scale neuronal recording data are not trivial. Several analysis methods traditionally used by neurophysiologists do not account for dependencies in the data that are inherent in multi-electrode recordings. In addition, when neurophysiological data are not best modeled by the normal distribution and when the variables of interest may not be linearly related, extensions of the linear modeling techniques are recommended. A variety of methods exist to analyze correlated data, even when the data are not normally distributed and the relationships are nonlinear. Here we review expansions of the Generalized Linear Model designed to address these data properties. Such methods are used in other research fields, and the application to large-scale neuronal recording data will enable investigators to determine the variable properties that convincingly contribute to the variances in the observed neuronal measures. Standard measures of neuron properties such as response magnitudes can be analyzed using these methods, and measures of neuronal network activity such as spike timing correlations can be analyzed as well. We have done just that in recordings from 100-electrode arrays implanted in the primary somatosensory cortex of owl monkeys. Here we illustrate how one example method, Generalized Estimating Equations analysis, is a useful method to apply to large-scale neuronal recordings.
In order for patients with disabilities to control assistive devices with their own neural activity, multineuronal spike trains must be efficiently decoded because only limited computational resources can be used to generate prosthetic control signals in portable real-time applications. In this study, we compare the abilities of two vectorizing procedures (multineuronal and time-segmental) to extract information from spike trains during the same total neuron-seconds. In the multineuronal vectorizing procedure, we defined a response vector whose components represented the spike counts of one to five neurons. In the time-segmental vectorizing procedure, a response vector consisted of components representing a neuron's spike counts for one to five time-segment(s) of a response period of 1 s. Spike trains were recorded from neurons in the inferior temporal cortex of monkeys presented with visual stimuli. We examined whether the amount of information of the visual stimuli carried by these neurons differed between the two vectorizing procedures. The amount of information calculated with the multineuronal vectorizing procedure, but not the time-segmental vectorizing procedure, significantly increased with the dimensions of the response vector. We conclude that the multineuronal vectorizing procedure is superior to the time-segmental vectorizing procedure in efficiently extracting information from neuronal signals.

The aim of this study was to investigate the dynamics of four of the most validated biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD), cerebro-spinal fluid (CSF) Abeta 1-42, tau, hippocampal volume, and FDG-PET, in patients at different stage of AD. Two hundred twenty-nine cognitively healthy subjects, 154 mild cognitive impairment (MCI) patients converted to AD, and 193 (95 early and 98 late) AD patients were selected from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) database. For each biomarker, individual values were Z-transformed and plotted against ADAS-cog scores, and sigmoid and linear fits were compared. For most biomarkers the sigmoid model fitted data significantly better than the linear model. Abeta 1-42 time course followed a steep curve, stabilizing early in the disease course. CSF tau and hippocampal volume changed later showing similar monotonous trends, reflecting disease progression. Hippocampal loss trend was steeper and occurred earlier in time in APOE epsilon4 carriers than in non-carriers. FDG-PET started changing early in time and likely followed a linear decline. In conclusion, this study provides the first evidence in favor of the dynamic biomarker model which has recently been proposed.
RNA transcripts encoding the 2C-subtype of serotonin (5HT(2C)) receptor undergo up to five adenosine-to-inosine editing events to encode twenty-four protein isoforms. To examine the effects of altered 5HT(2C) editing in vivo, we generated mutant mice solely expressing the fully-edited (VGV) isoform of the receptor. Mutant animals present phenotypic characteristics of Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) including a failure to thrive, decreased somatic growth, neonatal muscular hypotonia, and reduced food consumption followed by post-weaning hyperphagia. Though previous studies have identified alterations in both 5HT(2C) receptor expression and 5HT(2C)-mediated behaviors in both PWS patients and mouse models of this disorder, to our knowledge the 5HT(2C) gene is the first locus outside the PWS imprinted region in which mutations can phenocopy numerous aspects of this syndrome. These results not only strengthen the link between the molecular etiology of PWS and altered 5HT(2C) expression, but also demonstrate the importance of normal patterns of 5HT(2C) RNA editing in vivo.
It is well known that maternal nutritional status is important to the development of mammalian offspring. We examined the effect of maternal food restriction during lactation on offspring in mice. From 1 to 21 days after parturition, control dams (CDs) were fed with the standard amounts of daily food consumption, whereas dietary restricted dams (RDs) received 70% of daily food consumption. Although the mean body weight of RDs was not significantly different from that of the CDs, body weight of the offspring from RD (RD offspring) was significantly lower than that of the offspring from CD (CD offspring). The difference was detectable until 10 weeks of age. Body lengths and brain weights of RD offspring at postnatal day 22 were lower than those of the CD offspring. Plasma concentrations of leptin in RD offspring decreased significantly. But plasma concentrations of growth hormone and thyroxin were not different between the two groups. In the open field tests, total distance was significantly decreased in RD offspring compared with CD offspring. In the hole-board test, head dip latency was increased and the number of dips was decreased significantly in RD offspring. In the elevated plus maze test, total distance and risk assessment were significantly decreased in the RD offspring. There was no difference between the two groups in the rota-rod and wire-hang tests. These results suggest that maternal dietary restriction during lactation can affect the growth, locomotor activity and anxiety behavior of offspring, but not motor or neuromuscular function.
Efflux of glutathione (GSH) from astrocytes has been suggested as a key factor for neuroprotection by astrocytes. Here we evaluated if the Nrf2 activator curcumin affects basal and stimulated (Ca(2+) omission) GSH efflux from cultures of astroglial cells. Stimulated efflux of GSH was observed at medium concentration of 0, 0.1 mM Ca(2+), but not at 0.2 or 0.3 mM Ca(2+). Astroglia treated with 30 microM curcumin increased the cellular content of GSH in parallel with elevated basal and stimulated efflux. Conversely treatment with buthionine sulfoximine lowered efflux of GSH. The efflux stimulated by Ca(2+)- omission was not affected by the P2X7-receptor antagonist Blue Brilliant G (100 nM) or the pannexin mimetic/blocking peptide (10)Panx1 but inhibited by the gap junction blocker carbenoxolone (100 microM) and a hemichannel blocker Gap26 (300 microM). RNAi directed against Nrf2 partly inhibited the effect of curcumin. The results show that elevated cellular GSH by curcumin treatment enhance efflux from astroglial cells, a process which appear to be a prerequisite for astroglial mediated neuroprotection.


Glutamate is an important excitatory neurotransmitter within functional prefrontal-basal ganglia loops. These distinct loops mediate different cognitive functions. One function of the anterior-cingulate loop is error processing. One function of the orbito-frontal loop is response inhibition. These functions are altered in several neuro-psychiatric disorders like Huntington's disease (HD). Because of the known role of the GRIN2B C2664T polymorphism in HD neuropathology, which is partly due to increased glutamatergic neural transmission, we analyze how this polymorphism influences error processing and response inhibition in a sample of healthy probands (N=65). Combining a genetic approach with event-related potential (ERP) measurements of response inhibition (OFC-loop function) and error processing (ACC-loop function), we provide robust results showing a selective modulation of response inhibition processes by the GRIN2B C2664T polymorphism at the behavioural and neurophysiological level. Response inhibition processes were stronger in the CT/TT genotype group, compared to the CC genotype group. Since error processing functions were not affected, the results suggest for differential influences of the GRIN2B C2664T polymorphism on response inhibition and error processing functions. The results provide first insight into cognitive-neurophysiological effects of the GRIN2B C2664T polymorphism. The dissociation obtained may be due to a differential importance of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors for glutamatergic neural transmission in different striatal compartments (matrix and striosomes). We provide a model on this that may be a target for future research.
Reliable identification of thalamic nuclei is required to improve targeting of electrodes used in Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS), and for exploring the role of thalamus in health and disease. A previously described method using probabilistic tractography to segment the thalamus based on connections to cortical target regions was implemented. Both within- and between-subject reproducibility were quantitatively assessed by the overlap of the resulting segmentations; the effect of two different numbers of target regions (6 and 31) on reproducibility of the segmentation results was also investigated. Very high reproducibility was observed when a single dataset was processed multiple times using different starting conditions. Thalamic segmentation was also very reproducible when multiple datasets from the same subject were processed using six cortical target regions. Within-subject reproducibility was reduced when the number of target regions was increased, particularly in medial and posterior regions of the thalamus. A large degree of overlap in segmentation results from different subjects was obtained, particularly in thalamic regions classified as connecting to frontal, parietal, temporal and pre-central cortical target regions.
During voluntary motor acts, potential perturbations due to transient external forces are counteracted very quickly by short- and long-latency stretch reflexes (SLSR and LLSR, respectively). The LLSR, presumably linked to a transcortical loop, can be modulated by the subjects' intention. Here, we used combined TMS-EEG to study cortical mechanisms involved in this intention-related modulation both before and during the reaction to a mechanical perturbation. Subjects had to prepare for a brisk wrist extension under the instruction either to 'resist' the perturbation or to 'let-go'. Following the perturbation, the early cortical evoked activity (45-75 ms) was greater in the 'let-go' condition; moreover, its amplitude was negatively correlated with the LLSR amplitude, regardless of condition. After 100 ms the pattern reversed, the late evoked activity (presumably linked to the voluntary reaction) was greater in the 'resist' condition. The early and late evoked activities also differed in their topography. Therefore, the cortical mechanisms involved in the intention-related LLSR modulation differ from those involved in the voluntary reaction. In addition, in response to a single-pulse TMS delivered during the expectation of the mechanical perturbation, the TMS-evoked N100 amplitude decreased when subjects intended to 'let-go', suggesting anticipatory decreased activity of intracortical inhibitory sensorimotor networks. Taken together, these results support the idea that anticipatory processes preset the sensorimotor cortex so as to adapt its early reaction to the perturbation relative to the subjects' intention.
Currently, one of the most challenging issues in modern neuroscience is learning-induced neural plasticity. Many researchers have identified activation-dependent structural brain plasticity in gray and white matter. The game of Baduk is known to require many cognitive processes, and long-term training in such processes would be expected to cause structural changes in related brain areas. We conducted voxel-based analyses of diffusion-tensor imaging (DTI) data and found that, compared to inexperienced controls, long-term trained Baduk players developed larger regions of white matter with increased fractional anisotropy (FA) values in the frontal, cingulum, and striato-thalamic areas that are related to attentional control, working memory, executive regulation, and problem-solving. In addition, inferior temporal regions with increased FA indicate that Baduk experts tend to develop a task-specific template for the game, as compared to controls. In contrast, decreased FA found in dorsolateral premotor and parietal areas indicate that Baduk experts were less likely than were controls to use structures related to load-dependent memory capacity. Right-side dominance in Baduk experts suggests that the tasks involved are mainly spatial processes. Altogether, long-term Baduk training appears to cause structural brain changes associated with many of the cognitive aspects necessary for game play, and investigation of the mechanism underpinning such changes might be helpful for improving higher-order cognitive capacities, such as learning, abstract reasoning, and self-control, which can facilitate education and cognitive therapies.
Precise timing as determined by sensorimotor synchronization is crucial for a wide variety of activities. Although it is well-established that musicians show superior timing as compared to non-musicians, the neurophysiological foundations - in particular the underlying functional brain network - remain to be characterized. To this end, drummers, professional pianists and non-musicians performed an auditory synchronization task while neuromagnetic activity was measured using a 122-channel whole-head magnetoencephalography (MEG) system. The underlying functional brain network was determined using the beamformer approach Dynamic Imaging of Coherent Sources (DICS). Behaviorally, drummers performed less variably than non-musicians. Neuromagnetic analysis revealed a cerebello-thalamo-cortical network in all subjects comprising bilateral primary sensorimotor cortices (S1/M1), contralateral supplementary motor and premotor regions (SMA and PMC), thalamus, posterior parietal cortex (PPC), ipsilateral cerebellum and bilateral auditory cortices. Stronger PMC-thalamus and PPC-thalamus interactions at alpha and beta frequencies were evident in drummers as compared to non-musicians. In professional pianists stronger PMC-thalamus interaction as compared to non-musicians at beta frequency occurred. The present data suggest that precise timing is associated with increased functional interaction within a PMC-thalamus-PPC network. The PMC-thalamus connectivity at beta frequency might be related to musical expertise, whereas the PPC-thalamus interaction might have specific relevance for precise timing.
The acquisition and generation of action sequences constitute essential elements of purposeful human behavior. However, there is still considerable debate on how experience-driven changes related to skill learning are expressed at the neural systems level. The current functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study focused on changes in the neural representation of continuous movement sequences as learning evolved. Behavioral and neural manifestations of nonvisual motor practice were studied both within the time frame of a single scanning session, as well as after several days of extended practice. Based on detailed behavioral recordings which enabled the continuous characterization of the ongoing learning process at the single subject level, sequence-specific decreases in activation throughout a learning-related network of cortical areas were identified. Furthermore, the spatial layout of this cortical network remained largely unchanged after extensive practice, although further decreases in activation levels could be observed as learning progressed. In contrast, the posterior part of the left putamen showed increased activation levels when an extensively trained sequence needed to be recalled. Overall, these findings imply that continuous motor sequence learning is mainly associated with more efficient processing in a network of consistently recruited cortical areas, together with co-occurring activation pattern changes at the subcortical level.
The large variety of tasks that humans can perform is governed by a small number of key frontal-insular regions that are commonly active during task performance. Little is known about how this network distinguishes different tasks. We report on fMRI data in twelve participants while they performed four cognitive tasks. Of 20 commonly active frontal-insular regions in each hemisphere, five showed a BOLD response increase with increased task demands, regardless of the task. Although active in all tasks, each task invoked a unique response pattern across the voxels in each area that proved reliable in split-half multi-voxel correlation analysis. Consequently, voxels differed in their preference for one or more of the tasks. Voxel-based functional connectivity analyses revealed that same preference voxels distributed across all areas of the network constituted functional sub-networks that characterized the task being executed.
Previous studies have identified the critical role of the left fusiform cortex in visual word form processing, learning, and memory. However, this so-called visual word form area's (VWFA) other functions are not clear. In this study, we used fMRI and the subsequent memory paradigm to examine whether the putative VWFA was involved in the processing and successful memory encoding of faces as well as words. Twenty-two native Chinese speakers were recruited to memorize the visual forms of faces and Chinese words. Episodic memory for the studied material was tested 3h after the scan with a recognition test. The fusiform face area (FFA) and the VWFA were functionally defined using separate localizer tasks. We found that, both within and across subjects, stronger activity in the VWFA was associated with better recognition memory of both words and faces. Furthermore, activation in the VWFA did not differ significantly during the encoding of faces and words. Our results revealed the important role of the so-called VWFA in face processing and memory and supported the view that the left mid-fusiform cortex plays a general role in the successful processing and memory of different types of visual objects (i.e., not limited to visual word forms).
Magnetic resonance image-guided focused ultrasound surgery (MRgFUS) has surfaced as a viable noninvasive image-guided therapeutic method that integrates focused ultrasound (FUS), the therapeutic component, with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), the image guidance module, into a real-time therapy delivery system with closed-loop control of energy delivery. The main applications for MRgFUS of the brain are thermal ablations for brain tumors and functional neurosurgery, and nonthermal, nonablative uses for disruption of the blood brain barrier (BBB) or blood clot and hematoma dissolution by liquification. The disruption of the BBB by FUS can be used for targeted delivery of chemotherapy and other therapeutic agents. MRI is used preoperatively for target definition and treatment planning, intraoperatively for procedure monitoring and control, and postoperatively for validating treatment success. Although challenges still remain, this integrated noninvasive therapy delivery system is anticipated to change current treatment paradigms in neurosurgery and the clinical neurosciences.
The modern imaging era has introduced a variety of techniques that aid in the evaluation of complex neurologic problems. To optimize the yield of neuroimaging the clinician must, first and foremost, determine the nature of the neuro-ophthalmic disorder; and then localize the lesion. Once the localization of the neuro-ophthalmic problem is understood, the optimal imaging modality can be directed toward the anatomic region of interest. In this article the approach to neuroimaging is discussed, with emphasis on the anatomic localization of lesions affecting afferent and efferent visual function.
Because in the early phases of spinal cord ischemia magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can be normal, its clinical diagnosis is often difficult. We aimed to explore if motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) recordings may contribute to earlier diagnosis of spinal cord stroke. The clinical, MRI, and MEP findings in one case each of cervical and lumbar spinal cord infarction were reported. Spinal MRI at admission was unremarkable in both patients. At this time, MEPs were abnormal in both patients, to the upper and lower limbs in the first patient, exclusively to the lower limbs in the second. Follow-up MRI examinations documented an infarction in the territory of the anterior spinal artery and of the Adamkiewicz artery, respectively. MEP study can be useful in demonstrating spinal cord involvement also when radiological evidence for spinal cord damage is absent or equivocal. Early diagnosis may allow earlier intervention and contribute to improved patient management.
Telephone interviews have been used extensively as a tool to explore and assess sleep disorders and psychopathological conditions. The aim of this study was to set up and validate a telephone interview aimed at assessing the correlation between mood and sleep variables in adolescents. The study included 16-18 years subjects. A total of approximately 4,000 calls were made; 529 adolescents were finally enrolled. The questionnaire was divided into two parts: the first one focused on affective variables, the second one explored sleep variables. A factorial analysis was carried out to explore the structure of the questionnaire according to two factors: the first, which we labeled &quot;affective factor&quot;, and the second, &quot;quality of sleep&quot;. A positive correlation was found regarding the feeling of wellbeing on awakening. A negative correlation was found between feeling of wellbeing on awakening and daytime drowsiness. In adolescence, increased daytime sleepiness seemed to correlate with worsening mood.
Accurate and fast measurement of muscle fibre size and evaluation of fibre type proportions in large cross-sectional areas remains challenging as existing methods require extensive manual measurements. In this study, we assessed the fibre morphometry of approximately 1000 fibres in mouse and human control and diseased muscle cross-sections. We compared fibre size, percentage fibre proportion and percentage fibre surface area results obtained by an automated method using MetaMorph with those obtained manually using Image Pro. Data collection using MetaMorph software was faster and produced similar results to those obtained using Image Pro. The ability to quickly and accurately measure large numbers of fibres with MetaMorph allows the researcher to make a more precise assessment of fibre type and fibre size changes in human muscle biopsies and animal models of muscle disease.
Mutations in the lamin A/C gene (LMNA) are known to be involved in several diseases such as Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy, limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 1B and dilated cardiomyopathies with conduction disease, with considerable phenotype heterogeneity. Here we report on a novel autosomal dominant mutation in LMNA in two direct relatives presenting with different clinical phenotypes, characterized by severe life-threatening limb-girdle muscle involvement and cardiac dysfunction treated with heart transplantation in the proband, and by ventricular tachyarrhythmias with preserved cardiac and skeletal muscle function in her young son. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a duplication in the LMNA gene. The two phenotypes described could reflect different clinical stages of the same disease. We hypothesize that early recognition and initiation of therapeutic manoeuvres in the younger patient may retard the rate of progression of the cardiomyopathy.
We recently reported that dystrophin-deficient mdx mice exhibited a hypersensitive freezing response to fearful events such as brief restraint. In the present study, we ethologically characterized the restraint-induced freezing response in mdx mice. This response was evident when restrained mdx mice were released into a new cage or their home cage, but it was remarkably reduced in cages in which other individuals (wild-type mice that had never been reared with the tested mice) had been reared (the resident mice were removed prior to testing). Reciprocally, exploratory behaviors of restrained mdx mice were outstandingly enhanced in the cages in which other individuals had been reared, suggesting the possibility that scent deposited by residents induced exploration in mdx mice. These results suggest that restraint-induced freezing response in mdx mice is influenced by the attention state of the mouse.
Extensive literature documented that astrocytes release neurotransmitters, cytokines and other signaling molecules to modulate migration, maturation and myelin synthesis of oligodendrocytes through mechanisms primarily converging on cytosolic [Ca2+] transients. Considering the long-term effects, it is expected that astrocyte-conditioned medium is a major regulator of gene expression in oligodendrocytes even in the absence of cytosol-to-cytosol communication via astrocyte-oligodendrocyte gap junction channels. Indeed, by comparing the transcriptomes of immortalized precursor oligodendrocyte (Oli-neu) cells when cultured alone and co-cultured with non-touching astrocytes we found profound changes in the gene expression level, control and networking. Remarkably, the astrocyte proximity was more effective in remodeling the myelination (MYE) gene fabric and its control by cytokine receptor (CYR)-modulated intercellular Ca2+-signaling (ICS) transcriptomic network than the dibutyryl-cAMP (db-cAMP) treatment-induced transformation into myelin-associated glycoprotein-positive oligodendrocyte-like cells. Moreover, astrocyte proximity up-regulated 37 MYE genes and switched on another 14 MYE, 23 ICS and 4 CYR genes, enhancing the roles of the leukemia inhibitory factor receptor and connexins Cx29 and Cx47. The novel prominent gene analysis identified the enhancer of zeste homolog 2 as the most relevant MYE gene in the astrocyte proximity, notch gene homolog 1 in control and B-cell leukemia/lymphoma 2 in differentiated Oli-neu cells.
Astrocytes are involved in synaptic and cerebrovascular regulation in the brain. These functions are regulated by intracellular calcium signalling that is thought to reflect a form of astrocyte excitability. In a recent study, we reported modification of the genetically encoded calcium indicator (GECI) GCaMP2 with a membrane-tethering domain, Lck, to generate Lck-GCaMP2. This GECI allowed us to detect novel microdomain calcium signals. The microdomains were random and 'spotty' in nature. In order to detect such signals more reliably, in the present study we further modified Lck-GCaMP2 to carry three mutations in the GCaMP2 moiety (M153K, T203V within EGFP and N60D in the CaM domain) to generate Lck-GCaMP3. We directly compared Lck-GCaMP2 and Lck-GCaMP3 by assessing their ability to monitor several types of astrocyte calcium signals with a focus on spotty microdomains. Our data show that Lck-GCaMP3 is between two- and four-times better than Lck-GCaMP2 in terms of its basal fluorescence intensity, signal-to-noise and its ability to detect microdomains. The use of Lck-GCaMP3 thus represents a significantly improved way to monitor astrocyte calcium signals, including microdomains, and will facilitate detailed exploration of their molecular mechanisms and physiological roles.
In the cerebellum, lamellar Bergmann glial (BG) appendages wrap tightly around almost every Purkinje cell dendritic spine. The function of this glial ensheathment of spines is not entirely understood. The development of ensheathment begins near the onset of synaptogenesis, when motility of both BG processes and dendritic spines are high. By the end of the synaptogenic period, ensheathment is complete and motility of the BG processes decreases, correlating with the decreased motility of dendritic spines. We therefore have hypothesized that ensheathment is intimately involved in capping synaptogenesis, possibly by stabilizing synapses. To test this hypothesis, we misexpressed GluR2 in an adenoviral vector in BG towards the end of the synaptogenic period, rendering the BG -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors (AMPARs) Ca2+-impermeable and causing glial sheath retraction. We then measured the resulting spine motility, spine density and synapse number. Although we found that decreasing ensheathment at this time does not alter spine motility, we did find a significant increase in both synaptic pucta and dendritic spine density. These results indicate that consistent spine coverage by BG in the cerebellum is not necessary for stabilization of spine dynamics, but is very important in the regulation of synapse number.
Several animal and human studies have shown a decreased analgesic potency of morphine in diabetic subjects. Since G-protein subunits have an important role in morphine effects at the cellular level and the exact mechanism(s) of diabetes-induced morphine insensitivity has not been fully clarified yet, the present study was designed to determine the changes in the levels of G(alphai), G(alphas), G(beta) mRNAs and proteins involved in this phenomenon. All experiments were carried out on male Wistar rats. The tail-flick test was used to assess the nociceptive threshold. Diabetes was induced by injection of 50 mg/kg (i.p.) streptozotocin. Four weeks after diabetes induction, the dorsal half of the lumbar spinal cord was assayed for the expression of G-protein subunits using semiquantitative RT-PCR and immunoblotting. The antinociceptive effect of intrathecal morphine (5, 10 and 15 microg i.t.) was significantly reduced in diabetic rats and these effects were reversed with insulin replacement. In diabetic animals, a significant increase in the mRNA levels of G(alphai) (23.5%) was observed in the dorsal portion of the lumbar spinal cord. The mRNA level of G(alphas) and G(beta) did not change. Following diabetes a significant decrease in the protein levels of G(alphai) was induced. In contrast, no significant changes were observed in the protein level of G(alphas) and G(beta). In diabetic animals that received insulin, levels of G(alphai) mRNA and protein were close to those in control rats. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that the expression pattern of the cellular components involved in morphine analgesia changes in diabetic animals. This may be, at least partly, responsible for diabetes-induced morphine insensitivity.

This study investigated the changes in coping styles of patients with acquired brain injury who underwent cognitive rehabilitation, and the effects of these changes on their quality of life. Participants were 110 patients in the chronic phase post-injury, who underwent outpatient cognitive rehabilitation according to current guidelines and standards. Coping style (Utrecht Coping List) was measured at the start of rehabilitation (T0) and repeated at least 5 months later (T1). Coping style was related to quality of life measured at T1 (Life Satisfaction Questionnaire and Stroke-Adapted Sickness Impact Profile). Results indicated that active problem-focused coping styles decreased and passive emotion-focused coping styles increased significantly between T0 and T1. Furthermore, the study showed that increases in active problem-focused coping styles and decreases in passive emotion-focused coping styles predicted a higher quality of life in the long term. These changes in coping styles are adaptive for the adjustment process in the chronic phase post-injury. Overall however, most participants showed maladaptive changes in coping styles. Implications for cognitive rehabilitation are therefore discussed.

The objective of the present study was to assess the development of luminance- and texture-defined static form perception in school-aged children. This was done using an adapted Landolt-C technique where C-optotypes were defined by either luminance or texture information, the latter necessitating extra-striate neural processing to be perceived. Typically developing children were placed in one of 4 school-age groups (6, 8, 10 and 12-year olds); an adult group was also assessed. The contrast threshold for the correct identification of gap-opening-orientation for C-optotypes defined by either texture- or luminance-contrast was measured. All participants were presented with C-optotypes with gap-openings presented in one of 4 orientations (up, down, left or right). An adaptive staircase procedure was used to measure gap-opening-identification thresholds (minimum luminance- or texture-contrast modulation) for all three conditions and ages. As expected, gap-opening identification sensitivity (1/threshold) increased with age for all conditions. For both luminance-defined conditions, adult-like performance was manifested by 12 years of age. By comparison, at 12 years of age, the sensitivity to texture-defined C-optotypes was significantly lower than that of adults, having increased steadily from the age of 6 years. These results suggest that mechanisms underlying static form perception mature at different ages depending on the physical attribute defining the form. Luminance-defined form perception appears to reach adult-like levels (or plateau) earlier than for texture-defined information, suggesting that the development of mechanisms mediating higher-order form perception persist into adolescence.
Lateralization for language, spatial judgment and face processing was assessed in 42 pairs of identical twins, 21 discordant and 21 concordant pairs for handedness, using fMRI. Individual laterality indices were calculated based on the observed activation patterns. All tasks showed expected asymmetry, favoring the left-hemisphere for language and the right-hemisphere for spatial judgment and face processing. The intra-class correlations on the laterality indices were significant only on the language task and only for the concordant group, but not the discordant group, suggesting a stronger genetic influence for language asymmetry in concordant twins. The expected asymmetry was greater for the concordant group only on the language task. The difference was not significant, but conformed quite well to Annett's genetic model, which assumes a right-shift (RS) gene with one allele (RS+) biasing toward right-handedness and left-cerebral language dominance, and the other (RS-) leaving both asymmetries to chance. The model also assumes that the genetic influence is additive for handedness but dominant-recessive for left-cerebral language dominance, which explains the high concordance for language dominance in twins discordant for handedness. Our data suggest that the same gene has no influence on right-hemisphere dominance for spatial judgment or face processing, and offer little support for mirror-imaging in MZ twins other than that due to chance.
Is orienting of spatial attention dependent on normal functioning of the ocular motor system? We investigated the role of motor pathways in covert orienting (attentional orienting without performing eye movements) by studying three patients suffering from Duane Retraction Syndrome-a congenital impairment in executing horizontal eye movements restricted to specific gaze directions. Patients showed a typical exogenous (reflexive) attention effect when the target was presented in visual fields to which they could perform an eye movement. This effect was not present when the target was presented in the visual field to which they could not perform eye movements. These findings stress the link between eye movements and attention. Specifically, they bring out the importance of the ability to execute appropriate eye movements for attentional orienting. We suggest that the relevant information about eye movement ability is provided by feedback from lower motor structures to higher attentional areas.
Non-deficit participants present a leftward bias (pseudoneglect) in a physical line bisection task. This is also true for the mental number line bisection task. Physical and number line bisection were examined in university students diagnosed as suffering from developmental dyscalculia (DD) (IQ and readings abilities in the normal range and no indication for Attention-Deficit Disorder) and matched (hand, age, and sex) controls. DD participants presented an abnormal pattern of performance in these two tasks. In the physical number bisection task, no consistent bias was observed. This result implies a difficulty in visual attention. In contrast, in the mental number line bisection task, the DD group presented larger pseudoneglect than the control group. This result implies that the representation of numbers on the mental number line is different in the DD group and in the control group. It is suggested that those with DD have a more prominent tendency toward a logarithmic representation of numbers. The dissociation between physical and numerical bisections in those with DD implies that the source of the pseudoneglect in the two tasks is not identical.
Early-life stress (ES) has been associated with diverse forms of psychopathology. Some investigators suggest that these associations reflect the effects of stress on the neural circuits that support cognitive control. However, very few prior studies have examined the associations between ES, cognitive control, and underlying neural architecture. The present study compares adolescents with a documented history of ES to typical adolescents on a cognitive control task using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Twelve ES adolescents who were adopted because of early caregiver deprivation (9 females, age=13 years+/-2.58) and 21 healthy control adolescents without a history of ES (10 females, age=13 years+/-1.96) who resided with their biological parents performed the change task (Nelson, Vinton et al., 2007)--a variant of the stop task--during fMRI. Behaviourally, ES adolescents took longer to switch from a prepotent response (&quot;go&quot;) to an alternative response (&quot;change&quot;) than control adolescents. During correct &quot;change&quot; responses vs. correct &quot;go&quot; responses, this behavioural group difference was accompanied by higher activation in ES subjects than controls. These differences were noted in regions involved in primary sensorimotor processes (pre- and postcentral gyri), conflict monitoring (dorsal anterior cingulate gyrus), inhibitory and response control (inferior prefrontal cortex and striatum), and somatic representations (posterior insula). Furthermore, correct &quot;change&quot; responses vs. incorrect &quot;change&quot; responses recruited the inferior prefrontal cortex (BA 44/46) more strongly in ES subjects than controls. These data suggest impaired cognitive control in youth who experienced ES.
Musical mnemonics have a long and diverse history of popular use. In addition, music processing in general is often considered spared by the neurodegenerative effects of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Research examining these two phenomena is limited, and no work to our knowledge has explored the effectiveness of musical mnemonics in AD. The present study sought to investigate the effect of music at encoding on the subsequent recognition of associated verbal information. Lyrics of unfamiliar children's songs were presented bimodally at encoding, and visual stimuli were accompanied by either a sung or a spoken recording. Patients with AD demonstrated better recognition accuracy for the sung lyrics than the spoken lyrics, while healthy older adults showed no significant difference between the two conditions. We propose two possible explanations for these findings: first, that the brain areas subserving music processing may be preferentially spared by AD, allowing a more holistic encoding that facilitates recognition, and second, that music heightens arousal in patients with AD, allowing better attention and improved memory.
Alcohol-induced alterations of cerebellar function cause motor coordination impairments that are responsible for millions of injuries and deaths worldwide. Cognitive deficits associated with alcoholism are also a consequence of cerebellar dysfunction. The mechanisms responsible for these effects of ethanol are poorly understood. Recent studies have identified neurons in the input layer of the cerebellar cortex as important ethanol targets. In this layer, granule cells (GrCs) receive the majority of sensory inputs to the cerebellum through the mossy fibers. Information flow at these neurons is gated by a specialized pacemaker interneuron known as the Golgi cell, which provides divergent GABAergic input to thousands of GrCs. In vivo electrophysiological experiments have previously shown that acute ethanol exposure abolishes GrC responsiveness to sensory inputs carried by mossy fibers. Slice electrophysiological studies suggest that ethanol causes this effect by potentiating GABAergic transmission at Golgi cell-to-GrC synapses through an increase in Golgi cell excitability. Using patch-clamp electrophysiological techniques in cerebellar slices and computer modeling, we show here that ethanol excites Golgi cells by inhibiting the Na(+)/K(+) ATPase. Voltage-clamp recordings of Na(+)/K(+) ATPase currents indicated that ethanol partially inhibits this pump and this effect could be mimicked by low concentrations of ouabain. Partial inhibition of Na(+)/K(+) ATPase function in a computer model of the Golgi cell reproduced these experimental findings. These results establish a novel mechanism of action of ethanol on neuronal excitability, which likely has a role in ethanol-induced cerebellar dysfunction and may also contribute to neuronal functional alterations in other brain regions.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a serious condition often affecting young and healthy individuals around the world. Electro-acupuncture (EA) has been proven to contribute towards neurologic and functional recoveries in SCI, but the underlying mechanism remains largely unknown especially regarding neural specific proteins involved in the development of EA. The protein expression profile of spinal cord in both SCI and EA treatment models was analyzed by using two-dimensional electrophoresis-based proteomics. Using a MALDI-TOF/TOF MS and subsequent protein database searching, we identified changes in 15 proteins in the spinal cord following Governor Vessel (GV) EA treatment on SCI. These proteins are involved in inflammation, cell adhesion and migration, signal transduction and apoptosis processes. We selected 2 proteins (ANXA5 and CRMP2) beneficial to neuronal survival and axonal regeneration, and further identified these protein changes using Western blot analysis. Subsequently, Nissl staining and immunofluorescence double labeling approaches were used to explore possible role of the two neural specific proteins in the process of GV-EA treatment on SCI. Our results suggest that ANXA5 and CRMP2 may be neural specific proteins in the process of GV-EA treatment on SCI. This work might contribute to the better understanding of the mechanism involved in EA treatment on SCI at protein levels and provide a new therapeutic strategy for SCI.
Structural neuronal plasticity is present in the nucleus para-retroambiguus (NPRA) and the commissural nucleus of the solitary tract/A2 group (NTScom/A2) in female hamsters. Both brainstem nuclei play a role in estrous cycle related autonomic adaptations. We investigated how aging affects the capillary condition in these adaptive brainstem regions. Senescent female hamsters (+/-95 weeks) were tested weekly for their 4-day estrous cycle. Subsequently morphological changes of NPRA and NTScom/A2 were compared with those of young (+/-20 weeks) females in an ultrastructural study. The medial tegmental field served as control area. In 841 capillaries (n=319 capillaries, young females (N=3); n=522 capillaries, aged females (N=4)) vascular aberrations were classified into 3 categories: endothelial and tight junction, basement membrane and pericyte aberrations. In old animals, capillaries showed marked endothelial changes, disrupted tight junctions, and thickening and splitting of basement membranes. Aberrations were found in 40-60% of all capillaries. About 70% of the pericytes contained degenerative inclusions. Despite this generalized vascular degeneration, the reproductive cycle of female hamsters was unaffected by vascular senescence. Perivascular fibrosis as reported in aging rats was never observed, which suggests the existence of species differences.

As a relatively young science, neuroscience is still finding its feet in potential collaborations with other disciplines. One such discipline is education, with the field of neuroeducation being on the horizon since the 1960s. However, although its achievements are now growing, the partnership has not been as successful as first hopes suggested it should be. Here the authors discuss the theoretical barriers and potential solutions to this, which have been suggested previously, with particular focus on levels of research in neuroscience and their applicability to education. Moreover, they propose that these theoretical barriers are driven and maintained by practical barriers surrounding common language and research literacy. They propose that by overcoming these practical barriers through appropriate training and shared experience, neuroeducation can reach its full potential.
Among the 23 members of the fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family, FGF-2 is the most abundant one in the central nervous system. Its impact on neural cells has been profoundly investigated by in vitro and in vivo studies as well as by gene knockout analyses during the past 2 decades. Key functions of FGF-2 in the nervous system include roles in neurogenesis, promotion of axonal growth, differentiation in development, and maintenance and plasticity in adulthood. From a clinical perspective, its prominent role for the maintenance of lesioned neurons (e.g., ischemia and following transection of fiber tracts) is of particular relevance. In the unlesioned brain, FGF-2 is involved in synaptic plasticity and processes attributed to learning and memory. The focus of this review is on the expression of FGF-2 and its receptors in the hippocampal formation and the physiological and pathophysiological roles of FGF-2 in this region during development and adulthood.
We are able to rapidly recognize and localize the many sounds in our environment. We can describe any of these sounds in terms of various independent &quot;features&quot; such as their loudness, pitch, or position in space. However, we still know surprisingly little about how neurons in the auditory brain, specifically the auditory cortex, might form representations of these perceptual characteristics from the information that the ear provides about sound acoustics. In this article, the authors examine evidence that the auditory cortex is necessary for processing the pitch, timbre, and location of sounds, and document how neurons across multiple auditory cortical fields might represent these as trains of action potentials. They conclude by asking whether neurons in different regions of the auditory cortex might not be simply sensitive to each of these three sound features but whether they might be selective for one of them. The few studies that have examined neural sensitivity to multiple sound attributes provide only limited support for neural selectivity within auditory cortex. Providing an explanation of the neural basis of feature invariance is thus one of the major challenges to sensory neuroscience obtaining the ultimate goal of understanding how neural firing patterns in the brain give rise to perception.

Esmail Jorjani was a prominent Persian physician of the 11th and 12th centuries. We present Jorjani's descriptions of probable trigeminal neuralgia, hemifacial spasm, and Bell's palsy. Additionally, on the basis of our translations of his original text, we believe that Jorjani may have been the first to implicate an artery-nerve conflict as an etiology of trigeminal neuralgia. This theory, documented in Jorjani's Treasure of the Khawarazm Shah and elaborated on by Dandy and Jannetta, constitutes the basis of a modern surgical approach to trigeminal neuralgia. The authors also describe the life and works of Esmail Jorjani and review his Treasure for its descriptions related to the aforementioned cranial nerve pathologies.








One of the hallmarks of diffusion NMR and MRI is its ability to utilize restricted diffusion to probe compartments much smaller than the excited volume or the MRI voxel, respectively, and to extract microstructural information from them. Single-pulsed field gradient (s-PFG) MR methodologies have been employed with great success to probe microstructures in various disciplines, ranging from chemistry to neuroscience. However, s-PFG MR also suffers from inherent shortcomings, especially when specimens are characterized by orientation or size distributions: in such cases, the microstructural information available from s-PFG experiments is limited or lost. Double-pulsed field gradient (d-PFG) MR methodology, an extension of s-PFG MR, has attracted attention owing to recent theoretical studies predicting that it can overcome certain inherent limitations of s-PFG MR. In this review, we survey the microstructural features that can be obtained from conventional s-PFG methods in the different q regimes, and highlight its limitations. The experimental aspects of d-PFG methodology are then presented, together with an overview of its theoretical underpinnings and a general framework for relating the MR signal decay and material microstructure, affording new microstructural parameters. We then discuss recent studies that have validated the theory using phantoms in which the ground truth is well known a priori, a crucial step prior to the application of d-PFG methodology in neuronal tissue. The experimental findings are in excellent agreement with the theoretical predictions and reveal, inter alia, zero-crossings of the signal decay, robustness towards size distributions and angular dependences of the signal decay from which accurate microstructural parameters, such as compartment size and even shape, can be extracted. Finally, we show some initial findings in d-PFG MR imaging. This review lays the foundation for future studies, in which accurate and novel microstructural information could be extracted from complex biological specimens, eventually leading to new forms of contrast in MRI.


Nucleotides function in a variety of biological reactions; however, they can undergo various chemical modifications. Such modified nucleotides may be toxic to cells if not eliminated from the nucleotide pools. We performed a screen for modified-nucleotide binding proteins and identified human nucleoside diphosphate linked moiety X-type motif 16 (NUDT16) protein as an inosine triphosphate (ITP)/xanthosine triphosphate (XTP)/GTP-binding protein. Recombinant NUDT16 hydrolyzes purine nucleoside diphosphates to the corresponding nucleoside monophosphates. Among 29 nucleotides examined, the highest k(cat)/K(m) values were for inosine diphosphate (IDP) and deoxyinosine diphosphate (dIDP). Moreover, NUDT16 moderately hydrolyzes (deoxy)inosine triphosphate ([d]ITP). NUDT16 is mostly localized in the nucleus, and especially in the nucleolus. Knockdown of NUDT16 in HeLa MR cells caused cell cycle arrest in S-phase, reduced cell proliferation, increased accumulation of single-strand breaks in nuclear DNA as well as increased levels of inosine in RNA. We thus concluded that NUDT16 is a (deoxy)inosine diphosphatase that may function mainly in the nucleus to protect cells from deleterious effects of (d)ITP.
The clustered protocadherins are a subfamily of neuronal cell adhesion molecules that play an important role in development of the nervous systems in vertebrates. The clustered protocadherin genes exhibit complex expression patterns in the central nervous system. In this study, we have investigated the molecular mechanism underlying neuronal expression of protocadherin genes using the protocadherin gene cluster in fugu as a model. By in silico prediction, we identified multiple neuron-restrictive silencer elements (NRSEs) scattered in the fugu protocadherin cluster and demonstrated that these elements bind specifically to NRSF/REST in vitro and in vivo. By using a transgenic Xenopus approach, we show that these NRSEs regulate neuronal specificity of protocadherin promoters by suppressing their activity in non-neuronal tissues. We provide evidence that protocadherin genes that do not contain an NRSE in their 5' intergenic region are regulated by NRSEs in the regulatory region of their neighboring genes. We also show that protocadherin clusters in other vertebrates such as elephant shark, zebrafish, coelacanth, lizard, mouse and human, contain different sets of multiple NRSEs. Taken together, our data suggest that the neuronal specificity of protocadherin cluster genes in vertebrates is regulated by the NRSE-NRSF/REST system.
Recent studies showed that small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) and Piwi-interacting RNA (piRNA) in mammalian germ cells play important roles in retrotransposon silencing and gametogenesis. However, subsequent contribution of those small RNAs to early mammalian development remains poorly understood. We investigated the expression profiles of small RNAs in mouse metaphase II oocytes, 8-16-cell stage embryos, blastocysts and the pluripotent inner cell mass (ICM) using high-throughput pyrosequencing. Here, we show that during pre-implantation development a major small RNA class changes from retrotransposon-derived small RNAs containing siRNAs and piRNAs to zygotically synthesized microRNAs (miRNAs). Some siRNAs and piRNAs are transiently upregulated and directed against specific retrotransposon classes. We also identified miRNAs expression profiles characteristic of the ICM and trophectoderm (TE) cells. Taken together, our current study reveals a major reprogramming of functional small RNAs during early mouse development from oocyte to blastocyst.
The TRPV1 antagonist A-995662 demonstrates analgesic efficacy in monoiodoacetate-induced osteoarthritic (OA) pain in rat, and repeated dosing results in increased in vivo potency and a prolonged duration of action. To identify possible mechanism(s) underlying these observations, release of neuropeptides and the neurotransmitter glutamate from isolated spinal cord was measured. In OA rats, basal release of glutamate, bradykinin and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) was significantly elevated compared to nave levels, whereas substance P (SP) levels were not changed. In vitro studies showed that capsaicin-evoked TRPV1-dependent CGRP release was 54.7+/-7.7% higher in OA, relative to levels measured for nave rats, suggesting that TRPV1 activity was higher under OA conditions. The efficacy of A-995662 in OA corresponded with its ability to inhibit glutamate and CGRP release from the spinal cord. A single, fully efficacious dose of A-995662, 100 micromol/kg, reduced spinal glutamate and CGRP release, while a single sub-efficacious dose of A-995662 (25 micromol/kg) was ineffective. Multiple dosing with A-995662 increased the potency and duration of efficacy in OA rats. Changes in efficacy did not correlate with plasma concentrations of A-995662, but were accompanied with reductions in spinal glutamate release. These findings suggest that repeated dosing of TRPV1 antagonists enhances therapeutic potency and duration of action against OA pain, at least in part, by the sustained reduction in release of glutamate and CGRP from the spinal cord.
Although transgenic and knockout mice have helped delineate the mechanisms of action of diverse noxious compounds, it is still difficult to determine unequivocally the subpopulations of primary afferent nociceptor that these molecules engage. As most noxious stimuli lead to tissue and/or nerve injury, here we used induction of activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3), a reliable marker of nerve injury, to assess the populations of primary afferent fibers that are activated after peripheral administration of noxious chemical stimuli. In wild-type mice, hindpaw injections of capsaicin, formalin, mustard oil or menthol induce expression of ATF3 in distinct subpopulations of sensory neurons. Interestingly, even though these noxious chemicals are thought to act through subtypes of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels, all compounds also induced ATF3 in neurons that appear not to express the expected TRP channel subtypes. On the other hand, capsaicin failed to induce ATF3 in mice lacking TRPV1, indicating that TRPV1 is required for both the direct and indirect induction of ATF3 in sensory neurons. By contrast, only low doses of formalin or mustard oil failed to induce ATF3 in TRPA1 null mice, indicating that injections of high doses (&gt;0.5%) of formalin or mustard oil recruit both TRPA1- and non-TRPA1 expressing primary afferent fibers. Finally, peripheral injection of menthol, a TRPM8 receptor agonist, induced ATF3 in a wide variety of sensory neurons, but in a TRPM8-independent manner. We conclude that purportedly selective agonists can activate a heterogeneous population of sensory neurons, which ultimately could contribute to the behavioral responses evoked.
Somatosensory neurons detect environmental stimuli, converting external cues into neural activity that is relayed first to second-order neurons in the spinal cord. The detection of cold is proposed to be mediated by the ion channels TRPM8 and TRPA1. However, there is significant debate regarding the role of each channel in cold-evoked pain, complicating their potential as drug targets for conditions such as cold allodynia and hyperalgesia. To address this debate, we generated mice lacking functional copies of both channels and examined behaviors and neural activity in response to painful cold and noxious cooling compounds. Whereas normal mice display a robust preference for warmth over cold, both TRPM8-null (TRPM8(-/-)) and TRPM8/TRPA1 double-knockout mice (DKO) display no preference until temperatures reach the extreme noxious range. Additionally, in contrast to wildtype mice that avoid touching cold surfaces, mice lacking TRPM8 channels display no such avoidance and explore noxious cold surfaces, even at 5 degrees C. Furthermore, nocifensive behaviors to the cold-mimetic icilin are absent in TRPM8(-/-) and DKO mice, but are retained in TRPA1-nulls (TRPA1(-/-)). Finally, neural activity, measured by expression of the immediate-early gene c-fos, evoked by hindpaw stimulation with noxious cold, menthol, or icilin is reduced in TRPM8(-/-) and DKO mice, but not in TRPA1(-/-) animals. Thus our results show that noxious cold signaling is exclusive to TRPM8, mediating neural and behavioral responses to cold and cold-mimetics, and that TRPA1 is not required for acute cold pain in mammals.
Due to maturation-related plasticity of the developing nociceptive system, neonatal nociceptive input, as induced by medical procedures in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), may cause long-term alterations in pain processing. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, this study investigated the cerebral pain response in school-aged children and adolescents (11-16 yr) with experience in a NICU after preterm (&lt;or=31 weeks gestational age, N=9) or fullterm birth (&gt;or=37 weeks gestational age, N=9) as compared to fullterm control children without early hospitalization (N=9). NICU children had been recruited retrospectively among former patients of the Children's University Hospital Mannheim. All children had participated in our previous studies [46,49] entailing psychophysical measurements. In response to tonic (30s) heat stimuli of individually adjusted moderate pain intensity, which were of comparable temperature across groups, the preterm but not the fullterm NICU children exhibited significant activations in a number of brain regions (thalamus, anterior cingulate cortex, cerebellum, basal ganglia, and periaquaeductal gray) that were not significantly activated in controls. The preterms showed significantly higher activations than controls in primary somatosensory cortex, anterior cingulate cortex, and insula. This exaggerated brain response was pain-specific and was not observed during non-painful warmth stimulation. Preterms' continuous pain ratings revealed a tendency for increased sensitization within and a lack of habituation across trials. In highly vulnerable children such as preterms, neonatal nociceptive input may, aside from other neurodevelopmental consequences, persistently increase the gain within pain pathways.
Erythropoietin (Epo) is an endogenous cytokine that regulates hematopoiesis and is widely used to treat anemia. In addition, it has recently increased interest in the neurosciences since the new concept of Epo as a neuroprotective agent has emerged. The potential protective effect of human recombinant Epo (r-hu-Epo) on a hypoxic-ischemic (HI) pup rat model was studied. Cerebral HI was obtained by permanent left carotid artery ligature of pups followed by a 2-h hypoxia. Three hours after carotid occlusion, brain lesions were assessed by magnetic resonance diffusion weighted imaging. Intraperitoneal administration of r-hu-Epo (30,000 U/kg dose) limited both the HI-induced brain lesion area and the decrease in apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) in the lesion. To identify potential mechanisms underlying the effects of Epo, immunohistochemical detection of caspase-3 and water channel protein aquaporin-4 (AQP4) were performed. No early apoptosis was detected, but up-regulation of AQP4 expression was observed in HI pups that received r-hu-Epo compared with HI animals without treatment. This study demonstrates an early neuroprotective effect of Epo with regard to brain lesion area and ADC values. One possible mechanism of Epo for decreasing brain edema and cellular swelling could be a better clearance of water excess in brain tissue, a process possibly mediated by AQP4.
Some of the most popular meditation practices emphasize a relaxed focus of attention in which thoughts, images, sensations, and emotions may emerge and pass freely without actively controlling or pursuing them. Several recent studies show that meditation activates frontal brain areas associated with attention focusing and physical relaxation. The objective of the present study was to assess whether brain activation during relaxed focusing on a meditation sound could be distinguished from similar, concentrative control tasks. Brain activation was measured with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in experienced practitioners of Acem meditation. Bilateral areas of the inferior frontal gyrus (BA47) were significantly more activated during repetition of a meditation sound than during concentrative meditation-like cognitive tasks. Meditation-specific brain activation did not habituate over time, but increased in strength with continuous meditation bouts. These observations suggest that meditation with a relaxed focus of attention may activate distinct areas of the prefrontal cortex, with implications for the understanding of neurobiological correlates of meditation.

Human adolescents consume alcohol largely to enhance social interactions. Adolescent, but not adult rats likewise exhibit ethanol-induced social facilitation under low-stress circumstances. Since the relationship between stress and ethanol sensitivity across ontogeny still has yet to be well explored, the present study sought to characterize possible age-associated differences in the influence of stressor exposure on ethanol-induced changes in social behavior in adolescent [postnatal days (P) 30-36] and adult (P65-71) male and female Sprague-Dawley rats. Animals were repeatedly restrained (90min/day) for 5days, followed by examination of ethanol-induced (0, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, or 1.0g/kg) alterations in social behaviors on the last day. Results revealed typical age-related differences in sensitivity to ethanol among controls, with adolescents being uniquely sensitive to low-dose ethanol stimulation of social investigation and play fighting, but less sensitive than adults to the social suppression emerging at higher doses. At both ages, stressor exposure decreased sensitivity to social inhibitory effects of ethanol, while augmenting expression of ethanol's social facilitatory effects. Ethanol also attenuated the stress-related suppression of social motivation at both ages. These results suggest that repeated stressor exposure diminishes age-related differences in the social consequences of ethanol, with stress enhancing ethanol-induced social facilitation across age.
Repeated intermittent exposure to stimulants progressively increases a drug's effect, with stressors capable of producing cross-sensitization to stimulants. Studies examining such sensitization during development are few, however, with results mixed. In Experiment 1, juvenile (P22) and adult (P64) female Sprague-Dawley rats were administered (daily for 4days) 1.5mg/kg or 3.0mg/kg amphetamine (1.5A and 3.0A groups), or saline (SAL group). In a second experiment, rats were exposed to either repeated restraint (60min/day for 4days; RS group) or were left non-manipulated in the home cage (NM group). Animals from both experiments were then challenged with 1.5mg/kg of amphetamine and sensitization assessed via locomotion and stereotypy after a 2-day and 3-wk washout period. When compared to SAL animals, 3.0A juveniles and adults exhibited evidence of locomotor sensitization 2days post-drug exposure, but this sensitization did not persist to the 3-week challenge. Compared to NM animals, RS animals showed stress-induced locomotor sensitization both 2days and 3weeks post-stress exposure, regardless of age. These results demonstrate that repeated drug/stress exposures prior to stimulant challenge are sufficient to induce behavioral sensitization among both juveniles and adults, with these effects particularly long-lasting following repeated stressor exposure.
Cardiovascular risk factors, such as oxidative stress and elevated lipids, are linked to the development of cognitive impairment. A mediator common to both stressors is the apolipoprotein E (apoE). The objectives of this study are to determine the effects of apoE deficiency and diet-induced systemic oxidative stress in mice on vascular expression of inflammatory proteins and on cognitive function. Mice are placed on a diet enriched in homocysteine for fifteen weeks and then assessed for spatial learning using an eight-arm radial maze and for inflammatory protein expression by immunohistochemistry. Our results show that diet-induced oxidative stress does not affect cognitive function in normal mice. In contrast, apoE-/- mice on the homocysteine diet show significantly impaired (p&lt;0. 001) maze performance. ApoE-/- mice also have high cholesterol levels. There is no expression of inflammatory proteins IL-6 and IL-8 in the vasculature of control mice on normal or homocysteine diet and little in apoE-/- mice on normal diet. In contrast, apoE-/- mice on homocysteine diet show pronounced vascular reactivity to IL-6 and IL-8 antibodies. These data show that systemic oxidative stress correlates with expression of inflammatory proteins in the cerebral vasculature and impaired cognitive function. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that an oxidative-inflammatory cycle in the cerebral vasculature could have deleterious consequences for cognition.
Benzodiazepine withdrawal has been associated with hostile and aggressive behavior. The benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil has reduced, increased or not affected hostility and aggression in animal and human studies. In the present study we analyzed data collected in a placebo-controlled study of the effects of the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil in patients previously treated for benzodiazepine dependency, and healthy controls. The aim was to analyze the effects of flumazenil on hostility and aggression. Ten patients and 10 controls received, on two separate occasions, cumulative doses of flumazenil (0.05, 0.1, 0.25, 0.5 and 1mg at 15min intervals) or placebo. Withdrawal symptoms were rated after each injection. Patients had been free from benzodiazepines for 47 (4-266) weeks on the first occasion. A three-way interaction (groupxtreatmentxdose) was found, and was explained by: 1) patients rating aggression and hostility higher than controls at all times during placebo, while 2) during the flumazenil provocation i) the initial significant difference between patients and controls was no longer significant above the 0.5mg dose, and ii) patients rated aggression and hostility significantly lower above the 0.5mg dose compared to base-line. The results suggest that self-rated aggression and hostility in patients treated for benzodiazepine dependency was reduced by the partial benzodiazepine agonist flumazenil.


We propose a method for the control of synchronization in two oscillator populations interacting according to a drive-response coupling scheme. The response ensemble of oscillators, which gets synchronized because of a strong forcing by the intrinsically synchronized driving ensemble, is controlled by mixed nonlinear delayed feedback. The stimulation signal is constructed from the mixed macroscopic activities of both ensembles. We show that the suggested method can effectively decouple the interacting ensembles from each other, where the natural desynchronous dynamics can be recovered in a demand-controlled way either in the stimulated ensemble, or, intriguingly, in both stimulated and not stimulated populations. We discuss possible therapeutic applications in the context of the control of abnormal brain synchrony in loops of affected neuronal populations.
We derive an approximate expression for mutual information in a broad class of discrete-time stationary channels with continuous input, under the constraint of vanishing input amplitude or power. The approximation describes the input by its covariance matrix, while the channel properties are described by the Fisher information matrix. This separation of input and channel properties allows us to analyze the optimality conditions in a convenient way. We show that input correlations in memory less channels do not affect channel capacity since their effect decreases fast with vanishing input amplitude or power. On the other hand, for channels with memory, properly matching the input covariances to the dependence structure of the noise may lead to almost noiseless information transfer, even for intermediate values of the noise correlations. Since many model systems described in mathematical neuroscience and biophysics operate in the high-noise regime and weak-signal conditions, we believe, that the described results are of potential interest also to researchers in these areas.
A common polymorphism (R577X) in the ACTN3 gene results in complete deficiency of alpha-actinin-3 protein in approximately 16% of humans worldwide. The presence of alpha-actinin-3 protein is associated with improved sprint/power performance in athletes and the general population. Despite this, there is evidence that the null genotype XX has been acted on by recent positive selection, likely due to its emerging role in the regulation of muscle metabolism. alpha-Actinin-3 deficiency reduces the activity of glycogen phosphorylase and results in a fundamental shift toward more oxidative pathways of energy utilization.
Cannabinoid receptors and endocannabinoid signaling are distributed throughout the rostrocaudal neuraxis. Retrograde signaling via endocannabinoid mediates synaptic plasticity in many regions in the central nervous system. Here, we review the role of endocannabinoid signaling in different parts of the vertebrate motor system from networks responsible for the execution of movement to planning centers in the basal ganglia and cortex. The ubiquity of endocannabinoid-mediated plasticity suggests that it plays an important role in producing motion from defined circuitries and also for reconfiguring networks to learn new motor skills. The long-term plasticity induced by endocannabinoids may provide a long-term buffer that stabilizes the organization of motor circuits and their activity.
Kisspeptins are a group of peptides that stimulate GnRH release and are required for puberty and maintenance of normal reproductive function. This review focuses on our understanding of the way in which kisspeptin signaling regulates mammalian fertility and how they act as central integrators of different hormonal and physiological signals.
Most lizards lay eggs. However viviparity has evolved in the Squamata on many separate occasions by the process of extended retention of the egg coincident with gradual loss of the eggshell. This process is linked to reduction of the amount of yolk which is coupled with development of placental nutrient transfer. The family Scincidae currently show a range of multiple independent origins of viviparity and placentation along this pathway, and the genus Mabuya shows one of the most structurally complex placentas. This study investigates the transport potential of the different areas of the Mabuya placenta using immunocytochemistry to localize the systems in place for calcium, glucose and water transfer. The localization of these transporters demonstrated restricted distributions in the specialized areas of this morphologically complex placenta.
Essential thrombocythaemia is one of the chronic myeloproliferative neoplasms and is characterised by a sustained platelet count &gt; or = 450 x 10(9)/l. The clinical course is often indolent but a significant number of patients have thrombotic and haemorrhagic complications. A patient with neurological complications is described, and the pathogenesis and clinical features of this disease are reviewed, including its neurological sequelae and management, along with an outline for the investigation of patients with thrombocytosis.
Glycine is a primary inhibitory neurotransmitter in the spinal cord and brainstem. It acts at glycine receptor (GlyR)-chloride channels, as well as a co-agonist of NMDA receptors (NMDARs). In the hippocampus, the study of GlyRs has largely been under-appreciated due to the apparent absence of glycinergic synaptic transmission. Emerging evidence has shown the presence of extrasynaptic GlyRs in the hippocampus, which exert a tonic inhibitory role, and can be highly regulated under many pathophysiological conditions. On the other hand, besides d-serine, glycine has also been shown to modulate NMDAR function in the hippocampus. The simultaneous activation of excitatory NMDARs and inhibitory GlyRs may provide a homeostatic regulation of hippocampal network function. Furthermore, glycine can regulate hippocampal neuronal activity through GlyR-mediated cross-inhibition of GABAergic inhibition, or through the glycine binding site-dependent internalization of NMDARs. Therefore, hippocampal glycine and its receptors may operate in concert to finely regulate hippocampus-dependent high brain function such as learning and memory. Finally, dysfunction of hippocampal glycine signaling is associated with neuropsychiatric disorders. We speculate that further studies of hippocampal glycine-mediated regulation may help develop novel glycine-based approaches for therapeutic developments.
The synapsins are a family of neuronal phosphoproteins evolutionarily conserved in invertebrate and vertebrate organisms. Their best-characterised function is to modulate neurotransmitter release at the pre-synaptic terminal, by reversibly tethering synaptic vesicles (SVs) to the actin cytoskeleton. However, many recent data have suggested novel functions for synapsins in other aspects of the pre-synaptic physiology, such as SV docking, fusion and recycling. Synapsin activity is tightly regulated by several protein kinases and phosphatases, which modulate the association of synapsins to SVs as well as their interaction with actin filaments and other synaptic proteins. In this context, synapsins act as a link between extracellular stimuli and the intracellular signalling events activated upon neuronal stimulation. Genetic manipulation of synapsins in various in vivo models has revealed that, although not essential for the basic development and functioning of neuronal networks, these proteins are extremely important in the fine-tuning of neuronal plasticity, as shown by the epileptic phenotype and behavioural abnormalities characterising mouse lines lacking one or more synapsin isoforms. In this review, we summarise the current knowledge about how the various members of the synapsin family are involved in the modulation of the pre-synaptic physiology. We give a comprehensive description of the molecular basis of synapsin function, as well as an overview of the more recent evidence linking mutations in the synapsin proteins to the onset of severe central nervous system diseases such as epilepsy and schizophrenia.
'Divide and conquer' has been the guiding strategy for the study of protein structure and function. Proteins are divided into domains with each domain having a canonical structural definition depending on its type. In this review, we push forward with the interesting observation that many domains have regions outside of their canonical definition that affect their structure and function; we call these regions 'extensions'. We focus on the highly abundant PDZ (PSD-95, DLG1 and ZO-1) domain. Using bioinformatics, we find that many PDZ domains have potential extensions and we developed an openly-accessible website to display our results ( http://bcz102.ust.hk/pdzex/ ). We propose, using well-studied PDZ domains as illustrative examples, that the roles of PDZ extensions can be classified into at least four categories: 1) protein dynamics-based modulation of target binding affinity, 2) provision of binding sites for macro-molecular assembly, 3) structural integration of multi-domain modules, and 4) expansion of the target ligand-binding pocket. Our review highlights the potential structural and functional importance of domain extensions, highlighting the significance of looking beyond the canonical boundaries of protein domains in general.
Mood disorders, such as major depressive disorder (MDD) and bipolar disorder (BPD), are the most prevalent psychiatric conditions, and are also among the most severe and debilitating. However, the precise neurobiology underlying these disorders is currently unknown. One way to combat these disorders is to discover novel biomarkers for them. The development of such biomarkers will aid both in the diagnosis of mood disorders and in the development of effective psychiatric medications to treat them. A number of preclinical studies have suggested that the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays an important role in the pathophysiology of MDD. In 2003, we reported that serum levels of BDNF in antidepressant-naive patients with MDD were significantly lower than those of patients medicated with antidepressants and normal controls, and that serum BDNF levels were negatively correlated with the severity of depression. Additionally, we found that decreased serum levels of BDNF in antidepressant-naive patients recovered to normal levels associated with the recovery of depression after treatment with antidepressant medication. This review article will provide an historical overview of the role played by BDNF in the pathophysiology of mood disorders and in the mechanism of action of therapeutic agents. Particular focus will be given to the potential use of BDNF as a biomarker for mood disorders. BDNF is initially synthesized as a precursor protein proBDNF, and then proBDNF is proteolytically cleaved to the mature BDNF. Finally, future perspectives on the use of proBDNF as a novel biomarker for mood disorders will be discussed.

The prevailing view on the effects of spinal cord injury (SCI) on emotion is that it dampens emotional experience due to a loss of peripheral bodily feedback, with the higher the lesion on the spinal cord the greater the reduction in the intensity of emotional experience. This view persists despite many studies showing an absence of such an emotional impairment in people with SCI. This study specifically aimed to investigate whether total cervical-6 spinal cord transection (i) reduces emotional expressivity and emotional awareness (ii) impairs memory for emotional material. The study contained three groups: 24 patients with SCI, 20 orthopaedic injury control (OIC) patients and 20 young adult controls. A mixed factor design was employed to examine between group and within subject differences. Participants completed the Levels of Emotional Awareness Scale (LEAS), the Berkeley Expressivity Questionnaire (BEQ), and viewed an emotionally arousing slide presentation. Thirty minutes post viewing, participants completed memory tests for the presentation. SCI patients reported greater present levels of emotional expressivity compared with perceived levels prior to their injuries. SCI and OIC groups did not differ on any of the emotional awareness variables. There was also no evidence that SCI leads to impairment in memory for emotional events. This study's findings contradict the mainstream view in the cognitive neuroscience of emotion that SCI dampens emotional experience.




Previously we found apoE isoform-dependent effects of (137)Cs irradiation on cognitive function of female mice 3 months following irradiation. Alterations in the number of immature neurons and in the levels of the dendritic marker microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP-2) might contribute to the cognitive changes following irradiation. Therefore, in the present study we determined if, following (137)Cs irradiation, there are apoE isoform-dependent effects on loss of doublecortin-positive neuroprogenitor cells or MAP-2 immumonoreactivity. In the dentate gyrus, CA1 and CA3 regions of the hippocampus, enthorhinal and sensorimotor cortex, and central and basolateral nuclei of the amygdala of apoE3 female mice, MAP-2 immunoreactivity increased 3 months following (137)Cs irradiation. In addition, at 8 h following irradiation, the number of doublecortin-positive cells was higher in apoE3 than apoE2 or apoE4 mice. Together, these data indicate that brains of apoE3 mice respond differently to (137)Cs irradiation than those of apoE2 or apoE4 mice.
We reported a 61-year-old man who had developed acute cerebellar ataxia in the trunk and the lower limbs. His chemical blood analysis showed very mild hypothyroidism and the presence of serum anti-thyroid peroxidase (TPO) antibody and anti-NH2 terminal of alpha-enolase (NAE) antibody. While cerebellar atrophy was not evident on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain, 99mTc-ECD SPECT using the easy Z-score imaging system (eZIS) showed decreased regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in the vermis of cerebellum. His cerebellar ataxia improved spontaneously within three weeks. The present case is very rare and suggests that anti-NAE autoantibody may be associated with actue cerebellar ataxia.



The interrelationship between the ability to inhibit incoming redundant input (gating out) and the ability of the brain to respond when the stimulus changes (gating in), has not been extensively examined. We administered a battery of auditory evoked potential tests to a group of chronic, medicated schizophrenia patients (N=12) and a group of healthy subjects (N=12) in order to examine relationships between &quot;gating out&quot; measures (suppression with repetition of the P50, N100, and P200 evoked responses), and the mismatch negativity (MMN) and the P300 event related potentials as measures of &quot;gating in&quot;. Gating ratios for N100 and P200 in a visual attention paired-click task differed significantly between groups. Mismatch negativity and P300 potential amplitudes were also significantly reduced in the patient group. When including all subjects (N=24) a negative correlation was found between the P50 gating and the amplitude of the MMN. In healthy subjects this correlation was significantly stronger compared to schizophrenia patients. While no significant correlation was noted between the amplitudes of the P300 and any gating measures when all 24 subjects were included, a significant negative correlation was seen between the P200 gating and the P300 amplitudes in schizophrenia patients; an opposite trend was noted in healthy subjects. Finally, a positive correlation was seen between the P300 and MMN (to abstract deviance) amplitudes in healthy subjects, but the opposite was found in patients. These results suggest that further study of these interrelationships could inform the understanding of information processing abnormalities in schizophrenia.


Auditory hallucinations (AH), a psychopathological phenomenon where a person hears non-existent voices, commonly occur in schizophrenia. Recent cognitive and neuroscience studies suggest that AH may be the misattribution of one's own inner speech. Self-monitoring through neural feedback mechanisms allows individuals to distinguish between their own and others' actions, including speech. AH maybe the results of an individual's inability to discriminate between their own speech and that of others. The present paper tries to integrate the three theories (behavioral, brain, and model approaches) proposed to explain the self-monitoring hypothesis of AH. In addition, we investigate the lateralization of self-other representation in the brain, as suggested by recent studies, and discuss future research directions.
Technological innovations in neuroscience have opened new windows to the understanding of brain function and the neuronal underpinnings of brain activity in neuropsychiatric disorders and social behavior. Public interest and support for neuroscience research through initiatives like the Decade of the Brain project and increasingly diverse brain-related initiatives have created new interfaces between neuroscience and society. Against this backdrop of dynamic innovation, we set out to examine how different features of neuroscience are depicted in print media. We used the 'guided news' function of the LexisNexis Academic database with keyword searches to find news articles published between 1995 and 2004 in major U.S. and U.K. English-language news sources. We performed searches on headlines, lead paragraphs, and body terms to maximize search yields. All articles were coded for overall tone of coverage, details on reported studies, presence of ethical, legal, and social discussion as well as the emerging interpretations of neuroscience - in the form of neuro-essentialism, neuro-realism, and neuro-policy. We found that print media coverage of the use of neurotechnology for diagnosis or therapy in neuropsychiatric disorders was generally optimistic. We also found that, even within articles that were identified as research reports, many did not provide details about research studies. We also gained additional insights into the previously identified phenomena of neuro-essentialism, neuro-realism, and neuro-policy showing some profound impacts of neuroscience on personal identity and policy-making. Our results highlight the implications of transfer of neuroscience knowledge to society given the substantial and authoritative weight ascribed to neuroscience knowledge in defining who we are. We also discuss the impact of these findings on neuroscience and on the respective contributions of the social sciences and the biological sciences in contemporary psychiatry and mental health policy.








This study was aimed at assessing the psychometric qualities of the fast alcohol screening test (FAST), and at comparing these qualities to those of the alcohol use disorders identification test (AUDIT) in three samples of Brazilian adults: (i) subjects attended at an emergency department (530); (ii) patients from a psychosocial care center (40); and (iii) university students (429). The structured clinical interview for diagnosis (SCID)-IV was used as gold standard. The FAST demonstrated high test-retest and interrater reliability coefficients, as well as high predictive and concurrent validity values. The results attest the validity and reliability of the Brazilian version of the FAST for the screening of indicators of alcohol abuse and dependence.
Positron emission tomography (PET) antagonist ligands such as [(11)C]-raclopride are commonly used to study dopamine D2 receptor (D2) binding of antipsychotics. It has been suggested that agonist radioligands bind preferentially to the high-affinity state of D2 receptor and may provide a more relevant means of assessing D2 occupancy. The main objective of this study was to determine if D2 receptor occupancy (RO) could be differentiated with agonist and antagonist radioligands in vivo. Agonist radioligands [(3)H]-MNPA and [(3)H]-(+)-PHNO were synthesized and compared to antagonist [(3)H]-raclopride in the in vitro binding and in vivo occupancy studies. In vivo, unanesthetized rats were pretreated with quinpirole (full agonist), aripiprazole (partial agonist), or haloperidol (antagonist) prior to administration of the agonist or antagonist radioligand. All three pretreatment compounds showed equivalent dose-dependent D2 receptor occupancy in the rat striatum with each radioligand. The in vivo receptor occupancy results suggested that the binding of quinpirole, aripiprazole, and haloperidol to the high or low affinity state of the D2 receptor could not be differentiated using radiolabeled agonists or antagonists, presumably due to a predominance of high affinity states of the D2 receptor in vivo. This hypothesis was supported in part by the in vitro binding results. Our in vitro results show that [(3)H]-MNPA binds to D2S transfected CHO cell membranes at a single high affinity site. Displacement of [(3)H]-(+)-PHNO binding by quinpirole and elimination of most [(3)H]-(+)-PHNO binding by the guanine nucleotide GppNHp in striatal membranes suggest that the majority of D2 in striatal tissue is G-protein coupled. Together, these findings suggest that D2 agonist radioligands produce in vivo receptor occupancy comparable to [(3)H]-raclopride.
Two red-pigmented isolates, with optimum growth temperatures between 45 and 50 degrees C, were recovered from a hot spring in the Furnas, Area da Fonte 1825 on the Island of So Miguel in the Azores. Phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that these organisms represented a new species of the genus Meiothermus. These new isolates could be distinguished from other strains of the species of the genus Meiothermus primarily by the fatty acid composition and polar lipid pattern, since they did not possess 2-OH fatty acids or glycolipid variant GL-1a. Moreover, the two new isolates had the lowest growth temperature range of any of the known species of the genus Meiothermus. On the basis of the results presented here we propose the name Meiothermus granaticius for the new species represented by strains AF-68(T) (=DSM 23260(T)=LMG 25524(T)) and AF-49 (=DSM 23259=LMG 25525).
The central nervous system-active medication acamprosate has been shown to modulate alcohol-related behavior in both preclinical and clinical studies. Although commonly used in the treatment of alcohol dependence, there are still unanswered questions concerning the pharmacokinetic properties of acamprosate. The aims of the present study were to 1) to validate liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry as a method to study the presence of acamprosate in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in humans; and 2) validate previous results on clinically important pharmacokinetic data for acamprosate. In an open label, single-site design, 13 healthy males and females were recruited to 22 days of oral acamprosate treatment (1998 mg/day). Subjects provided in all 256 plasma samples for analysis at regular intervals at Day 1, 7, 14, and 22 of treatment. On Day 22, subjects also left a sample of CSF for measurement of acamprosate. The results showed that steady-state level of acamprosate was accomplished within 5 days after the start of treatment and remained fairly stable for 2 to 3 days after termination of treatment. Variations in plasma concentrations corresponded to earlier studies and did not exceed those for comparable pharmacotherapeutic agents. Acamprosate concentrations in the CSF were below the limit of quantification, ie, estimated concentrations between 9 and 33 ng/mL. Plasma concentrations were more than 25 times higher than in lumbar CSF. The low CSF levels seen after 3 weeks of treatment may provide an explanation to the delay in therapeutic effect noticed in treatment studies on acamprosate. A longer duration of treatment might be necessary to obtain clinically significant brain levels of acamprosate. In summary, the present study validated liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry as a method for assessment of compliance to acamprosate treatment. Furthermore, the results suggest that the mechanism of action of acamprosate needs to be further explored with regard to the peripheral actions of the drug.
Wnt signaling encompasses a variety of signaling cascades that can be activated by secreted Wnt ligands. Two such pathways, the canonical or beta-catenin pathway and the planar cell polarity (PCP) pathway, have recently received attention for their roles in multiple cellular processes within the kidney. Both of these pathways are important for kidney development as well as homeostasis and injury repair. The disruption of either pathway can lead to cystic kidney disease, a class of genetic diseases that includes the most common hereditary life-threatening syndrome polycystic kidney disease (PKD). Recent evidence implicates canonical and noncanonical Wnt pathways in cyst formation and points to a remarkable role for developmental processes in the adult kidney.
How is the prefrontal cortex (PFC) organized such that it is capable of making people more flexible and in control of their behavior? Is there any systematic organization across the many diverse areas that comprise the PFC, or is it uniquely adaptive such that no fixed representational structure can develop? Going against the current tide, this paper argues that there is indeed a systematic organization across PFC areas, with an important functional distinction between ventral and dorsal regions characterized as processing What versus How information, respectively. This distinction has implications for the rostro-caudal and medial-lateral axes of organization as well. The resulting large-scale functional map of PFC could prove useful in integrating diverse data, and in generating novel predictions.

Molecular processes regulating the cerebellar serotonergic receptors play an important role in the control of respiration and cognitive functions under hypoxia. The present study examined cerebellar 5HT receptor alterations and neuroprotective effect of glucose supplementation prior to current sequence of resuscitation-oxygen and epinephrine supplementation in hypoxic neonatal rats. Hypoxic stress increased the number of total 5HT and 5HT(2A) receptors along with an up-regulation of 5HT transporter and 5HT(2A) receptor gene in cerebellum. These serotonergic alterations were reversed to near control by glucose supplementation. Immunohistochemical studies confirmed the data. Behavioral studies revealed the cognitive impairment due to neonatal hypoxia in the later stages of life and the role of timely glucose supplementation in preventing these behavioral deficits. The enhanced cerebellar 5HT(2A) receptors may act as a modulator of ventilatory response to hypoxia, which can in turn result in cognitive dysfunction. Glucose supplementation helped in managing the serotonergic functional alterations. This has immense clinical significance in neonatal care.

Glutamate or its ionotropic receptor (iGluR) agonists, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxale propionate (AMPA), and kainate (KA) elicit feeding when microinjected into the lateral hypothalamus (LH) of satiated rats. In the present study we investigated the contributions of AMPA and KA receptors (AMPARs and KARs) to feeding initiation. Intense feeding was elicited by LH injection of RS-AMPA (1 and 10 nmol) but not by the isolated, inactive R-AMPA enantiomer (1 and 10 nmol). Further, LH pretreatment with either the non-selective AMPAR/KAR antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX, 4 nmol) or the selective AMPAR antagonist, GYKI 52466 (10 nmol), suppressed AMPA-elicited food intake and, when combined, blocked AMPA-elicited food intake. These findings suggest that LH AMPARs mediate AMPA injection-elicited feeding with a possible contribution by KARs. In contrast, CNQX or GYKI 52466 injected into the LH at the onset of the nocturnal period or into fasted rats did not suppress the feeding produced by either condition. RS-AMPA injected into the LH of fasted or nocturnal feeding subjects elicited eating in both conditions; however, the magnitude of the increase was greater in fasted rats. These data suggest that selective stimulation of AMPAR in the LH is sufficient to elicit feeding. In contrast, the results did not provide evidence that AMPAR stimulation is necessary for deprivation-induced or nocturnal eating; however, they did suggest that modulatory interactions may exist between these receptors and these forms of naturally occurring eating behavior.
beta-Adrenergic receptor stimulation can significantly facilitate synaptic potentiation in the hippocampus and enhance memory processes, but its effect on neocortical plastic mechanisms is less conclusive. In the present study we determined the effect of propranolol, a beta-adrenoceptor antagonist, on long-term potentiation (LTP) induced in vivo in rat occipital cortex by tetanizing stimulation of corpus callosum and observed a dose-dependent inhibition of LTP. We further administered propranolol through mini-osmotic pumps during 3 days, and observed the performance of rats in a complex operant conditioning learning paradigm and assessed the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the occipital cortex. Propranolol exposure depressed both the number of reinforced responses in the operant conditioning task and BDNF expression in occipital cortex. Taken together, our results suggest that propranolol impairs memory formation by inhibiting cortical LTP induction and associated BDNF expression.
Nineteen GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) subunits are known in mammals with only a restricted number of functionally identified native combinations. The physiological role of beta1-subunit-containing GABA(A)Rs is unknown. Here we report the discovery of a new structural class of GABA(A)R positive modulators with unique beta1-subunit selectivity: fragrant dioxane derivatives (FDD). At heterologously expressed alpha1betaxgamma2L (x-for 1,2,3) GABA(A)R FDD were 6 times more potent at beta1- versus beta2- and beta3-containing receptors. Serine at position 265 was essential for the high sensitivity of the beta1-subunit to FDD and the beta1N286W mutation nearly abolished modulation; vice versa the mutation beta3N265S shifted FDD sensitivity toward the beta1-type. In posterior hypothalamic neurons controlling wakefulness GABA-mediated whole-cell responses and GABAergic synaptic currents were highly sensitive to FDD, in contrast to beta1-negative cerebellar Purkinje neurons. Immunostaining for the beta1-subunit and the potency of FDD to modulate GABA responses in cultured hypothalamic neurons was drastically diminished by beta1-siRNA treatment. In conclusion, with the help of FDDs we reveal a functional expression of beta1-containing GABA(A)Rs in the hypothalamus, offering a new tool for studies on the functional diversity of native GABA(A)Rs.
BACE1 (beta-site amyloid precursor protein-cleaving enzyme 1) is a membrane-tethered member of the aspartyl proteases, essential for the production of beta-amyloid, a toxic peptide that accumulates in the brain of subjects affected by Alzheimer disease. The BACE1 C-terminal fragment contains a DXXLL motif that has been shown to bind the VHS (VPS27, Hrs, and STAM) domain of GGA1-3 (Golgi-localized gamma-ear-containing ARF-binding proteins). GGAs are trafficking molecules involved in the transport of proteins containing the DXXLL signal from the Golgi complex to endosomes. Moreover, GGAs bind ubiquitin and traffic synthetic and endosomal ubiquitinated cargoes to lysosomes. We have previously shown that depletion of GGA3 results in increased BACE1 levels and activity because of impaired lysosomal degradation. Here, we report that the accumulation of BACE1 is rescued by the ectopic expression of GGA3 in H4 neuroglioma cells depleted of GGA3. Accordingly, the overexpression of GGA3 reduces the levels of BACE1 and beta-amyloid. We then established that mutations in the GGA3 VPS27, Hrs, and STAM domain (N91A) or in BACE1 di-leucine motif (L499A/L500A), able to abrogate their binding, did not affect the ability of ectopically expressed GGA3 to rescue BACE1 accumulation in cells depleted of GGA3. Instead, we found that BACE1 is ubiquitinated at lysine 501 and is mainly monoubiquitinated and Lys-63-linked polyubiquitinated. Finally, a GGA3 mutant with reduced ability to bind ubiquitin (GGA3L276A) was unable to regulate BACE1 levels both in rescue and overexpression experiments. These findings indicate that levels of GGA3 tightly and inversely regulate BACE1 levels via interaction with ubiquitin sorting machinery.
X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP) is a potent antagonist of caspase apoptotic activity. XIAP also functions as an E3 ubiquitin ligase, targeting caspases for degradation. However, molecular pathways controlling XIAP activities remain unclear. Here, we report that nitric oxide (NO) reacts with XIAP by S-nitrosylating its RING domain (forming SNO-XIAP), thereby inhibiting E3 ligase and antiapoptotic activity. NO-mediated neurotoxicity and caspase activation have been linked to several neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's diseases. We find significant SNO-XIAP formation in brains of patients with these diseases, implicating this reaction in the etiology of neuronal damage. Conversely, S-nitrosylation of caspases is known to inhibit apoptotic activity. Unexpectedly, we find that SNO-caspase transnitrosylates (transfers its NO group) to XIAP, forming SNO-XIAP, and thus promotes cell injury and death. These findings provide insights into the regulation of caspase activation in neurodegenerative disorders mediated, at least in part, by nitrosative stress.
The long-term benefits of subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation (STN DBS) applied earlier in the disease course, before significant disability accumulates, remain to be determined. We developed a Markov state transition decision analytic model to compare effectiveness in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) of STN DBS applied to patients with PD at an &quot;early&quot; (&quot;off time&quot; 10-20%) versus &quot;delayed&quot; stage (&quot;off time&quot; &gt;40%). A lifelong time horizon and societal perspective were assumed. Probabilities and rates were obtained from literature review; utilities were derived using the time trade-off technique and a computer-assisted utility assessment software tool applied to a cohort of 22 STN-DBS and 21 non-STN-DBS PD patients. Uncertainty was assessed through one- and two-way sensitivity analyses and probabilistic sensitivity analysis using second-order Monte Carlo simulations. Early STN DBS was preferred with a quality-adjusted life expectancy of 22.3 QALYs, a gain of 2.5 QALYs over those with delayed surgery (19.8 QALYs). Early STN DBS was preferred in 69% of 5,000 Monte Carlo simulations. Early surgery was robustly favored through most sensitivity analyses. Delayed STN DBS afforded greater QALYs when using utility estimates exclusively from non-STN-DBS patients and, for the entire group, if the rate of motor progression were to exceed 25% per year. Although decision modeling requires assumptions and simplifications, our exploratory analysis suggests that STN DBS performed in early PD may convey greater quality-adjusted life expectancy when compared to a delayed procedure. These findings support further evaluation of early STN DBS in a controlled clinical trial.
Well-formed visual hallucinations (VH) are common in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). The pathophysiology of VH in PD is unknown but may involve structures mediating visual processing such as the inferior temporal cortex. Serotonergic type 2A (5-HT(2A)) receptors have been linked to many psychiatric disorders, including psychosis. We hypothesized that enhanced 5-HT(2A) receptor levels may be involved in VH in PD. Autoradiographic binding using [(3)H]-ketanserin and spiperone, to define 5-HT(2A) receptors, was performed in 6 PD patients with VH, 6 PD patients without VH, and 5 healthy, age-matched controls. The cerebral regions studied included the orbitofrontal cortex, inferolateral temporal cortex, motor cortex, striatum, and substantia nigra. There was a significant (45.6%) increase in the levels of [(3)H]-ketanserin binding in the inferolateral temporal cortex of PD patients with VH when compared with PD patients without VH (54.3 +/- 5.2 fmol/mg vs. 37.3 +/- 4.3 fmol/mg, P = 0.039). Additionally, there was a significant increase in the levels of 5-HT(2A) receptors in the motor cortex of all PD patients taken as a group when compared with controls (57.8 +/- 5.7 fmol/mg vs. 41.2 +/- 2.6 fmol/mg, P = 0.0297). These results suggest that enhanced 5-HT(2A)-mediated neurotransmission in the inferolateral temporal cortex, a critical structure in visual processing, might be associated with the development of VH in PD. Our results provide new insights into the pathophysiology of VH in PD and provide an anatomical basis to explain why compounds with 5-HT(2A) antagonist activity are effective at alleviating this debilitating complication.
To determine whether the process involved in movement preparation of patients in the early stages of Parkinson's disease (PD) shares attentional resources with visual learning, we tested 23 patients with PD and 13 healthy controls with two different tasks. The first was a motor task where subjects were required to move as soon as possible to randomly presented targets by minimizing reaction time. The second was a visual learning task where targets were presented in a preset order and subjects were asked to learn the sequence order by attending to the display without moving. Patients with PD showed higher reaction and movement times, while visual learning was reduced compared with controls. For patients with PD, reaction times, but not movement times, displayed an inverse significant correlation with the scores of visual learning. We conclude that visual declarative learning and movement preparation might share similar attentional and working memory resources. (c) 2010 Movement Disorder Society.
Chorea-acanthocytosis is a rare autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder with a complex clinical presentation comprising of a mixed movement disorder (mostly chorea and dystonia), seizures, neuropathy and myopathy, autonomic features as well as dementia and psychiatric features. Because the differential diagnosis is wide, clinical clues and red flags are important. We report here our observation of characteristic neck and trunk flexion and extension spasms in four cases with advanced chorea-acanthocytosis.
Learning may occur with or without awareness, as explicit (intentional) or implicit (incidental) learning. The caudate nucleus and the putamen, which are affected early in Huntington's disease (HD), are thought to be essential for motor sequence learning. However, the results of existing studies are inconsistent concerning presence/absence of deficits in implicit and explicit motor sequence learning in HD. We assessed implicit and explicit motor sequence learning using sequences of equivalent structure in 15 individuals with a positive HD genetic test (7 premanifest; 8 early stage disease) and 11 matched controls. The HD group showed evidence of normal implicit motor sequence learning, whereas explicit motor sequence learning was impaired in manifest and premanifest HD gene carriers, with progressive decline with progressive disease. Explicit sequence learning may be a useful cognitive biomarker for HD progression.
One major unanswered question in neuroscience is how the brain transitions between conscious and unconscious states. General anesthetics offer a controllable means to study these transitions. Induction of anesthesia is commonly attributed to drug-induced global modulation of neuronal function, while emergence from anesthesia has been thought to occur passively, paralleling elimination of the anesthetic from its sites in the central nervous system (CNS). If this were true, then CNS anesthetic concentrations on induction and emergence would be indistinguishable. By generating anesthetic dose-response data in both insects and mammals, we demonstrate that the forward and reverse paths through which anesthetic-induced unconsciousness arises and dissipates are not identical. Instead they exhibit hysteresis that is not fully explained by pharmacokinetics as previously thought. Single gene mutations that affect sleep-wake states are shown to collapse or widen anesthetic hysteresis without obvious confounding effects on volatile anesthetic uptake, distribution, or metabolism. We propose a fundamental and biologically conserved concept of neural inertia, a tendency of the CNS to resist behavioral state transitions between conscious and unconscious states. We demonstrate that such a barrier separates wakeful and anesthetized states for multiple anesthetics in both flies and mice, and argue that it contributes to the hysteresis observed when the brain transitions between conscious and unconscious states.
Protandim, a well defined dietary combination of 5 well-established medicinal plants, is known to induce endogenous antioxidant enzymes, such as manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD). Our previous studies have shown through the induction of various antioxidant enzymes, products of oxidative damage can be decreased. In addition, we have shown that tumor multiplicity and incidence can be decreased through the dietary administration of Protandim in the two-stage skin carcinogenesis mouse model. It has been demonstrated that cell proliferation is accommodated by cell death during DMBA/TPA treatment in the two-stage skin carcinogenesis model. Therefore, we investigated the effects of the Protandim diet on apoptosis; and proposed a novel mechanism of chemoprevention utilized by the Protandim dietary combination. Interestingly, Protandim suppressed DMBA/TPA induced cutaneous apoptosis. Recently, more attention has been focused on transcription-independent mechanisms of the tumor suppressor, p53, that mediate apoptosis. It is known that cytoplasmic p53 rapidly translocates to the mitochondria in response to pro-apoptotic stress. Our results showed that Protandim suppressed the mitochondrial translocation of p53 and mitochondrial outer membrane proteins such as Bax. We examined the levels of p53 and MnSOD expression/activity in murine skin JB6 promotion sensitive (P+) and promotion-resistant (P-) epidermal cells. Interestingly, p53 was induced only in P+ cells, not P- cells; whereas MnSOD is highly expressed in P- cells when compared to P+ cells. In addition, wild-type p53 was transfected into JB6 P- cells. We found that the introduction of wild-type p53 promoted transformation in JB6 P- cells. Our results suggest that suppression of p53 and induction of MnSOD may play an important role in the tumor suppressive activity of Protandim.

Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is one of the most prevalent psychiatric conditions in Veterans of Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom (OEF-OIF), but little is known about the structure of PTSD symptoms, and associations between PTSD symptom clusters and psychosocial functioning in this population. A total of 272 OEF-OIF Veterans in Connecticut completed a mail survey containing measures of psychopathology, resilience, and psychosocial functioning. Confirmatory factor analyses revealed that the 4-factor dysphoria model, which is comprised of separate re-experiencing, avoidance, dysphoria, and hyperarousal symptom clusters, provided the best representation of PTSD symptom structure in this sample. Dysphoria symptoms were independently associated with a broad range of psychosocial measures, even after controlling for age, combat exposure, and other PTSD symptom clusters. Re-experiencing symptoms were associated with alcohol use problems, and avoidance symptoms were associated with increased psychosocial difficulties and decreased perceptions of postdeployment social support. These results suggest that dysphoria symptoms were strongly related to a broad range of psychosocial measures in this sample of OEF-OIF Veterans. Dysphoria symptoms may deserve special attention in the assessment and treatment of symptomatic OEF-OIF Veterans.
The orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) is located on the basal surface of the frontal lobe and is distinguished by its unique anatomical and functional features. Clinical and postmortem studies suggest the involvement of the orbitofrontal cortex in psychiatric disorders. However, the exact parcellation of this cortical region is still a matter of debate. Therefore, the goal of this study is to provide a detailed description of the extent of borders of individual orbitofrontal cortical areas using cytoarchitectonic criteria in a large sample of human brains, which could be applied by independent neuroanatomists. To make this microscopic parcellation useful to neuroimaging studies, magnetic resonance images of postmortem brains in the coronal plane were collected prior to the preparation of coronal histological sections from the same brains. A complete series of coronal sections from 6 normal human brains and partial sections from the frontal cortex of 21 normal human brains were stained with general histological and immunohistochemical methods specific for different cell-types. These sections were examined microscopically by two independent neuroanatomists (HBMU and GR) to achieve reproducible delineations. After the borders were determined, the tissue sections were superimposed on the corresponding magnetic resonance images. Based on our cytoarchitectonical criteria, Brodmann's areas 47 and 11 were included in the human orbitofrontal cortex. Area 47 was further subdivided into three medial (located on the medial, anterior and posterior orbital gyri) and two lateral (located on the lateral orbital gyrus) subareas. In addition, we observed an anterior-posterior gradient in the cytoarchitecture of areas 11 and 47. The transverse orbital sulcus corresponds roughly to the transition between the subregions of the anterior and posterior OFC. Finally, the present delineation is contrasted with an overview of the different published nomenclatures for the OFC parcellation.
The goal of this report was to highlight lateral ventricle morphology and volume differences between schizophrenia patients and matched controls. Subjects identified as suitable for analysis comprised 15 schizophrenia patients and 15 healthy subjects. The method applied is three-dimensional (3D) volume rendering starting from structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies of selected ventricular regions. Differences between groups relative to the global ventricular system and its subdivisions were found. Total lateral ventricle volume, right ventricle volume and left ventricle volume were all higher in schizophrenia patients than in controls; unilateral differences between the two groups were also outlined (right ventricle volume&gt;left ventricle volume in schizophrenia patients vs. healthy subjects). Furthermore, occipital and frontal horn enlargement was found in schizophrenia patients compared with normal controls, but the difference in the temporal horn was not statistically significant. A substantial difference was noted in lateral ventricle morphology between the two groups. Our findings were consistent with the literature and may shed light on some of the discrepancies in previous reports on differences in lateral ventricle volume enlargement.
Visual processing deficits are well recognised in schizophrenia and have potentially important clinical implications. First, the pattern of deficits for different visual tasks may help understand the underlying pathophysiology of the visual dysfunction. Second, several studies report deficits correlating with functional outcomes, suggesting that outcome improvement is possible through visual remediation strategies. We investigated these issues in a group of 64 schizophrenia patients and matched controls with a battery of visual tasks targeting different points along the visual pathways and by examining direct and indirect relationships (via a potential mediator) of such deficits to functional outcome. The schizophrenia group was significantly worse on the visual tasks overall, with the deficit constant for low- and high-level processing. Zero-order correlations suggested minimal association between vision and outcome, however, correlations between three visual tasks and 'social perceptual' ability were found which in turn correlated with functional outcome; path analysis confirmed a significant but small and indirect effect of 'biological motion' processing ability on functional outcome mediated by 'social perception'. In conclusion, the pathophysiology of visual dysfunction affects low- and high-level visual areas similarly and the relationship between deficits and outcome is small and indirect.
Previous study suggests a role for post-synaptic alpha(2)-noradrenergic receptor sensitivity in irritability and/or aggression and impulsivity. In this study, we conducted intravenous challenges with the alpha(2)-noradrenergic agonist, clonidine, to assess the relationship between measures of impulsive aggression and post-synaptic alpha(2)-noradrenergic receptor sensitivity in human subjects. Subjects included 38 individuals with personality disorder and 28 healthy volunteer controls. Measures included the Irritability score and the Total Assault score from the Buss-Durkee Hostility Inventory (BDHI), Aggression score from Life History of Aggression (LHA) assessment, and Impulsivity scores from the Barratt Impulsivity Scale (BIS-11) and Eysenck Personality Questionnaire-II (EPQ-II). The Log of Peak DeltaGH[CLON] response was used as the index of post-synaptic alpha(2)-noradrenergic receptor sensitivity. No significant correlations were found between the Log of Peak DeltaGH[CLON] response and any measure used in this study. Unlike a previous investigation, this study provides little support for a role of post-synaptic alpha(2)-noradrenergic receptor sensitivity in aggression in healthy or personality disordered subjects.
Research into facial emotion perception in schizophrenia has burgeoned over the past several decades. The evidence is mixed regarding whether patients with schizophrenia have a general facial emotion perception deficit (a deficit in facial emotion perception plus a more basic deficit in facial processing) or specific facial emotion perception deficits (deficits only in facial emotion perception tasks). A meta-analysis is conducted of 28 facial emotion perception studies that include control tasks. These studies use differential deficit designs to examine whether patients with schizophrenia demonstrate a general deficit or specific deficit in facial emotion perception. A significant mean effect size is found for total facial emotion perception (d=-0.85). Patients with schizophrenia demonstrate impaired ability to perform corresponding control tasks, and the mean effect size is -0.70. The current findings suggest that patients with schizophrenia have moderately to severely impaired perception of facial emotion.
Despite evidence of impairments in social cognition in patients with bipolar disorder (BD), systematic investigations of empathic responding in this population have not been conducted. The objectives of the current study were to investigate empathic responding in patients with BD in varying states of illness and to determine whether course of illness variables and symptom severity predicted responding. Twenty well-characterized patients with BD and 20 matched healthy control subjects completed the Interpersonal Reactivity Index (IRI) and the Social Adjustment Scale Self-Report (SAS-SR), self-report measures of cognitive and emotional empathy and of psychosocial functioning, respectively. Patients with BD reported significantly reduced levels of cognitive empathy ('Perspective Taking') and higher levels of personal distress in response to others' negative experiences than did controls. Altered affective empathic abilities correlated significantly with reduced psychosocial functioning in family, social and occupational domains and with increased symptom severity. This study provides preliminary evidence of alterations in empathic responding in patients with BD. Alterations in the ability to adopt the perspective of others may contribute to the difficulties in social communication inherent in this patient population. Additional studies, involving larger samples, are required to determine the contribution of social cognitive performance to impaired social functioning in BD.
Histone deacetylases (HDACs) are pivotal enzymes in the epigenetic modification or regulatory mechanisms of gene transcription. Based on previous assertions that the pathophysiology of schizophrenia is associated with epigenetics, we hypothesized that polymorphisms of HDAC genes might be related to schizophrenia. We recruited 278 patients with schizophrenia and 234 normal controls from a Korean population. Clinical information of the group with schizophrenia was obtained from medical records, the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), the Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms (SANS), and the Operational Criteria Checklist (OPCRIT). Three single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in HDAC genes were selected, including rs2530223 of HDAC3, rs1063639 of HDAC4, and rs1555048 of HDAC10. For the analysis of genetic data, SNPStats, SNPAnalyzer, and Helixtree programs were used. In the present study, rs1063639 of the HDAC4 gene showed associations with schizophrenia in the codominant and dominant models. In the analysis of clinical phenotypes, smoking status was associated with rs2530223 of HDAC3 in the codominant and recessive models. The results suggest that HDAC3 and HDAC4 genes might play a role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia in a Korean population.
The immune system is implicated in the pathophysiology of various psychiatric disorders. In anxiety disorders such as obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and generalized social anxiety disorder (GSAD), immunological findings are equivocal and sparse. In this study, we investigated the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)- stimulated cytokine levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and interleukin-8 (IL-8) by peripheral blood leukocytes in 26 OCD patients, 26 GSAD patients, and 52 healthy controls. We found that leukocytes of OCD patients produced less IL-6 compared with matched controls, whereas no cytokine differences were found between GSAD patients and matched controls. When both patient groups were compared, a trend toward lower IL-6 levels in OCD patients was observed. This supports the idea of immunological involvement in the pathophysiology of OCD and suggests that GSAD and OCD might be different in immunological respect.
Astrocytes provide structural and metabolic support for neuronal networks, but direct evidence demonstrating their active role in complex behaviors is limited. Central respiratory chemosensitivity is an essential mechanism that, via regulation of breathing, maintains constant levels of blood and brain pH and partial pressure of CO2. We found that astrocytes of the brainstem chemoreceptor areas are highly chemosensitive. They responded to physiological decreases in pH with vigorous elevations in intracellular Ca2+ and release of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP propagated astrocytic Ca2+ excitation, activated chemoreceptor neurons, and induced adaptive increases in breathing. Mimicking pH-evoked Ca2+ responses by means of optogenetic stimulation of astrocytes expressing channelrhodopsin-2 activated chemoreceptor neurons via an ATP-dependent mechanism and triggered robust respiratory responses in vivo. This demonstrates a potentially crucial role for brain glial cells in mediating a fundamental physiological reflex.
Exposure to an uncontrollable, but not a controllable, stressor produces a constellation of behaviors called learned helplessness. In rodents, uncontrollable stress interferes with the ability to learn to escape from escapable shocks delivered in a shuttle box. The stress-induced shuttle box escape deficit is a common screening tool for potential antidepressant strategies. Inconsistencies in the literature exist regarding the time-course of, and mechanisms underlying, stress-induced escape deficits. When no common cues are shared between the stressor and testing environment, the escape deficit is short lived and independent of conditioned freezing. In contrast, when stress and testing occur in the same or similar environments, the escape deficit is very long lasting. The current studies address the hypothesis that the long-lived escape deficit produced by uncontrollable stress is dependent upon conditioned fear and the basolateral amygdala (BLA). Rats received bilateral excitotoxic lesions of the BLA 2 weeks following uncontrollable foot shocks. One week after surgery, rats were tested for conditioned freezing and escape behavior in the same shuttle boxes in which prior foot shocks were delivered. Stressed rats with sham lesions displayed robust conditioned freezing and failed to escape during shuttle box testing. Lesions of the BLA eliminated conditioned freezing and completely restored stressed rats' ability to perform the escape contingency. These data indicate that the long-lived stress-induced escape deficit produced under conditions in which the stressor and testing environments share common cues is dependent upon conditioned freezing elicited by the BLA. Results have important implications for the mechanisms underlying learned helplessness phenomena.
Contexts associated with the availability of alcohol can induce craving in humans and alcohol seeking in rats. The opioid antagonist naltrexone attenuates context-induced reinstatement (renewal) of alcohol seeking and suppresses neuronal activation in the basolateral amygdaloid complex and dorsal hippocampus induced by such reinstatement. The objective of this study was to determine whether pharmacological blockade of opioid receptors in the basolateral amygdala or dorsal hippocampus would attenuate the context-induced reinstatement of alcohol seeking. Rats were trained to self-administer alcohol in one context (Context A), extinguished in a distinct context (Context B) and then tested for reinstatement of alcohol seeking in A and B contexts. Prior to the test session, rats were bilaterally microinjected with 0, 333 or 1000ng (total) naloxone methiodide into the basolateral amygdala or dorsal hippocampus. Naloxone methiodide in the amygdala, but not the hippocampus, dose dependently suppressed context-induced reinstatement. This suggests that opioid transmission in the basolateral amygdaloid complex is an important mediator of context-induced alcohol seeking.

Connectivity in the cortex is organized at multiple scales, suggesting that scale-dependent correlated activity is particularly important for understanding the behaviour of sensory cortices and their function in stimulus encoding. We analysed the scale-dependent structure of cortical interactions by using maximum entropy models to characterize multiple-tetrode recordings from primary visual cortex of anaesthetized macaque monkeys (Macaca mulatta). We compared the properties of firing patterns among local clusters of neurons (&lt;300 microm apart) with those of neurons separated by larger distances (600-2,500 microm). Here we report that local firing patterns are distinctive: whereas multi-neuronal firing patterns at larger distances can be predicted by pairwise interactions, patterns within local clusters often show evidence of high-order correlations. Surprisingly, these local correlations are flexible and rapidly reorganized by visual input. Although they modestly reduce the amount of information that a cluster conveys, they also modify the format of this information, creating sparser codes by increasing the periods of total quiescence, and concentrating information into briefer periods of common activity. These results imply a hierarchical organization of neuronal correlations: simple pairwise correlations link neurons over scales of tens to hundreds of minicolumns, but on the scale of a few minicolumns, ensembles of neurons form complex subnetworks whose moment-to-moment effective connectivity is dynamically reorganized by the stimulus.
In the retina, it is not well understood how visual processing depends on AMPA- and NMDA-type glutamate receptors. Here we investigated how these receptors contribute to contrast coding in identified guinea pig ganglion cell types in vitro. NMDA-mediated responses were negligible in ON alpha cells but substantial in OFF alpha and delta cells. OFF delta cell NMDA receptors were composed of GluN2B subunits. Using a novel deconvolution method, we determined the individual contributions of AMPA, NMDA, and inhibitory currents to light responses of each cell type. OFF alpha and delta cells used NMDA receptors for encoding either the full contrast range (alpha), including near-threshold responses, or only a high range (delta). However, contrast sensitivity depended substantially on NMDA receptors only in OFF alpha cells. NMDA receptors contribute to visual contrast coding in a cell-type-specific manner. Certain cell types generate excitatory responses using primarily AMPA receptors or disinhibition.
Newly generated neuroblasts from the subventricular zone of the adult brain migrate as neuronal chains within a network of astroglial tubes in the rostral migratory stream. This highly directed, rapid migration channels new neurons to the olfactory bulb. In this issue of Neuron, Kaneko et al. demonstrate that migrating neurons dynamically remodel the morphology and organization of astroglial tubes to promote long distance, directional migration of neurons in the adult brain.
Mutant huntingtin proteolysis mediated by various proteases plays a key role in Huntington's disease (HD) pathogenesis. In this issue of Neuron, Miller et al. have identified 11 proteases, including matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), that when inhibited reduce huntingtin proteolysis and produce beneficial therapeutic effects. These findings provide new insights into huntingtin proteolysis and its potential as a therapeutic target.
Several forms of learning, including classical conditioning of the eyeblink, depend upon the cerebellum. In examining mechanisms of eyeblink conditioning in rabbits, reversible inactivations of the control circuitry have begun to dissociate aspects of cerebellar cortical and nuclear function in memory consolidation. It was previously shown that post-training cerebellar cortical, but not nuclear, inactivations with the GABAA agonist muscimol prevented consolidation but these findings left open the question as to how final memory storage was partitioned across cortical and nuclear levels. Memory consolidation might be essentially cortical and directly disturbed by actions of the muscimol, or it might be nuclear, and sensitive to the raised excitability of the nuclear neurons following the loss of cortical inhibition. To resolve this question, we simultaneously inactivated cerebellar cortical lobule HVI and the anterior interpositus nucleus of rabbits during the post-training period, so protecting the nuclei from disinhibitory effects of cortical inactivation. Consolidation was impaired by these simultaneous inactivations. Because direct application of muscimol to the nuclei alone has no impact upon consolidation, we can conclude that post-training, consolidation processes and memory storage for eyeblink conditioning have critical cerebellar cortical components. The findings are consistent with a recent model that suggests the distribution of learning-related plasticity across cortical and nuclear levels is task-dependent. There can be transfer to nuclear or brainstem levels for control of high-frequency responses but learning with lower frequency response components, such as in eyeblink conditioning, remains mainly dependent upon cortical memory storage.
Recently, the smoking cessation therapeutic varenicline, a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) partial agonist, has been shown to reduce alcohol consumption. However, the mechanism and nAChR subtype(s) involved are unknown. Here we demonstrate that varenicline and alcohol exposure, either alone or in combination, selectively activates dopaminergic (DAergic) neurons within the posterior, but not the anterior, ventral tegmental area (VTA). To gain insight into which nAChR subtypes may be involved in the response to alcohol, we analyzed nAChR subunit gene expression in posterior VTA DAergic neurons. Ethanol-activated DAergic neurons expressed higher levels of alpha4, alpha6, and beta3 subunit genes compared with nonactivated neurons. To examine the role of nicotinic receptors containing the alpha4 subunit (alpha4* nAChRs) in varenicline-induced reduction of alcohol consumption, we examined the effect of the drug in two complementary mouse models, a knock-out line that does not express the alpha4 subunit (alpha4 KO) and another line that expresses alpha4* nAChRs hypersensitive to agonist (Leu9'Ala). While varenicline (0.1-0.3 mg/kg, i.p.) reduced 2% and 20% alcohol consumption in wild-type (WT) mice, the drug did not significantly reduce consumption in alpha4 KO animals. Conversely, low doses of varenicline (0.0125-0.05 mg/kg, i.p.) that had little effect in WT mice dramatically reduced ethanol intake in Leu9'Ala mice. Infusion of varenicline into the posterior, but not the anterior VTA was sufficient to reduce alcohol consumption. Together, our data indicate that activation of alpha4* nAChRs is necessary and sufficient for varenicline reduction of alcohol consumption.
The basal ganglia (BG) have been considered as a key structure for volitional action preparation. Neurons in the striatum, the main BG input stage, increase activity gradually before volitional action initiation. However, because of the diversity of striatal motor commands, such as automatic (sensory driven) and volitional (internally driven) actions, it is still unclear whether an appropriate set of neurons encoding volitional actions are activated selectively for volitional action preparation. Here, using the antisaccade paradigm (look away from a visual stimulus), we dissociated neurons in the caudate nucleus, the oculomotor striatum, encoding predominantly automatic saccades toward the stimulus and volitional saccades in the opposite direction of the stimulus in monkeys. We found that before actual saccade directions were defined by visual stimulus appearance, neurons encoding volitional saccades increased activity with elapsed time from fixation initiation and by a temporal gap between fixation point disappearance and stimulus appearance. Their activity was further enhanced by an antisaccade instruction and correlated with antisaccade behavior. Neurons encoding automatic saccades also increased activity with elapsed time from fixation initiation and by a fixation gap. However, the activity of this type of neuron was not enhanced by an antisaccade instruction nor correlated with antisaccade behavior. We conclude that caudate neurons integrate nonspatial signals, such as elapsed time from fixation initiation, fixation gap, and task instructions, to preset BG circuits in favor of volitional actions to compete against automatic actions even before automatic and volitional commands are programmed with spatial information.
Gamma oscillations (30-100 Hz) correlate to a variety of neural functions, including sensory processing, attention, and action selection. However, they have barely been studied in relation to emotional processing and valuation of sensory signals and actions. We conducted multineuron and local field potential recordings in the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) of rats performing a task in which they made go or no-go decisions based on two olfactory stimuli predicting appetitive or aversive outcomes. Gamma power was strongest during the late phase of odor sampling, just before go/no-go movement, and increased with behavioral learning. Learning speed was correlated to the slope of the gamma power increment. Spikes of OFC neurons were consistently timed to the gamma rhythm during odor sampling, regardless of the associated outcome. However, only a specific subgroup of cells showed consistent phase timing. These cells showed action-outcome selective activity, not during stimulus sampling but during subsequent movement responses. During sampling, this subgroup displayed a suppression in firing rate but a concurrent increment in the consistency of spike timing relative to gamma oscillations. In addition to gamma rhythm, OFC field potentials were characterized by theta oscillations during odor sampling. Neurons phase-locked to either theta or gamma rhythms but not to both, suggesting that they become associated with separate rhythmic networks involving OFC. Altogether, these results suggest that OFC gamma-band synchronization reflects inhibitory control over a subpopulation of neurons that express information about the emotional valence of actions after a motor decision, which suggests a novel mechanism for response inhibition.
Several recent studies have shown that the ON and OFF channels of the visual system are not simple mirror images of each other, that their response characteristics are asymmetric (Chichilnisky and Kalmar, 2002; Sagdullaev and McCall, 2005). How the asymmetries bear on visual processing is not well understood. Here, we show that ON and OFF ganglion cells show a strong asymmetry in their temporal adaptation to photopic (day) and scotopic (night) conditions and that the asymmetry confers a functional advantage. Under photopic conditions, the ON and OFF ganglion cells show similar temporal characteristics. Under scotopic conditions, the two cell classes diverge-ON cells shift their tuning to low temporal frequencies, whereas OFF cells continue to respond to high. This difference in processing corresponds to an asymmetry in the natural world, one produced by the Poisson nature of photon capture and persists over a broad range of light levels. This work characterizes a previously unknown divergence in the ON and OFF pathways and its utility to visual processing. Furthermore, the results have implications for downstream circuitry and thus offer new constraints for models of downstream processing, since ganglion cells serve as building blocks for circuits in higher brain areas. For example, if simple cells in visual cortex rely on complementary interactions between the two pathways, such as push-pull interactions (Alonso et al., 2001; Hirsch, 2003), their receptive fields may be radically different under scotopic conditions, when the ON and OFF pathways are out of sync.
Persistent changes in spine shape are coupled to long-lasting synaptic plasticity in hippocampus. The molecules that coordinate such persistent structural and functional plasticity are unknown. Here, we generated mice in which the cell adhesion molecule N-cadherin was conditionally ablated from postnatal, excitatory synapses in hippocampus. We applied to adult mice of either sex a combination of whole-cell recording, two-photon microscopy, and spine morphometric analysis to show that postnatal ablation of N-cadherin has profound effects on the stability of coordinated spine enlargement and long-term potentiation (LTP) at mature CA1 synapses, with no effects on baseline spine density or morphology, baseline properties of synaptic neurotransmission, or long-term depression. Thus, N-cadherin couples persistent spine structural modifications with long-lasting synaptic functional modifications associated selectively with LTP, revealing unexpectedly distinct roles at mature synapses in comparison with earlier, broader functions in synapse and spine development.
Sexual behavior is variable between individuals, ranging from celibacy to sexual addictions. Within normal populations of individual men, ranging from young to middle aged, testosterone levels do not correlate with libido. To study the genetic mechanisms that contribute to individual differences in male sexual behavior, we used hybrid B6D2F1 male mice, which are a cross between two common inbred strains (C57BL/6J and DBA/2J). Unlike most laboratory rodent species in which male sexual behavior is highly dependent upon gonadal steroids, sexual behavior in a large proportion of these hybrid male mice after castration is independent of gonadal steroid hormones and their receptors; thus, we have the ability to discover novel genes involved in this behavior. Gene expression arrays, validation of gene candidates, and transgenic mice that overexpress one of the genes of interest were used to reveal genes involved in maintenance of male sexual behavior. Several genes related to neuroprotection and neurodegeneration were differentially expressed in the hypothalamus of males that continued to mate after castration. Male mice overexpressing the human form of one of these candidate genes, amyloid beta precursor protein (APP), displayed enhanced sexual behavior before castration and maintained sexual activity for a longer duration after castration compared with controls. Our results reveal a novel and unexpected relationship between APP and male sexual behavior. We speculate that declining APP during normal aging in males may contribute to the loss of sexual function.


Hypoosmolality and hyperosmolality are relatively common clinical problems. Many different factors contribute to the substantial morbidity and mortality known to occur during states of altered osmotic homeostasis. The brain is particularly vulnerable to disturbances of body fluid osmolality. The most serious complications are associated with pathological changes in brain volume: brain edema during hypoosmolar states and brain dehydration during hyperosmolar states. Studies in animals have elucidated many of the mechanisms involved with brain adaptation to osmotic stresses, and indicate that it is a complex process involving transient changes in water content and sustained changes in electrolyte and organic osmolyte contents. Appreciation of the nature of the adaptation process, and conversely the deadaptation processes that occur after recovery from hypoosmolality and hyperosmolality, enables a better understanding of the marked variations in neurological sequelae that characterize hyperosmolar and hypoosmolar states, and provides a basis for more rational therapies.
Unlike other mammalian AQPs, multiple tetramers of AQP4 associate in the plasma membrane to form peculiar structures called Orthogonal Arrays of Particles (OAPs), that are observable by freeze-fracture electron microscopy (FFEM). However, FFEM cannot give information about the composition of OAPs of different sizes, and due to its technical complexity is not easily applicable as a routine technique. Recently, we employed the 2D gel electrophoresis BN-SDS/PAGE that for the first time enabled the biochemical isolation of AQP4-OAPs from several tissues. We found that AQP4 protein is present in several higher-order complexes (membrane pools of supra-structures) which contain different ratios of M1/M23 isoforms corresponding to AQP4-OAPs of different size. In this paper, we illustrate in detail the potentiality of 2D BN/SDS-PAGE for analyzing AQP4 supra-structures, their relationship with the dystrophin glycoprotein complex and other membrane proteins, and their role as a specific target of Neuromyelitis Optica autoantibodies.
Although malfunction of spinal cord water channels (aquaporins, AQP) likely contributes to severe disturbances in ion/water homeostasis after spinal cord injury (SCI), their roles are still poorly understood. Here we report and discuss the potential significance of changes in the AQP4 expression in human SCI that generates glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-labeled astrocytes devoid of AQP4, and GFAP-labeled astroglia that overexpress AQP4. We used a rat model of contusion SCI to study observed changes in human SCI. AQP4-negative astrocytes are likely generated during the process of SCI-induced replacement of lost astrocytes, but their origin and role in SCI remains to be investigated. We found that AQP4-overexpression is likely triggered by hypoxia. Our transcriptional profiling of injured rat cords suggests that elevated AQP4-mediated water influx accompanies increased uptake of chloride and potassium ions which represents a protective astrocytic reaction to hypoxia. However, unbalanced water intake also results in astrocytic swelling that can contribute to motor impairment, but likely only in milder injuries. In severe rat SCI, a low abundance of AQP4-overexpressing astrocytes was found during the motor recovery phase. Our results suggest that severe rat contusion SCI is a better model to analyze AQP4 functions after SCI. We found that AQP4 increases in the chronic post-injury phase are associated with the development of pain-like behavior in SCI rats, while possible mechanisms underlying pain development may involve astrocytic swelling-induced glutamate release. In contrast, the formation and size of fluid-filled cavities occurring later after SCI does not appear to be affected by the extent of increased AQP4 levels. Therefore, the effect of therapeutic interventions targeting AQP4 will depend not only on the time interval after SCI or animal models, but also on the balance between protective role of increased AQP4 in hypoxia and deleterious effects of ongoing astrocytic swelling.
The physiological ability of the mammalian CNS to integrate peripheral stimuli and to convey information to the body is tightly regulated by its capacity to preserve the ion composition and volume of the perineuronal milieu. It is well known that astroglial syncytium plays a crucial role in such process by controlling the homeostasis of ions and water through the selective transmembrane movement of inorganic and organic molecules and the equilibration of osmotic gradients. Astrocytes, in fact, by contacting neurons and cells lining the fluid-filled compartments, are in a strategic position to fulfill this role. They are endowed with ion and water channel proteins that are localized in specific plasma membrane domains facing diverse liquid spaces. Recent data in rodents have demonstrated that the precise dynamics of the astroglia-mediated homeostatic regulation of the CNS is dependent on the interactions between water channels and ion channels, and their anchoring with proteins that allow the formation of macromolecular complexes in specific cellular domains. Interplay can occur with or without direct molecular interactions suggesting the existence of different regulatory mechanisms. The importance of molecular and functional interactions is pinpointed by the numerous observations that as consequence of pathological insults leading to the derangement of ion and volume homeostasis the cell surface expression and/or polarized localization of these proteins is perturbed. Here, we critically discuss the experimental evidence concerning: (1) molecular and functional interplay of aquaporin 4, the major aquaporin protein in astroglial cells, with potassium and gap-junctional channels that are involved in extracellular potassium buffering. (2) the interactions of aquaporin 4 with chloride and calcium channels regulating cell volume homeostasis. The relevance of the crosstalk between water channels and ion channels in the pathogenesis of astroglia-related acute and chronic diseases of the CNS is also briefly discussed.
Cerebral water control is critical to maintain neuronal excitability, and to prevent injuries derived from brain swelling or shrinkage. The influence of aquaporins (AQPs) in the balance of water distribution between intracranial compartments is getting much experimental support. The importance of AQPs in fluid clearance during vasogenic brain edema seems well established but their role in cytotoxic swelling and in brain cell shrinkage is not known in detail. The main AQPs function as water channels anticipates their influence on cell volume changes as well as on the mechanisms of volume recovery, which include notably the osmolyte translocation across the cell membrane. Osmolyte fluxes permit the reestablishment of an osmotic balance and volume recovery in anisosmotic-elicited cell volume changes, but are also causal factors per se of brain cell swelling or shrinkage in pathological situations. This review aims to inform on the so far described functional interactions between AQPs and osmolyte fluxes and their volume-sensitive pathways. It also points to the coincidence of AQPs and activation of osmolyte fluxes in physiological and pathological conditions and to the importance of finding possible functional links between these two events, thus enlarging the possibilities via AQP manipulations, to prevent the adverse consequences of cell volume changes in brain.
The water channel aquaporin 4 (AQP4) is abundantly expressed in astrocytes and provides a mechanism by which water permeability of the plasma membrane can be regulated. Astrocytes play a key role in the clearance of both potassium (K(+)) and glutamate released during neuronal activity. Emerging evidence suggests that AQP4 facilitates K(+) clearance by astrocytes and contributes to recovery of neuronal excitability. Here we report that AQP4 can assemble with its regulator metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) and with Na,K-ATPase; the enzyme responsible for active K(+) transport and for establishing the electrochemical gradient across the cell plasma membrane. We have, by use of pull down assays in rat brain tissue, identified the segment in the AQP4 NH(2)-terminus containing the amino acid residues 23-32 as the site for interaction with Na,K-ATPase catalytic subunit and with mGluR5. Mutagenesis studies revealed that the AQP4 amino acids K27 and W30 are of key importance for interaction with both Na,K-ATPase and mGluR5. To confirm that interaction also occurs within intact cells, we have performed fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) studies in primary astrocytes derived from rat striatum. The results indicate close proximity of wild type AQP4 and Na,K-ATPase in the plasma membrane of rat astrocytes. FRET efficiencies observed with the mutants AQP4 K27A and AQP4 W30A were significantly lower, highlighting the importance of these residues for the interaction between AQP4 and Na,K-ATPase. We conclude that AQP4/Na,K-ATPase/mGluR5 can form a macromolecular complex/transporting microdomain in astrocytes. This complex may be of functional importance for the regulation of water and K(+) homeostasis in the brain, as well as for neuron-astrocyte metabolic crosstalk.
Aquaporin-4 (AQP4) is a predominant water channel protein in mammalian brains that is distributed with the highest density in the perivascular and subpial astrocyte end-feet. AQP4 is a critical component of an integrated water and potassium homeostasis. Expression and regulation of AQP4 have been studied to understand the roles of AQP4 in physiology and several pathological conditions. Indeed, AQP4 has been implicated in several neurological conditions, such as brain edema and seizure. AQP4 is dynamically regulated at different levels: channel gating, subcellular distribution, phosphorylation, protein-protein interactions and orthogonal array formation. In this review, we focus on the short-term regulation of AQP4. Phosphorylation of AQP4 is important; AQP4 is inhibited when Ser180 is phosphorylated and activated when Ser111 is phosphorylated. AQP4 is also regulated by several metal ions. These metal ions inhibit AQP4 by interacting with the Cys178 residue located in the cytoplasmic loop D, suggesting that AQP4 is regulated by intracellular signaling pathways in response to extracellular stimuli. Recently, it was demonstrated that AQP4 may be inhibited by arylsulfonamides, antiepileptic drugs and other related chemical compounds. Structural analysis of AQP4 may guide a drug design for AQP4.
Aquaglyceroporins belong to the aquaporin family and are permeable to water and also to small solutes such as glycerol and urea. In this review, we will compare the expression of aquaporin 9 (AQP9), an aquaglyceroporin, with that of AQP4, a pure water channel, in pathological conditions. In astrocytes, AQP4 is mainly involved in water and ionic homeostasis. Its expression is highly modified in several brain disorders and it plays a key role in cerebral edema formation. AQP9 is expressed in astrocytes and in catecholaminergic neurons. The level of expression of brain AQP9 is under the control of blood insulin concentrations, and its expression is increased in diabetes, suggesting that AQP9 could be involved in brain energy metabolism. The induction of AQP9 in astrocytes is observed over time after stroke onset, suggesting participation in the clearance of excess lactate in the extracellular space. In some models, AQP9 is also induced in non-catecholaminergic neurons after global ischemia and in the periphery of gliomas, however functional roles are still unclear. The review of literature underlies that each AQP has several distinctive roles which depend on the AQP and cell types.
The panglial syncytium maintains ionic conditions required for normal neuronal electrical activity in the central nervous system (CNS). Vital among these homeostatic functions is &quot;potassium siphoning,&quot; a process originally proposed to explain astrocytic sequestration and long-distance disposal of K(+) released from unmyelinated axons during each action potential. Fundamentally different, more efficient processes are required in myelinated axons, where axonal K(+) efflux occurs exclusively beneath and enclosed within the myelin sheath, precluding direct sequestration of K(+) by nearby astrocytes. Molecular mechanisms for entry of excess K(+) and obligatorily-associated osmotic water from axons into innermost myelin are not well characterized, whereas at the output end, axonally-derived K(+) and associated osmotic water are known to be expelled by Kir4.1 and aquaporin-4 channels concentrated in astrocyte endfeet that surround capillaries and that form the glia limitans. Between myelin (input end) and astrocyte endfeet (output end) is a vast network of astrocyte &quot;intermediaries&quot; that are strongly inter-linked, including with myelin, by abundant gap junctions that disperse excess K(+) and water throughout the panglial syncytium, thereby greatly reducing K(+)-induced osmotic swelling of myelin. Here, I review original reports that established the concept of potassium siphoning in unmyelinated CNS axons, summarize recent revolutions in our understanding of K(+) efflux during axonal saltatory conduction, then describe additional components required by myelinated axons for a newly-described process of voltage-augmented &quot;dynamic&quot; potassium siphoning. If any of several molecular components of the panglial syncytium are compromised, K(+) siphoning is blocked, myelin is destroyed, and axonal saltatory conduction ceases. Thus, a common thread linking several CNS demyelinating diseases is the disruption of potassium siphoning/water transport within the panglial syncytium. Continued progress in molecular identification and subcellular mapping of glial ion and water channels will lead to a better understanding of demyelinating diseases of the CNS and to development of improved treatment regimens.
Glial-derived tumors, gliomas, are highly invasive cancers that invade normal brain through the extracellular space. To navigate the tortuous extracellular spaces, cells undergo dynamic changes in cell volume, which entails water flux across the membrane through aquaporins (AQPs). Two members of this family, AQP1 and AQP4 are highly expressed in primary brain tumor biopsies and both have a consensus phosphorylation site for protein kinase C (PKC), which is a known regulator of glioma cell invasion. AQP4 colocalizes with PKC to the leading edge of invading processes and clustered with chloride channel (ClC2) and K(+)-Cl(-) cotransporter 1 (KCC1), believed to provide the pathways for Cl(-) and K(+) secretion to accomplish volume changes. Using D54MG glioma cells stably transfected with either AQP1 or AQP4, we show that PKC activity regulates water permeability through phosphorylation of AQP4. Activation of PKC with either phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate or thrombin enhanced AQP4 phosphorylation, reduced water permeability and significantly decreased cell invasion. Conversely, inhibition of PKC activity with chelerythrine reduced AQP4 phosphorylation, enhanced water permeability and significantly enhanced tumor invasion. PKC regulation of AQP4 was lost after mutational inactivation of the consensus PKC phosphorylation site S180A. Interestingly, AQP1 expressing glioma cells, by contrast, were completely unaffected by changes in PKC activity. To demonstrate a role for AQPs in glioma invasion in vivo, cells selectively expressing AQP1, AQP4 or the mutated S180A-AQP4 were implanted intracranially into SCID mice. AQP4 expressing glioma cells showed significantly reduced invasion compared to AQP1 and S180 expressing tumors as determined by quantitative stereology, consistent with a differential role for AQP1 and AQP4 in this process.
Large water fluxes continuously take place between the different compartments of the brain as well as between the brain parenchyma and the blood or cerebrospinal fluid. This water flux is tightly regulated but may be disturbed under pathological conditions that lead to brain edema formation or hydrocephalus. The molecular pathways by which water molecules cross the cell membranes of the brain are not well-understood, although the discovery of aquaporin 4 (AQP4) in the brain improved our understanding of some of these transport processes, particularly under pathological conditions. In the present review we introduce another family of transport proteins as water transporters, namely the cotransporters and the glucose uniport GLUT1. In direct contrast to the aquaporins, these proteins have an inherent ability to transport water against an osmotic gradient. Some of them may also function as water pores in analogy to the aquaporins. The putative role of cotransport proteins and uniports for the water flux into the glial cells, through the choroid plexus and across the endothelial cells of the blood-brain-barrier will be discussed and compared to the contribution of the aquaporins.
Aquaporins are membrane water channel proteins that have also been identified in the cochlea. Auditory function critically depends on the homeostasis of the cochlear fluids perilymph and endolymph. In particular, the ion and water regulation of the endolymph is essential for sensory transduction. Within the cochlear duct the lateral wall epithelium has been proposed to secrete endolymph by an aquaporin-mediated flow of water across its epithelial tight junction barrier. This study identifies interspecies differences in the cellular distribution of aquaporin 5 (AQP5) in the cochlear lateral wall of mice, rats, gerbils and guinea pigs. In addition the cellular expression pattern of AQP5 is described in the human cochlea. Developmental changes in rats demonstrate longitudinal and radial gradients along the cochlear duct. During early postnatal development a pancochlear expression is detected. However a regression to the apical quadrant and limitation to outer sulcus cells (OSCs) is observed in the adult. This developmental loss of AQP5 expression in the basal cochlear segments coincides with a morphological loss of contact between OSCs and the endolymph. At the subcellular level, AQP5 exhibits polarized expression in the apical plasma membrane of the OSCs. Complementary, the basolateral membrane in the root processes of the OSCs exhibits AQP4 expression. This differential localization of AQP5 and AQP4 in the apical and basolateral membranes of the same epithelial cell type suggests a direct aquaporin-mediated transcellular water shunt between the perilymph and endolymph in the OSCs of the cochlear lateral wall. In the human cochlea these findings may have pathophysiological implications attributed to a dysfunctional water regulation by AQP5 such as endolymphatic hydrops (i.e. in Meniere's disease) or sensorineural hearing loss (i.e. in Sjgren's syndrome).
Orthogonal arrays of particles (OAPs) have been visualized for many years by freeze-fracture electron microscopy. Our laboratory discovered that aquaporin-4 (AQP4) is the protein responsible for OAP formation by demonstrating OAPs in AQP4-transfected cells and absence of OAPs in AQP4 knockout mice. We recently developed live-cell, single-molecule imaging methods to study AQP4 diffusion and interactions in OAPs. The methods include single particle tracking of quantum-dot labeled AQP4, and total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy of green fluorescent protein (GFP) and small fluorophore-labeled AQP4. The full-length (M1) form of AQP4 diffuses freely in membranes and does not form OAPs, whereas the shorter (M23) form of AQP4 forms OAPs and is nearly immobile. Analysis of a series of AQP4 truncations, point mutants and chimeras revealed that OAP formation by AQP4-M23 is stabilized by hydrophobic tetramer-tetramer interactions involving N-terminus residues, and that absence of OAPs in AQP4-M1 results from blocking of this interaction by residues just upstream from Met23. These biophysical methods are being extended to identify the cellular site of AQP4 assembly, AQP4 isoform interactions, OAP size and dynamics, and the determinants of regulated OAP assembly.
Neuromyelitis optica (NMO) is the first inflammatory autoimmune demyelinating disease of the CNS for which a specific tissue target molecule has been identified--the astrocytic water channel aquaporin-4 (AQP4). Immunological insights have propelled significant advances in understanding the clinical, radiologic and immunopathologic characteristics of the disease in the last 5 years. In this review, we describe features distinguishing CNS AQP4 autoimmunity from classical multiple sclerosis (MS). In NMO, disease attacks preferentially involve the optic nerves and spinal cord (hence the name), but neurological signs in the initial attack of AQP4 autoimmunity in children commonly involve the brain. A clinically validated serum biomarker, NMO-IgG, distinguishes relapsing CNS inflammatory demyelinating disorders related to NMO from MS. The NMO-IgG autoantibody is AQP4-specific. Clinical, radiological and immunopathological data support its role in the pathogenesis of NMO spectrum disorders. Lesions characteristic of NMO are distinct from MS: AQP4 and its coupled glutamate transporter, excitatory amino acid transporter 2 (EAAT2), are lost, with and without associated myelin loss, IgG, IgM and complement are deposited in a vasculocentric pattern, edema and inflammation are prominent. In vitro studies demonstrate that binding of NMO-IgG to astrocytic AQP4 initiates multiple potentially neuropathogenic mechanisms: complement activation, AQP4 and EAAT2 downregulation with disruption of water and glutamate homeostasis, enhanced blood-brain barrier permeability, plasma protein and granulocyte influx, and antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity. Development of effective, and potentially curative, therapies requires validated models of the disease, in animals and cell culture systems.
Brain oedema is a major clinical problem produced by CNS diseases (e.g. stroke, brain tumour, brain abscess) and systemic diseases that secondarily affect the CNS (e.g. hyponatraemia, liver failure). The swollen brain is compressed against the surrounding dura and skull, which causes the intracranial pressure to rise, leading to brain ischaemia, herniation, and ultimately death. A water channel protein, aquaporin-4 (AQP4), is found in astrocyte foot processes (blood-brain border), the glia limitans (subarachnoid cerebrospinal fluid-brain border) and ependyma (ventricular cerebrospinal fluid-brain border). Experiments using mice lacking AQP4 or alpha syntrophin (which secondarily downregulate AQP4) showed that AQP4 facilitates oedema formation in diseases causing cytotoxic (cell swelling) oedema such as cerebral ischaemia, hyponatraemia and meningitis. In contrast, AQP4 facilitates oedema elimination in diseases causing vasogenic (vessel leak) oedema and therefore AQP4 deletion aggravates brain oedema produced by brain tumour and brain abscess. AQP4 is also important in spinal cord oedema. AQP4 deletion was associated with less cord oedema and improved outcome after compression spinal cord injury in mice. Here we consider the possible routes of oedema formation and elimination in the injured cord and speculate about the role of AQP4. Finally we discuss the role of AQP4 in neuromyelitis optica (NMO), an inflammatory demyelinating disease that produces oedema in the spinal cord and optic nerves. NMO patients have circulating AQP4 IgG autoantibody, which is now used for diagnosing NMO. We speculate how NMO-IgG might produce CNS inflammation, demyelination and oedema. Since AQP4 plays a key role in the pathogenesis of CNS oedema, we conclude that AQP4 inhibitors and activators may reduce CNS oedema in many diseases.

The triadin isoforms Trisk 95 and Trisk 51 are both components of the skeletal muscle calcium release complex. To investigate the specific role of Trisk 95 and Trisk 51 isoforms in muscle physiology, we overexpressed Trisk 95 or Trisk 51 using adenovirus-mediated gene transfer in skeletal muscle of newborn mice. Overexpression of either Trisk 95 or Trisk 51 alters the muscle fiber morphology, while leaving unchanged the expression of the ryanodine receptor, the dihydropyridine receptor, and calsequestrin. We also observe an aberrant expression of caveolin 3 in both Trisk 95- and Trisk 51-overexpressing skeletal muscles. Using a biochemical approach, we demonstrate that caveolin 3 is associated with the calcium release complex in skeletal muscle. Taking advantage of muscle and non-muscle cell culture models and triadin null mouse skeletal muscle, we further dissect the molecular organization of the caveolin 3-containing calcium release complex. Our data demonstrate that the association of caveolin 3 with the calcium release complex occurs via a direct interaction with the transmembrane domain of the ryanodine receptor. Taken together, these data suggest that caveolin 3-containing membrane domains and the calcium release complex are functionally linked and that Trisk 95 and Trisk 51 are instrumental to the regulation of this interaction, the integrity of which may be crucial for muscle physiology.

Redundancy is a fundamental feature of biological motor systems. For example, when touching an object, many different combinations of movements of the shoulder, elbow, wrist, and finger joints result in the same movement at the fingertip. Exploiting this redundancy, the motor system distributes work across effectors to minimize signal-dependent noise and effort. When an error occurs, however, the motor system must assign the error to specific effectors, even though it may be ambiguous which effector caused them. Here, we studied the principles of responsibility assignment by using a bimanual task, in which the left and right hands jointly moved a visual cursor. We found that participants assigned errors, which were induced by visual rotation of the cursor, in a unified manner for correction and adaptation; the hand that corrected more for the error within the current movement also showed a bigger adaptive change in the next movement. Right-handed participants corrected errors more with their left hands, even though they corrected faster with their right hands in nonredundant tasks. Further experiments show that the motor system assigns responsibility preferentially to the hand that was previously exposed to larger errors. Our results show that responsibility assignment is a flexible process that attributes errors to the most likely cause.


The opening of ion channels in response to ligand binding, voltage or membrane stretch underlies electrical and chemical signalling throughout biology. Two structural classes of pore-opening mechanisms have been established, including bending of pore-lining helices in the case of tetrameric cation channels, or tilting of such helices in mechanosensitive channels. In this paper, we explore how the structure of the pore changes during opening in P2X receptors by measuring the modification of introduced cysteine residues in transmembrane helices by thiol-reactive reagents, and by engineering metal bridges. Our results are consistent with the X-ray structure of the closed state, and demonstrate that expansion of the gate region in the external pore is accompanied by a significant narrowing of the inner pore, indicating that pore-forming helices straighten on ATP binding to open the channel. This unique pore-opening mechanism has fundamental implications for the role of subunit interfaces in the gating mechanism of P2X receptors and points to a role of the internal pore in ion permeation.
Motor innervation to the tetrapod forelimb and fish pectoral fin is assumed to share a conserved spinal cord origin, despite major structural and functional innovations of the appendage during the vertebrate water-to-land transition. In this paper, we present anatomical and embryological evidence showing that pectoral motoneurons also originate in the hindbrain among ray-finned fish. New and previous data for lobe-finned fish, a group that includes tetrapods, and more basal cartilaginous fish showed pectoral innervation that was consistent with a hindbrain-spinal origin of motoneurons. Together, these findings support a hindbrain-spinal phenotype as the ancestral vertebrate condition that originated as a postural adaptation for pectoral control of head orientation. A phylogenetic analysis indicated that Hox gene modules were shared in fish and tetrapod pectoral systems. We propose that evolutionary shifts in Hox gene expression along the body axis provided a transcriptional mechanism allowing eventual decoupling of pectoral motoneurons from the hindbrain much like their target appendage gained independence from the head.

Auditory neuropathy is a rare form of deafness characterized by an absent or abnormal auditory brainstem response with preservation of outer hair cell function. We have identified Diaphanous homolog 3 (DIAPH3) as the gene responsible for autosomal dominant nonsyndromic auditory neuropathy (AUNA1), which we previously mapped to chromosome 13q21-q24. Genotyping of additional family members narrowed the interval to an 11-Mb, 3.28-cM gene-poor region containing only four genes, including DIAPH3. DNA sequencing of DIAPH3 revealed a c.-172G&gt;A, g. 48G&gt;A mutation in a highly conserved region of the 5' UTR. The c.-172G&gt;A mutation occurs within a GC box sequence element and was not found in 379 controls. Using genome-wide expression arrays and quantitative RT-PCR, we demonstrate a 2- to 3-fold overexpression of DIAPH3 mRNA in lymphoblastoid cell lines from affected individuals. Likewise, a significant increase (approximately 1.5-fold) in DIAPH3 protein was found by quantitative immunoblotting of lysates from lymphoblastoid cell lines derived from affected individuals in comparison with controls. In addition, the c.-172G&gt;A mutation is sufficient to drive overexpression of a luciferase reporter. Finally, the expression of a constitutively active form of diaphanous protein in the auditory organ of Drosophila melanogaster recapitulates the phenotype of impaired response to sound. To date, only two genes, the otoferlin gene OTOF and the pejvakin gene PJVK, are known to underlie nonsyndromic auditory neuropathy. Genetic testing for DIAPH3 may be useful for individuals with recessive as well as dominant inheritance of nonsyndromic auditory neuropathy.
Dominant mutations in two functionally related DNA/RNA-binding proteins, trans-activating response region (TAR) DNA-binding protein with a molecular mass of 43 KDa (TDP-43) and fused in sarcoma/translocation in liposarcoma (FUS/TLS), cause an inherited form of ALS that is accompanied by nuclear and cytoplasmic aggregates containing TDP-43 or FUS/TLS. Using isogenic cell lines expressing wild-type or ALS-linked TDP-43 mutants and fibroblasts from a human patient, pulse-chase radiolabeling of newly synthesized proteins is used to determine, surprisingly, that ALS-linked TDP-43 mutant polypeptides are more stable than wild-type TDP-43. Tandem-affinity purification and quantitative mass spectrometry are used to identify TDP-43 complexes not only with heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins family proteins, as expected, but also with components of Drosha microprocessor complexes, consistent with roles for TDP-43 in both mRNA processing and microRNA biogenesis. A fraction of TDP-43 is shown to be complexed with FUS/TLS, an interaction substantially enhanced by TDP-43 mutants. Taken together, abnormal stability of mutant TDP-43 and its enhanced binding to normal FUS/TLS imply a convergence of pathogenic pathways from mutant TDP-43 and FUS/TLS in ALS.


Hereditary diffuse leukoencephalopathy with spheroids (HDLS) is a rare autosomal dominant disorder characterized by cerebral white matter degeneration with myelin loss and axonal swellings (spheroids) leading to progressive cognitive and motor dysfunction. Histopathology of HDLS has been well characterized, but ultrastructural details are lacking. Here we report ultrastructural and immunoelectron microscopic characterization of spheroids and capillary basal lamina in white matter of HDLS brains. Spheroids had thin or discontinuous or no myelin sheaths. They contained various combinations of aggregated neurofilaments (NF), cytoplasmic organelles, dense bodies, and laminated figures. Aggregated filaments labeled with antibodies to phosphorylated NF (pNF), non-pNF and amyloid precursor protein. The gliotic white matter had many reactive astrocytes, and lipid-laden macrophages with membranous and fingerprint-like bodies. The basal laminas (BL) of many capillaries were dilated, and the enlarged space was heavily deposited with banded collagen type I and III. Some BL had focal thickenings and duplications. Fibronectin, not collagen IV, was found associated with banded collagen. The various types of axonal spheroids and changes in capillary basal lamina have not been emphasized previously. It remains to be determined if they are a reactive process or a primary mechanism of white matter degeneration in HDLS.
Growth factor-induced receptor dimerization and cross-phosphorylation are hallmarks of signal transduction via receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs). G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) can activate RTKs through a process known as transactivation. The prototypical model of RTK transactivation involves ligand-mediated RTK dimerization and cross-phosphorylation. Here, we show that the platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta (PDGFRbeta) transactivation by the dopamine receptor D4 (DRD4) is not dependent on ligands for PDGFRbeta. Furthermore, when PDGFRbeta dimerization is inhibited and receptor phosphorylation is suppressed to near basal levels, the receptor maintains its ability to be transactivated and is still effective in signaling to ERK1/2. Hence, the DRD4-PDGFRbeta-ERK1/2 pathway can occur independently of a PDGF-like ligand, PDGFRbeta cross-phosphorylation and dimerization, which is distinct from other known forms of transactivation of RTKs by GPCRs.
This study was designed to assess the association between stress, positive affect and catecholamine levels in meditation and control groups. The meditation group consisted of 67 subjects who regularly engaged in mind-body training of &quot;Brain-Wave Vibration&quot; and the control group consisted of 57 healthy subjects. Plasma catecholamine (norepinephrine (NE), epinephrine (E), and dopamine (DA)) levels were measured, and a modified form of the Stress Response Inventory (SRI-MF) and the Positive Affect and Negative Affect Scale (PANAS) were administered. The meditation group showed higher scores on positive affect (p=.019) and lower scores on stress (p&lt;.001) compared with the control group. Plasma DA levels were also higher in the meditation (p=.031) than in the control group. The control group demonstrated a negative correlation between stress and positive affects (r=-.408, p=.002), whereas this correlation was not observed in the meditation group. The control group showed positive correlations between somatization and NE/E (r=.267, p=.045) and DA/E (r=.271, p=.042) ratios, whereas these correlations did not emerge in the meditation group. In conclusion, these results suggest that meditation as mind-body training is associated with lower stress, higher positive affect and higher plasma DA levels when comparing the meditation group with the control group. Thus, mind-body training may influence stress, positive affect and the sympathetic nervous system including DA activity.


Attention is controlled by the interplay of sensory input and top-down processes. We compared attentional control processes during task switching and reorientation after distraction. The primary task was to discriminate laterally and centrally presented tones; these stimuli were composed of a frequent standard or an infrequent deviant pitch. In the distraction condition, pitch was irrelevant and could be ignored. In the switch condition, pitch changes were relevant: whenever a deviant tone was presented, participants had to discriminate its pitch and not its direction. The task in standard trials remained unchanged. In both conditions, deviants elicited mismatch negativity (MMN), P3a, P3b, and reorienting negativity (RON). We, therefore, suggest that distraction and switching are triggered by the same system of attentional control. In addition, remarkable differences were observable between the two conditions: In the switch condition the MMN was followed by a more pronounced N2b and P3a. The differences between these components support the idea that in the distraction condition, a switch of attention is only initiated but not completely performed.
Senescence-accelerated mouse prone 8 (SAMP8) has an early onset of senility and a shorter life span, providing with cognitive impairment. Contrasted with C57BL/6 mouse, which is most commonly used in the study of Parkinson's disease (PD), SAMP8 needs shorter period of breeding and might be good candidate for the investigation of cognitive impairment in PD. Studies had shown the increase of sensibility to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1, 2, 3, 6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) with aging in C57BL/6 mouse. However, the sensitivity of MPTP neurotoxicity depends on the strains of animal and the exact mechanisms of the progression of PD promoted by aging is lack of consensus. Here, we showed after MPTP injection, the spontaneous activity of both young (3-month-old) and old (6-month-old) SAMP8 decreased dramatically, and the old mice required longer recovery time. Immunohistochemical and immunoblot analysis revealed that old mice displayed significant reductions in the dopaminergic neuron numbers and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) protein. Microglia protein (CD11b) in the striatum of old mice increased more pronouncedly than that in the young mice from 24 h to 3 days. Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in the striatum remarkably increased, however, no discernible difference between the two groups was found. These results suggested that the sensibility to MPTP increased with aging in SAMP8. A greater increase of microglial activation in old mice may be a possible mechanism to explain how advancing age predisposes the dopamine system to parkinsonism. The MPTP-SAMP8 model will start a new consideration for the study of PD.
Transgenic mouse lines in which a fluorescent protein is constitutively expressed under the Thy1 gene promoter have become important models in cell biology and pathology studies of specific neuronal populations. As a result of positional insertion and/or copy number effects on the transgene, the populations expressing the fluorescent protein (eYFP+) vary markedly among the different mice lines. However, identification of the eYFP+ subpopulations has remained sketchy and fragmentary even for the most widely used lines such as Thy1-eYFP-H mice (Feng, G., Mellor, R.H., Bernstein, M., Keller-Peck, C., Nguyen, Q.T., Wallace, M., Nerbonne, J.M., Lichtman and J.W., Sanes. J.R. 2000. Imaging neuronal subsets in transgenic mice expressing multiple spectral variants of GFP. Neuron 28, 41-51). Here, we provide a comprehensive mapping of labeled cell types throughout the central nervous system in adult and postnatal (P0-P30) Thy1-eYFP-H mice. Cell type identification was based on somatodendritic morphology, axon trajectories, and, for cortical cells, retrograde labeling with Fast Blue to distinguish between subpopulations with different axonal targets. In the neocortex, eYFP+ cells are layers 5 and 6 pyramidal neurons, whose abundance and sublaminar distribution varies markedly between areas. Labeling is particularly prevalent in the corticospinal cells; as a result, the pyramidal pathway axons are conspicuously labeled down to the spinal cord. Large populations of hippocampal, subicular and amygdaloid projection neurons are eYFP+ as well. Additional eYFP+ cell groups are located in specific brainstem nuclei. Present results provide a comprehensive reference dataset for adult and developmental studies using the Thy1-eYFP-H mice strain, and show that this animal model may be particularly suitable for studies on the cell biology of corticospinal neurons.
One of the pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), which are composed of abnormally hyperphosphorylated tau, but the mechanism of tau hyperphosphorylation in AD is still unclear. To investigate the effects of estrogens on tau phosphorylation, SH-SY5Y cells were treated with okadaic acid (OA), a serine/threonine phosphatase inhibitor, to induce tau phosphorylation and the effects of estrogen were observed by co-treatment with 17beta-estradiol (E2). We found that OA induced in vitro tau hyperphosphorylation, which was prevented by E2 in a dose-dependent manner. This effect of E2 was partially blocked by an estrogen receptor (ER) antagonist, ICI 182,780. In addition to tau hyperphosphorylation, inhibition of serine/threonine phosphorylation induced upregulation of cdk5 levels, which was attenuated by E2 in a manner that was counteracted by ICI 182,780. Our results show that cdk5 is involved in OA-induced tau hyperphosphorylation, and estrogens ameliorate the tau hyperphosphorylation, which may be mediated in part by ER.
N-linked glycosylation is the most frequent modification of secreted and membrane-bound proteins in eukaryotic cells, disruption of which is the basis of the congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDGs). We describe a new type of CDG caused by mutations in the steroid 5alpha-reductase type 3 (SRD5A3) gene. Patients have mental retardation and ophthalmologic and cerebellar defects. We found that SRD5A3 is necessary for the reduction of the alpha-isoprene unit of polyprenols to form dolichols, required for synthesis of dolichol-linked monosaccharides, and the oligosaccharide precursor used for N-glycosylation. The presence of residual dolichol in cells depleted for this enzyme suggests the existence of an unexpected alternative pathway for dolichol de novo biosynthesis. Our results thus suggest that SRD5A3 is likely to be the long-sought polyprenol reductase and reveal the genetic basis of one of the earliest steps in protein N-linked glycosylation.
Nectin-1 is known to undergo ectodomain shedding by alpha-secretase and subsequent proteolytic processing by gamma-secretase. How secretase-mediated cleavage of nectin-1 is regulated in neuronal cells and how nectin-1 cleavage affects synaptic adhesion is poorly understood. We have investigated alpha-and gamma-secretase-mediated processing of nectin-1 in primary cortical neurons and identified which protease acts as a alpha-secretase. We report here that NMDA receptor activation, but not stimulation of AMPA or metabotropic glutamate receptors, resulted in robust alpha- and gamma-secretase cleavage of nectin-1 in mature cortical neurons. Cleavage of nectin-1 required influx of Ca(2+) through the NMDA receptor, and activation of calmodulin, but was not dependent on calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) activation. We found that ADAM10 is the major secretase responsible for nectin-1 ectodomain cleavage in neurons and the brain. These observations suggest that alpha- and gamma-secretase processing of nectin-1 is a Ca(2+)/calmodulin-regulated event that occurs under conditions of activity-dependent synaptic plasticity and ADAM10 and gamma-secretase are responsible for these cleavage events.
Flp-In(TM) T-REx(TM) 293 cells expressing a wild type human M(3) muscarinic acetylcholine receptor construct constitutively and able to express a receptor activated solely by synthetic ligand (RASSL) form of this receptor on demand maintained response to the muscarinic agonist carbachol but developed response to clozapine N-oxide only upon induction of the RASSL. The two constructs co-localized at the plasma membrane and generated strong ratiometric fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) signals consistent with direct physical interactions. Increasing levels of induction of the FRET donor RASSL did not alter wild type receptor FRET-acceptor levels substantially. However, ratiometric FRET was modulated in a bell-shaped fashion with maximal levels of the donor resulting in decreased FRET. Carbachol, but not the antagonist atropine, significantly reduced the FRET signal. Cell surface homogeneous time-resolved FRET, based on SNAP-tag technology and employing wild type and RASSL forms of the human M(3) receptor expressed stably in Flp-In(TM) TREx(TM) 293 cells, also identified cell surface dimeric/oligomeric complexes. Now, however, signals were enhanced by appropriate selective agonists. At the wild type receptor, large increases in FRET signal to carbachol and acetylcholine were concentration-dependent with EC(50) values consistent with the relative affinities of the two ligands. These studies confirm the capacity of the human M(3) muscarinic acetylcholine receptor to exist as dimeric/oligomeric complexes at the surface of cells and demonstrate that the organization of such complexes can be modified by ligand binding. However, conclusions as to the effect of ligands on such complexes may depend on the approach used.
Protein supra-domains are defined as recurring arrangements of two or three domains present adjacent to each other along a polypeptide chain. Such combinations have novel functions beyond those of the individual partner domains that compose them, which can exist in isolation. Here, we describe a new type of large supra-domain (approximately 360 residues) in which one of the component partners (approximately 200 residues) appears to be incapable of existing in a context other than immediately adjacent to the C-terminus of the well-characterized Hsp90-like ATPase domain. We found that this supra-domain has a broad phylogenetic distribution, with examples in Archaea, Bacteria, and Eukarya. There is strong selective pressure for this arrangement to occur as part of repeated regions of unprecedented length. We identified multiple strategies of convergent evolution to attain such configurations. In humans, this supra-domain is present in triplicate at the N-terminus of the protein sacsin (4579 residues), mutated in the neurodegenerative disorder known as spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay, and thus, we termed it &quot;sacsin repeating region&quot; (SRR). Biochemical characterization demonstrated that SRRs possess ATPase activity, which appears to be a requirement for sacsin function, as a disease-causing mutation leads to an alternate conformation completely incapable of hydrolyzing ATP. We also found evidence of a convergent evolutionary strategy to place SRRs in proteins containing C-terminal J domains, which we demonstrated here to be capable of stimulating the intrinsic ATPase activity of Hsp70. Our sequence and biochemical analyses indicate that SRRs necessitate nucleotide hydrolysis for their function, provided by the common Hsp90 ATPase domain, which, when coupled to the unique adjacent sequence, may give rise to a novel activity related to protein quality control.
Peripheral nerve injury activates spinal microglia. This leads to enduring changes in the properties of dorsal horn neurons that initiate central sensitization and the onset of neuropathic pain. Although a variety of neuropeptides, cytokines, chemokines and neurotransmitters have been implicated at various points in this process, it is possible that much of the information transfer between activated microglia and neurons, at least in this context, may be explicable in terms of the actions of brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Microglial-derived BDNF mediates central sensitization in lamina I by attenuating inhibitory synaptic transmission. This involves an alteration in the chloride equilibrium potential as a result of down regulation of the potassium-chloride exporter, KCC2. In lamina II, BDNF duplicates many aspects of the effects of chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve on excitatory transmission. It mediates an increase in synaptic drive to putative excitatory neurons whilst reducing that to inhibitory neurons. CCI produces a specific pattern of changes in excitatory synaptic transmission to tonic, delay, phasic, transient and irregular neurons. A very similar 'injury footprint' is seen following long-term exposure to BDNF. This review presents new information on the action of BDNF and CCI on lamina II neurons, including the similarity of their actions on the kinetics and distributions of subpopulations of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSC). These findings raise the possibility that BDNF functions as a final common path for a convergence of perturbations that culminate in the generation of neuropathic pain.



Learning new action sequences subserves a plethora of different abilities such as escaping a predator, playing the piano, or producing fluent speech. Proper initiation and termination of each action sequence is critical for the organization of behaviour, and is compromised in nigrostriatal disorders like Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases. Using a self-paced operant task in which mice learn to perform a particular sequence of actions to obtain an outcome, we found neural activity in nigrostriatal circuits specifically signalling the initiation or the termination of each action sequence. This start/stop activity emerged during sequence learning, was specific for particular actions, and did not reflect interval timing, movement speed or action value. Furthermore, genetically altering the function of striatal circuits disrupted the development of start/stop activity and selectively impaired sequence learning. These results have important implications for understanding the functional organization of actions and the sequence initiation and termination impairments observed in basal ganglia disorders.

The molecular genetic mechanisms of sex determination are not known for most vertebrates, including zebrafish. We identified a mutation in the zebrafish fancl gene that causes homozygous mutants to develop as fertile males due to female-to-male sex reversal. Fancl is a member of the Fanconi Anemia/BRCA DNA repair pathway. Experiments showed that zebrafish fancl was expressed in developing germ cells in bipotential gonads at the critical time of sexual fate determination. Caspase-3 immunoassays revealed increased germ cell apoptosis in fancl mutants that compromised oocyte survival. In the absence of oocytes surviving through meiosis, somatic cells of mutant gonads did not maintain expression of the ovary gene cyp19a1a and did not down-regulate expression of the early testis gene amh; consequently, gonads masculinized and became testes. Remarkably, results showed that the introduction of a tp53 (p53) mutation into fancl mutants rescued the sex-reversal phenotype by reducing germ cell apoptosis and, thus, allowed fancl mutants to become fertile females. Our results show that Fancl function is not essential for spermatogonia and oogonia to become sperm or mature oocytes, but instead suggest that Fancl function is involved in the survival of developing oocytes through meiosis. This work reveals that Tp53-mediated germ cell apoptosis induces sex reversal after the mutation of a DNA-repair pathway gene by compromising the survival of oocytes and suggests the existence of an oocyte-derived signal that biases gonad fate towards the female developmental pathway and thereby controls zebrafish sex determination.
Many animals experience marked seasonal fluctuations in environmental conditions. In response, animals display adaptive alterations in physiology and behaviour, including seasonal changes in immune function. During winter, animals must reallocate finite energy stores from relatively costly, less exigent systems (e.g. reproduction and immunity) to systems critical for immediate survival (e.g. thermoregulation). Seasonal changes in immunity are probably mediated by neuroendocrine factors signalling current energetic state. One potential hormonal candidate is insulin, a metabolic hormone released in response to elevated blood glucose levels. The aim of the present study was to explore the potential role of insulin in signalling energy status to the immune system in a seasonally breeding animal, the Siberian hamster (Phodopus sungorus). Specifically, exogenous insulin was administered to male hamsters housed in either long 'summer-like' or short 'winter-like' days. Animals were then challenged with an innocuous antigen and immune responses were measured. Insulin treatment significantly enhanced humoural immune responses in short, but not long days. In addition, insulin treatment increased food intake and decreased blood glucose levels across photoperiodic treatments. Collectively, these data support the hypothesis that insulin acts as an endocrine signal integrating seasonal energetic changes and immune responses in seasonally breeding rodents.
We have developed a method for dissecting single neurons from the nematode Ascaris suum, in order to determine their peptide content by mass spectrometry (MS). In this paper, we use MALDI-TOF MS and tandem MS to enumerate and sequence the peptides present in the two neurons, ALA and RID, that comprise the dorsal ganglion. We compare the peptide content determined by MS with the results of immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization of previously isolated peptides AF2, AF8 and 6 peptides encoded by the afp-1 transcript. We find complete agreement between the three techniques, which validates single neuron MS as a method for peptide localization. We also discovered and sequenced 6 novel peptides in the ALA neuron. Cloning of cDNAs and database searching of Genomic Survey Sequences showed that transcript afp-12 encodes peptide AF36 (VPSAADMMIRFamide), and afp-13 encodes AF19 (AEGLSSPLIRFamide), AF34 (DSKLMDPLIRFamide), AF35 (DPQQRIVTDETVLRFamide), and 3 non-amidated peptides (PepTT, PepTL, and PepGE). We have found no similarities with reported peptide expression in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. This method promises to be ideally suited for determining the peptide content of each of the 298 neurons in the nervous system of this nematode.
Dopamine (DA) is a neurotransmitter implicated in multiple functions, including movement, cognition, motivation, and reward. The DA transporter (DAT) is responsible for clearing extracellular DA, thereby terminating DA neurotransmission. Previously, it has been shown that insulin signaling through protein kinase B/Akt regulates DAT function by fine-tuning DAT cell surface expression. Importantly, specific Akt isoforms (e.g., Akt1, Akt2) serve distinct physiological functions. Here, we demonstrate using isoform-specific Akt inhibitors that basal activity of Akt2, rather than Akt1, regulates DAT cell surface expression. Since Akt2 activation is mediated by insulin, these data further implicate insulin signaling as an important modulator of DAT function and dopaminergic tone.
Sabril (vigabatrin) oral solution was approved by the FDA on August 21st, 2009 for treatment of infantile spasms in children ages 1 month to 2 years and complex partial seizures in adults (tablets).
Synaptic vesicles need to be mobile to reach their release sites during synaptic activity. We investigated vesicle mobility throughout the synaptic vesicle cycle using both conventional and subdiffraction-resolution stimulated emission depletion fluorescence microscopy. Vesicle tracking revealed that recently endocytosed synaptic vesicles are highly mobile for a substantial time period after endocytosis. They later undergo a maturation process and integrate into vesicle clusters where they exhibit little mobility. Despite the differences in mobility, both recently endocytosed and mature vesicles are exchanged between synapses. Electrical stimulation does not seem to affect the mobility of the two types of vesicles. After exocytosis, the vesicle material is mobile in the plasma membrane, although the movement appears to be somewhat limited. Increasing the proportion of fused vesicles (by stimulating exocytosis while simultaneously blocking endocytosis) leads to substantially higher mobility. We conclude that both high- and low-mobility states are characteristic of synaptic vesicle movement.


The ability of sensory-motor circuits to integrate sensory evidence over time is thought to underlie the process of decision-making in perceptual discrimination. Recent work has suggested that the NMDA receptor contributes to mediating neural activity integration. To test this hypothesis, we trained three female rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) to perform a visual search task, in which they had to make a saccadic eye movement to the location of a target stimulus presented among distracter stimuli of lower luminance. We manipulated NMDA-receptor function by administering an intramuscular injection of the noncompetitive NMDA antagonist ketamine and assessed visual search performance before and after manipulation. Ketamine was found to lengthen response latency in a dose-dependent fashion. Surprisingly, it was also observed that response accuracy was significantly improved when lower doses were administered. These findings suggest that NMDA receptors play a crucial role in the process of decision-making in perceptual discrimination. They also further support the idea that multiple neural representations compete with one another through mutual inhibition, which may explain the speed-accuracy trade-off rule that shapes discrimination behavior: lengthening integration time helps resolve small differences between choice alternatives, thereby improving accuracy.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by variable cognitive impairment and behavioral disturbances such as exaggerated fear, anxiety and gaze avoidance. Consistent with this, findings from human brain imaging studies suggest dysfunction of the amygdala. Underlying alterations in amygdala synaptic function in the Fmr1 knock-out (KO) mouse model of FXS, however, remain largely unexplored. Utilizing a combination of approaches, we uncover profound alterations in inhibitory neurotransmission in the amygdala of Fmr1 KO mice. We demonstrate a dramatic reduction in the frequency and amplitude of phasic IPSCs, tonic inhibitory currents, as well as in the number of inhibitory synapses in Fmr1 KO mice. Furthermore, we observe significant alterations in GABA availability, both intracellularly and at the synaptic cleft. Together, these findings identify abnormalities in basal and action potential-dependent inhibitory neurotransmission. Additionally, we reveal a significant neuronal hyperexcitability in principal neurons of the amygdala in Fmr1 KO mice, which is strikingly rescued by pharmacological augmentation of tonic inhibitory tone using the GABA agonist gaboxadol (THIP). Thus, our study reveals relevant inhibitory synaptic abnormalities in the amygdala in the Fmr1 KO brain and supports the notion that pharmacological approaches targeting the GABAergic system may be a viable therapeutic approach toward correcting amygdala-based symptoms in FXS.
In high-level perceptual regions of the ventral visual pathway in humans, experience shapes the functional properties of the cortex: the fusiform face area responds most strongly to faces of familiar rather than unfamiliar races, and the visual word form area (VWFA) is tuned only to familiar orthographies. But are these regions affected only by the bottom-up stimulus information they receive during learning, or does the effect of perceptual experience depend on the way that stimulus information is used during learning? Here, we test the hypothesis that top-down influences (i.e., task context) modulate the effect of perceptual experience on functional selectivities of the high-level visual cortex. Specifically, we test whether experience with novel visual stimuli produces a greater effect on the VWFA when those stimuli are associated with meanings (via association learning) but produces a greater effect on shape-processing regions when trained in a discrimination task without associated meanings. Our result supports this hypothesis and further shows that learning is transferred to novel objects that share parts with the trained objects. Thus, the effects of experience on selectivities of the high-level visual cortex depend on the task context in which that experience occurs and the perceptual processing strategy by which objects are encoded during learning.
Spontaneous spreading depolarizations (SDs) occur in the penumbra surrounding ischemic core. These SDs, often referred to as peri-infarct depolarizations, cause vasoconstriction and recruitment of the penumbra into the ischemic core in the critical first hours after focal ischemic stroke; however, the real-time spatiotemporal dynamics of SD-induced injury to synaptic circuitry in the penumbra remain unknown. A modified cortical photothrombosis model was used to produce a square-shaped lesion surrounding a penumbra-like &quot;area at risk&quot; in middle cerebral artery territory of mouse somatosensory cortex. Lesioning resulted in recurrent spontaneous SDs. In vivo two-photon microscopy of green fluorescent protein-expressing neurons in this penumbra-like area at risk revealed that SDs were temporally correlated with rapid (&lt;6 s) dendritic beading. Dendrites quickly (&lt;3 min) recovered between SDs to near-control morphology until the occurrence of SD-induced terminal dendritic injury, signifying acute synaptic damage. SDs are characterized by a breakdown of ion homeostasis that can be recovered by ion pumps if the energy supply is adequate. Indeed, the likelihood of rapid dendritic recovery between SDs was correlated with the presence of nearby flowing blood vessels, but the presence of such vessels was not always sufficient for rapid dendritic recovery, suggesting that energy needs for recovery exceeded energy supply of compromised blood flow. We propose that metabolic stress resulting from recurring SDs facilitates acute injury at the level of dendrites and dendritic spines in metabolically compromised tissue, expediting penumbral recruitment into the ischemic core.
A new development in our understanding of human long-term memory is that effective memory formation relies on neural activity just before an event. It is unknown whether such prestimulus activity is under voluntary control or a reflection of random fluctuations over time. In the present study, we addressed two issues: (1) whether prestimulus activity is influenced by an individual's motivation to encode, and (2) at what point in time encoding-related activity emerges. Electrical brain activity was recorded while healthy male and female adults memorized series of words. Each word was preceded by a cue, which indicated the monetary reward that would be received if the following word was later remembered. Memory was tested after a short delay with a five-way recognition task to separate different sources of recognition. Electrical activity elicited by the reward cue predicted later memory of a word. Crucially, however, this was only observed when the incentive to memorize a word was high. Encoding-related activity preceded high-reward words that were later recollected. This activity started shortly after cue onset and persisted until word onset. Prestimulus activity thus not only signals cue-related processing but also an ensuing preparatory state. In contrast, reward-related activity was limited to the time period immediately after the reward cue. These findings indicate that engaging neural activity that benefits the encoding of an upcoming event is under voluntary control, reflecting a strategic preparatory state in anticipation of processing an event.
The auditory system has two parallel streams in the brain that have been implicated in auditory fear learning. The lemniscal stream has selective neurons that are tonotopically organized and is thought to be important for sound discrimination. The nonlemniscal stream has less selective neurons, which are not tonotopically organized, and is thought to be important for multimodal processing and for several forms of learning. Therefore, it has been hypothesized that the lemniscal, but not the nonlemniscal, pathway supports discriminative fear to auditory cues. To test this hypothesis we assessed the effect of electrolytic lesions to the ventral, or medial, division of the medial geniculate nucleus (MGv or MGm, which correspond, respectively, to the lemniscal and the nonlemniscal auditory pathway to amygdala) on the acquisition, expression and extinction of fear responses in discriminative auditory fear conditioning, where one tone is followed by shock (conditioned stimulus, CS(+)), and another is not (CS(-)). Here we show that with single-trial conditioning control, MGv- and MGm-lesioned male rats acquire nondiscriminative fear of both the CS(+) and the CS(-). However, after multiple-trial conditioning, control rats discriminate between the CS(+) and CS(-), whereas MGv- and MGm-lesioned do not. Furthermore, post-training lesions of MGm, but not MGv, lead to impaired expression of discriminative fear. Finally, MGm-lesioned rats display high levels of freezing to both the CS(+) and CS(-) even after an extinction session to the CS(+). In summary, our findings suggest that the lemniscal pathway is important for discriminative learning, whereas the nonlemniscal is important for negatively regulating fear responses.
An animal's response to a stimulus depends on many factors such as age, hormonal state, experience, and its behavioral state. For example, an animal may suppress a behavior that is inappropriate or incompatible with its current state. In this study, we show that, as a medicinal leech feeds, the distention that it incurs inhibits its expression of swimming. Distention slows the swimming pattern and decreases the number of swim cycles elicited by a test electrical stimulation; large distentions inhibit swimming altogether. We have previously shown that the ingestive phase of feeding inhibits behaviors by presynaptic inhibition of mechanosensory neurons. Distention has its effects downstream (e.g., gating and central pattern generating interneurons) from these sensory neurons and thus represents a novel mechanism for choosing between conflicting behaviors during feeding. Because removing the leech's gut surgically did not eliminate the effects of body distention, we conclude that the receptors mediating the distention-induced suppression of swimming are likely to be located in the animal's body wall. Together with previous findings, these new data show that leeches rely on two different decision-making networks to ensure that a biologically important behavior is not disrupted by other behaviors.
Primate models of spinal cord injury differ from rodent models in several respects, including the relative size and functional neuroanatomy of spinal projections. Fundamental differences in scale raise the possibility that retrograde injury signals, and treatments applied at the level of the spinal cord that exhibit efficacy in rodents, may fail to influence neurons at the far greater distances of primate systems. Thus, we examined both local and remote neuronal responses to neurotrophic factor-secreting cell grafts placed within sites of right C7 hemisection lesions in the rhesus macaque. Six months after gene delivery of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) into C7 lesion sites, we found both local effects of growth factors on axonal growth, and remote effects of growth factors reflected in significant reductions in axotomy-induced atrophy of large pyramidal neurons within the primary motor cortex. Additional examination in a rodent model suggested that BDNF, rather than NT-3, mediated remote protection of corticospinal neurons in the brain. Thus, injured neural systems retain the ability to respond to growth signals over the extended distances of the primate CNS, promoting local axonal growth and preventing lesion-induced neuronal degeneration at a distance. Remote cortical effects of spinally administered growth factors could &quot;prime&quot; the neuron to respond to experimental therapies that promote axonal plasticity or regeneration.
How the activity of populations of cortical neurons generates coordinated multijoint actions of the arm, wrist, and hand is poorly understood. This study combined multielectrode recording techniques with full arm motion capture to relate neural activity in primary motor cortex (M1) of macaques (Macaca mulatta) to arm, wrist, and hand postures during movement. We find that the firing rate of individual M1 neurons is typically modulated by the kinematics of multiple joints and that small, local ensembles of M1 neurons contain sufficient information to reconstruct 25 measured joint angles (representing an estimated 10 functionally independent degrees of freedom). Beyond showing that the spiking patterns of local M1 ensembles represent a rich set of naturalistic movements involving the entire upper limb, the results also suggest that achieving high-dimensional reach and grasp actions with neuroprosthetic devices may be possible using small intracortical arrays like those already being tested in human pilot clinical trials.
Previous characterizations of rodent eating behavior have revealed that they use coordinated forepaw movements to manipulate food pieces. We have extended upon this work to develop a simple quantitative measure of forepaw dexterity that is sensitive to lateralized impairments and age-dependent changes. Rodents learn skillful forepaw and digit movements to manage thin pasta pieces, which they eagerly consume. We have previously described methods for quantifying vermicelli handling in rats and showed that the measures are very sensitive to forelimb impairments resulting from unilateral ischemic lesions, middle cerebral artery occlusions and unilateral striatal dopamine depletion [Allred, R.P., Adkins, D.L., Woodlee, M.T., Husbands, L.C., Maldonado M.A., Kane, J.R., Schallert, T. &amp; Jones, T.A. The Vermicelli Handling Test: a simple quantitative measure of dexterous forepaw function in rats. J. Neurosci. Methods 170, 229-244 (2008)]. Here we present a more detailed protocol for this test in rats and compare it with a newly developed version for mice, the Capellini Handling Test. Rats and mice are videotaped while handling short lengths of uncooked vermicelli or capellini pasta, respectively, with a camera positioned to optimize the view of paw movements. Slow motion video playback allows for the identification of forepaw adjustments, defined as any distinct removal and replacement of the paw, or of any number of digits, on the pasta piece after eating commences. Forepaw adjustments per piece are averaged over trials per each testing session. Repeated testing permits sensitive quantitative analysis of changes in forepaw dexterity over time. Protocols for pre-testing habituation and handling practice, as well as procedures for characterizing atypical handling patterns, are described. Because rats and mice perform the pasta handling tests slightly differently, species-specific differences in administration and scoring of these tests are highlighted. All animal use was in accordance with protocols approved by the University of Texas at Austin Animal Care and Use Committee.


Unmanaged sudden withdrawal from the excessive consumption of alcohol (ethanol) adversely alters neuronal integrity in vulnerable brain regions such as the cerebellum, hippocampus, or cortex. In addition to well known hyperexcitatory neurotransmissions, ethanol withdrawal (EW) provokes the intense generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the activation of stress-responding protein kinases, which are the focus of this review article. EW also inflicts mitochondrial membranes/membrane potential, perturbs redox balance, and suppresses mitochondrial enzymes, all of which impair a fundamental function of mitochondria. Moreover, EW acts as an age-provoking stressor. The vulnerable age to EW stress is not necessarily the oldest age and varies depending upon the target molecule of EW. A major female sex steroid, 17beta-estradiol (E2), interferes with the EW-induced alteration of oxidative signaling pathways and thereby protects neurons, mitochondria, and behaviors. The current review attempts to provide integrated information at the levels of oxidative signaling mechanisms by which EW provokes brain injuries and E2 protects against it. Unmanaged sudden withdrawal from the excessive consumption of alcohol (ethanol) adversely alters neuronal integrity in vulnerable brain regions such as the cerebellum, hippocampus, or cortex. In addition to well known hyperexcitatory neurotransmissions, ethanol withdrawal (EW) provokes the intense generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the activation of stress-responding protein kinases, which are the focus of this review article. EW also inflicts mitochondrial membranes/membrane potential, perturbs redox balance, and suppresses mitochondrial enzymes, all of which impair a fundamental function of mitochondria. Moreover, EW acts as an age-provoking stressor. The vulnerable age to EW stress is not necessarily the oldest age and varies depending upon the target molecule of EW. A major female sex steroid, 17beta-estradiol (E2), interferes with the EW-induced alteration of oxidative signaling pathways and thereby protects neurons, mitochondria, and behaviors. The current review attempts to provide integrated information at the levels of oxidative signaling mechanisms by which EW provokes brain injuries and E2 protects against it.


Glutamatergic synaptic transmission is terminated by members of the excitatory amino acid transporter (EAAT) family of proteins that remove glutamate from the synaptic cleft by transporting it into surrounding glial cells. Recent structures of a bacterial homolog suggest that major motions within the transmembrane domain translocate the substrate across the membrane. However, the events leading to this large structural rearrangement are much less clear. Two reentrant loops have been proposed to act as extracellular and intracellular gates, but whether other regions of these proteins play a role in the transport process is unknown. We hypothesized that transport-related conformational changes could change the solvent accessibilities of affected residues, as reflected in protease sensitivity or small-molecule reactivity. In the model system Glt(Ph), an archaeal EAAT homologue from Pyrococcus horikoshii, limited trypsin proteolysis experiments initially identified a site in the long extracellular loop that stretches between helices 3 and 4 that becomes protected from proteolysis in the presence of a substrate, L-aspartate, or an inhibitor, DL-TBOA in the presence of Na(+), the cotransported ion. Using a combination of site-directed cysteine-scanning mutagenesis and fluorescein-5-maleimide labeling we found that positions throughout the loop experience these ligand-induced conformational changes. By selectively cleaving the 3-4 loop (via introduced Factor Xa sites) we demonstrate that it plays a vital role in the transport process; though structurally intact, the cleaved proteins are unable to transport aspartate. These results inculcate the 3-4 loop as an important player in the transport process, a finding not predicted by any of the available crystal structures of Glt(Ph).
Brain reward circuitry, including ventral striatum and orbitofrontal cortex, has been independently implicated in preferences for fair and cooperative outcomes as well as learning of reputations. Using functional MRI (fMRI) and a &quot;trust game&quot; task involving iterative exchanges with fictive partners who acquire different reputations for reciprocity, we measured brain responses in 36 healthy adults when positive actions (entrust investment to partners) yield positive returns (reciprocity) and how these brain responses are modulated by partner reputation for repayment. Here we show that positive reciprocity robustly engages the ventral striatum and orbitofrontal cortex. Moreover, this signal of reciprocity in the ventral striatum appears selectively in response to partners who have consistently returned the investment (e.g., a reputation for reciprocity) and is absent for partners who lack a reputation for reciprocity. These findings elucidate a fundamental brain mechanism, via reward-related neural substrates, by which human cooperative relationships are initiated and sustained.
Morphine-induced analgesia and antinociceptive tolerance are known to be modulated by interaction between delta-opioid receptors (DORs) and mu-opioid receptors (MORs) in the pain pathway. However, evidence for expression of DORs in nociceptive small-diameter neurons in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and for coexistence of DORs with MORs and neuropeptides has recently been challenged. We now report, using in situ hybridization, single-cell PCR, and immunostaining, that DORs are widely expressed not only in large DRG neurons but in small ones and coexist with MORs in peptidergic small DRG neurons, with protachykinin-dependent localization in large dense-core vesicles. Importantly, both DOR and MOR agonists reduce depolarization-induced Ca(2+) currents in single small DRG neurons and inhibit afferent C-fiber synaptic transmission in the dorsal spinal cord. Thus, coexistence of DORs and MORs in small DRG neurons is a basis for direct interaction of opioid receptors in modulation of nociceptive afferent transmission and opioid analgesia.
Previous research suggests that removal of visual feedback of force output in a sequential force production task results in a continuous escalation of the force magnitudes produced. Central predictive mechanisms involving reafference result in self-generated forces being perceived as weaker, thus leading to a systematic over-production of force. While this effect has been widely examined with respect to sensation of self-produced stimuli, its role in the sequential production of discrete forces has not been extensively studied. The objective of the present experiment was to further investigate the force escalation effect by examining the sequential force production task in two predictable environments where force targets progressively changed between 8 and 16 N. In one environment target force magnitudes continually increased at a predictable rate, while in the second target force magnitudes decreased at the same rate. Eight healthy participants produced a series of repetitive pinch grip forces in time to a metronome at a frequency of 2 Hz. Visual feedback of force output was removed 10 s in to the trial, with participants performing continued responses for the remaining 20 s. Following removal of visual feedback participants rapidly accrued errors in force magnitude, but slopes of the peak force series did not differ from those of the target series. Errors in magnitude were bi-directional, showing dependence on the increasing or decreasing environment in which the task was performed. The observed escalation and de-escalation effect can both be attributed to central predictive mechanisms and the force salience effect in reafference.
A central goal in auditory neuroscience is to understand the neural coding of species-specific communication and human speech sounds. Low-rate repetitive sounds are elemental features of communication sounds, and core auditory cortical regions have been implicated in processing these information-bearing elements. Repetitive sounds could be encoded by at least three neural response properties: 1) the event-locked spike-timing precision, 2) the mean firing rate, and 3) the interspike interval (ISI). To determine how well these response aspects capture information about the repetition rate stimulus, we measured local group responses of cortical neurons in cat anterior auditory field (AAF) to click trains and calculated their mutual information based on these different codes. ISIs of the multiunit responses carried substantially higher information about low repetition rates than either spike-timing precision or firing rate. Combining firing rate and ISI codes was synergistic and captured modestly more repetition information. Spatial distribution analyses showed distinct local clustering properties for each encoding scheme for repetition information indicative of a place code. Diversity in local processing emphasis and distribution of different repetition rate codes across AAF may give rise to concurrent feed-forward processing streams that contribute differently to higher-order sound analysis.
We investigated the contribution of frontal and parietal cortices to bottom-up and top-down visual attention using electrophysiological measures in humans. Stimuli consisted of triangles, each with a different color and orientation. Subjects were presented with a sample triangle which served as the target for that trial. An array was subsequently presented with the target and three additional distractor stimuli, which were constructed to induce either automatic &quot;pop-out&quot; (50%) or effortful &quot;search&quot; (50%) behavior. For pop-out, both the color and orientation of the distractors differed from the target, which attracted attention automatically. For search, only the orientation of the distractors differed from the target, so effortful attention was required. Pop-out target detection generated a P300 event-related potential (ERP) with a peak amplitude over parietal sites whereas the search condition generated a fronto-centrally distributed P300. Reaction times and associated P300 latency in frontal areas were shorter for pop-out targets than for search targets. We used time-frequency analysis to compare pop-out and search conditions, within a 200-650 ms time-window and a 4-55 Hz frequency band. There was a double dissociation, with significantly increased power from 4 to 24 Hz in parietal areas for pop-out targets and increased power from 4 to 24 Hz in frontal regions for search targets. Taken together the ERP and time-frequency results provide evidence that the control of bottom-up and top-down attention depend on differential contributions from parietal and frontal cortices.
The present study evaluated the ability of salicylic acid (SA) to attenuate long-term L-DOPA-induced 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) formation in the striatum of mice, and to protect against the resulting dopaminergic neurotoxicity. The production of 6-OHDA from dopamine in vitro from ferrous-ascorbate-dopamine (FAD) hydroxyl radical ((*)OH) generating system or in vivo in the striatum following prolonged administration of L-DOPA in mice were found to be significantly attenuated by SA. Intra-median forebrain bundle infusion of FAD, but not equivalent dose of ferrous ion or dopamine individually, caused significant striatal dopamine depletion, which was blocked by SA administration. The dose- and time-dependent increase in the formation of 6-OHDA following L-DOPA treatment in the mouse striatum was synergistically enhanced to the systemic administration of the parkinsonian neurotoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. SA treatment significantly attenuated the L-DOPA plus the parkinsonian neurotoxin-induced striatal 6-OHDA generation, and protected against striatal dopamine loss. The present study demonstrated a novel mode of dopaminergic neuroprotection by SA and its possible therapeutic implication in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Abnormal tau cleavage is prominent in the neurofibrillary degeneration characteristic of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related tauopathies. We recently showed that cleaved human tau is secreted by specific mechanisms when overexpressed. Here we examined the effect of expressing N-terminal and full length tau constructs in transiently and stably transfected neuronal lines. We show that secreted tau exhibits a cleavage pattern similar to CSF-tau from human AD patients and that tau secretion is specifically inhibited by the presence of the exon 2 insert. These results suggest that tau secretion may play a hitherto unsuspected role in AD and related tauopathies.
Biological sensors and their ability to detect and respond to change in the cellular environment can be modulated by protein scaffolds acting within their interaction network. The skeletal muscle alpha-actinins have been considered as primarily structural scaffold proteins. However, deficiency of alpha-actinin-3 due to a common null polymorphism results in predominantly metabolic changes in skeletal muscle function. In this review, we explore the range of phenotypes associated with alpha-actinin-3 deficiency, and draw supporting evidence from known interaction partners for its role as a scaffold which acts to modulate biological sensors that result in changes in muscle metabolism and structure.
As the primary microtubule-organizing centers, centrosomes require gamma-tubulin for microtubule nucleation and organization. Located in close vicinity to centrosomes, the Golgi complex is another microtubule-organizing organelle in interphase cells. CDK5RAP2 is a gamma-tubulin complex-binding protein and functions in gamma-tubulin attachment to centrosomes. In this study, we find that CDK5RAP2 localizes to the Golgi complex in an ATP- and centrosome-dependent manner and associates with Golgi membranes independently of microtubules. CDK5RAP2 contains a centrosome-targeting domain with its core region highly homologous to the Motif 2 (CM2) of centrosomin, a functionally related protein in Drosophila. This sequence, referred to as the CM2-like motif, is also conserved in related proteins in chicken and zebrafish. Therefore, CDK5RAP2 may undertake a conserved mechanism for centrosomal localization. Using a mutational approach, we demonstrate that the CM2-like motif plays a crucial role in the centrosomal and Golgi localization of CDK5RAP2. Furthermore, the CM2-like motif is essential for the association of the centrosome-targeting domain to pericentrin and AKAP450. The binding with pericentrin is required for the centrosomal and Golgi localization of CDK5RAP2, whereas the binding with AKAP450 is required for the Golgi localization. Although the CM2-like motif possesses the activity of Ca(2+)-independent calmodulin binding, binding of calmodulin to this sequence is dispensable for centrosomal and Golgi association. Altogether, CDK5RAP2 may represent a novel mechanism for centrosomal and Golgi localization.
Our recent work identified store-operated Ca(2+) entry (SOCE) as the critical Ca(2+) source required for the induction of human myoblast differentiation (Darbellay, B., Arnaudeau, S., Knig, S., Jousset, H., Bader, C., Demaurex, N., and Bernheim, L. (2009) J. Biol. Chem. 284, 5370-5380). The present work indicates that STIM2 silencing, similar to STIM1 silencing, reduces myoblast SOCE amplitude and differentiation. Because myoblasts in culture can be induced to differentiate into myotubes, which spontaneously contract in culture, we used the same molecular tools to explore whether the Ca(2+) mechanism of excitation-contraction coupling also relies on STIM1 and STIM2. Live cell imaging of early differentiating myoblasts revealed a characteristic clustering of activated STIM1 and STIM2 during the first few hours of differentiation. Thapsigargin-induced depletion of endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) content caused STIM1 and STIM2 redistribution into clusters, and co-localization of both STIM proteins. Interaction of STIM1 and STIM2 was revealed by a rapid increase in fluorescence resonance energy transfer between CFP-STIM1 and YFP-STIM2 after SOCE activation and confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation of endogenous STIM1 and STIM2. Although both STIM proteins clearly contribute to SOCE and are required during the differentiation process, STIM1 and STIM2 are functionally largely redundant as overexpression of either STIM1 or STIM2 corrected most of the impact of STIM2 or STIM1 silencing on SOCE and differentiation. With respect to excitation-contraction, we observed that human myotubes rely also on STIM1 and STIM2 to refill their endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-content during repeated KCl-induced Ca(2+) releases. This indicates that STIM2 is a necessary partner of STIM1 for excitation-contraction coupling. Thus, both STIM proteins are required and interact to control SOCE during human myoblast differentiation and human myotube excitation-contraction coupling.


Environmental and genetic causes are implicated in the etiopathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD), a neurodegenerative movement disorder. DJ-1, a putative gene recessively linked to early onset PD, functions as an antioxidant, transcriptional co-activator, and molecular chaperone. We examined DJ-1 status following global perturbation of protein thiol homeostasis by depleting cellular antioxidant glutathione or downregulating glutaredoxin 1, a thiol disulfide oxidoreductase, wherein both paradigms generate oxidative stress. While these perturbations did not affect expression of DJ-1 mRNA, downregulation of glutaredoxin 1 but not glutathione depletion caused loss of DJ-1 protein, translocation of Daxx (a death-associated protein) from nucleus, and cell death. Overexpression of wild-type DJ-1, but not the cysteine mutants, prevented Daxx translocation and cytotoxicity. Protease inhibitors prevented constitutive DJ-1 loss. Residual DJ-1 was present in reduced state, indicating that DJ-1 when oxidized was degraded through proteolysis. Thus, loss of DJ-1 occurring through its oxidative modification and subsequent proteolysis mediated through dysregulation of thiol disulfide oxidoreductase may contribute to pathogenesis of sporadic PD, thus providing a link between environmental challenges and constitutive levels of this vital protein.
Cardiac inotropy progressively declines during diabetes mellitus. To date, the molecular mechanisms underlying this defect remain incompletely characterized. This study tests the hypothesis that ventricular myosin heavy chains (MHC) undergo carbonylation by reactive carbonyl species (RCS) during diabetes and these modifications contribute to the inotropic decline. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with streptozotocin (STZ). Fourteen days later the animals were divided into two groups: one group was treated with the RCS blocker aminoguanidine for 6 weeks, while the other group received no treatment. After 8 weeks of diabetes, cardiac ejection fraction, fractional shortening, left ventricular pressure development (+dP/dt) and myocyte shortening were decreased by 9%, 16%, 34% and 18%, respectively. Ca(2+)- and Mg(2+)-actomyosin ATPase activities and peak actomyosin syneresis were also reduced by 35%, 28%, and 72%. MHC-alpha to MHC-beta ratio was 12:88. Mass spectrometry and Western blots revealed the presence of carbonyl adducts on MHC-alpha and MHC-beta. Aminoguanidine treatment did not alter MHC composition, but it blunted formation of carbonyl adducts and decreases in actomyosin Ca(2+)-sensitive ATPase activity, syneresis, myocyte shortening, cardiac ejection fraction, fractional shortening and +dP/dt induced by diabetes. From these new data it can be concluded that in addition to isozyme switching, modification of MHC by RCS also contributes to the inotropic decline seen during diabetes.
Ligand gated ion channels are integral multimeric membrane proteins that can detect with high sensitivity the presence of a specific transmitter in the extracellular space and transduce this signal into an ion flux. While these receptors are widely expressed in the nervous system, their expression is not limited to neurons or their postsynaptic targets but extends to non-neuronal cells where they participate in many physiological responses. Cells have developed complex regulatory mechanisms allowing for the precise control and modulation of ligand gated ion channels. In this overview the roles of accessory subunits and associated proteins in these regulatory mechanisms are reviewed and their relevance illustrated by examples at different ligand gated ion channel types, with emphasis on nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. Dysfunction of ligand gated ion channels can result in neuromuscular, neurological or psychiatric disorders. A better understanding of the precise function of associated proteins and how they impact on ligand gated ion channels will provide new therapeutic opportunities for clinical intervention.
Depression is a complex and heterogeneous disorder whose cause is poorly understood. Theories on the mechanisms of the disease have often focused on either its neurobiology or its cognitive and behavioral manifestations. Recently, studies exploring how depressed patients process reward and punishment have linked these two facets together. It has been suggested that individuals with a dysfunction in a specialized network of brain regions are unable to exploit affective information to guide behavior. Deficits in this ability might predispose such individuals to develop depression, whereas subsequent restoration of this ability--whether through pharmacological or behavioral treatments--might enable recovery from the disorder. Here we review behavioral, neuroimaging, and computational findings relevant to this hypothesis. There is good evidence that depressed patients exhibit abnormal behavioral responses to rewards and punishments and that these tendencies correspond to aberrant function in frontostriatal systems modulated by the monoamine systems. Furthermore, computational studies have generated testable predictions for how these neural signaling and neurochemical abnormalities might contribute to the symptoms of depression. Combining these approaches--as well as molecular and behavioral work in animals--provides great promise for furthering our understanding of this common and debilitating disease.
An improved telemetric system based on either differential pulse voltammetry (DPV) or direct current amperometry (DCA) &quot;diffused&quot; via a single-way infrared (IR) transmission channel is introduced. The structural design of this system is very small and weighting only few grams but above all and unlike similar pre-existing instruments based on IR transmission, the present system works on a single-way communication, thus avoiding problems related to cross-talking between two-way channels that ends in altered functionality of the measuring electrode system. In addition, it is immune from electromagnetic interferences that disturb radio-frequency transmission. The system appeared already sensitive to both dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) using DCA and DPV either in vitro as well as in vivo. In particular, parallel in vivo experiments within anaesthetised rats prepared for classical wire-connected DCA or for wireless DCA resulted in superimposing data when the 5-HT system in the frontal cortex of anaesthetised rats was challenged with fluoxetine. In the present study, we have further refined and then successfully extended the wireless methodology to conscious freely moving rats and further verified the chemical nature of the DA and 5-HT current related signals recorded with wireless DCA in prefrontal cortex using Nafion coated micro-biosensors via dedicated pharmacological treatments.
Glioblastoma, the most common and aggressive primary brain tumor, is rapidly growing and highly infiltrative. Incomplete knowledge of the molecular biology, genetics, causes and cellular origin of these tumors may limit the development of improved therapeutics. A major and fundamental advance in recent years has been the identification of microRNAs as highly conserved regulators of gene expression. Here we will discuss further our recently published data on the role of miR-451 in the biology of glioblastoma. We initially identified miR-451 due to its downregulation in a glioma cell migration assay. We then found that by targeting the LKB1 kinase complex miR-451 suppresses the activity of downstream protein kinases including the major energy biosensor AMPK. MiR-451 levels are regulated by glucose; under conditions of abundant energy miR-451 expression is high, and the suppression of AMPK signaling allows cells to maintain elevated proliferation rates via unrestrained mTOR activation. Under conditions of glucose withdrawal, miR-451 downregulation is necessary for AMPK pathway activation, leading to suppressed proliferation rates, increased cell survival and migration. We also identified a potential feedback loop between LKB1 and miR-451, which allows a sustained and robust response to glucose deprivation. This data will be discussed in the context of potential biological significance and therapeutic implications.
Parkinson disease is caused by the progressive loss of dopamine innervation to the basal ganglia and is commonly treated with the dopamine precursor, L-DOPA. Prolonged administration of L-DOPA results in the development of severe motor complications or dyskinesia, which seriously hamper its clinical use. Recent evidence indicates that L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID) is associated with persistent activation of the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) in the medium spiny neurons (MSNs) of the striatum, the main component of the basal ganglia. This phenomenon is secondary to the development of a strong sensitization at the level of dopamine D1 receptors, which are abundantly expressed in a subset of MSNs. Such sensitization confers to dopaminergic drugs (including L-DOPA) the ability to activate the extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases 1/2, which, in turn promote mTORC1 signaling. Using a mouse model of LID, we recently showed that administration of the allosteric mTORC1 inhibitor, rapamycin, reduces dyskinesia. This finding is discussed with respect to underlying mechanisms and potential significance for the development of future therapeutic interventions.
Lithium is used in the treatment of bipolar mood disorder. Reportedly, lithium can be neuroprotective in models of adult brain ischemia. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of lithium in a model of neonatal hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. Nine-day-old male rats were subjected to unilateral hypoxia-ischemia (HI) and 2mmol/kg lithium chloride was injected i.p. immediately after the insult. Additional lithium injections, 1mmol/kg, were administered at 24-h intervals. Pups were killed 6, 24 or 72h after HI. Lithium reduced the infarct volume from 24.72.9 to 13.83.3mm(3) (44.1%) and total tissue loss (degeneration + lack of growth) from 67.44.4 to 38.45.9mm(3) (43.1%) compared with vehicle at 72h after HI. Injury was reduced in the cortex, hippocampus, thalamus and striatum. Lithium reduced the ischemia-induced dephosphorylation of glycogen synthase kinase-3 and extracellular signal-regulated kinase, the activation of calpain and caspase-3, the mitochondrial release of cytochrome c and apoptosis-inducing factor, as well as autophagy. We conclude that lithium could mitigate the brain injury after HI by inhibiting neuronal apoptosis. The lithium doses used were in the same range as those used in bipolar patients, suggesting that lithium might be safely used for the avoidance of neonatal brain injury.
Oxidative stress is a prominent feature of Huntington's disease (HD) due to mitochondrial dysfunction and the ensuing overproduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS). This phenomenon ultimately contributes to cognitive and motor impairment, as well as brain pathology, especially in the striatum. Targeting the transcription of the endogenous antioxidant machinery could be a promising therapeutic approach. The NF-E2-related factor-2 (Nrf2)/antioxidant response element (ARE) signaling pathway is an important pathway involved in antioxidant and anti-inflammatory responses. Synthetic triterpenoids, which are derived from 2-Cyano-3,12-Dioxooleana-1,9-Dien-28-Oic acid (CDDO) activate the Nrf2/ARE pathway and reduce oxidative stress in animal models of neurodegenerative diseases. We investigated the effects of CDDO-ethyl amide (CDDO-EA) and CDDO-trifluoroethyl amide (CDDO-TFEA) in N171-82Q mice, a transgenic mouse model of HD. CDDO-EA or CDDO-TFEA were administered in the diet at various concentrations, starting at 30days of age. CDDO-EA and CDDO-TFEA upregulated Nrf2/ARE induced genes in the brain and peripheral tissues, reduced oxidative stress, improved motor impairment and increased longevity. They also rescued striatal atrophy in the brain and vacuolation in the brown adipose tissue. Therefore compounds targeting the Nrf2/ARE pathway show great promise for the treatment of HD.
The SMARCA2 gene, which encodes BRM in the SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling complex, was recently identified as being associated with schizophrenia (SZ) in a genome-wide approach. Polymorphisms in SMARCA2, associated with the disease, produce changes in the expression of the gene and/or in the encoded amino acid sequence. We show here that an SWI/SNF-centered network including the Smarca2 gene is modified by the down-regulation of REST/NRSF in a mouse neuronal cell line. REST/NRSF down-regulation also modifies the levels of Smarce1, Smarcd3 and SWI/SNF interactors (Hdac1, RcoR1 and Mecp2). Smarca2 down-regulation generates an abnormal dendritic spine morphology that is an intermediate phenotype of SZ. We further found that 8 (CSF2RA, HIST1H2BJ, NOTCH4, NRGN, SHOX, SMARCA2, TCF4 and ZNF804A) out of 10 genome-wide supported SZ-associated genes are part of an interacting network (including SMARCA2), 5 members of which encode transcription regulators. The expression of 3 (TCF4, SMARCA2 and CSF2RA) of the 10 genome-wide supported SZ-associated genes is modified when the REST/NRSF-SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling complex is experimentally manipulated in mouse cell lines and in transgenic mouse models. The REST/NRSF-SWI/SNF deregulation also results in the differential expression of genes that are clustered in chromosomes suggesting the induction of genome-wide epigenetic changes. Finally, we found that SMARCA2 interactors and the genome-wide supported SZ-associated genes are considerably enriched in genes displaying positive selection in primates and in the human lineage which suggests the occurrence of novel protein interactions in primates. Altogether, these data identify the SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling complex as a key component of the genetic architecture of SZ.
Background. Patients afflicted with Alzheimer's disease (AD) exhibit a decrease in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentration of the 42 amino acid form of beta-amyloid (Abeta(42)). However, a high discrepancy between different centers in measured Abeta(42) levels reduces the utility of this biomarker as a diagnostic tool and in monitoring the effect of disease modifying drugs. Preanalytical and analytical confounding factors were examined with respect to their effect on the measured Abeta(42) level. Methods. Aliquots of CSF samples were either treated differently prior to Abeta(42) measurement or analyzed using different commercially available xMAP or ELISA assays. Results. Confounding factors affecting CSF Abeta(42) levels were storage in different types of test tubes, dilution with detergent-containing buffer, plasma contamination, heat treatment, and the origin of the immunoassays used for quantification. Conclusion. In order to conduct multicenter studies, a standardized protocol to minimize preanalytical and analytical confounding factors is warranted.
Despite the potential importance that synapse regeneration plays in restoring neuronal function after spinal cord injury (SCI), even the most basic questions about the morphology of regenerated synapses remain unanswered. Therefore, we set out to gain a better understanding of central synapse regeneration by examining the number, distribution, molecular composition, and ultrastructure of regenerated synapses under conditions in which behavioral recovery from SCI was robust. To do so, we used the giant reticulospinal (RS) neurons of lamprey spinal cord because they readily regenerate, are easily identifiable, and contain large synapses that serve as a classic model for vertebrate excitatory neurotransmission. Using a combination of light and electron microscopy, we found that regenerated giant RS synapses regained the basic structures and presynaptic organization observed at control giant RS synapses at a time when behavioral recovery was nearly complete. However, several obvious differences remained. Most strikingly, regenerated giant RS axons produced very few synapses. In addition, presynaptic sites within regenerated axons were less complex, had fewer vesicles, and had smaller active zones than normal. In contrast, the densities of presynapses and docked vesicles were nearly restored to control values. Thus, robust functional recovery from SCI can occur even when the structures of regenerated synapses are sparse and small, suggesting that functional recovery is due to a more complex set of compensatory changes throughout the spinal network.
The consequences of dysmyelination are poorly understood and vary widely in severity. The shaking mouse, a quaking allele, is characterized by severe central nervous system (CNS) dysmyelination and demyelination, a conspicuous action tremor, and seizures in approximately 25% of animals, but with normal muscle strength and a normal lifespan. In this study we compare this mutant with other dysmyelinated mutants including the ceramide sulfotransferase deficient (CST-/-) mouse, which are more severely affected behaviorally, to determine what might underlie the differences between them with respect to behavior and longevity. Examination of the paranodal junctional region of CNS myelinated fibers shows that &quot;transverse bands,&quot; a component of the junction, are present in nearly all shaking paranodes but in only a minority of CST-/- paranodes. The number of terminal loops that have transverse bands within a paranode and the number of transverse bands per unit length are only moderately reduced in the shaking mutant, compared with controls, but markedly reduced in CST-/- mice. Immunofluorescence studies also show that although the nodes of the shaking mutant are somewhat longer than normal, Na(+) and K(+) channels remain separated, distinguishing this mutant from CST-/- mice and others that lack transverse bands. We conclude that the essential difference between the shaking mutant and others more severely affected is the presence of transverse bands, which serve to stabilize paranodal structure over time as well as the organization of the axolemmal domains, and that differences in the prevalence of transverse bands underlie the marked differences in progressive neurological impairment and longevity among dysmyelinated mouse mutants.
The 5-HT(1A) receptor (5-HT(1A)R) plays a key role in the inhibitory influence of serotonin (5-HT) on rapid eye movement (REM) sleep in rodents. However, the neuronal networks mediating such influence are mostly unknown, notably in the mouse. This led us to map 5-HT(1A)R mRNA, by in situ hybridization histochemistry (ISHH), and to characterize the neuronal phenotype of 5-HT(1A)R mRNA-positive neurons by dual ISHH and ISHH combined with immunohistochemistry, throughout the mouse rostral brainstem, a pivotal region for the generation of REM sleep and cortical activation. 5-HT(1A)R mRNA was found in most 5-HT neurons in the dorsal raphe (DR), the median raphe (MnR), the B9, and the interpeduncular (IP) nuclei. 5-HT(1A)R mRNA-positive neurons were also identified in individualized clusters of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic neurons in the DR and in neurons of an undetermined phenotype in the MnR. In addition, 1) GABAergic neurons of the ventral portion of Gudden's dorsal tegmental nucleus (DTg), the IP, and the caudal portion of the deep mesencephalic nucleus (DpMe), and 2) glutamatergic neurons scattered in the caudal pontine reticular nucleus (PnC) and densely packed in the internal lateral parabrachial subnucleus (PBil) also expressed 5-HT(1A)R mRNA. In contrast, no specific 5-HT(1A)R-related ISHH signal was generally detected in brainstem cholinergic and catecholaminergic neurons. These results emphasize the role of 5-HT(1A)R as an autoreceptor and the phenotypical heterogeneity of 5-HT(1A)R-expressing neurons within the DR and the MnR in the mouse brain. They also provide a neuroanatomical basis for understanding the influence of 5-HT(1A)R on REM sleep and wakefulness.
We investigated the ultrastructure, contractile properties, and in vivo length changes of the fast-acting funnel retractor muscle of the long-finned squid Doryteuthis pealeii. This muscle is composed of obliquely striated, spindle-shaped fibers ~3 mum across that have an abundant sarcoplasmic reticulum, consisting primarily of membranous sacs that form 'dyads' along the surface of each cell. The contractile apparatus consists of 'myofibrils' approximately 0.25-0.5 microm wide in cross section arrayed around the periphery of each cell, surrounding a central core that contains the nucleus and large mitochondria. Thick myofilaments are approximately 25 nm in diameter and approximately 2.8 microm long. 'Dense bodies' are narrow, resembling Z lines, but are discontinuous and are not associated with the cytoskeletal fibrillar elements that are so prominent in slower obliquely striated muscles. The cells approximate each other closely with minimal intervening intercellular connective tissue. Our physiological experiments, conducted at 17 degrees C, showed that the longitudinal muscle fibers of the funnel retractor were activated rapidly (8 ms latent period following stimulation) and generated force rapidly (peak twitch force occurred within 50 ms). The longitudinal fibers had low V(max) (2.15 +/-0.26 L(0) s(-1), where L(0) was the length that generated peak isometric force) but generated relatively high isometric stress (270+/-20 mN mm(-2) physiological cross section). The fibers exhibited a moderate maximum power output (49.9 W kg(-1)), compared with vertebrate and arthropod cross striated fibers, at a V/V(max) of 0.33+/-0.044. During ventilation of the mantle cavity and locomotion, the funnel retractor muscle operated in vivo over a limited range of strains (+0.075 to -0.15 relative to resting length, L(R)) and at low strain rates (from 0.16 to 0.91 L(R) s(-1) ), corresponding to a range of V/V(max) from 0.073 to 0.42. During the exhalant phase of the jet the range of strains was even narrower: maximum range less than +/-0.04, with the muscle operating nearly isometrically during ventilation and slow, arms-first swimming. The limited length operating range of the funnel retractor muscles, especially during ventilation and slow jetting, suggests that they may act as muscular struts.
The present study examined whether the antidepressant paroxetine promotes the survival of nigrostriatal dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) mouse model of Parkinson's disease. MPTP induced degeneration of nigrostriatal DA neurons and glial activation as visualized by tyrosine hydroxylase, macrophage Ag complex-1, and/or glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity. Real-time PCR, Western blotting, and immunohistochemistry showed upregulation of proinflammatory cytokines, activation of microglial NADPH oxidase and astroglial myeloperoxidase, and subsequent reactive oxygen species production and oxidative DNA damage in the MPTP-treated substantia nigra. Treatment with paroxetine prevented degeneration of nigrostriatal DA neurons, increased striatal dopamine levels, and improved motor function. This neuroprotection afforded by paroxetine was associated with the suppression of astroglial myeloperoxidase expression and/or NADPH oxidase-derived reactive oxygen species production and reduced expression of proinflammatory cytokines, including IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, and inducible NO synthase, by activated microglia. The present findings show that paroxetine may possess anti-inflammatory properties and inhibit glial activation-mediated oxidative stress, suggesting that paroxetine and its analogues may have therapeutic value in the treatment of aspects of Parkinson's disease related to neuroinflammation.
The study of visually identified neurons in slice preparations from the central nervous system offers considerable advantages over in vivo preparations including high mechanical stability in the absence of anaesthesia and full control of the extracellular medium. However, because of their relative thinness, slices are not appropriate for investigating how individual neurons integrate synaptic inputs generated by large numbers of neurons. Here we took advantage of the exceptional resistance of the turtle to anoxia to make slices of increasing thicknesses (from 300 to 3000 microm) from the lumbar enlargement of the spinal cord. With a conventional upright microscope in which the light condenser was carefully adjusted, we could visualize neurons present at the surface of the slice and record them with the whole-cell patch clamp technique. We show that neurons present in the middle of the preparation remain alive and capable of generating action potentials. By stimulating the lateral funiculus we can evoke intense synaptic activity associated with large increases in conductance of the recorded neurons. The conductance increases substantially more in neurons recorded in thick slices suggesting that the size of the network recruited with the stimulation increases with the thickness of the slices. We also find that that the number of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) is higher in thick slices compared with thin slices while the number of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) remains constant. These preliminary data suggest that inhibitory and excitatory synaptic connections are balanced locally while excitation dominates long-range connections in the spinal cord.
This paper introduces a Neuroelectromagnetic Forward Head Modeling Toolbox (NFT) running under MATLAB (The Mathworks, Inc.) for generating realistic head models from available data (MRI and/or electrode locations) and for computing numerical solutions for the forward problem of electromagnetic source imaging. The NFT includes tools for segmenting scalp, skull, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and brain tissues from T1-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) images. The Boundary Element Method (BEM) is used for the numerical solution of the forward problem. After extracting segmented tissue volumes, surface BEM meshes can be generated. When a subject MR image is not available, a template head model can be warped to measured electrode locations to obtain an individualized head model. Toolbox functions may be called either from a graphic user interface compatible with EEGLAB (http://sccn.ucsd.edu/eeglab), or from the MATLAB command line. Function help messages and a user tutorial are included. The toolbox is freely available under the GNU Public License for noncommercial use and open source development.
Soluble Abeta oligomers are recognized as playing a key role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathophysiology. Despite their significance, many investigators encounter difficulty generating reliable preparations for in vitro and in vivo experiments. Solutions of Abeta are often unstable and soluble conformer profiles inconsistent. In this study we describe detailed methods for preparing Abeta oligomers that are stable for several weeks and are enriched for low and high molecular weight oligomeric forms, including the 56-kDa form, a conformer implicated in AD-related cognitive impairment. We characterize their structural and functional properties using Western blot, dot blot, atomic force microscopy, Thioflavine T fluorescence, and primary neuronal culture toxicity assays. These synthetic preparations should prove valuable to many studying Abeta-mediated mechanisms underlying AD.
The zebrafish retina has been an important model for studying morphological development of neural circuits in vivo. However, its functional development is not yet well understood. To investigate the functional development of zebrafish retina, we developed an in vivo patch-clamp whole-cell recording technique in intact zebrafish larvae. We first examined the developmental profile of light-evoked responses (LERs) in retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) from 2 to 9 days post-fertilization (dpf). Unstable LERs were first observed at 2.5 dpf. By 4 dpf, RGCs exhibited reliable light responses. As the GABAergic system is critical for retinal development, we then performed in vivo gramicidin perforated-patch whole-cell recording to characterize the developmental change of GABAergic action in RGCs. The reversal potential of GABA-induced currents (E(GABA)) in RGCs gradually shifted from depolarized to hyperpolarized levels during 2-4 dpf and the excitation-to-inhibition (E-I) switch of GABAergic action occurred at around 2.5 dpf when RGCs became light sensitive. Meanwhile, GABAergic transmission upstream to RGCs also became inhibitory by 2.5 dpf. Furthermore, down-regulation of the K(+)/Cl() co-transporter (KCC2) by the morpholino oligonucleotide-based knockdown approach, which shifted RGC E(GABA) towards a more depolarized level and thus delayed the E-I switch by one day, postponed the appearance of RGC LERs by one day. In addition, RGCs exhibited correlated giant inward current (GICs) during 2.5-3.5 dpf. The period of GICs was shifted to 3-4.5 dpf by KCC2 knockdown. Taken together, the GABAergic E-I switch occurs coincidently with the emergence of light responses and GICs in zebrafish RGCs, and may contribute to the functional development of retinal circuits.


The importance of designating criteria for diagnosing dementia lies in its implications for clinical treatment, research, caregiving, and decision-making. Dementia diagnosis in Huntington's disease (HD) is often based on criteria developed for Alzheimer's disease requiring memory loss. However, it is likely that other cognitive deficits contribute to functional impairment in HD before memory declines. The goal is to identify cognitive deficits that contribute to functional impairment to support dementia criteria that reflect HD neuropathology. Eighty-four HD mutation-positive subjects completed neuropsychological tests and the Unified Huntington's Disease Rating Scale Functional Independence Scale (FIS). Functional impairment was defined as 80 or below on the FIS. Speed of processing, initiation, and attention measures accounted for 70.0% of the variance in FIS ratings (linear regression) and correctly classified 91.7% of subjects as functionally impaired or intact (logistic regression). Measures of memory, motor impairment except dysarthria, neuroleptic use, and depressed mood did not improve prediction. A definition of HD dementia that includes cognitive impairment in at least two areas of cognition but does not require a memory deficit, in the context of impaired functional abilities and a deteriorating course, more accurately reflects HD neuropathology and could lead to improved research methods and patient care.
There are very few conditions that present with dopa-responsive juvenile parkinsonism. We present two such children with neuronal intranuclear inclusion disease (NIID) who had an initial good levodopa response that was soon complicated by disabling dopa-induced dyskinesia. One child was diagnosed by rectal biopsy in life, and the other diagnosis was confirmed at postmortem. In this patient, dopamine transporter imaging showed severely decreased binding of the radiotracer in the striatum on both sides. Bilateral subthalamic deep brain stimulation in this patient produced initial improvement, but this was not sustained. Both patients died within 10 years of symptom onset. As well as levodopa responsiveness with rapid onset of dyskinesia, clues to the diagnosis of NIID in patients presenting with parkinsonism include the presence of gaze-evoked nystagmus, early onset dysarthria and dysphagia and oculogyric crises. Differential diagnosis of clinical symptoms and neuropathological findings are discussed including the approach to rectal biopsy for early diagnosis.
The aim of the study was to explore the prevalence and differences of nonmotor symptoms (NMSs) in patients with young-onset Parkinson's disease (YOPD) with and without mutations in the Parkin gene and late-onset Parkinson's disease (LOPD). Twenty-seven patients with YOPD and 27 with LOPD, as well as 16 patients with homozygous or compound heterozygote Parkin mutations filled in the nonmotor symptoms questionnaire, a 30-item self-completed questionnaire that addresses various NMSs. Overall, NMSs were more prevalent in YOPD (12.07 +/- 3.9; P = 0.009) and LOPD (13.26 +/- 5.8; P = 0.001) compared with Parkin mutation carriers (7.38 +/- 4.2). Dribbling of saliva, vivid dreams, loss of smell, and urinary urgency were more prevalent in YOPD compared with Parkin mutation carriers. Only anxiety was more prevalent in the latter. Apart from anxiety, NMSs appear to be less prevalent in Parkin gene-related parkinsonism. Although these results need further study, the presented data might be helpful in the clinical recognition of specific phenotypes and genotypes in YOPD. The data are in keeping with a different pathological disease process in Parkin gene-related parkinsonism.
Understanding the function of a tool is an essential step in learning to use a tool. This aspect of interaction with tools has hitherto been neglected. Unlike acquiring the expertise in handling a new tool, which involves practice, understanding its function usually only requires a single observation of the tool being used. The present study uncovers the neural areas involved in this transient understanding effect as a left-lateralized pattern involving prefrontal and mediotemporal areas. We suggest that activation in this network reflects the conceptual encoding of the function of new tools as it is independent from the well-known tool-related networks. We demonstrate that understanding the function of a new tool does not rely on known semantic or motor networks involved in processing tool use.
Independent component analysis (ICA) is a data-driven approach to study functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data. Particularly, for group analysis on multiple subjects, temporally concatenation group ICA (TC-GICA) is intensively used. However, due to the usually limited computational capability, data reduction with principal component analysis (PCA: a standard preprocessing step of ICA decomposition) is difficult to achieve for a large dataset. To overcome this, TC-GICA employs multiple-stage PCA data reduction. Such multiple-stage PCA data reduction, however, leads to variable outputs due to different subject concatenation orders. Consequently, the ICA algorithm uses the variable multiple-stage PCA outputs and generates variable decompositions. In this study, a rigorous theoretical analysis was conducted to prove the existence of such variability. Simulated and real fMRI experiments were used to demonstrate the subject-order-induced variability of TC-GICA results using multiple PCA data reductions. To solve this problem, we propose a new subject order-independent group ICA (SOI-GICA). Both simulated and real fMRI data experiments demonstrated the high robustness and accuracy of the SOI-GICA results compared to those of traditional TC-GICA. Accordingly, we recommend SOI-GICA for group ICA-based fMRI studies, especially those with large data sets.
Adaptive behavior depends on the ability to flexibly alter our choices in response to changes in reward and punishment contingencies. One brain region frequently implicated in such behavior is the striatum. However, this region is functionally diverse and there are a number of apparent inconsistencies across previous studies. For instance, how can significant BOLD responses in the ventral striatum during punishment-based reversal learning be reconciled with the frequently demonstrated role of the ventral striatum in reward processing? Here we attempt to address this question by separately examining BOLD responses during reversal learning driven by reward and during reversal learning driven by punishment. We demonstrate simultaneous valence-specific and valence-nonspecific signals in the striatum, with the posterior dorsal striatum responding only to unexpected reward, and the anterior ventral striatum responding to both unexpected punishment as well as unexpected reward. These data help to reconcile conflicting findings from previous studies by showing that distinct regions of the striatum exhibit dissociable responses to punishment during reversal learning.
Local field potentials and the underlying endogenous electric fields (EFs) are traditionally considered to be epiphenomena of structured neuronal network activity. Recently, however, externally applied EFs have been shown to modulate pharmacologically evoked network activity in rodent hippocampus. In contrast, very little is known about the role of endogenous EFs during physiological activity states in neocortex. Here, we used the neocortical slow oscillation in vitro as a model system to show that weak sinusoidal and naturalistic EFs enhance and entrain physiological neocortical network activity with an amplitude threshold within the range of in vivo endogenous field strengths. Modulation of network activity by positive and negative feedback fields based on the network activity in real-time provide direct evidence for a feedback loop between neuronal activity and endogenous EF. This significant susceptibility of active networks to EFs that only cause small changes in membrane potential in individual neurons suggests that endogenous EFs could guide neocortical network activity.
Neurotransmitter release depends critically on close spatial coupling of Ca(2+) entry to synaptic vesicles at the nerve terminal; however, the molecular substrates determining their physical proximity are unknown. Using the calyx of Held synapse, where &quot;microdomain&quot; coupling predominates at immature stages and developmentally switches to &quot;nanodomain&quot; coupling, we demonstrate that deletion of the filamentous protein Septin 5 imparts immature synapses with striking morphological and functional features reminiscent of mature synapses. This includes synaptic vesicles tightly localized to active zones, resistance to the slow Ca(2+) buffer EGTA and a reduced number of Ca(2+) channels required to trigger single fusion events. Disrupting Septin 5 organization acutely transforms microdomain to nanodomain coupling and potentiates quantal output in immature wild-type terminals. These observations suggest that Septin 5 is a core molecular substrate that differentiates distinct release modalities at the central synapse.
Within dendritic spines, actin is presumed to anchor receptors in the postsynaptic density and play numerous roles regulating synaptic transmission. However, the submicron dimensions of spines have hindered examination of actin dynamics within them and prevented live-cell discrimination of perisynaptic actin filaments. Using photoactivated localization microscopy, we measured movement of individual actin molecules within living spines. Velocity of single actin molecules along filaments, an index of filament polymerization rate, was highly heterogeneous within individual spines. Most strikingly, molecular velocity was elevated in discrete, well-separated foci occurring not principally at the spine tip, but in subdomains throughout the spine, including the neck. Whereas actin velocity on filaments at the synapse was substantially elevated, at the endocytic zone there was no enhanced polymerization activity. We conclude that actin subserves spatially diverse, independently regulated processes throughout spines. Perisynaptic actin forms a uniquely dynamic structure well suited for direct, active regulation of the synapse.
Decision-making studies across different domains suggest that decisions can arise from multiple, parallel systems in the brain: a flexible system utilizing action-outcome expectancies and a more rigid system based on situation-action associations. The hippocampus, ventral striatum, and dorsal striatum make unique contributions to each system, but how information processing in each of these structures supports these systems is unknown. Recent work has shown covert representations of future paths in hippocampus and of future rewards in ventral striatum. We developed analyses in order to use a comparative methodology and apply the same analyses to all three structures. Covert representations of future paths and reward were both absent from the dorsal striatum. In contrast, dorsal striatum slowly developed situation representations that selectively represented action-rich parts of the task. This triple dissociation suggests that the different roles these structures play are due to differences in information-processing mechanisms.
The alternative splicing of neurexins (NRXs) and neuroligins (NLs) has been implicated in specifying synaptic connections. In this issue of Neuron, Koehnke et al. took a structural approach for assessing the contribution of alternative splice isoforms for beta-NRX/NL-mediated synaptic recognition.
Hepatologists assay liver enzymes and cardiologists structural heart proteins in serum to diagnose and monitor their patients. This way of thinking has not quite made it into the memory clinics yet, in spite of the availability of validated cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers for key pathological events in the brain in neurodegeneration. Here, we argue that a spinal tap should be considered in all patients who seek medical advice for memory problems and list the highly relevant clinical questions CSF analyses can address.
Glucocorticoids are commonly used in treating diseases with white matter lesions, including demyelinating diseases and spinal cord injury (SCI). However, glucocorticoids are ineffective in gray matter injuries, such as head injury and stroke. The differential glucocorticoid effects in white and gray matter injuries are unclear. We report here a novel mechanism of methylprednisolone (MP), a synthetic glucocorticoid widely used for treating multiple sclerosis and SCI, in protecting oligodendrocytes (OLGs) against AMPA-induced excitotoxicity, which has been implicated in the white matter injuries and diseases. The cytoprotective action of MP in OLGs is causally related to its upregulation of a neuroprotective cytokine erythropoietin (Epo). MP transactivation of Epo expression involves dual transcription factors: glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha). Coimmunoprecipitation, chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis, yeast two-hybrid analysis, and structure modeling of three-dimensional protein-protein interactions confirm that MP induces interaction between GR DNA binding domain and HIF-1alpha PAS domain, with subsequent recruitment of HIF-1beta to transactivate Epo expression in OLGs. In contrast, MP activates GR but does not induce GR-HIF-1alpha interaction, HIF-1alpha binding to Epo enhancer/promoter, or Epo expression in cultured cortical neurons. The OLG-specific GR-HIF-1alpha transactivation of Epo provides novel insights into the development of more effective therapies for diseases affecting the white matter.
Favors from a sender to a receiver are known to bias decisions made by the recipient, especially when the decision relates to the sender, a feature of social exchange known as reciprocity. Using an art-viewing paradigm possessing no objectively correct answer for preferring one piece of art over another, we show that sponsorship of the experiment by a company endows the logo of the company with the capacity to bias revealed preference for art displayed next to the logo. Merely offering to sponsor the experiment similarly endowed the gesturing logo of the company with the capacity to bias revealed preferences. These effects do not depend upon the size of the displayed art or the proximity of the sponsoring logo to the piece of art. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to show that such monetary favors do not modulate a special collection of brain responses but instead modulate responses in neural networks normally activated by a wide range of preference judgments. The results raise the important possibility that monetary favors bias judgments in domains seemingly unrelated to the favor but nevertheless act in an implicit way through neural networks that underlie normal, ongoing preference judgments.
Neural representation is pivotal in neuroscience. Yet, the large number and variance of underlying determinants make it difficult to distinguish general physiologic constraints on representation. Here we offer a general approach to the issue, enabling a systematic and well controlled experimental analysis of constraints and tradeoffs, imposed by the physiology of neuronal populations, on plausible representation schemes. Using in vitro networks of rat cortical neurons as a model system, we compared the efficacy of different kinds of &quot;neural codes&quot; to represent both spatial and temporal input features. Two rate-based representation schemes and two time-based representation schemes were considered. Our results indicate that, by large, all representation schemes perform well in the various discrimination tasks tested, indicating the inherent redundancy in neural population activity; Nevertheless, differences in representation efficacy are identified when unique aspects of input features are considered. We discuss these differences in the context of neural population dynamics.
In contrast to chemical transmission, few proteins have been shown associated with gap junction-mediated electrical synapses. Mixed (electrical and glutamatergic) synaptic terminals on the teleost Mauthner cell known as &quot;Club endings&quot; constitute because of their unusual large size and presence of connexin 35 (Cx35), an ortholog of the widespread mammalian Cx36, a valuable model for the study of electrical transmission. Remarkably, both components of their mixed synaptic response undergo activity-dependent potentiation. Changes in electrical transmission result from interactions with colocalized glutamatergic synapses, the activity of which leads to the activation of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMKII), required for the induction of changes in both forms of transmission. However, the distribution of this kinase and potential localization to electrical synapses remains undetermined. Taking advantage of the unparalleled experimental accessibility of Club endings, we explored the presence and intraterminal distribution of CaMKII within these terminals. Here we show that (1) unlike other proteins, both CaMKII labeling and distribution were highly variable between contiguous contacts, and (2) CaMKII was not restricted to the periphery of the terminals, in which glutamatergic synapses are located, but also was present at the center in which gap junctions predominate. Accordingly, double immunolabeling indicated that Cx35 and CaMKII were colocalized, and biochemical analysis showed that these proteins associate. Because CaMKII characteristically undergoes activity-dependent translocation, the observed variability of labeling likely reflects physiological differences between electrical synapses of contiguous Club endings, which remarkably coexist with differing degrees of conductance. Together, our results indicate that CaMKII should be considered a component of electrical synapses, although its association is nonobligatory and likely driven by activity.
Schizophrenia has often been conceived as a disorder of connectivity between components of large-scale brain networks. We tested this hypothesis by measuring aspects of both functional connectivity and functional network topology derived from resting-state fMRI time series acquired at 72 cerebral regions over 17 min from 15 healthy volunteers (14 male, 1 female) and 12 people diagnosed with schizophrenia (10 male, 2 female). We investigated between-group differences in strength and diversity of functional connectivity in the 0.06-0.125 Hz frequency interval, and some topological properties of undirected graphs constructed from thresholded interregional correlation matrices. In people with schizophrenia, strength of functional connectivity was significantly decreased, whereas diversity of functional connections was increased. Topologically, functional brain networks had reduced clustering and small-worldness, reduced probability of high-degree hubs, and increased robustness in the schizophrenic group. Reduced degree and clustering were locally significant in medial parietal, premotor and cingulate, and right orbitofrontal cortical nodes of functional networks in schizophrenia. Functional connectivity and topological metrics were correlated with each other and with behavioral performance on a verbal fluency task. We conclude that people with schizophrenia tend to have a less strongly integrated, more diverse profile of brain functional connectivity, associated with a less hub-dominated configuration of complex brain functional networks. Alongside these behaviorally disadvantageous differences, however, brain networks in the schizophrenic group also showed a greater robustness to random attack, pointing to a possible benefit of the schizophrenia connectome, if less extremely expressed.
During hindbrain development, facial branchiomotor neurons (FBM neurons) migrate from medial rhombomere (r) 4 to lateral r6. In zebrafish, mutations in planar cell polarity genes celsr2 and frizzled3a block caudal migration of FBM neurons. Here, we investigated the role of cadherins Celsr1-3, and Fzd3 in FBM neuron migration in mice. In Celsr1 mutants (knock-out and Crash alleles), caudal migration was compromised and neurons often migrated rostrally into r2 and r3, as well as laterally. These phenotypes were not caused by defects in hindbrain patterning or neuronal specification. Celsr1 is expressed in FBM neuron precursors and the floor plate, but not in FBM neurons. Consistent with this, conditional inactivation showed that the function of Celsr1 in FBM neuron migration was non-cell autonomous. In Celsr2 mutants, FBM neurons initiated caudal migration but moved prematurely into lateral r4 and r5. This phenotype was enhanced by inactivation of Celsr3 in FBM neurons and mimicked by inactivation of Fzd3. Furthermore, Celsr2 was epistatic to Celsr1. These data indicate that Celsr1-3 differentially regulate FBM neuron migration. Celsr1 helps to specify the direction of FBM neuron migration, whereas Celsr2 and 3 control its ability to migrate.
Recent studies demonstrate that the neuropeptide VGF (nonacronymic) is regulated in the hippocampus by antidepressant therapies and animal models of depression and that acute VGF treatment has antidepressant-like activity in animal paradigms. However, the role of VGF in human psychiatric disorders is unknown. We now demonstrate using in situ hybridization that VGF is downregulated in bipolar disorder in the CA region of the hippocampus and Brodmann's area 9 of the prefrontal cortex. The mechanism of VGF in relation to LiCl was explored. Both LiCl intraperitoneally and VGF intracerebroventricularly reduced latency to drink in novelty-induced hypophagia, and LiCl was not effective in VGF(+/-) mice, suggesting that VGF may contribute to the effects of LiCl in this behavioral procedure that responds to chronic antidepressant treatment. VGF by intrahippocampal injection also had novel activity in an amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion assay, thus mimicking the actions of LiCl injected intraperitoneally in a system that phenocopies manic-like behavior. Moreover, VGF(+/-) mice exhibited increased locomotion after amphetamine treatment and did not respond to LiCl, suggesting that VGF is required for the effects of LiCl in curbing the response to amphetamine. Finally, VGF delivered intracerebroventricularly in vivo activated the same signaling pathways as LiCl and is necessary for the induction of mitogen-activated protein kinase and Akt by LiCl, thus lending insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the actions of VGF. The dysregulation of VGF in bipolar disorder as well as the behavioral effects of the neuropeptide similar to LiCl suggests that VGF may underlie the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder.

We present a novel illusion in which participants report constant forces on their hand as steadily increasing. Participants made discrete reaching movements perturbed by a lateral force that increased with the distance moved; when stationary at the end of the movement, a true constant force was perceived to increase. We tested perceived subjective equality by increasing or decreasing the force. The illusion was significantly stronger when the perturbation was applied during active movement. We conclude that the unusual context of moving against lateral spring forces results in participants failing to predict steady lateral forces at the end of their movement, and causes an illusion of increasing forces even after movement termination. This result further emphasizes the role of action prediction in sensory perception.
Lampreys belong to the oldest group of extant vertebrates, the agnathans or cyclostomes. Thus, they occupy a key phylogenetic position near the root of the vertebrate tree, which makes them important to the study of nervous system evolution. Tyrosine hydroxylase is the rate-limiting enzyme of catecholamine biosynthesis and is considered a marker of catecholaminergic neurons. In the present study, we report partial cloning of the sea lamprey tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) cDNA and the pattern of TH transcript expression in the adult brain by means of in situ hybridization. Sea lamprey TH mRNA is characterized by the presence of a large untranslated sequence in the 3' end that contains a typical polyadenylation signal (ATTAAA). The deduced partial TH protein sequence presents a conserved domain with two His residues coordinating Fe(2+) binding and a conserved cofactor binding site. Neurons expressing the TH transcript were observed in the preoptic, postoptic commissure, dorsal hypothalamic, ventral hypothalamic, mammillary and paratubercular nuclei of the prosencephalon. In situ hybridization experiments also confirmed the existence of a catecholaminergic (dopaminergic) striatal population in the brain of the adult sea lamprey. A few granule-like cells in the olfactory bulbs also showed weak TH transcript expression. No cells showing TH transcript expression were observed in the rostral rhombencephalon, which suggests the absence of a locus coeruleus in the sea lamprey. Comparison of the pattern of TH mRNA expression in the prosencephalon between lampreys and teleost fishes revealed both similarities and differences. Our results suggest that the duplication of the TH gene might have occurred before the separation of agnathans and gnathostomes.
Lurcher mutant mice represent a natural model of olivocerebellar degeneration. This degeneration is caused by a mutation of the gene for the delta2 glutamate receptor. Lurcher mutants suffer from cerebellar ataxia and cognitive functions deficiency as a consequence of excitotoxic apoptosis of Purkinje cells in the cerebellar cortex and a secondary decrease of granule cells and inferior olive neurons. This process finishes by the 90th day of postnatal life, but already by 14 days, the Purkinje cells are damaged and the ataxia is fully developed. Purkinje cells die by apoptosis within the first 3 weeks of life. The aim of our work was to study the development of motor functions in the course of the ontogenetic development in Lurcher mutant mice of the B6CBA strain and to compare it with wild type mice of the same strain. Mice aged 2, 3, 6, 9, and 22 weeks were used in our experiment. Motor skills were examined using four standard tests: the horizontal wire, rotating cylinder, footbridge and slanting ladder. Our findings in Lurcher mutant mice show a significant increase of motor abilities up to the sixth postnatal week and selective decrease early after this period. This improvement of motor skills is caused by the physiological development of musculature and the nervous system, probably with some contribution of plasticity of the maturing brain. The cause of the decline of these abilities immediately after the completion of the development is unknown.
As a natural analogue of glutamate, l-theanine is the unique amino acid derivative in green tea. Although its underlining mechanisms are not yet clear, it has been suggested that l-theanine treatment may prove beneficial to patients with neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, we investigated the neuroprotective effect and its mechanism of l-theanine in an in vitro model of Alzheimer's disease by using the human APP (Swedish mutation) transgenic SH-SY5Y cell. Amyloid beta (Abeta) neurotoxicity was triggered by l-glutamate in this cell line. Additionally, l-theanine significantly attenuated l-glutamate-induced apoptosis at similar levels to those seen with the NMDA receptor inhibitor MK-801 in the stably expressing APP Swedish mutation SH-SY5Y cells which over-generated Abeta. Meanwhile, the activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase and caspase-3 induced by l-glutamate was suppressed by l-theanine. We also found that cells treated with l-theanine showed decreased production of nitric oxide resulting from the down-regulated protein levels of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). These results indicate that the inhibition of the NMDA subtype of glutamate receptors and its related pathways is the crucial point of the neuroprotective effect of l-theanine in the cell model. Thus, our present study supports the notion that l-theanine may provide effective prophylaxis and treatment for Alzheimer's disease.
Previous evidence from functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies has shown that amygdala responses to emotionally neutral pictures are exaggerated at a group level in patients with severe post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) [Hendler T, Rotshtein P, Yeshurun Y, Weizmann T, Kahn I, Ben-Bashat D, Malach R, Bleich A (2003) Neuroimage 19(3):587-600]. The present fMRI study tested the hypothesis that amygdala responses are elevated not only in response to negative pictures but also to neutral pictures as a function of disease severity in patients with mild symptoms and in subjects who did not develop symptoms. To this end, fMRI scans were performed in 10 patients with mild PTSD and 10 healthy controls (both victims of a bank robbery), during the execution of a visuo-attentional task in which they were asked to observe emotionally negative or neutral pictures. Control subjects showed enhanced amygdala responses to emotionally negative stimuli compared to neutral stimuli. On the contrary, PTSD patients were characterized by high amygdala responses to both neutral and emotional pictures, with no statistically significant difference between the two classes of stimuli. In the entire group, we found correlations among the severity of the PTSD symptoms, task performance, and amygdala activation during the processing of neutral stimuli. Results of this study suggest that amygdala responses and the selectivity of the emotional response to neutral stimuli are elevated as a function of disease severity in PTSD patients with mild symptoms.
Cholinergic innervation of hippocampus and cortex is required for some forms of learning and memory. Several reports have shown that activation of muscarinic m1 receptors induces a long-term depression (mLTD) at glutamate synapses in hippocampus and in several areas of cortex, including perirhinal and visual cortices. This plasticity likely contributes to cognitive function dependent upon the cholinergic system. In rodent models, degeneration of hippocampal cholinergic innervation following lesion of the medial septum stimulates sprouting of adrenergic sympathetic axons, originating from the superior cervical ganglia (SCG), into denervated hippocampal subfields. We previously reported that this adrenergic sympathetic sprouting occurs simultaneously with a reappearance of cholinergic fibers in hippocampus and rescue of mLTD at CA3-CA1 synapses. Because cholinergic neurons throughout basal forebrain degenerate in aging and Alzheimer's disease, it is critical to determine if this compensatory sprouting occurs in other regions impacted by cholinergic cell loss. To this end, we investigated whether lesion of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NbM) to cholinergically denervate cortex stimulates adrenergic sympathetic sprouting and the accompanying increase in cholinergic innervation. Further, we assessed whether the presence of sprouting positively correlates with the ability of glutamate synapses in acute visual cortex slices to express mLTD and low frequency stimulation induced LTD (LFS LTD), another cholinergic dependent form of plasticity in visual cortex. We found that both mLTD and LFS LTD are absent in animals when NbM lesion is combined with bilateral removal of the SCG to prevent possible compensatory sprouting. In contrast, when the SCG remain intact to permit sprouting in animals with NbM lesion, cholinergic fiber density is increased concurrently with adrenergic sympathetic sprouting, and mLTD and LFS LTD are preserved. Our findings suggest that autonomic compensation for central cholinergic degeneration is not specific to hippocampus, but is a general repair mechanism occurring in other brain regions important for normal cognitive function.
Recent rodent studies suggest that gonadal hormones influence extinction of conditioned fear. Here we investigated sex differences in, and the influence of estradiol and progesterone on, fear extinction in healthy humans. Men and women underwent a two-day paradigm in which fear conditioning and extinction learning took place on day 1 and extinction recall was tested on day 2. Visual cues were used as the conditioned stimuli and a mild electric shock was used as the unconditioned stimulus. Skin conductance was recorded throughout the experiment and used to measure conditioned responses (CRs). Blood samples were obtained from all women to measure estradiol and progesterone levels. We found that higher estradiol during extinction learning enhanced subsequent extinction recall but had no effects on fear acquisition or extinction learning itself. Sex differences were only observed during acquisition, with men exhibiting significantly higher CRs. After dividing women into low- and high-estradiol groups, men showed comparable extinction recall to high-estradiol women, and both of these groups showed higher extinction recall than low-estradiol women. Therefore, sex differences in extinction memory emerged only after taking into account women's estradiol levels. Lower estradiol may impair extinction consolidation in women. These findings could have practical applications in the treatment of anxiety disorders through cognitive and behavioral therapies.
Neurotransmitter serotonin (5-HT) released from descending pain modulation pathways to the dorsal horn is crucial to spinal nociception processing. This study sought to gain insight into the modulatory roles of specific serotonin receptor subtypes in experimentally induced neuropathic pain. In rats subjected to spinal nerve ligation (SNL) surgery, we recorded field potentials evoked in the spinal dorsal horn by C fibre-input, during spinal superfusion with subtype-selective drugs. In neuropathic rats, subtype 5-HT1A agonist 8-OH-DPAT (100 nM) was found to potently depress evoked field potentials, as opposed to 5-HT2A or 5-HT2B subtype agonists TCB-2 (100 nM) or BW 723C86 (1 microM), respectively, which consistently enhanced evoked potentials. All three failed to alter spinal field potentials in sham operated rats. CP 94253 (1 microM), WAY 161503 (1 mM) or SR 57227 (at 1 microM in SNL rats, and 100 microM in sham rats), selective agonists for 5-HT1B, 5-HT2C and 5-HT3 receptors, respectively, significantly depressed evoked field potentials in both animal groups. The 5-HT4 agonist RS 67333 (1 microM) was depressant only in sham operated animals. Only after SNL, spinal superfusion with 5-HT1A- or 5-HT1B receptor-antagonists (S)-WAY 100135 (100 microM) or SB 224289 (100 microM), respectively, disinhibited C fibre-evoked potentials, whereas 5-HT2A or 5-HT2B receptor-antagonists 4F 4PP (100 microM) or SB 204741 (100 microM) depressed evoked potentials, suggesting tonic activity of all four subtypes as a consequence of experimental nerve injury. The present findings reveal profound subtype-specific changes in the functional modulatory activities of spinal serotonin receptors following peripheral nerve injury. In particular, spinal hyperexcitation promoted by receptors 5-HT2A and 5-HT2B is suggested as a novel pathogenic pathway contributing to neuropathic pain.
Previous studies have shown that amphetamine (AMPH) markedly activates dopaminergic projection areas, together with some important limbic nuclei. However, a global picture of the brain areas activated is lacking and the contribution of the dose of the drug and individual differences to this global brain activation is not known. In the present experiment, we studied in adult male rats the c-fos expression induced by two doses of AMPH (1.5 and 5 mg/kg sc) in a wide range of brain areas, and investigated the possible contribution of novelty-induced activity and anxiety traits. AMPH administration increased Fos+ neurons in an important number of telencephalic, diencephalic and brainstem areas. Interestingly, the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and the dorsal raphe nucleus were activated by the drug, but c-fos expression was restricted to non-dopaminergic and non-serotoninergic neurons, those activated in the VTA being predominantly GABAergic. The use of the factorial analysis, which grouped the areas in function of the correlation between the number of Fos+ neurons observed in each area, revealed three main factors, probably reflecting activation of various relatively independent brain circuits: the first included medial prefrontal cortex regions, most dorsal and ventral striatal subregions and VTA; the second, raphe nuclei; and the third, the different subdivisions of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. Other areas such as the central amygdala did not group around any factor. The finding that an important number of activated areas grouped around specific factors is suggestive of activation of partially independent brain circuits. Surprisingly, a minor contribution of novelty-induced activity and anxiety traits on brain activation induced by AMPH was found. It is possible that normal variability in these traits is poorly related to the effects of AMPH or that c-fos expression is not a good tool to reveal such differences.
Adult neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus is altered with stress exposure and has been implicated in depression. High levels of corticosterone (CORT) suppress neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus of male rats. However both acute and chronic stress do not consistently reduce adult hippocampal neurogenesis in female rats. Therefore, this study was conducted to investigate the effect of different doses of corticosterone on hippocampal neurogenesis in male and female rats. Rats received 21 days of s.c. injections of either oil, 10 or 40 mg/kg CORT. Subjects were perfused 24 h after the last CORT injection and brains were analyzed for cell proliferation (Ki67-labeling) or immature neurons (doublecortin-labeling). Results show that in both males and females high CORT, but not low CORT, reduced both cell proliferation and the density of immature neurons in the dentate gyrus. Furthermore, high CORT males had reduced density in immature neurons in both the ventral and dorsal regions while high CORT females only showed the reduced density of immature neurons in the ventral hippocampus. The high dose of CORT disrupted the estrous cycle of females. Further, the low dose of CORT significantly reduced weight gain and increased basal CORT levels in males but not females, suggesting a greater vulnerability in males with the lower dose of CORT. Thus we find subtle sex differences in the response to chronic CORT on both body weight and on neurogenesis in the dorsal dentate gyrus that may play a role in understanding different vulnerabilities to stress-related neuropsychiatric disorders between the sexes.
The amygdala is enriched with histochemically reactive zinc, which is dynamically coupled with neuronal activity and co-released with glutamate. The dynamics of the zinc in the amygdala was analyzed in rats, which were subjected to inescapable stress, to understand the role of the zinc in emotional behavior. In the communication box, two rats were subjected to foot shock stress and anxiety stress experiencing emotional responses of foot-shocked rat under amygdalar perfusion. Extracellular zinc was increased by foot shock stress, while decreased by anxiety stress, suggesting that the differential changes in extracellular zinc are associated with emotional behavior. In rats conditioned with foot shock, furthermore, extracellular zinc was increased again in the recall of fear (foot shock) in the same box without foot shock. When this recall was performed under perfusion with CaEDTA, a membrane-impermeable zinc chelator, to examine the role of the increase in extracellular zinc, the time of freezing behavior was more increased, suggesting that zinc released in the lateral amygdala during the recall of fear participates in freezing behavior. To examine the role of the increase in extracellular zinc during fear conditioning, fear conditioning was also performed under perfusion with CaEDTA. The time of freezing behavior was more increased in the contextual recall, suggesting that zinc released in the lateral nucleus during fear conditioning also participates in freezing behavior in the recall. In brain slice experiment, CaEDTA enhanced presynaptic activity (exocytosis) in the lateral nucleus after activation of the entorhinal cortex. The present paper demonstrates that zinc released in the lateral amygdala may participate in emotional behavior in response to fear.
Oxygen glucose deprivation (OGD) leads to rapid suppression of synaptic transmission. Here we describe an emergence of rhythmic activity at 8 to 20 Hz in the CA3 subfield of hippocampal slice cultures occurring for a few minutes prior to the OGD-induced cessation of evoked responses. These oscillations, dominated by inhibitory events, represent network activity, as they were abolished by tetrodotoxin. They were also completely blocked by the GABAergic antagonist picrotoxin, and strongly reduced by the glutamatergic antagonist NBQX. Applying CPP to block NMDA receptors had no effect and neither did UBP302, an antagonist of GluK1-containing kainate receptors. The gap junction blocker mefloquine disrupted rhythmicity. Simultaneous whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings from neighboring or distant CA3 pyramidal cells revealed strong cross-correlation of the incoming rhythmic activity. Interneurons in the CA3 area received similar correlated activity. Interestingly, oscillations were much less frequently observed in the CA1 area. These data, together with the observation that the recorded activity consists primarily of inhibitory events, suggest that CA3 interneurons are important for generating these oscillations. This transient increase in inhibitory network activity during OGD may represent a mechanism contributing to the lower vulnerability to ischemic insults of the CA3 area as compared to the CA1 area.
The main purpose of this study was to explore the sites and mechanisms of action of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 (mGluR1) blockade for antipsychotic-like activity using a Fos mapping approach, with the intent of better understanding the similarities and differences between the pharmacological actions of mGluR1 antagonists and atypical antipsychotic drugs such as clozapine. Previously, we showed that an allosteric mGluR1 antagonist (negative allosteric modulator), 2-cyclopropyl-5-[1-(2-fluoro-3-pyridinyl)-5-methyl-1H-1,2,3-triazol-4-yl]-2,3-dihydro-1H-isoindol-1-one (CFMTI), induces Fos expression in the nucleus accumbens and the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), but not in the dorsolateral striatum, similar to the action of clozapine. In the present study, the Fos expression profile of CFMTI was more extensively evaluated in various areas of the brain. CFMTI induced Fos expression mainly in glutamatergic neurons in the mPFC, in a manner similar to clozapine. A significant increase in Fos expression was also observed in the locous coeruleus, central amygdaloid nucleus, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the primary somatosensory cortex, but not in the ventral tegmental area, dorsal raphe or lateral septum. Fos expression in orexin neurons in the lateral hypothalamic/perifornical area (LH/PFA) is known to be positively correlated with the weight gain liability of atypical antipsychotics. CFMTI did not increase Fos expression in orexin neurons in the LH/PFA, in contrast to clozapine, which does have weight gain liability. These results suggest that CFMTI has unique and shared actions on Fos expression in various regions of the brain compared with clozapine.
The interest on the physiology of the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) has grown in recent years given its relationship to addictive behaviours, and the possibility to treat them by interacting with NAcc function. We have shown that the prior stimulation of the core region blocks induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) at the dentate gyrus in anaesthetized rats, while the shell facilitated it. In the present study we have confirmed and expanded those results testing the effects of core and shell stimulation in freely moving rats, as well as the effect of blocking D1 receptors in the NAcc. Our results show that shell stimulation had no effect on baseline recordings of the field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP) or the population spike amplitude (PSA) for 24 h. Core stimulation did not modify baseline-fEPSP, but significantly depressed PSA up to 8 h. LTP maintenance was not modified; neither by core nor shell stimulation after its induction, but LTP induction was impaired (both in the fEPSP and PSA) by core stimulation 15 min before induction. Shell stimulation showed a slight facilitating effect. Previous, topical application of a dopaminergic-receptor antagonist (SCH23390) into the NAcc produced a significantly depressed baseline fEPSP and PSA, as well as LTP measured in both components of the evoked potentials. Our results confirm a dual role of stimulation of NAcc sub-regions on hippocampal baseline synaptic transmission, and LTP induction when activated before induction. In contrast, stimulation of the NAcc had no influence on an already ongoing dentate gyrus LTP. A role for dopaminergic innervation to the NAcc, modifying susceptibility for synaptic plasticity outside the NAcc is also suggested by our results.
Reward-mediated associative learning is important for recognizing the significance of environmental cues. Such learning involves convergence of multimodal sensory inputs with circuits involved in affective and memory processes. Dopamine-dependent plasticity in the striatum plays a pivotal role, but the wider circuits engaged in cue-reward association are poorly understood. To identify candidate structures that may be of particular interest for further detailed electrophysiological and functional analysis, we quantified c-Fos expression in a selection of brain structures. c-Fos is a well-known marker of cell activation with additional potential importance for synaptic plasticity. We compared c-Fos expression between animals exposed to 100 pairings of a novel conditioned stimulus with a subsequent reward, and control animals exposed to the same number of cues and rewards, but where the cues and rewards occurred at random with respect to each other. We found significant increases in c-Fos expression in the superior colliculus in the group exposed to cue-reward pairing. This is consistent with previous recordings in conscious animals, showing modulation of phasic visual responses of single collicular neurons depending on their association with reward. Further, the data also suggest the possibility that the thalamic paraventricular nucleus and septal nuclei may be selectively activated during cue-reward association learning. Little is known of the neurophysiological responses in these structures during such tasks, so the present results suggest they would be targets of interest for future single-neuron recording experiments, designed to confirm whether the neurons show learning-specific modulation.
It has previously been reported that the avian H5N1 type of influenza A virus can be detected in neurons and astrocytes of human brains in autopsy cases. However, the underlying neuropathogenicity remains unexplored. In this study, we used differentiated human astrocytic and neuronal cell lines as models to examine the effect of H5N1 influenza A viral infection on the viral growth kinetics and immune responses of the infected cells. We found that the influenza virus receptors, sialic acid-alpha2,3-galactose and sialic acid-alpha2,6-galactose, were expressed on differentiated human astrocytic and neuronal cells. Both types of cells could be infected with H5N1 influenza A viruses, but progeny viruses were only produced from infected astrocytic cells but not neuronal cells. Moreover, increased expression of interleukin (IL)-6 and/or tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) mRNA was detected in both astrocytic and neuronal cells at 6 and 24 h post-infection. To examine the biological consequences of such enhanced cytokine expression, differentiated astrocytic and neuronal cells were directly treated with these two cytokines. TNF-alpha treatment induced apoptosis, as well as proinflammatory cytokine, chemokine and inflammatory responses in differentiated astrocytic and neuronal cells. Taken together, our findings reveal that avian influenza H5N1 viruses can infect human astrocytic and neuronal cells, resulting in the induction of direct cellular damage and proinflammatory cytokine cascades. Our observations suggest that avian influenza H5N1 infection can trigger profound CNS injury, which may play an important role in the influenza viral pathogenesis.
Recent findings suggest that the expression of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis stress response adaptation in rats depends on top-down neural control. We therefore examined whether the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) modulates expression of stress response habituation. We transiently suppressed (muscimol microinfusion) or stimulated (picrotoxin microinfusion) mPFC neural activity in rats and studied the consequence on the first time response to psychological stress (restraint) or separately on the development and expression of habituation to repeated restraint. We monitored both the hormonal (corticosterone) and neural (forebrain c-fos mRNA) response to stress. Inactivation of the mPFC had no effect on the HPA-axis response to first time restraint, however increased mPFC activity attenuated stress-induced HPA-axis activity. In a three day repeated restraint stress regimen, inactivation of the mPFC on days 1 and 2, but not day 3, prevented the expression of HPA-axis hormone response habituation. In these same rats, the mPFC activity on day 3 interfered with the expression of c-fos mRNA habituation selectively within the mPFC, lateral septum and hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus. In contrast, inactivation of the mPFC only on day 3, or on all 3 days did not interfere with the expression of habituation. We conclude that the mPFC can permit or disrupt expression of HPA-axis stress response habituation, and this control depends on alteration of neural activity within select brain regions. A possible implication of these findings is that the dysregulation of PFC activity associated with depression and post-traumatic stress disorder may contribute to impaired expression of stress-response adaptation and consequently exacerbation of those disorders.
Hemisegmental networks produced by longitudinal lesions of the spinal cord midline are able to generate rhythmic bursting activity. This has led to the suggestion that hemisegmental networks can independently burst in the intact spinal cord. Previous analyses in the lamprey spinal cord failed to show hemisegmental bursting in NMDA. This was subsequently attributed to the failure to wait sufficient time for NMDA-evoked hemisegmental activity to recover after being abolished by the lesion, which can take tens of minutes to hours. The reason for this delay in the onset of NMDA-evoked activity was not previously addressed. We have investigated it here by examining two hypotheses: that hemisegmental networks intrinsically burst under normal conditions but that NMDA-evoked bursting was temporarily silenced by lesion-induced transmitter release; or that lesioning altered functional properties in the hemisegment that subsequently led to the development of bursting. We found no evidence to support transmitter-induced silencing of ongoing NMDA-evoked hemisegmental activity, but did find evidence for significant changes in the cellular and synaptic properties of motor neurons and premotor excitatory interneurons in lesioned hemisegmental networks. These results thus suggest that there are lesion-induced changes in functional properties in hemisegmental networks. As the interpretation of lesion studies rests on the assumption that the functional properties of hemisegmental components are not altered, further work is needed before conclusions can be made about the function of the intact system.
A major challenge in the inner ear research field is to restore hearing loss of both non-genetic and genetic origin. A large effort is being made to protect hair cells from cell death after exposure to noise or drugs that can cause hearing loss. Our research focused on protecting hair cells from cell death occurring in a genetic model for human deafness. POU4F3 is a transcription factor associated with human hearing impairment. Pou4f3 knockout mice (Pou4f3(-/-)) have no cochlear hair cells, resulting in complete deafness. Although the hair cells appear to form properly, they progressively degenerate via apoptosis. In order to rescue the hair cells in the knockout mice, we produced explant cultures from mouse cochleae at an early embryonic stage and treated the cells with z-Val-Ala-Asp-fluoromethylketone (z-VAD-fmk), a general caspase inhibitor. Hair cell numbers in the knockout mice treated with z-VAD-fmk were significantly higher than in the untreated mice. We found that the time window that z-VAD-fmk has a protective effect is between E14.5 (P=0.001) to E16.5 (P=0.03), but not after E18.5. The source of the surviving hair cells is not due to proliferation, as measured by 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling, or to supporting cell transdifferentiation to hair cells, since there was no change in supporting cell numbers. Instead, the survival appears to be a direct effect of the anti-apoptotic agent on the dying hair cells with an early developmental window. These results help towards providing a comprehensive understanding of the molecular mechanisms of hair cell death, which might lead to the development of new therapeutic anti-apoptotic agents to alleviate hereditary hearing loss (HL).
Cell bodies of afferent neurons located in lumbosacral dorsal root ganglia (DRG) provide Adelta- and C-fibres to the urinary bladder, reporting bladder wall tension, volume and noxious stimuli. Recent studies suggested an involvement of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) not only in detrusor contractility but also in modulating afferent function, and this has been linked to the beneficial effects of muscarinic antagonists in the treatment of overactive bladder. Here, we aimed to determine the inventory of mAChR subtypes expressed by bladder afferent neurons in the mouse. Bladder afferent neurons were identified by retrograde neuronal tracing using Fast Blue (FB) or 1, 1'-dioctadecyl-3, 3, 3', 3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorhydrate (DiI) injection into the detrusor muscle. DRG L6-S1 were recognized as the major location of bladder afferent perikarya with an additional smaller peak at L1/L2. Retrogradely labelled bladder afferents located in DRG L4-S2 were subjected to immunohistochemistry or to laser-assisted microdissection with subsequent RT-PCR to study expression of mAChRs subtypes M1R-M5R. Immunolabelling for mAChR subtype M2R, validated on DRG from M2R gene-deficient mice, demonstrated this subtype on 35% of FB-labelled bladder afferents. RT-PCR demonstrated expression of subtypes M2R, M3R and M4R, but not of M1R and M5R, in pooled samples (30 section profiles each) of laser microdissected DiI-labelled bladder afferent cell bodies. In conclusion, bladder afferent neurons express different subtypes of mAChRs (M2R, M3R and M4R). Thus, processing of sensory information from the bladder appears to be under direct cholinergic control.
A neural correlate for phrase boundary perception in language has recently been identified as a reliable and replicable brain effect. It is called the closure positive shift (CPS) and has an equivalent in the perception of music (music CPS). Nevertheless, either in language or in music, this component is elicited by phrase boundary embedded in sentence or melody. Poetry, as the interlude of language and music, is a special kind of discourse and promising material to explore prosodic boundary processing beyond sentence level. The aim of the present study was to investigate the cognitive processing of hierarchical prosodic boundaries in Chinese Tang poem using rhythm matching task. There are generally four hierarchical levels in each poem, including foot boundary, phonological phrase boundary, intonational phrase boundary, and couplet boundary. The electrophysiological results indicated that all the prosodic boundaries of different levels in poems could give rise to the CPS reflecting prosodic phrasing. Furthermore, as the prosodic hierarchical level became higher, the onset latency of the CPS got longer, suggesting the influence of retrospective processing of former information. With regard to the amplitude, we analyzed the CPS amplitude in every 100 ms time window. It was showed that phonological phrase boundary elicited higher CPS amplitude as compared to that evoked by couplet boundary in an earlier time window, whereas in a later time window both of them were lower than the CPS correlated to intonational phrase boundary. The present results further shape our understanding of the CPS component and its relation to the processes involved in prosodic phrasing.
We investigated voltage-dependent K(+) currents (I(K)) in noradrenergic (NAergic) A7 neurons. The I(K) evoked consisted of A-type I(K) (I(A)), which had the characteristics of a low threshold for activation (approximately -50 mV), fast activation/inactivation, and rapid recovery from inactivation. Since the I(A) were blocked by heteropodatoxin-2 (Hptx-2), a specific Kv4 channel blocker, and the NAergic A7 neurons were shown to be reactive with antibodies against Kv4.1/Kv4.3 channel proteins, we conclude that the I(A) evoked in NAergic neurons are mediated by Kv4.1/Kv4.3 channels. I(A) were also evoked using voltage commands of a single action potential (AP), a subthreshold voltage change between two consecutive APs, or excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) activity recorded in current-clamp mode (CCM). Blockade of the I(A) by 4-AP, a broad spectrum I(A) blocker, or by Hptx-2 increased the half-width and spontaneous firing of APs and reduced the amount of synaptic drive needed to elicit APs in CCM, showing that the I(A) play important roles in regulating the shape and firing frequency of APs and in synaptic integration in NAergic A7 neurons. Since these neurons are the principal projection neurons to the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, these results also suggest roles for Kv4.1/4.3 channels in descending NAergic pain regulation.
In this study, we examined the prevalence and distribution of NMDA receptor subunits within crude synaptic membranes derived from the brains of mice lacking methyl CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2). Our results show that the distribution of NMDA receptor subunits within the detergent soluble, detergent resistant, and postsynaptic density microdomains is preserved at MeCP2-null synapses. However, analysis of the NMDA receptor subunit expression revealed a decrease in the prevalence of the GluN1 and GluN2A subunits in MeCP2-null tissue. Collectively, these results indicate that synaptic membrane microdomains at synapses of the MeCP2-null brain develop normally, and that NMDA receptor subunits are properly targeted and distributed within them. The under-representation of the GluN1 and GluN2A subunits suggests that MeCP2-null synapses contain fewer mature NMDA receptor complexes, and raises the possibility that impaired NMDA receptor ontogeny could contribute to Rett syndrome pathophysiology.
Disruption of the GABAergic system has been implicated in multiple developmental disorders, including epilepsy, autism spectrum disorder and schizophrenia. The human gene encoding uPAR (PLAUR) has been shown recently to be associated with the risk of autism. The uPAR(-/-) mouse exhibits a regionally-selective reduction in GABAergic interneurons in frontal and parietal regions of the cerebral cortex as well as in the CA1 and dentate gyrus subfields of the hippocampus. Behaviorally, these mice exhibit increased sensitivity to pharmacologically-induced seizures, heightened anxiety, and atypical social behavior. Here, we explore potential alterations in GABAergic circuitry that may occur in the context of altered interneuron development. Analysis of gene expression for 13 GABA(A) receptor subunits using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) indicates seven subunit mRNAs (alpha(1), alpha(2), alpha(3), beta(2), beta(3), gamma(2S) and gamma(2L)) of interest. Semi-quantitative in situ hybridization analysis focusing on these subunit mRNAs reveals a complex pattern of potential gene regulatory adaptations. The levels of alpha(2) subunit mRNAs increase in frontal cortex, CA1 and CA3, while those of alpha3 decrease in frontal cortex and CA1. In contrast, alpha(1) subunit mRNAs are unaltered in any region examined. beta(2) subunit mRNAs are increased in frontal cortex whereas beta(3) subunit mRNAs are decreased in parietal cortex. Finally, gamma(2S) subunit mRNAs are increased in parietal cortex while gamma(2L) subunit mRNAs are increased in the dentate gyrus, potentially altering the gamma(2S):gamma(2L) ratio in these two regions. For all subunits, no changes were observed in forebrain regions where GABAergic interneuron numbers are normal. We propose that disrupted differentiation of GABAergic neurons specifically in frontal and parietal cortices leads to regionally-selective alterations in local circuitry and subsequent adaptive changes in receptor subunit composition. Future electrophysiological studies will be useful in determining how alterations in network activity in the cortex and hippocampus relate to the observed behavioral phenotype.
Positive emotional states have been shown to confer resilience to depression and anxiety in humans, but the molecular mechanisms underlying these effects have not yet been elucidated. In laboratory rats, positive emotional states can be measured by 50-kHz ultrasonic vocalizations (hedonic USVs), which are maximally elicited by juvenile rough-and-tumble play behavior. Using a focused microarray platform, insulin-like growth factor I (IGFI) extracellular signaling genes were found to be upregulated by hedonic rough-and-tumble play but not depressogenic social defeat. Administration of IGFI into the lateral ventricle increased rates of hedonic USVs in an IGFI receptor (IGFIR)-dependent manner. Lateral ventricle infusions of an siRNA specific to the IGFIR decreased rates of hedonic 50-kHz USVs. These results show that IGFI plays a functional role in the generation of positive affective states and that IGFI-dependent signaling is a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of depression and anxiety.
Endothelin-1 exerts potent vasoconstrictor and vasodilatory effects through its actions on its receptors A (ETrA) and B (ETrB), respectively. While ETrA and B have classically been thought to be expressed on vascular cell types, more recent evidence suggests that, particularly following brain injury, their expression may be seen in other, non-vascular cell types. To date no studies have comprehensively studied the cellular location of endothelin receptors following traumatic brain injury (TBI). Therefore, this study investigates the cellular localization of ETrA and B in normal and traumatized brains using an impact acceleration device. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to TBI by weight drop (450 g) from either 1.5, a distance known to elicit mild TBI in the absence of changed in cerebral blood flow (CBF) or 2 m, a distance shown to cause a significant reduction in CBF. One set of impacted brains were processed for Western determination of ETrA and B expression. Another set were processed for immunofluorescence (IF). For IF, ETrA and ETrB antibodies were combined with cell markers for neurons, astrocytes, microglia, oligodendrocytes, smooth muscle cells and endothelial cells of blood vessels. While ETrA and B was upregulated after more moderate to severe injury (2 m) overall receptor expression was unchanged in response to mild trauma (1.5 m). Double labeling IF confirmed prominent ETrA and ETrB labeling in NeuN labeled pyramidal neurons and interneurons in sensorymotor cortex (smCx) and hippocampus (hipp) post TBI. ETrA rather than ETrB was preferentially co-localized in vascular smooth muscle cells. After injury, a subpopulation of astrocytes in white matter co-localized ETrA but not ETrB. Localization of either receptor in endothelial cells was sparse. No prominent IF was detected in microglia and oligodendrocytes. Taken together with previous findings in other pathological states that show an apparent shift in the localization of ETrA and B, the observed receptor shifts in this work may underlie the ET-1-mediated pathotrajectory of TBI including hypoperfusion.
Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) is known to result in oxidative stress, and as variation at the Apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene has been shown to influence outcome following TBI, but through as yet unclear mechanisms, we used transgenic APOE mouse models to examine the relationship between APOE genotype and oxidative stress following TBI. We administered a controlled cortical impact (CCI) injury or sham injury to transgenic mice expressing either human APOE3 or APOE4 on a murine APOE-deficient background. RNA was prepared from the ipsilateral hippocampi and cortices retrieved at 24 h and 1 month post-TBI. Microarray analysis was performed on unpooled samples from three mice per group to determine the genomic response to TBI and to specifically investigate the response of genes involved in oxidative stress mechanisms. Our data demonstrated TBI-induced expression of many more anti-oxidant related genes in the APOE3 mice, suggesting a potential anti-oxidative role for ApoE3 compared to ApoE4. However, in an additional cohort of mice we isolated the ipsilateral hippocampi, cortices, and cerebella at 1 month after TBI or sham injury for immunohistochemical analysis of markers of oxidative stress: the formation and presence of carbonyls (indication of general oxidative modification), 3-nitrotyrosine (3NT; specific to protein modification), or 4-hydroxyl-2-nonenal (HNE; specific to lipid peroxidation). Although we observed significant increases in all three markers of oxidative stress in response to injury, and genotype was a significant factor for carbonyl and 3NT, we found no significant interaction between genotype and injury. This may be due to the overwhelming effect of injury compared to genotype in our ANOVA, but nonetheless suggests that an influence on oxidative stress response is not the primary mechanism behind the APOE-genotype dependent effects on outcome following TBI.
The renin angiotensin system (RAS; most well-known for its critical roles in the regulation of cardiovascular function and hydromineral balance) has regained the spotlight for its potential roles in various aspects of the metabolic syndrome. It may serve as a causal link among obesity and several co-morbidities. Drugs that reduce the synthesis or action of angiotensin-II (A-II; the primary effector peptide of the RAS) have been used to treat hypertension for decades and, more recently, clinical trials have determined the utility of these pharmacological agents to prevent insulin resistance. Moreover, there is evidence that the RAS contributes to body weight regulation by acting in various tissues. This review summarizes what is known of the actions of the RAS in the brain and throughout the body to influence various metabolic disorders. Special emphasis is given to the role of the RAS in body weight regulation. The paper represents an invited review by a symposium, award winner or keynote speaker at the Society for the Study of Ingestive Behavior [SSIB] Annual Meeting in Portland, July 2009.
Restricted food intake is associated with increased physical activity, very likely an evolutionary advantage, initially both functional and rewarding. The hyperactivity of patients with anorexia nervosa, however, is a main problem for recovery. This seemingly paradoxical reward of hyperactivity in anorexia nervosa is one of the main aspects in our framework for the neurobiological changes that may underlie the development of the disorder. Here, we focus on the neurobiological basis of hyperactivity and reward in both animals and humans suggesting that the mesolimbic dopamine and hypothalamic orexin neurons play central roles. The paper represents an invited review by a symposium, award winner or keynote speaker at the Society for the Study of Ingestive Behavior [SSIB] Annual Meeting in Portland, July 2009.
Understanding the role of intracellular signaling pathways in ingestive behavior is a challenging problem in behavioral neuroscience. This review summarizes work conducted on two systems with the aim of identifying intracellular events that relate to food and fluid intake. The first set of experiments focused on melanocortin receptors and their ability to signal through members of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase family. The second set of experiments focused on the role of intracellular signaling pathways in water and saline intakes that are stimulated by angiotensin II (AngII). The initial findings in each line of research have been extended by subsequent research that is discussed in turn. The paper represents an invited review by a symposium, award winner or keynote speaker at the Society for the Study of Ingestive Behavior [SSIB] Annual Meeting in Portland, July 2009.
Orexins (also named hypocretins) are recently discovered neuropeptides made exclusively in the hypothalamus. Recent studies have shown that orexin cells located specifically in lateral hypothalamus (LH) are involved in motivated behavior for drugs of abuse as well as natural rewards. Administration of orexin has been shown to stimulate food consumption, and orexin signaling in VTA has been implicated in intake of high-fat food. In self-administration studies, the orexin 1 receptor antagonist SB-334867 (SB) attenuated operant responding for high-fat pellets, sucrose pellets and ethanol, but not cocaine, demonstrating that signaling at orexin receptors is necessary for reinforcement of specific rewards. The orexin system is also implicated in associations between rewards and relevant stimuli. For example, Fos expression in LH orexin neurons varied in proportion to conditioned place preference (CPP) for food, morphine, or cocaine. This Fos expression was altered accordingly for CPP administered during protracted abstinence from morphine or cocaine, when preference for natural rewards was decreased and drug preference was increased. Additionally, orexin has been shown to be involved in reward-stimulus associations in the self-administration paradigm, where SB attenuated cue-induced reinstatement of extinguished sucrose- or cocaine-seeking. Although the specific circuitry mediating the effects of orexin on food reward remains unknown, VTA seems likely to be a critical target for at least some of these orexin actions. Thus, recent studies have established a role for orexin in reward-based feeding, and further investigation is warranted for determining whether function/dysfunction of the orexin system may contribute to the overeating associated with obesity. The paper represents an invited review by a symposium, award winner or keynote speaker at the Society for the Study of Ingestive Behavior [SSIB] Annual Meeting in Portland, July 2009.
Aversive stressful experiences are typically associated with increased anxiety and a predisposition to develop mood disorders. Negative stress also suppresses adult neurogenesis and restricts dendritic architecture in the hippocampus, a brain region associated with anxiety regulation. The effects of aversive stress on hippocampal structure and function have been linked to stress-induced elevations in glucocorticoids. Normalizing corticosterone levels prevents some of the deleterious consequences of stress, including increased anxiety and suppressed structural plasticity in the hippocampus. Here we examined whether a rewarding stressor, namely sexual experience, also adversely affects hippocampal structure and function in adult rats. Adult male rats were exposed to a sexually-receptive female once (acute) or once daily for 14 consecutive days (chronic) and levels of circulating glucocorticoids were measured. Separate cohorts of sexually experienced rats were injected with the thymidine analog bromodeoxyuridine in order to measure cell proliferation and neurogenesis in the hippocampus. In addition, brains were processed using Golgi impregnation to assess the effects of sexual experience on dendritic spines and dendritic complexity in the hippocampus. Finally, to evaluate whether sexual experience alters hippocampal function, rats were tested on two tests of anxiety-like behavior: novelty suppressed feeding and the elevated plus maze. We found that acute sexual experience increased circulating corticosterone levels and the number of new neurons in the hippocampus. Chronic sexual experience no longer produced an increase in corticosterone levels but continued to promote adult neurogenesis and stimulate the growth of dendritic spines and dendritic architecture. Chronic sexual experience also reduced anxiety-like behavior. These findings suggest that a rewarding experience not only buffers against the deleterious actions of early elevated glucocorticoids but actually promotes neuronal growth and reduces anxiety.
Normal aging is associated with a degradation of perceptual abilities and a decline in higher-level cognitive functions, notably working memory. To remediate age-related deficits, cognitive training programs are increasingly being developed. However, it is not yet definitively established if, and by what mechanisms, training ameliorates effects of cognitive aging. Furthermore, a major factor impeding the success of training programs is a frequent failure of training to transfer benefits to untrained abilities. Here, we offer the first evidence of direct transfer-of-benefits from perceptual discrimination training to working memory performance in older adults. Moreover, using electroencephalography to evaluate participants before and after training, we reveal neural evidence of functional plasticity in older adult brains, such that training-induced modifications in early visual processing during stimulus encoding predict working memory accuracy improvements. These findings demonstrate the strength of the perceptual discrimination training approach by offering clear psychophysical evidence of transfer-of-benefit and a neural mechanism underlying cognitive improvement.
Crystal structures of inactive PAK1(K299R) and the activation (A)-loop phospho-mimetic PAK1(T423E) have suggested that the kinase domain is in an active state regardless of activation loop status. Contrary to a large body of literature, we find that neither is PAK1(T423E) active in cells, nor does it exhibit significant activity in vitro. To explain these discrepancies all-atom molecular dynamics (MD) simulations of PAK1(phospho-T423) in complex with ATP and substrate were performed. These simulations point to a key interaction between PAK1 Lys308, at the end of the alphaC helix, and the pThr423 phosphate group, not seen in X-ray structures. The orthologous PAK4 Arg359 fulfills the same role in immobilizing the alphaC helix. These in silico predictions were validated by experimental mutagenesis of PAK1 and PAK4. The simulations explain why the PAK1 A-loop phospho-mimetic is inactive, but also point to a key functional interaction likely found in other protein kinases.
Inhibitors of AMPA receptors are useful as biochemical probes for structure-function studies and as drug candidates for a number of neurological disorders and diseases. Here we report the identification of an RNA inhibitor or aptamer by an in vitro evolution approach. Using a laser-pulse photolysis technique, we further characterized the mechanism of inhibition of this aptamer on the AMPA receptor channel-opening rate process in the microsecond-to-millisecond time domain. Our results show that the aptamer we isolated is a noncompetitive inhibitor that selectively inhibits the open-channel conformation of AMPA receptors with nanomolar affinity. The potency and the selectivity of this noncompetitive aptamer rival those of small molecule inhibitors. Our results therefore demonstrate the utility of this approach in developing water-soluble, highly potent, and conformation-selective noncompetitive inhibitors of AMPA receptors.




The circadian clock coordinates cellular and organismal energy metabolism. The importance of this circadian timing system is underscored by findings that defects in the clock cause deregulation of metabolic physiology and result in metabolic disorders. On the other hand, metabolism also influences the circadian clock, such that circadian gene expression in peripheral tissues is affected in mammalian models of obesity and diabetes. However, to date there is little to no information on the effect of metabolic genes on the central brain pacemaker which drives behavioral rhythms. We have found that the AKT and TOR-S6K pathways, which are major regulators of nutrient metabolism, cell growth, and senescence, impact the brain circadian clock that drives behavioral rhythms in Drosophila. Elevated AKT or TOR activity lengthens circadian period, whereas reduced AKT signaling shortens it. Effects of TOR-S6K appear to be mediated by SGG/GSK3beta, a known kinase involved in clock regulation. Like SGG, TOR signaling affects the timing of nuclear accumulation of the circadian clock protein TIMELESS. Given that activities of AKT and TOR pathways are affected by nutrient/energy levels and endocrine signaling, these data suggest that metabolic disorders caused by nutrient and energy imbalance are associated with altered rest:activity behavior.
A new field study provides the first experimental evidence of learning by imitation in a free-living animal and demonstrates that social learning can maintain two behavioral traditions in a single population.



The mammalian neocortex mediates complex cognitive behaviors, such as sensory perception, decision making, and language. The evolutionary history of the cortex, and the cells and circuitry underlying similar capabilities in nonmammals, are poorly understood, however. Two distinct features of the mammalian neocortex are lamination and radially arrayed columns that form functional modules, characterized by defined neuronal types and unique intrinsic connections. The seeming inability to identify these characteristic features in nonmammalian forebrains with earlier methods has often led to the assumption of uniqueness of neocortical cells and circuits in mammals. Using contemporary methods, we demonstrate the existence of comparable columnar functional modules in laminated auditory telencephalon of an avian species (Gallus gallus). A highly sensitive tracer was placed into individual layers of the telencephalon within the cortical region that is similar to mammalian auditory cortex. Distribution of anterograde and retrograde transportable markers revealed extensive interconnections across layers and between neurons within narrow radial columns perpendicular to the laminae. This columnar organization was further confirmed by visualization of radially oriented axonal collaterals of individual intracellularly filled neurons. Common cell types in birds and mammals that provide the cellular substrate of columnar functional modules were identified. These findings indicate that laminar and columnar properties of the neocortex are not unique to mammals and may have evolved from cells and circuits found in more ancient vertebrates. Specific functional pathways in the brain can be analyzed in regard to their common phylogenetic origins, which introduces a previously underutilized level of analysis to components involved in higher cognitive functions.
The maintenance of robust blood flow to the brain is crucial to the health of brain tissue. We examined the pial network of the middle cerebral artery, which distributes blood from the cerebral arteries to the penetrating arterioles that source neocortical microvasculature, to characterize how vascular topology may support such robustness. For both mice and rats, two features dominate the topology. First, interconnected loops span the entire territory sourced by the middle cerebral artery. Although the loops comprise &lt;10% of all branches, they maintain the overall connectivity of the network after multiple breaks. Second, &gt;80% of offshoots from the loops are stubs that end in a single penetrating arteriole, as opposed to trees with multiple penetrating arterioles. We hypothesize that the loops and stubs protect blood flow to the parenchyma from an occlusion in a surface vessel. To test this, we assayed the viability of tissue that was sourced by an individual penetrating arteriole following occlusion of a proximal branch in the surface loop. We observed that neurons remained healthy, even when occlusion led to a reduction in the local blood flow. In contrast, direct blockage of a single penetrating arteriole invariably led to neuronal death and formation of a cyst. Our results show that the surface vasculature functions as a grid for the robust allocation of blood in the event of vascular dysfunction. The combined results of the present and prior studies imply that the pial network reallocates blood in response to changing metabolic needs.
Despite the importance of vision for spatial navigation, blind subjects retain the ability to represent spatial information and to move independently in space to localize and reach targets. However, the neural correlates of navigation in subjects lacking vision remain elusive. We therefore used functional MRI (fMRI) to explore the cortical network underlying successful navigation in blind subjects. We first trained congenitally blind and blindfolded sighted control subjects to perform a virtual navigation task with the tongue display unit (TDU), a tactile-to-vision sensory substitution device that translates a visual image into electrotactile stimulation applied to the tongue. After training, participants repeated the navigation task during fMRI. Although both groups successfully learned to use the TDU in the virtual navigation task, the brain activation patterns showed substantial differences. Blind but not blindfolded sighted control subjects activated the parahippocampus and visual cortex during navigation, areas that are recruited during topographical learning and spatial representation in sighted subjects. When the navigation task was performed under full vision in a second group of sighted participants, the activation pattern strongly resembled the one obtained in the blind when using the TDU. This suggests that in the absence of vision, cross-modal plasticity permits the recruitment of the same cortical network used for spatial navigation tasks in sighted subjects.
Because mouse models play a crucial role in biomedical research related to the human nervous system, understanding the similarities and differences between mouse and human brain is of fundamental importance. Studies comparing transcription in human and mouse have come to varied conclusions, in part because of their relatively small sample sizes or underpowered methodologies. To better characterize gene expression differences between mouse and human, we took a systems-biology approach by using weighted gene coexpression network analysis on more than 1,000 microarrays from brain. We find that global network properties of the brain transcriptome are highly preserved between species. Furthermore, all modules of highly coexpressed genes identified in mouse were identified in human, with those related to conserved cellular functions showing the strongest between-species preservation. Modules corresponding to glial and neuronal cells were sufficiently preserved between mouse and human to permit identification of cross species cell-class marker genes. We also identify several robust human-specific modules, including one strongly correlated with measures of Alzheimer disease progression across multiple data sets, whose hubs are poorly-characterized genes likely involved in Alzheimer disease. We present multiple lines of evidence suggesting links between neurodegenerative disease and glial cell types in human, including human-specific correlation of presenilin-1 with oligodendrocyte markers, and significant enrichment for known neurodegenerative disease genes in microglial modules. Together, this work identifies convergent and divergent pathways in mouse and human, and provides a systematic framework that will be useful for understanding the applicability of mouse models for human brain disorders.

Mammals have an astonishing ability to sense and discriminate sounds of different frequencies and intensities. Fundamental for this process are mechanosensory hair cells in the inner ear that convert sound-induced vibrations into electrical signals. The study of genes that are linked to deafness has provided insights into the cell biological mechanisms that control hair cell development and their function as mechanosensors.
Development of auditory function can be affected by environment and experience. In this study, we investigated whether the NMDA receptor mediates the plasticity of auditory spatial representation during development of the rat auditory cortex. We found that early auditory experience significantly increased the auditory spatial sensitivity of A1 neurons and induced training-dependent plasticity. Implantation of Elvax-APV in the auditory cortex gradually reduced the auditory spatial sensitivity of A1 neurons and blocked the auditory spatial plasticity induced by early auditory experience. These results indicate that the NMDA receptor has a key role in experience-dependent plasticity of auditory cortical circuits immediately after birth.
The D-amino acid, D-aspartate, is abundant in the developing brain, yet its function is unknown. Addition of d-aspartate to hippocampal or cortical slices prepared from 8- to 9-day-old rats stimulated polyphosphoinositide (PI) hydrolysis to a slightly greater extent than L-glutamate. The action of D-aspartate was concentration-dependent with an apparent EC(50) value of 1 mM and a maximal stimulation of 6- and 20-fold in cortical and hippocampal slices, respectively. Stimulation of PI hydrolysis by D-aspartate was largely reduced by pharmacological blockade of mGlu5 metabotropic glutamate receptors with 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine. These findings suggest that D-aspartate behaves as an endogenous agonist of mGlu5 receptors during early postnatal life.
Neuroinflammation is a critical component in the progression of several neurological and neurodegenerative diseases and cyclooxygenases (COX)-1 and -2 are key regulators of innate immune responses. We recently demonstrated that COX-1 deletion attenuates, whereas COX-2 deletion enhances, the neuroinflammatory response, blood-brain barrier permeability and leukocyte recruitment during lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced innate immune activation. Here, we used transgenic mice, which overexpressed human COX-2 via neuron-specific Thy-1 promoter (TgCOX-2), causing elevated prostaglandins (PGs) levels. We tested whether neuronal COX-2 overexpression affects the glial response to a single intracerebroventricular injection of LPS, which produces a robust neuroinflammatory reaction. Relative to non-transgenic controls (NTg), 7 month-old TgCOX-2 did not show any basal neuroinflammation, as assessed by gene expression of markers of inflammation and oxidative stress, neuronal damage, as assessed by Fluoro-JadeB staining, or systemic inflammation, as assessed by plasma levels of IL-1beta and corticosterone. Twenty-four hours after LPS injection, all mice showed increased microglial activation, as indicated by Iba1 immunostaining, neuronal damage, mRNA expression of cytokines (TNF-alpha, IL-6), reactive oxygen expressing enzymes (iNOS and NADPH oxidase subunits), endogenous COX-2, cPLA(2) and mPGES-1, and hippocampal and cortical IL-1beta levels. However, the increases were similar in TgCOX-2 and NTg. In NTg, LPS increased brain PGE(2) to the levels observed in TgCOX-2. These results suggest that PGs derived from neuronal COX-2 do not play a role in the neuroinflammatory response to acute activation of brain innate immunity. This is likely due to the direct effect of LPS on glial rather than neuronal cells.
Memory Island (MI) is a human spatial memory assessment, modeled after the Morris water maze, which has been used in adults and the elderly. In this study, we examined whether MI can be used with children and validate the procedure. The objectives of this study were to: (1) examine spatial function with MI in children and (2) determine the associations between MI and other cognitive measures. Seven to 10-year-old children (N=50) completed MI and a battery of tests of attention, visual-spatial memory, and executive function. Spatial memory, as indicated by the percent time in the target quadrant on MI, was better at age ten relative to ages seven or eight. Target preference also correlated with performance on the Conners' Continuous Performance Test and Backwards Spatial Span. These findings indicate there is rapid increase in spatial memory between ages nine and ten and that MI is a translational neuroscience paradigm which provides information that complements and extends upon that obtained using other neuropsychological paradigms in children.
Subjects performed a continuous tracking concurrently with an intermittent visual detection task to investigate the existence of competition for a capacity-limited stage (a bottleneck stage). Both perceptual and response-related processes between the two tasks were examined behaviorally and the changes in brain activity during dual-tasking relative to single-task were also assessed. Tracking error and joystick speed were analyzed for changes that were time-locked to visual detection stimuli. The associated brain activations were examined with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). These were analyzed using mixed block and event-related models to tease apart sustained neural activity and activations associated with individual events. Increased tracking error and decreased joystick speed were observed relative to the target stimuli in the dual-task condition only, which supports the existence of a bottleneck stage in response-related processes. Neuroimaging data show decreased activation to target relative to non-target stimuli in the dual-task condition in the left primary motor and somatosensory cortices controlling right-hand tracking, consistent with the tracking interference observed in behavioral data. Furthermore, the ventral attention system, rather than the dorsal attention system, was found to mediate task coordination between tracking and visual detection.
This study reports that peripheral administration of Nerve Growth Factor antibodies (ANA) affects behavior in aged female CD-1 mice. ANA increased the propensity of mice to stay and perform behaviors in the anxiogenic open arms of the maze, lowered pain sensitivity and reduced behavioral flexibility in a Morris water maze task, also reducing ChAT immunoreactivity in the basal forebrain. These findings support the hypothesis that topical eye application can represent an alternative route for delivering biologically active compounds into the brain allowing studying the role of NGF on brain cell function.
Electrophysiological studies have shown that adolescent ethanol (EtOH) exposure can produce long-term changes in hippocampal EEG and ERP activity. Recently, evidence has emerged suggesting that event-related oscillations (EROs) may be good indices of alcoholism risk in humans, however, have not been evaluated for their ability to index the effects of EtOH exposure. The objective of the present study was to characterize EROs generated in hippocampus in adult rats exposed to EtOH during adolescence. Adolescent male Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to EtOH vapor for 12h/d for 10 days. A time-frequency representation method was used to determine delta, theta, alpha and beta ERO energy and the degree of phase variation in the hippocampus of adult rats exposed to EtOH and age-matched controls. The present results suggest that the decrease in P3 amplitudes, previously observed in adult rats exposed to EtOH during adolescence, is associated with increases in evoked theta ERO energy. These studies suggest that EROs are suitable for characterizing the long-term effects of adolescent EtOH exposure. Further studies are needed to determine the relationship between the mechanisms that regulate these neurophysiological endophenotypes and the consequences of adolescent EtOH exposure.
Present study investigated the role of agmatine in ethanol-induced anxiolysis and withdrawal anxiety using elevated plus maze (EPM) test in rats. The anxiolytic-like effect of ethanol was potentiated by pretreatment with imidazoline I(1)/I(2) receptor agonist agmatine (10-20 mg/kg, i.p.), imidazoline I(1) receptor agonists, moxonidine (0.25 mg/kg, i.p.) and clonidine (0.015 mg/kg, i.p.), imidazoline I(2) receptor agonist, 2-BFI (5 mg/kg, i.p.) as well as by the drugs known to increase endogenous agmatine levels in brain viz., L-arginine, an agmatine biosynthetic precursor (100 microg/rat, i.c.v.), ornithine decarboxylase inhibitor, DFMO (125 microg/rat, i.c.v.), diamine oxidase inhibitor, aminoguanidine (65 microg/rat, i.c.v.) and agmatinase inhibitor, arcaine (50 microg/rat, i.c.v.). Conversely, prior administration of I(1) receptor antagonist, efaroxan (1 mg/kg, i.p.), I(2) receptor antagonist, idazoxan (0.25mg/kg, i.p.) and arginine decarboxylase inhibitor, D-arginine (100 microg/rat, i.c.v.) blocked the anxiolytic-like effect of ethanol. Moreover, ethanol withdrawal anxiety was markedly attenuated by agmatine (10-20 mg/kg, i.p.), moxonidine (0.25 mg/kg, i.p.), clonidine (0.015 mg/kg, i.p.), 2-BFI (5 mg/kg, i.p.), L-arginine (100 microg/rat, i.c.v.), DFMO (125 microg/rat, i.c.v.), aminoguanidine (65 microg/rat, i.c.v.) and arcaine (50 microg/rat, i.c.v.). The anti-anxiety effect of agmatine in ethanol-withdrawn rats was completely blocked by efaroxan (1 mg/kg, i.p.) and idazoxan (0.25 mg/kg, i.p.). These results suggest that agmatine and imidazoline receptor system may be implicated in ethanol-induced anxiolysis and withdrawal anxiety and strongly support further investigation of agmatine in ethanol dependence mechanism. The data also project agmatine as a potential therapeutic target in overcoming alcohol withdrawal symptoms such as anxiety.
Pharmacological characterization of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors has been hampered by the difficulty to outwit cytotoxicity after functional expression in recombinant systems. In this study a muristerone-inducible expression system for the NNMDA-R1 subunit was used. This was combined with constitutive expression of NMDA-R2A, 2B, 2C and 2D in different cell clones. After establishment of the cell lines, quantitative RT-PCR demonstrated the inducibility of the NNMDA-R1 subunit, and verified the expression of the NMDA-R2 subunits in the different cell clones. Functional responses were characterized using calcium influx through the ion channel as a robust assay system. Stimulation of the NMDA-receptor subtypes in the different cell lines led to calcium transients which were rising gradually, peaked after 30-160 s and declined thereafter very slowly. The expression of the four different NMDA-receptor subtypes in the same cellular background allowed a direct pharmacological comparison of the different receptors. Glutamate showed the highest potency at the NMDA-R1-2D. NMDA displayed at all subtypes a lower potency compared to glutamate and was a partial agonist except at the NMDA-R1-2D. 20 antagonists were tested in this study and the pharmacological characterization of the inhibition of glutamate-evoked elevation of intracellular free Ca(2+) revealed a distinct rank order of antagonist potency for each receptor subtype. These data illustrate that assessment of calcium transients upon receptor stimulation in the same cellular background is a powerful tool to compare the functional effects of compounds acting at the different NMDA-R2 receptors.
Parkinson's disease and its characteristic symptoms are thought to arise from the progressive degeneration of specific midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons. In humans, DA neurons of the substantia nigra (SN) and their projections to the striatum show selective vulnerability, while neighboring DA neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) are relatively spared from degeneration. This pattern of cell loss is mimicked in humans, primates, and certain rodents by the neurotoxin MPTP. In this study, we aimed to test the hypothesis that there are factors in the VTA that are potentially neuroprotective against MPTP and that these factors change over time. We have found a dynamic transcriptional response within the cells of the VTA to sustained exposure to a low dose of MPTP. Specifically, the VTA has increased expression of 148 genes as an early response to MPTP and 113 genes as a late response to MPTP toxicity. This response encompasses many areas of cellular function, including protein regulation (Phf6) and ion/metal regulation (PANK2 and Car4). Notably, these responses were largely absent from the cells of the SN. Our data show a clear dynamic response in maintaining the homeostasis and viability of the neurons in the VTA that is lacking in the SN after neurotoxin challenge.
Oxidative cell death contributes to neuronal cell death in many neurological diseases such as stroke, brain trauma, and Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we explored the involvement of poly(ADP-ribose)-polymerase (PARP) in oxidative stress-induced necroptosis. We showed that PJ34, a potent and specific inhibitor of PARP, can completely inhibit glutamate-induced necroptosis in HT-22 cells. This protective effect was still observed 8h after glutamate exposure followed by PJ34 treatment. These results suggest that PARP activation plays a critical role in glutamate-induced necroptosis. We also examined the interaction between PARP and a necroptosis inhibitor called necrostatin-1 (Nec-1). Previously, we showed that Nec-1 protects against glutamate-induced oxytosis by inhibiting the translocation of cellular apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF), a downstream target of PARP-1 activation. In this study, Nec-1 reduced PARP activity but had no effect on the expression of PARP-1 in cells treated with glutamate. Nec-1 also did not protect against cell death mediated by the PARP activator N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG), although PJ34 did protect against MNNG-mediated cell death. These findings suggest that Nec-1 is not a direct PARP inhibitor and that its signaling target is located upstream of PARP.
The anatomy and physiology of the non-image forming visual system was investigated in a visually blind cone-rod homeobox gene (Crx) knock-out mouse (Crx(-)(/)(-)), which lacks the outer segments of the photoreceptors. We show that the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) in the Crx(-/-) mouse exhibit morphology as in the wild type mouse. In addition, the SCN contain vasoactive intestinal peptide-, vasopressin-, and gastrin-releasing peptide-immunoreactive neurons as present in the wild type. Anterograde in vivo tracings from the retina of the Crx(-/-) and wild type mouse showed that the retinohypothalamic projection to the SCN and the central optic pathways were similar in both animals. Telemetric monitoring of the running activity and temperature revealed that both the Crx(-/-)and wild type mouse exhibited diurnal rhythms with a 24-h period, which could be phase changed by light. However, power spectral analysis revealed that both rhythms in the Crx(-/-) mouse were less robust than those in the wild type. The normal development of the SCN and the central visual pathways in the Crx(-/-) mouse suggests that a modulatory input from the photoreceptors in the peripheral retina to the retinal melanopsin neurons or the SCN may be necessary for a normal function of the non-image forming system of the mouse. However, a change in the SCN of the Crx(-/-) mouse might also explain the observed circadian differences between the knock out mouse and wild type mouse.
Intermanual transfer is the ability that previous studies by one limb promote the later learning by the other limb. This ability has been demonstrated in various effectors and types of training. Motor imagery, the mental simulation of motor execution, is believed to be strongly associated with the cognitive aspects of motor execution, and the pattern of brain activity during motor imagery is similar to that of motor execution, although the activation pattern is smaller, and the level is lower. If the cognitive component of motor execution strongly contributes to transfer, the training effect of motor imagery would be expected to transfer to the contralateral limb. In the present study, we used the tapping sequence paradigm to evaluate the occurrence of intermanual transfer through motor imagery and to compare differences of transfer effects to motor execution learning. We divided participants into three groups: an execution group, a motor imagery group and a no-training control group. Before and after a nondominant left hand training session, ipsilateral hand tests were conducted. After the post-test, a contralateral right-hand test was also conducted. In order to investigate the relationship between transfer effect and neural activation during the learning phase, we measured motor-related brain area activity using near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). Execution was effective especially for trained movement, imagery was effective for both trained movement and intermanual transfer. Brain activity suggesting predictive transfer differed between two groups, suggesting that motor execution and motor imagery training have different behavioural effects and neural contributions.
Cancer is influenced by its microenvironment, yet broader, environmental effects also play a role but remain poorly defined. We report here that mice living in an enriched housing environment show reduced tumor growth and increased remission. We found this effect in melanoma and colon cancer models, and that it was not caused by physical activity alone. Serum from animals held in an enriched environment (EE) inhibited cancer proliferation in vitro and was markedly lower in leptin. Hypothalamic brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) was selectively upregulated by EE, and its genetic overexpression reduced tumor burden, whereas BDNF knockdown blocked the effect of EE. Mechanistically, we show that hypothalamic BDNF downregulated leptin production in adipocytes via sympathoneural beta-adrenergic signaling. These results suggest that genetic or environmental activation of this BDNF/leptin axis may have therapeutic significance for cancer.
Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) is a pleiotropic protein with critical roles in both developmental as well as pathogenic processes. In the central nervous system specifically, PDGF is critical for neuronal proliferation and differentiation and has also been implicated as a neuroprotective agent. Whether PDGF also plays a role in synaptic plasticity, however, remains poorly understood. In the present study we demonstrated that in the rat hippocampal neurons PDGF regulated the expression of Arc/Arg3.1 gene that has been implicated in both synapse plasticity and long term potentiation. Relevance of these findings was further confirmed in vivo by injecting mice with intracerebral inoculations of PDGF, which resulted in a rapid induction of Arc in the hippocampus of the injected mice. PDGF induced long term potentiation in rat hippocampal slices, which was abolished by PDGF receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitor STI-571. We also present evidence that PDGF-mediated induction of Arc/Arg3.1 involved activation of the MAPK/ERK (MEK) pathway. Additionally, induction of Arc/Arg3.1 also involved the upstream release of intracellular calcium stores, an effect that could be blocked by thapsigargin but not by EGTA. Pharmacological approach using inhibitors specific for either MAPK/ERK phosphorylation or calcium release demonstrated that the two pathways converged downstream at a common point involving activation of the immediate early gene Egr-1. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays demonstrated the binding of Egr-1, but not Egr-3, to the Arc promoter. These findings for the first time, thus, suggest an additional role of PDGF, that of induction of Arc.
Physicians, nurses, and other clinicians readily acknowledge being troubled by encounters with patients who trigger moral judgments. For decades social scientists have noted that moral judgment of patients is pervasive, occurring not only in egregious and criminal cases but also in everyday situations in which appraisals of patients' social worth and culpability are routine. There is scant literature, however, on the actual prevalence and dynamics of moral judgment in healthcare. The indirect evidence available suggests that moral appraisals function via a complex calculus that reflects variation in patient characteristics, clinician characteristics, task, and organizational factors. The full impact of moral judgment on healthcare relationships, patient outcomes, and clinicians' own well-being is yet unknown. The paucity of attention to moral judgment, despite its significance for patient-centered care, communication, empathy, professionalism, healthcare education, stereotyping, and outcome disparities, represents a blind spot that merits explanation and repair. New methodologies in social psychology and neuroscience have yielded models for how moral judgment operates in healthcare and how research in this area should proceed. Clinicians, educators, and researchers would do well to recognize both the legitimate and illegitimate moral appraisals that are apt to occur in healthcare settings.
In conflict tasks such as the Stroop, the Eriksen flanker or the Simon task, it is generally observed that the detection of conflict in the current trial reduces the impact of conflicting information in the subsequent trial; a phenomenon termed conflict adaptation. This higher-order cognitive control function has been assumed to be restricted to cases where conflict is experienced consciously. In the present experiment we manipulated the awareness of conflict-inducing stimuli in a metacontrast masking paradigm to directly test this assumption. Conflicting response tendencies were elicited either consciously (through primes that were weakly masked) or unconsciously (strongly masked primes). We demonstrate trial-by-trial conflict adaptation effects after conscious as well as unconscious conflict, which could not be explained by direct stimulus/response repetitions. These findings show that unconscious information can have a longer-lasting influence on our behavior than previously thought and further stretch the functional boundaries of unconscious cognition.
The present study investigated the function of p13, a mitochondrial protein of human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1). Although necessary for viral propagation in vivo, the mechanism of function of p13 is incompletely understood. Drawing from studies in isolated mitochondria, we analyzed the effects of p13 on mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) in transformed and primary T cells. In transformed cells (Jurkat, HeLa), p13 did not affect ROS unless the cells were subjected to glucose deprivation, which led to a p13-dependent increase in ROS and cell death. Using RNA interference we confirmed that expression of p13 also influences glucose starvation-induced cell death in the context of HTLV-1-infected cells. ROS measurements showed an increasing gradient from resting to mitogen-activated primary T cells to transformed T cells (Jurkat). Expression of p13 in primary T cells resulted in their activation, an effect that was abrogated by ROS scavengers. These findings suggest that p13 may have a distinct impact on cell turnover depending on the inherent ROS levels; in the context of the HTLV-1 propagation strategy, p13 could increase the pool of &quot;normal&quot; infected cells while culling cells acquiring a transformed phenotype, thus favoring lifelong persistence of the virus in the host.

Several single-center studies have confirmed the usability of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), even in early disease stages. Large scale multicenter studies have principally confirmed this, although such studies have also indicated the presence of significant intercenter and interlaboratory variations in biomarker measurements. Such variations may hamper the development of biomarkers and their introduction into clinical routine practice. Recently a quality control program run by the Alzheimer's Association was started in order to harmonize procedures of laboratories world-wide. This program provides both standardized guide lines and external control CSF samples, and will allow longitudinal evaluation of laboratory performance.
Since BACE1 was reported as the beta-secretase in Alzheimer's disease (AD) over ten years ago, encouraging progress has been made toward understanding the cellular functions of BACE1. Genetic studies have further confirmed that BACE1 is essential for processing amyloid precursor protein (APP) at the beta-secretase site. Only after this cleavage can the membrane-bound APP C-terminal fragment be subsequently cleaved by gamma-secretase to release so-called AD-causing Abeta peptides. Hence, in the past decade, a wide variety of BACE1 inhibitors have been developed for AD therapy. This review will summarize the major historical events during the evolution of BACE1 inhibitors designed through different strategies of drug discovery. Although BACE1 inhibitors are expected to be safe in general, careful titration of drug dosage to avoid undesirable side effects in BACE1-directed AD therapy is also emphasized.
A pharmacophore model for triple reuptake inhibitors and the new class of 1-(aryl)-6-[alkoxyalkyl]-3-azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexanes were recently reported. Further investigation in this area led to the identification of a new series of potent and selective triple reuptake inhibitors endowed with good developability characteristics. Excellent bioavailability and brain penetration are associated with this series of 6-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1-[(methyloxy)methyl]-3-azabicyclo[4.1.0]heptanes together with high in vitro potency and selectivity at SERT, NET, and DAT. In vivo microdialysis experiments in different animal models and receptor occupancy studies in rat confirmed that derivative 17 showed an appropriate profile to guarantee further progression of the compound.
Inflammatory bowel disease is a chronic intestinal inflammatory condition, the pathology of which is incompletely understood. Gut inflammation causes significant changes in neurally controlled gut functions including cramping, abdominal pain, fecal urgency, and explosive diarrhea. These symptoms are caused, at least in part, by prolonged hyperexcitability of enteric neurons that can occur following the resolution of colitis. Mast, enterochromaffin and other immune cells are increased in the colonic mucosa in inflammatory bowel disease and signal the presence of inflammation to the enteric nervous system. Inflammatory mediators include 5-hydroxytryptamine and cytokines, as well as reactive oxygen species and the production of oxidative stress. This review will discuss the effects of inflammation on enteric neural activity and potential therapeutic strategies that target neuroinflammation in the enteric nervous system.
Cocaine addiction is characterized by a gradual loss of control over drug use, but the molecular mechanisms regulating vulnerability to this process remain unclear. Here we report that microRNA-212 (miR-212) is upregulated in the dorsal striatum of rats with a history of extended access to cocaine. Striatal miR-212 decreases responsiveness to the motivational properties of cocaine by markedly amplifying the stimulatory effects of the drug on cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) signalling. This action occurs through miR-212-enhanced Raf1 activity, resulting in adenylyl cyclase sensitization and increased expression of the essential CREB co-activator TORC (transducer of regulated CREB; also known as CRTC). Our findings indicate that striatal miR-212 signalling has a key role in determining vulnerability to cocaine addiction, reveal new molecular regulators that control the complex actions of cocaine in brain reward circuitries and provide an entirely new direction for the development of anti-addiction therapeutics based on the modulation of noncoding RNAs.

We introduce pH-responsive fluorescent false neurotransmitters (pH-responsive FFNs) as novel probes that act as vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT) substrates and ratiometric fluorescent pH sensors. The development of these agents was achieved by systematic molecular design that integrated several structural elements, including the aminoethyl group (VMAT recognition), halogenated hydroxy-coumarin core (ratiometric optical pH sensing in the desired pH range), and N- or C-alkylation (modulation of lipophilicity). Of 14 compounds that were synthesized, the probe Mini202 was selected based on the highest uptake in VMAT2-transfected HEK cells and desirable optical properties. Using Mini202, we measured the pH of catecholamine secretory vesicles in PC-12 cells (pH approximately 5.9) via two-photon fluorescence microscopy. Incubation with methamphetamine led to an increase in vesicular pH (pH approximately 6.4), consistent with a proposed mechanism of action of this psychostimulant, and eventually to redistribution of vesicular content (including Mini202) from vesicles to cytoplasm. Mini202 is sufficiently bright, photostable, and suitable for two-photon microscopy. This probe will enable fundamental neuroscience and neuroendocrine research as well as drug screening efforts.
In vivo regeneration of peripheral neurons is constrained and rarely complete, and unfortunately patients with major nerve trunk transections experience only limited recovery. Intracellular inhibition of neuronal growth signals may be among these constraints. In this work, we investigated the role of PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10) during regeneration of peripheral neurons in adult Sprague Dawley rats. PTEN inhibits phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3-K)/Akt signaling, a common and central outgrowth and survival pathway downstream of neuronal growth factors. While PI3-K and Akt outgrowth signals were expressed and activated within adult peripheral neurons during regeneration, PTEN was similarly expressed and poised to inhibit their support. PTEN was expressed in neuron perikaryal cytoplasm, nuclei, regenerating axons, and Schwann cells. Adult sensory neurons in vitro responded to both graded pharmacological inhibition of PTEN and its mRNA knockdown using siRNA. Both approaches were associated with robust rises in the plasticity of neurite outgrowth that were independent of the mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) pathway. Importantly, this accelerated outgrowth was in addition to the increased outgrowth generated in neurons that had undergone a preconditioning lesion. Moreover, following severe nerve transection injuries, local pharmacological inhibition of PTEN or siRNA knockdown of PTEN at the injury site accelerated axon outgrowth in vivo. The findings indicated a remarkable impact on peripheral neuron plasticity through PTEN inhibition, even within a complex regenerative milieu. Overall, these findings identify a novel route to propagate intrinsic regeneration pathways within axons to benefit nerve repair.
Left rostral dorsal premotor cortex (rPMd) and supramarginal gyrus (SMG) have been implicated in the dynamic control of actions. In 12 right-handed healthy individuals, we applied 30 min of low-frequency (1 Hz) repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over left rPMd to investigate the involvement of left rPMd and SMG in the rapid adjustment of actions guided by visuospatial cues. After rTMS, subjects underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging while making spatially congruent button presses with the right or left index finger in response to a left- or right-sided target. Subjects were asked to covertly prepare motor responses as indicated by a directional cue presented 1 s before the target. On 20% of trials, the cue was invalid, requiring subjects to readjust their motor plan according to the target location. Compared with sham rTMS, real rTMS increased the number of correct responses in invalidly cued trials. After real rTMS, task-related activity of the stimulated left rPMd showed increased task-related coupling with activity in ipsilateral SMG and the adjacent anterior intraparietal area (AIP). Individuals who showed a stronger increase in left-hemispheric premotor-parietal connectivity also made fewer errors on invalidly cued trials after rTMS. The results suggest that rTMS over left rPMd improved the ability to dynamically adjust visuospatial response mapping by strengthening left-hemispheric connectivity between rPMd and the SMG-AIP region. These results support the notion that left rPMd and SMG-AIP contribute toward dynamic control of actions and demonstrate that low-frequency rTMS can enhance functional coupling between task-relevant brain regions and improve some aspects of motor performance.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory demyelinating disease of the CNS and remyelination in MS ultimately fails. Although strategies to promote myelin repair are eagerly sought, mechanisms underlying remyelination in vivo have been elusive. CXCR2 is expressed on neutrophils and oligodendrocyte lineage cells in the CNS. CXCR2-positive neutrophils facilitate inflammatory demyelination in demyelination models such as experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) and cuprizone intoxication. Systemic injection of a small molecule CXCR2 antagonist at the onset of EAE decreased demyelinated lesions. These results left the cellular target of the CXCR2 antagonist uncertain and did not clarify whether CXCR2 blockade prevented demyelination or promoted remyelination. Here, we show that the actions of CXCR2 on nonhematopoietic cells unexpectedly delay myelin repair. Bone marrow chimeric mice (Cxcr2(+/-)--&gt;Cxcr2(-/-) and Cxcr2(+/-)--&gt;Cxcr2(+/+)) were subjected to two distinct models of myelin injury. In all cases, myelin repair was more efficient in Cxcr2(+/-)--&gt;Cxcr2(-/-) animals. Oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) in demyelinated lesions of Cxcr2(+/-)--&gt;Cxcr2(-/-) mice proliferated earlier and more vigorously than in tissues from Cxcr2(+/-)--&gt; Cxcr2(+/+) animals. In vitro demyelinated CNS slice cultures also showed better myelin repair when CXCR2 was blocked with neutralizing antibodies or was genetically deleted. Our results suggest that CXCR2 inactivation permits optimal spatiotemporal positioning of OPCs in demyelinating lesions to receive local proliferative and differentiating signals. Given that CXCR2 exerts dual functions that promote demyelination and decrease remyelination by actions toward hematopoietic cells and nonhematopoietic cells, respectively, our findings identify CXCR2 as a promising drug target for clinical demyelinating disorders.
Although it is well documented that the ability to perceive biological motion is mediated by the lateral temporal cortex, whether and when neural activity in this brain region is modulated by attention is unknown. In particular, it is unclear whether the processing of biological motion requires attention or whether such stimuli are processed preattentively. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging, high-density electroencephalography, and cortically constrained source estimation methods to investigate the spatiotemporal effects of attention on the processing of biological motion. Directing attention to tool motion in overlapping movies of biological motion and tool motion suppressed the blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) response of the right superior temporal sulcus (STS)/middle temporal gyrus (MTG), while directing attention to biological motion suppressed the BOLD response of the left inferior temporal sulcus (ITS)/MTG. Similarly, category-based modulation of the cortical current source density estimates from the right STS/MTG and left ITS was observed beginning at approximately 450 ms following stimulus onset. Our results indicate that the cortical processing of biological motion is strongly modulated by attention. These findings argue against preattentive processing of biological motion in the presence of stimuli that compete for attention. Our findings also suggest that the attention-based segregation of motion category-specific responses only emerges relatively late (several hundred milliseconds) in processing.
Phosphodiesterase 10A (PDE10A) is a striatum-enriched, dual-specific cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase that has gained considerable attention as a potential therapeutic target for psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia. As such, a PDE10A-selective inhibitor compound, MP-10, has recently entered clinical testing. Since little is known about the cellular regulation of PDE10A, we sought to elucidate the mechanisms that govern its subcellular localization in striatal medium spiny neurons. Previous reports suggest that PDE10A is primarily membrane bound and is transported throughout medium spiny neuron axons and dendrites. Moreover, it has been shown in PC12 cells that the localization of the major splice form, PDE10A2, may be regulated by protein kinase A phosphorylation at threonine 16 (Thr-16). Using an antibody that specifically recognizes phosphorylated Thr-16 (pThr-16) of PDE10A2, we provide evidence that phosphorylation at Thr-16 is critical for the regulation of PDE10A subcellular localization in vivo. Furthermore, we demonstrate in primary mouse striatal neuron cultures that PDE10A membrane association and transport throughout dendritic processes requires palmitoylation of cysteine 11 (Cys-11) of PDE10A2, likely by the palmitoyl acyltransferases DHHC-7 and -19. Finally, we show that Thr-16 phosphorylation regulates PDE10A trafficking and localization by preventing palmitoylation of Cys-11 rather than by interfering with palmitate-lipid interactions. These data support a model whereby PDE10A trafficking and localization can be regulated in response to local fluctuations in cAMP levels. Given this, we propose that excessive striatal dopamine release, as occurs in schizophrenia, might exert differential effects on the regulation of PDE10A localization in the two striatal output pathways.
In this study, we derive a fast, novel time-domain algorithm to compute the nth-order moment of the power spectral density of the photoelectric current as measured in laser-Doppler flowmetry (LDF). It is well established that in the LDF literature these moments are closely related to fundamental physiological parameters, i.e. concentration of moving erythrocytes and blood flow. In particular, we take advantage of the link between moments in the Fourier domain and fractional derivatives in the temporal domain. Using Parseval's theorem, we establish an exact analytical equivalence between the time-domain expression and the conventional frequency-domain counterpart. Moreover, we demonstrate the appropriateness of estimating the zeroth-, first- and second-order moments using Monte Carlo simulations. Finally, we briefly discuss the feasibility of implementing the proposed algorithm in hardware.
Distinguishing between a fair and unfair tackle in soccer can be difficult. For referees, choosing to call a foul often requires a decision despite some level of ambiguity. We were interested in whether a well documented perceptual-motor bias associated with reading direction influenced foul judgments. Prior studies have shown that readers of left-to-right languages tend to think of prototypical events as unfolding concordantly, from left-to-right in space. It follows that events moving from right-to-left should be perceived as atypical and relatively debased. In an experiment using a go/no-go task and photographs taken from real games, participants made more foul calls for pictures depicting left-moving events compared to pictures depicting right-moving events. These data suggest that two referees watching the same play from distinct vantage points may be differentially predisposed to call a foul.

DiOLISTIC staining uses the gene gun to introduce fluorescent dyes, such as DiI, into neurons of brain slices (Gan et al., 2009; O'Brien and Lummis, 2007; Gan et al., 2000). Here we provide a detailed description of each step required together with exemplary images of good and bad outcomes that will help when setting up the technique. In our experience, a few steps proved critical for the successful application of DiOLISTICS. These considerations include the quality of the DiI-coated bullets, the extent of fixative exposure, and the concentration of detergent used in the incubation solutions. Tips and solutions for common problems are provided. This is a versatile labeling technique that can be applied to multiple animal species at a wide range of ages. Unlike other fluorescent labeling techniques that are limited to preparations from young animals or restricted to mice because they rely on the expression of a fluorescent transgene, DiOLISTIC labeling can be applied to animals of all ages, species and genotypes and it can be used in combination with immunostaining to identify a specific subpopulation of cells. Here we demonstrate the use of DiOLISTICS to label neurons in brain slices from adult mice and adult non-human primates with the purpose of quantifying dendrite branching and dendritic spine morphology.

The administration of antiretrovirals before HIV exposure to prevent infection (i.e., preexposure prophylaxis; PrEP) is under evaluation in clinical trials. Because PrEP is based on antiretrovirals, there is considerable concern that it could substantially increase transmitted resistance, particularly in resource-rich countries. Here we use a mathematical model to predict the effect of PrEP interventions on the HIV epidemic in the men-who-have-sex-with-men community in San Francisco. The model is calibrated using Monte Carlo filtering and analyzed by constructing nonlinear response hypersurfaces. We predict PrEP interventions could substantially reduce transmission but significantly increase the proportion of new infections caused by resistant strains. Two mechanisms can cause this increase. If risk compensation occurs, the proportion increases due to increasing transmission of resistant strains and decreasing transmission of wild-type strains. If risk behavior remains stable, the increase occurs because of reduced transmission of resistant strains coupled with an even greater reduction in transmission of wild-type strains. We define this as the paradox of PrEP (i.e., resistance appears to be increasing, but is actually decreasing). We determine this paradox is likely to occur if the efficacy of PrEP regimens against wild-type strains is greater than 30% and the relative efficacy against resistant strains is greater than 0.2 but less than the efficacy against wild-type. Our modeling shows, if risk behavior increases, that it is a valid concern that PrEP could significantly increase transmitted resistance. However, if risk behavior remains stable, we find the concern is unfounded and PrEP interventions are likely to decrease transmitted resistance.
The large-conductance voltage- and calcium-activated potassium (BK) channels are ubiquitously expressed in the brain and play an important role in the regulation of neuronal excitation. Previous work has shown that the total deletion of these channels causes an impaired motor behavior, consistent with a cerebellar dysfunction. Cellular analyses showed that a decrease in spike firing rate occurred in at least two types of cerebellar neurons, namely in Purkinje neurons (PNs) and in Golgi cells. To determine the relative role of PNs, we developed a cell-selective mouse mutant, which lacked functional BK channels exclusively in PNs. The behavioral analysis of these mice revealed clear symptoms of ataxia, indicating that the BK channels of PNs are of major importance for normal motor coordination. By using combined two-photon imaging and patch-clamp recordings in these mutant mice, we observed a unique type of synaptic dysfunction in vivo, namely a severe silencing of the climbing fiber-evoked complex spike activity. By performing targeted pharmacological manipulations combined with simultaneous patch-clamp recordings in PNs, we obtained direct evidence that this silencing of climbing fiber activity is due to a malfunction of the tripartite olivo-cerebellar feedback loop, consisting of the inhibitory synaptic connection of PNs to the deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN), followed by a projection of inhibitory DCN afferents to the inferior olive, the origin of climbing fibers. Taken together, our results establish an essential role of BK channels of PNs for both cerebellar motor coordination and feedback regulation in the olivo-cerebellar loop.
Addicts repeatedly relapse to drug seeking even after years of abstinence, and this behavior is frequently induced by the recall of memories of the rewarding effects of the drug. Established memories, including those induced by drugs of abuse, can become transiently fragile if reactivated, and during this labile phase, known as reconsolidation, can be persistently disrupted. Here we show that, in rats, a morphine-induced place preference (mCPP) memory is linked to context-dependent withdrawal as disrupting the reconsolidation of the memory leads to a significant reduction of withdrawal evoked in the same context. Moreover, the hippocampus plays a critical role in linking the place preference memory with the context-conditioned withdrawal, as disrupting hippocampal protein synthesis and cAMP-dependent-protein kinase A after the reactivation of mCPP significantly weakens the withdrawal. Hence, targeting memories induced by drugs may represent an important strategy for attenuating context-conditioned withdrawal and therefore subsequent relapse in opiate addicts.
Stimulation of the serotonin 1A receptor (5-HT(1A)-R) causes activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (Erk) and protein kinase C alpha (PKCalpha) in both hippocampal HN2-5 cells and cultured hippocampal slices from postnatal day-15 (P15) mice. Our earlier studies demonstrated that PKCalpha is co-immunoprecipitated with Erk and the phosphorylation of PKCalpha in this Erk-PKCalpha complex is dependent on the Erk pathway. Furthermore, the T(638) residue, which must be phosphorylated for the complete activation of PKCalpha, is within an authentic Erk consensus domain (S/TP), and the PKCalpha protein also contains two docking sites for Erk such as KRGRIYL and KRGIIYRDLKL. Using Fster Resonance Energy Transfer (FRET) we have confirmed an association between Erk and PKCalpha. Employing PKCalpha and Erk mutants we next demonstrated that Erk causes direct phosphorylation and activation of PKCalpha. By mutating the phosphoinositide-dependent kinase-1 (PDK-1)-promoted phosphorylation site (S(497)) and the kinase site (K(368)) in PKCalpha, we observed that both of these autophosphorylation-deficient mutants are phosphorylated at T(638) in an Erk-dependent manner. To confirm that Erk indeed catalyzes phosphorylation of PKCalpha at T(638), we used a mutant Erk construct in which a relatively large amino acid residue in the ATP binding site (Q(103)) had been replaced with glycine, enabling this mutant to utilize a bulky analog of ATP, cyclopentyl ATP. An in vitro kinase assay using this mutant Erk protein, radiolabeled cyclopentyl ATP, and a synthetic oligopeptide containing the S/TP site of PKCalpha demonstrated phosphorylation of the peptide by Erk1/2. These results confirm the novel possibility that PKCalpha is a direct substrate of Erk1/2 in neuronal cells and help link two important signaling molecules that regulate maturation and protection of hippocampal neurons as well as many other cell types.


Clustered protocadherins (Pcdhs) are a family of cadherin-like molecules arranged in gene clusters (alpha, beta, and gamma). gamma-Protocadherins (Pcdh-gammas) are involved in cell-cell interactions, but their prominent intracellular distribution in vivo and different knock-out phenotypes suggest that these molecules participate in still unidentified processes. We found using correlative light and electron microscopy that Pcdh-gammaA3 and -gammaB2, but not -gammaC4, -alpha1, or N-cadherin, generate intracellular juxtanuclear membrane tubules when expressed in cells. These tubules recruit the autophagy marker MAP1A/1B LC3 (LC3) but are not associated with autophagic vesicles. Lipidation of LC3 is required for its coclustering with Pcdh-gamma tubules, suggesting the involvement of an autophagic-like molecular cascade. Expression of wild-type LC3 with Pcdh-gammaA3 increased tubule length whereas expression of lipidation-defective LC3 decreased tubule length relative to Pcdh-gammaA3 expressed alone. The tubules were found to emanate from lysosomes. Deletion of the luminal/extracellular domain of Pcdh-gammaA3 preserved lysosomal targeting but eliminated tubule formation whereas cytoplasmic deletion eliminated both lysosomal targeting and tubule formation. Deletion of the membrane-proximal three cadherin repeats resulted in tubes that were narrower than those produced by full-length molecules. These results suggest that Pcdh-gammaA and -gammaB families can influence the shape of intracellular membranes by mediating intraluminal interactions within organelles.
We recently reported that the small G-protein Rhes has the properties of a SUMO-E3 ligase and mediates mutant huntingtin (mHtt) cytotoxicity. We now demonstrate that Rhes is a physiologic regulator of sumoylation, which is markedly reduced in the corpus striatum of Rhes-deleted mice. Sumoylation involves activation and transfer of small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) from the thioester of E1 to the thioester of Ubc9 (E2) and final transfer to lysines on target proteins, which is enhanced by E3s. We show that E1 transfers SUMO from its thioester directly to lysine residues on Ubc9, forming isopeptide linkages. Conversely, sumoylation on E1 requires transfer of SUMO from the thioester of Ubc9. Thus, the process regarded as &quot;autosumoylation&quot; reflects intermolecular transfer between E1 and Ubc9, which we designate &quot;cross-sumoylation.&quot; Rhes binds directly to both E1 and Ubc9, enhancing cross-sumoylation as well as thioester transfer from E1 to Ubc9.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is a neuro-developmental disorder caused by loss of function of Mecp2--methyl-CpG-binding protein 2--an epigenetic factor controlling DNA transcription. In mice, removal of Mecp2 in the forebrain recapitulates most of behavioral deficits found in global Mecp2 deficient mice, including amygdala-related hyper-anxiety and lack of social interaction, pointing a role of Mecp2 in emotional learning. Yet very little is known about the establishment and maintenance of synaptic function in the adult amygdala and the role of Mecp2 in these processes. Here, we performed a longitudinal examination of synaptic properties at excitatory projections to principal cells of the lateral nucleus of the amygdala (LA) in Mecp2 mutant mice and their wild-type littermates. We first show that during animal life, Cortico-LA projections switch from a tonic to a phasic mode, whereas Thalamo-LA synapses are phasic at all ages. In parallel, we observed a specific elimination of Cortico-LA synapses and a decrease in their ability of generating presynaptic long term potentiation. In absence of Mecp2, both synaptic maturation and synaptic elimination were exaggerated albeit still specific to cortical projections. Surprisingly, associative LTP was unaffected at Mecp2 deficient synapses suggesting that synaptic maintenance rather than activity-dependent synaptic learning may be causal in RTT physiopathology. Finally, because the timing of synaptic evolution was preserved, we propose that some of the developmental effects of Mecp2 may be exerted within an endogenous program and restricted to synapses which maturate during animal life.
Here we describe a method to fabricate a multi-channel high-throughput microchip device for measurement of quantal transmitter release from individual cells. Instead of bringing carbon-fiber electrodes to cells, the device uses a surface chemistry approach to bring cells to an array of electrochemical microelectrodes. The microelectrodes are small and &quot;cytophilic&quot; in order to promote adhesion of a single cell whereas all other areas of the chip are covered with a thin &quot;cytophobic&quot; film to block cell attachement and facilitate movement of cells to electrodes. This cytophobic film also insulates unused areas of the conductive film, thus the alignment of cell docking sites to working electrodes is automatic. Amperometric spikes resulting from single-granule fusion events were recorded on the device and had amplitudes and kinetics similar to those measured using carbon-fiber microelectrodes. Use of this device will increase the pace of basic neuroscience research and may also find applications in drug discovery or validation.

TDP-43 is characteristically accumulated in TDP-43 proteinopathies such as frontotemporal lobar degeneration and motor neurone disease, but is also present in some tauopathies, including Alzheimer's disease, argyrophilic grain disease, and corticobasal degeneration (CBD). However, several studies have suggested that cases of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) lack TDP-43 pathology. We have therefore examined limbic regions of the brain in 19 PSP cases, as well as in 12 CBD cases, using phosphorylation-dependent anti-TDP-43 antibodies. We observed TDP-43-positive inclusions in five PSP cases (26%), as well as in two CBD cases (17%). The amygdala and hippocampal dentate gyrus were most frequently affected in PSP. Regional tau burden tended to be higher in TDP-43-positive PSP cases, and a significant correlation between tau and TDP-43 burden was noted in the occipitotemporal gyrus. Hippocampal sclerosis (HS) was found in 3/5 TDP-43-positive PSP cases, but HS was significantly more frequent in TDP-43-positive than TDP-43 negative PSP cases. Dementia was present in 13/19 (58%) of the PSP cases, in 4/5 TDP-43-positive cases, in all 3 TDP-43-positive cases with HS, in 1/2 TDP-43-positive cases without HS, and 7/14 cases lacking both. TDP-43 and tau were frequently colocalized in the amygdala, but not in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. Immunoblotting demonstrated the characteristic (for TDP-43 proteinopathies) 45 and 25 kDa bands and high molecular weight smear in the TDP-43-positive PSP case. These findings suggest that (1) although PSP is nominally a tauopathy, pathological TDP-43 can accumulate in the limbic system in some cases, and (2) TDP-43 pathology may be concurrent with HS.


Neuroadaptations supporting behavioral sensitization to abused drugs are suggested to underlie pathological, excessive motivation toward drugs and drug-associated stimuli. Drug-induced sensitization has also been linked to increased appetitive responses for non-drug, natural reinforcers. The present research investigated whether ethanol (EtOH)-induced neural changes, inferred from psychomotor sensitization, can modify consumption and intake dynamics for the natural reinforcer, sucrose. The effects of EtOH-induced sensitization in mice on the temporal structure of sucrose intake patterns were measured using a lickometer system. After sensitization, sucrose intake dynamics were measured for 1 hour daily for 7 days and indicated more rapid initial approach and consumption of sucrose in EtOH-sensitized groups; animals showed a shorter latency to the first intake bout and an increased number of sucrose bottle licks during the initial 15 minutes of the 1-hour sessions. This effect was associated with increased frequency and size of bouts. For the total 1-hour session, sucrose intake and bout dynamics were not different between groups, indicating a change in patterns of sucrose intake but not total consumption. When sensitization was prevented by the gamma-aminobutyric acid B receptor agonist, baclofen, the increased rate of approach and consumption of sucrose were also prevented. Thus, EtOH-induced sensitization, and not the mere exposure to EtOH, was associated with changes in sucrose intake patterns. These data are consistent with current literature suggesting an enhancing effect of drug-induced sensitization on motivational processes involved in reinforcement.
The endocannabinoid system regulates neurotransmission in brain regions relevant to neurobiological and behavioral actions of addicting drugs. We recently demonstrated that inhibition by URB597 of fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), the main enzyme that degrades the endogenous cannabinoid N-acylethanolamine (NAE) anandamide and the endogenous non-cannabinoid NAEs oleoylethanolamide and palmitoylethanolamide, blocks nicotine-induced excitation of ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopamine (DA) neurons and DA release in the shell of the nucleus accumbens (ShNAc), as well as nicotine-induced drug self-administration, conditioned place preference and relapse in rats. Here, we studied whether effects of FAAH inhibition on nicotine-induced changes in activity of VTA DA neurons were specific for nicotine or extended to two drugs of abuse acting through different mechanisms, cocaine and morphine. We also evaluated whether FAAH inhibition affects nicotine-, cocaine- or morphine-induced actions in the ShNAc. Experiments involved single-unit electrophysiological recordings from DA neurons in the VTA and medium spiny neurons in the ShNAc in anesthetized rats. We found that URB597 blocked effects of nicotine and cocaine in the ShNAc through activation of both surface cannabinoid CB1-receptors and alpha-type peroxisome proliferator-activated nuclear receptor. URB597 did not alter the effects of either cocaine or morphine on VTA DA neurons. These results show that the blockade of nicotine-induced excitation of VTA DA neurons, which we previously described, is selective for nicotine and indicate novel mechanisms recruited to regulate the effects of addicting drugs within the ShNAc of the brain reward system.












Progranulin (PGRN) is involved in wound repair, inflammation, and tumor formation, but its function in the central nervous system is unknown. Roles in development, sexual differentiation, and long-term neuronal survival have been suggested. Mutations in the GRN gene resulting in partial loss of the encoded PGRN protein cause frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin immunoreactive inclusions. We sought to understand the neuropathological consequences of loss of PGRN function throughout the lifespan of GRN-deficient ((-/+) and (-/-)) mice. An aged series of GRN-deficient and wild-type mice were compared by histology, immunohistochemistry, and electron microscopy. Although GRN-deficient mice were viable, GRN(-/-) mice were produced at lower than predicted frequency. Neuropathologically, GRN(-/+) were indistinguishable from controls; however, GRN(-/-) mice developed age-associated, abnormal intraneuronal ubiquitin-positive autofluorescent lipofuscin. Lipofuscin was noted in aged GRN(+/+) mice at levels comparable with those of young GRN(-/-) mice. GRN(-/-) mice developed microgliosis, astrogliosis, and tissue vacuolation, with focal neuronal loss and severe gliosis apparent in the oldest GRN(-/-) mice. Although no overt frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin immunoreactive inclusions type- or TAR DNA binding protein-43-positive lesions were observed, robust lipofuscinosis and ubiquitination in GRN(-/-) mice is strikingly similar to changes associated with aging and cellular decline in humans and animal models. Our data suggests that PGRN plays a key role in maintaining neuronal function during aging and supports the notion that PGRN is a trophic factor essential for long-term neuronal survival.
Methamphetamine (Meth) abuse increases risky behaviors that contribute to the spread of HIV infection. In addition, because HIV and Meth independently affect physiological systems including the central nervous system, HIV-induced disease may be more severe in drug users. We investigated changes in blood and brain viral load as well as differences in immune cells in chronically simian immunodeficiency virus-infected rhesus macaques that were either administered Meth or used as controls. Although Meth administration did not alter levels of virus in the plasma, viral load in the brain was significantly increased in Meth-treated animals compared with control animals. Meth treatment also resulted in an activation of natural killer cells. Given the prevalence of Meth use in HIV-infected and HIV at-risk populations, these findings reveal the likely untoward effects of Meth abuse in such individuals.
Adrenergic stimulation of isolated guinea pig distal colonic mucosa produced transient Cl(-) and sustained K(+) secretion. Transient short-circuit current (I(sc)) depended on beta(2)-adrenergic receptors (beta(2)-AdrR), and sustained I(sc) relies on a beta(1)-AdrR/beta(2)-AdrR complex. Epinephrine (epi) increased cAMP content with a biphasic time course similar to changes in epi-activated I(sc) ((epi)I(sc)). Inhibition of transmembrane adenylyl cyclases (tmACs) reduced peak (epi)I(sc) and cAMP to near zero without decreasing sustained (epi)I(sc), consistent with cAMP from tmAC signaling for only Cl(-) secretion. Inhibition of soluble adenylyl cyclase (sAC) reduced sustained (epi)I(sc) and cAMP to near zero without decreasing peak (epi)I(sc) or cAMP, consistent with cAMP from sAC signaling for K(+) secretion. Sensitivity to phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitors and peptide YY (PYY) stimulation further supported separate signaling for the two components. PDE3 or PDE4 inhibitors enhanced peak (epi)I(sc) but not sustained (epi)I(sc), consistent with these PDEs as part of the beta(2)-AdrR signaling domain. PYY suppressed peak (epi)I(sc) in a pertussis toxin (PTx)-sensitive manner, supporting Galpha(i)-dependent inhibition of tmACs producing cAMP for Cl(-) secretion. Since PYY or PTx did not alter sustained (epi)I(sc), signaling for K(+) secretion occurred via a Galpha(i)-independent mechanism. Presence of multiple sAC variants in colonic epithelial cells was supported by domain-specific antibodies. Responses to specific activators and inhibitors suggested that protein kinase A was not involved in activating peak or sustained components of (epi)I(sc), but the cAMP-dependent guanine nucleotide exchange factor, Epac, may contribute. Thus beta-adrenergic activation of electrogenic Cl(-) and K(+) secretion, respectively, required tmAC- and sAC-dependent signaling pathways.
Although in vitro studies show that muscarinic M(3) receptors primarily mediate the effects of acetylcholine on gastrointestinal contractility, the muscarinic receptor subtypes regulating gastrointestinal motor activity and transit in humans in vivo are unclear. We hypothesized that muscarinic M(3)-specific but not nonspecific receptor antagonists would delay gastrointestinal and colonic transit in humans. In this parallel-group study, gastric emptying, small intestinal transit, and colonic transit were assessed by scintigraphy on days 4-6 in 72 healthy subjects (49 women) who received placebo (n = 16), the M(3) antagonist darifenacin ER [7.5 mg (n = 20) or 15 mg daily (n = 17)], or the nonspecific antagonist tolterodine [4 mg daily (n = 19)] for 6 days. Bowel habits were recorded by daily diaries. Both doses of darifenacin substantially delayed [P &lt; 0.01 vs. placebo (for both doses), P &lt; 0.01 vs. tolterodine (for 15 mg)] small intestinal transit, i.e., colonic filling at 6 h (placebo [59.6 +/- 6.4%, mean +/- SE], 7.5 mg ER [34.4 +/- 6.1%], 15 mg ER [20.4 +/- 6.3%)]. Darifenacin (15 mg) also delayed (P &lt; 0.01 vs. placebo and tolterodine) half-time for ascending colonic emptying [placebo (12.0 +/- 1.5 h), 7.5 mg (18.6 +/- 1.9 h), 15 mg (22.9 +/- 2.6 h)] and colonic transit (geometric center) at 24 [placebo (2.8 +/- 0.2), 7.5 mg (2.4 +/- 0.2), 15 mg (1.9 +/- 0.2)] but not 48 h. Darifenacin did not affect gastric emptying and tolterodine did not affect bowel habits or gastrointestinal transit. With muscarinic antagonists used at clinically approved doses, these findings demonstrate that muscarinic M(3) receptors regulate small intestinal and colonic transit in humans; colonic effects are more pronounced in the right than left colon. At doses that affect small and large intestinal transit, M(3) antagonists do not affect gastric emptying in humans. The efficacy of darifenacin in diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome should be evaluated.
The American Psychological Foundation (APF) Gold Medal Awards recognize distinguished and enduring records of accomplishment in four areas of psychology: the application of psychology, the practice of psychology, psychology in the public interest, and the science of psychology. The 2010 recipient of the Gold Medal Award for Life Achievement in the Science of Psychology is Richard F. Thompson.
Relaxin is a pleiotropic hormone which exerts its biological functions through its G-protein coupled receptor, RXFP1. While relaxin is well known for its reproductive and antifibrotic roles, recent studies suggest that it is produced by cancer cells and acts on RXFP1 to induce growth and metastasis. Furthermore, more recently Silvertown et al. demonstrated that lentiviral production of a human gene-2 (H2) relaxin analog reduced the growth of prostate xenograft tumors. The authors proposed that the lentivirally produced peptide was an RXFP1 antagonist; however, the processed form of the peptide produced was not demonstrated. In this study, we have chemically synthesized the H2 relaxin analog, B-R13/17K H2 relaxin, and subjected it to detailed chemical characterization by HPLC, MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry, and amino acid analysis. The biological activity of the synthetic peptide was then tested in three different cell lines. It was found to bind with 500-fold lower affinity than H2 relaxin to RXFP1 receptors over-expressed in HEK-293T cells where it acted as a partial agonist. However, in cells which natively express the RXFP1 receptor, rat renal myofibroblasts and MCF-7 cancer cells, it acted as a full antagonist. Importantly, it was able to significantly inhibit cell invasion induced by H2 relaxin in MCF-7 cells consistent with the results of the lentiviral-driven expression in prostate cancer cells. The relaxin analog, B-R13/17K H2, can now be used as a tool to further understand RXFP1 function, and serve as a template for drug design for a therapeutic to treat prostate and other cancers.
We standardized the zinc-imidazole negative staining method for detecting chromosomal-sized DNA molecules separated by pulsed field minigel electrophoresis. The best experimental conditions were as follows: separating large DNA molecules in minigels of 0.4 cm thickness, further incubating them with 40 mM ZnSO4 solution, and finally incubating them with 0.1 and 2 M imidazole solutions successively. The lowest yeast cells/miniplug useful in DNA band detection was 3 x 10(7) cells, as occurred with ethidium bromide-stained minigel. Electrophoresis patterns were visualized as colorless bands contrasting against a white background after illuminating the minigel with white light. This negative staining method is nontoxic and preserves the chemical integrity of the DNA molecules.
Principal component regression has been used in the past to separate current contributions from different neuromodulators measured with in vivo fast-scan cyclic voltammetry. Traditionally, a percent cumulative variance approach has been used to determine the rank of the training set voltammetric matrix during model development; however, this approach suffers from several disadvantages including the use of arbitrary percentages and the requirement of extreme precision of training sets. Here, we propose that Malinowski's F-test, a method based on a statistical analysis of the variance contained within the training set, can be used to improve factor selection for the analysis of in vivo fast-scan cyclic voltammetric data. These two methods of rank estimation were compared at all steps in the calibration protocol including the number of principal components retained, overall noise levels, model validation as determined using a residual analysis procedure, and predicted concentration information. By analyzing 119 training sets from two different laboratories amassed over several years, we were able to gain insight into the heterogeneity of in vivo fast-scan cyclic voltammetric data and study how differences in factor selection propagate throughout the entire principal component regression analysis procedure. Visualizing cyclic voltammetric representations of the data contained in the retained and discarded principal components showed that using Malinowski's F-test for rank estimation of in vivo training sets allowed for noise to be more accurately removed. Malinowski's F-test also improved the robustness of our criterion for judging multivariate model validity, even though signal-to-noise ratios of the data varied. In addition, pH change was the majority noise carrier of in vivo training sets while dopamine prediction was more sensitive to noise.

Emerging evidence indicates that the DRD1-BDNF-DRD3 cluster plays an important role in nicotine addiction. We have performed an association analysis of 42 SNPs within these genes with cigarette consumption in a group of 341 schizophrenia patients. The ACCG haplotype consisting of four BDNF markers (Val66Met (rs6265), rs11030104, rs2049045 and rs7103411) showed an association with the risk of smoking (p = 0.0002). Both DRD1 markers tested (rs4532 and rs686) and the DRD3 marker (rs1025398) showed association with quantity of tobacco smoked (p = 0.01, 0.005 and 0.002, respectively). Our findings are preliminary; however, they support the involvement of the DRD1, BDNF and DRD3 genes in smoking behaviour.

Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is an important cause for intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), yet often goes undiagnosed in the absence of histological examination of the blood vessels in the clot. In this study, we report three patients who presented with ICH. Two patients had no risk factors for bleed, whereas one patient had systemic hypertension. Tissue for analysis was obtained during hematoma evacuation in two patients and necropsy in the third. Histopathology in all three patients revealed severe degree of amyloid angiopathy with extensive amyloid deposits in the vessel walls, which was diagnostic of CAA. Both medium- and small-sized leptomeningeal and cortical vessels were affected. The vascular amyloid deposits stained with Congo red and displayed characteristic birefringence under polarizing light. In addition, vessels also showed fibrinoid necrosis and vascular endothelial proliferation. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated beta-amyloid peptide in all three cases-the protein most commonly involved in sporadic CAA. Senile plaques with amyloid cores were present in all areas, whereas neurofibrillary tangles were restricted to the medial temporal region in the autopsied case. CAA is an important cause for intracerebral bleed and may be a contributory factor even when other risk factors for ICH are present. Areas of hemorrhage tend to correlate with severity of CAA changes.
The neuropeptides orexin A and orexin B, produced in hypothalamic neurons, are critical regulators of sleep/wake states. Deficiency of orexin signaling results in narcoleptic phenotype in humans, dogs, and rodents. Recently, accumulating evidence has indicated that the orexin system regulates sleep and wakefulness through interactions with neuronal systems that are closely related with emotion, reward, and energy homeostasis. In this review, we will discuss the current understanding of the physiology of the orexin system especially focusing on its roles in the regulation of sleep/wakefulness states.



A novel swine-origin influenza A (H1N1) virus was recently identified in Mexico. Some cases of infection with neurological complications have been reported to date. We report a case of acute necrotizing encephalopathy associated with the novel H1N1 virus in a 2-year-old European girl who suddenly developed fever, seizures, and altered mental status. Brain and spinal cord magnetic resonance imaging showed bilateral symmetrical lesions of the insulae, thalami, geniculate bodies, and pons tegmentum suggestive of an acute necrotizing encephalopathy. An involvement of meninges and spinal cord was observed configuring an acute necrotizing meningoencephalomyelitis.

Car accidents and gun-shot injuries are the most common causes of spinal cord injury. Five percent of those patients who have a complete spinal cord injury will experience improvement, to some extent. The lack of specific data in the literature regarding the outcome of earthquake related spinal cord injury justified us to design this study where we evaluated the neurological outcome and related factors of SCI in the Bam earthquake. We retrospectively evaluated the neurological outcome of patients with spinal cord injury who survived the Bam earthquake. In this study all patients with spinal cord injury that resulted from the Bam earthquake who registered in the Welfare Organization of Kerman were studied. The neurological conditions of patients eighteen months after the earthquake were compared with their neurological conditions at the time of the earthquake. A total of 17 (23.9%) patients with grade A impairment based on ASIA impairment Scale (AIS) at the time of the earthquake had significant neurological recovery. In addition, younger patients had better neurological outcomes. Those who had fracture dislocations had a worse outcome. Spinal cord injuries that are due to earthquakes have a better neurological outcome in comparison with other causes of this injury. The patients' ages and types of spinal fractures were significantly related to the neurological outcome.

A new series of 4-aryl-4H-chromenes bearing a 2-arylthiazol-4-yl moiety at the 4-position were prepared as potential cytotoxic agents. The in-vitro cytotoxic activity of the synthesized 4-aryl-4H-chromenes was investigated in comparison with etoposide, a well-known anticancer drug, using MTT colorimetric assay. Among them, the 2-(2-chlorophenyl)thiazol-4-yl analog 4b showed the most potent activity against nasopharyngeal epidermoid carcinoma KB, medulloblastoma DAOY, and astrocytoma 1321N1, and compound 4d bearing a 2-(4-chlorophenyl)thiazol-4-yl moiety at the 4-position of the chromene ring exhibited the best inhibitory activity against breast cancer cells MCF-7, lung cancer cells A549, and colon adenocarcinoma cells SW480 with IC(50 )values less than 5 microM. The ability of compound 4b to induce apoptosis was confirmed in a nuclear morphological assay by DAPI staining in the KB and MCF-7 cells.


The aim of the present study was to assess the purinoceptor functional responses of the urinary bladder by using isolated rat urinary bladder strip preparations. ATP elicited a transient bladder contraction followed by a sustained relaxation and ADP, UDP and UTP generated predominantly potent relaxations (relaxatory potencies: ADP = ATP &gt; UDP = UTP). The ATP contractions were desensitized with the P2X(1/3) purinoceptor agonist/desensitizer alpha,beta-meATP and reduced by the P2 purinoceptor antagonist PPADS but unaffected by the P2 purinoceptor antagonist suramin. Electrical field stimulation (1-60 Hz) evoked frequency-dependent bladder contractions that were decreased by incubation with alpha,beta-meATP but not further decreased by PPADS. Suramin antagonized relaxations generated by UDP but not those by ADP, ATP or UTP. PPADS antagonized and tended to antagonize UTP and UDP relaxations, respectively, but did neither affect ADP nor ATP relaxations. ADP relaxations were insensitive to the P2Y(1) purinoceptor antagonist MRS 2179 and the ATP-sensitive potassium channel antagonist glibenclamide. The ATP relaxations were inhibited by the P1 purinoceptor antagonist 8-p-sulfophenyltheophylline but unaffected by the A2A adenosine receptor antagonist 8-(3-chlorostyryl)caffeine and glibenclamide. Adenosine evoked relaxations that were antagonized by the A2B adenosine receptor antagonist PSB 1115. Thus, in the rat urinary bladder purinergic contractions are elicited predominantly by stimulation of the P2X(1) purinoceptors, while UDP/UTP-sensitive P2Y purinoceptor(s) and P1 purinoceptors of the A2B adenosine receptor subtype are involved in bladder relaxation.
Voluntary physical activity may be related to personality traits. Here, we investigated these relations in two mouse lines selectively bred for high voluntary wheel-running behavior and in one non-selected control line. Selection lines were more explorative and &quot;information gathering&quot; in the open-field test, either with increased upright positions or horizontal locomotion toward the middle ring. Furthermore, one of the selection lines had an increased risk-taking behavior relative to the control line in approaching a novel object placed in the center of the open field. However, anxiety behavior was increased in selection lines during the plus-maze test. Maze learning was not statistically different among lines, but routine behavior was increased in both selection lines when the maze exit after 2 days of testing was displaced. Specifically, in the displaced maze, selected mice traveled more frequently to the old, habituated exit, bypassing the new exit attached to their home cage. Although the generality of the results would need to be confirmed in future studies including all eight lines in the selection experiment, the increased routine and exploratory behavior (at least in the lines used in the present study) may be adaptive to sustain high activity levels.
C57BL/6J x FVB/NJ F1 (B6 x FVB) mice consume more alcohol than C57BL/6J x NZB/B1NJ F1 (B6 x NZB) mice and this high alcohol consumption is stable after abstinence whereas B6 x NZB show reduced consumption, thus providing models of Sustained Alcohol Preference (SAP) and Reduced Alcohol Preference (RAP). In female hybrids, we assessed several behavioral responses to define behaviors which might predict SAP and RAP. B6 x FVB exhibited less severe ethanol-induced conditioned taste aversion and were less sensitive to ethanol-induced loss of righting reflex than B6 x NZB. Both hybrids demonstrated ethanol-induced place preference and a low ethanol withdrawal severity. We found that these hybrids differ in their sensitivity to the aversive and sedative, but not rewarding, effects of ethanol. Results of elevated plus maze, mirror chamber, and locomotor tests reveal B6 x FVB mice are less anxious and more active than B6 x NZB mice. Results obtained offer insights about factors that determine SAP and RAP in these new genetic models of alcohol consumption.
There is increasing interest in methods to disentangle the relationship between genotype and (endo)phenotypes in human complex traits. We present a population-based method of increasing the power and cost-efficiency of studies by selecting random individuals with a particular genotype and then assessing the accompanying quantitative phenotypes. Using statistical derivations, power- and cost graphs we show that such a &quot;forward genetics&quot; approach can lead to a marked reduction in sample size and costs. This approach is particularly apt for implementing in epidemiological studies for which DNA is already available but the phenotyping costs are high.
Besides some pharmacological, biochemical and biophysical evidences support the contention that muscarinic acetylcholine receptors can form homo- and heterodimers, the existence of specific M(3) and M(5) muscarinic receptors oligomers in living cells is a new concept. Interestingly, this phenomenon might have relevance in lymphocytic cholinergic function since both T- and B-cells naturally express high levels of these two receptor subtypes. Here, by means of co-immunoprecipitation and bioluminescence resonance energy transfer methods we demonstrated that M(3) and M(5) muscarinic receptors could form constitutive homo- and heterodimers in transiently transfected HEK-293T cells. Interestingly, this receptor-receptor interaction was unaltered by carbachol treatment but it was affected by the expression of a peptide corresponding to a portion of the third intracellular loop of the M(5) muscarinic receptor. In addition, the same peptide was able to abrogate the carbachol-induced mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphorylation and the carbachol-enhanced PHA-induced IL-2 production in derived lymphocytic T cells. Overall, these results suggest that the third intracellular loop of the M(5) muscarinic receptor might play a regulatory role in receptor function and heteromerization, thus providing the molecular framework for a potential cholinergic-based therapeutic intervention of the immune system.

A key question in understanding the neural basis of path integration is how individual, spatially responsive, neurons may self-organize into networks that can, through learning, integrate velocity signals to update a continuous representation of location within an environment. It is of vital importance that this internal representation of position is updated at the correct speed, and in real time, to accurately reflect the motion of the animal. In this article, we present a biologically plausible model of velocity path integration of head direction that can solve this problem using neuronal time constants to effect natural time delays, over which associations can be learned through associative Hebbian learning rules. The model comprises a linked continuous attractor network and competitive network. In simulation, we show that the same model is able to learn two different speeds of rotation when implemented with two different values for the time constant, and without the need to alter any other model parameters. The proposed model could be extended to path integration of place in the environment, and path integration of spatial view.
The outer retina removes the first-order correlation, the background light level, and thus more efficiently transmits contrast. This removal is accomplished by negative feedback from horizontal cell to photoreceptors. However, the optimal feedback gain to maximize the contrast sensitivity and spatial resolution is not known. The objective of this study was to determine, from the known structure of the outer retina, the synaptic gains that optimize the response to spatial and temporal contrast within natural images. We modeled the outer retina as a continuous 2D extension of the discrete 1D model of Yagi et al. (Proc Int Joint Conf Neural Netw 1: 787-789, 1989). We determined the spatio-temporal impulse response of the model using small-signal analysis, assuming that the stimulus did not perturb the resting state of the feedback system. In order to maximize the efficiency of the feedback system, we derived the relationships between time constants, space constants, and synaptic gains that give the fastest temporal adaptation and the highest spatial resolution of the photoreceptor input to bipolar cells. We found that feedback which directly modulated photoreceptor calcium channel activation, as opposed to changing photoreceptor voltage, provides faster adaptation to light onset and higher spatial resolution. The optimal solution suggests that the feedback gain from horizontal cells to photoreceptors should be approximately 0.5. The model can be extended to retinas that have two or more horizontal cell networks with different space constants. The theoretical predictions closely match experimental observations of outer retinal function.


Psychophysiological and neuroscience studies of emotional processing undertaken by investigators at the University of Florida Laboratory of the Center for the Study of Emotion and Attention (CSEA) are reviewed, with a focus on reflex reactions, neural structures and functional circuits that mediate emotional expression. The theoretical view shared among the investigators is that expressed emotions are founded on motivational circuits in the brain that developed early in evolutionary history to ensure the survival of individuals and their progeny. These circuits react to appetitive and aversive environmental and memorial cues, mediating appetitive and defensive reflexes that tune sensory systems and mobilize the organism for action and underly negative and positive affects. The research reviewed here assesses the reflex physiology of emotion, both autonomic and somatic, studying affects evoked in picture perception, memory imagery, and in the context of tangible reward and punishment, and using the electroencephalograph (EEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), explores the brain's motivational circuits that determine human emotion.
Cerebrovascular dysfunction contributes to cognitive decline and neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), an angiogenic protein with important neurotrophic and neuroprotective actions, is under investigation as a therapeutic agent for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders. The aim of this study was to generate encapsulated VEGF-secreting cells and implant them in a transgenic mouse model of AD, the double mutant amyloid precursor protein/presenilin 1 (APP/Ps1) mice, which shows a disturbed vessel homeostasis. We report that, after implantation of VEGF microcapsules, brain Abeta burden, hyperphosphorylated-tau and cognitive impairment attenuated in APP/Ps1 mice. Based on the neurovascular hypothesis, our findings suggest a new potential therapeutic approach that could be developed for AD, to enhance Abeta clearance and neurovascular repair, and to protect the cognitive behavior. Stereologically-implanted encapsulated VEGF-secreting cells could offer an alternative strategy in the treatment of AD.
Intraspinal microstimulation (ISMS) involves the implantation of microwires into the spinal cord below the level of an injury to excite neural networks involved in the control of locomotion in the lower limbs. The goal of this study was to examine the potential spinal cord damage that might occur with chronic ISMS. We employed functional measures of force recruitment and immunohistochemical processing of serial spinal cord sections to evaluate any damage induced by spinal transection, implantation of ISMS arrays, and electrical stimulation of 4h/day for 30 days. Functional measurements showed no change in force recruitment following transection and chronic ISMS, indicating no changes to underlying neural networks. The implantation of sham intraspinal microwires produced a spatially-limited increase in the density of microglia/macrophages and GFAP+ astrocytes adjacent to the microwire tracks, indicating a persistent immune response. Most importantly, these results were not different from those around microwires that were chronically pulsed with charge levels up to 48nC/phase. Likewise, measurements of neuronal density indicated no decrease in neuronal cell bodies in the ventral grey matter surrounding ISMS microwires (243.6/mm2+/-35.3/mm2) compared to tissue surrounding sham microwires (207.8/mm2+/-38.8/mm2). We conclude that the implantation of intraspinal microwires and chronic application of ISMS are well tolerated by spinal cord tissue.
The N-monophenylcarbamate analogues of neostigmine methyl sulfate (6) and pyridostigmine bromide (8) together with their precursors (5), (7), and the N(1)-methylammonium analogues of (-)-phenserine (12), (-)-tolserine (14), (-)-cymserine (16) and (-)-phenethylcymserine (18) were synthesized to produce long-acting peripheral inhibitors of acetylcholinesterase or butyrylcholinesterase. Evaluation of their cholinesterase inhibition against human enzyme ex vivo demonstrated that, whereas compounds 5-8 possessed only marginal activity, 12, 14, 16 and 18 proved to be potent anticholinesterases. An extended duration of cholinesterase inhibition was determined in rodent, making them of potential interest as long-acting agents for myasthenia gravis.
Efforts to develop ligands that distinguish between clinically relevant 5-HT2A and 5-HT2C serotonin receptor subtypes have been challenging, because their sequences have high homology. Previous studies reported that a novel aplysinopsin belonging to a chemical class of natural products isolated from a marine sponge was selective for the 5-HT2C over the 5-HT2A receptor subtype. Our goal was to explore the 5-HT2A/2C receptor structure-affinity relationships of derivatives based on the aplysinopsin natural product pharmacophore. Twenty aplysinopsin derivatives were synthesized, purified and tested for their affinities for cloned human serotonin 5-HT1A, 5-HT2A, and 5-HT2C receptor subtypes. Four compounds in this series had &gt;30-fold selectivity for 5-HT2A or 5-HT2C receptors. The compound (E)-5-((5,6-dichloro-1H-indol-3-yl)methylene)-2-imino-1,3-dimethylimidazolidin-4-one (UNT-TWU-22, 16) had approximately 2100-fold selectivity for the serotonin 5-HT2C receptor subtype: an affinity for 5-HT2C equal to 46 nM and no detectable affinity for the 5-HT1A or 5-HT2A receptor subtypes. The two most important factors controlling 5-HT2A or 5-HT2C receptor subtype selectivity were the combined R1,R3-alkylation of the imidazolidinone ring and the type and number of halogens on the indole ring of the aplysinopsin pharmacophore.
The synthesis and structure-activity relationships of a series of 5-monosubstituted and 4,5-disubstituted 2-arylaminooxazoles as novel antagonists of the transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) receptor are described. The 7-hydroxy group of the tetrahydronaphthyl moiety on the 2-amino substituent of the oxazole ring was important for obtaining excellent in vitro potency at the human TRPV1 receptor, while a variety of alkyl and phenyl substituents at the 4- and 5-positions of the oxazole ring were well tolerated and yielded potent TRPV1 antagonists. Despite excellent in vitro potency, the 5-monosubstituted compounds suffered from poor pharmacokinetics. It was found that 4,5-disubstitution on the oxazole ring was critical to the improvement of the overall pharmacokinetic profile of these analogues, which led to the discovery of compound (R)-27, a novel TRPV1 antagonist with good oral activity in preclinical animal models of pain.

In recent years, there has been a marked increase in the use of psychiatric case registers for research purposes. Registers are a valuable data asset but there are no standard guidelines for evaluating their use in research. It is becoming increasingly important for researchers who use register data, and journal editors who publish their work, to set benchmarks to assess the quality of a register and its research application. Several criteria that could form the basis of such an evaluative framework are discussed. The discussion is illustrated using a Western Australian e-cohort of half a million children for whom we have assembled comprehensive data cross-linked across a number of administrative registers.

The relationship of relapses to long-term disability in multiple sclerosis is uncertain. Relapse reduction is a common therapeutic target but clinical trials have shown dissociation between relapse suppression and disability accumulation. We investigated relationships between relapses and disability progression for outcomes of requiring assistance to walk, being bedridden and dying from multiple sclerosis [Disability Status Scale 6, 8, 10] by analysing 28 000 patient-years of evolution in 806-bout onset patients from the London Ontario natural history cohort. Having previously shown no effect of relapse frequency among progressive multiple sclerosis subtypes, here we examined these measures in the pre-progressive or relapsing-remitting phase. Survival was compared among groups stratified by (i) early relapses--number of attacks during the first 2 years of multiple sclerosis; (ii) length of first inter-attack interval; (iii) interval between onset and Disability Status Scale 3 (moderate disability); (iv) number of attacks from the third year of disease up to onset of progression; and (v) during the entire relapsing-remitting phase. Early clinical features can predict hard disability outcomes. Frequent relapses in the first 2 years and shorter first inter-attack intervals predicted shorter times to reach hard disability endpoints. Attack frequencies, in the first 2 years, of 1 versus &gt;or=3, gave differences of 7.6, 12.8 and 20.3 years in times from disease onset to Disability Status Scale 6, 8 and 10, respectively. Time to Disability Status Scale 3 highly and independently predicted time to Disability Status Scale 6, 8 and 10. In contrast, neither total number of relapsing-remitting phase attacks nor of relapses experienced during the relapsing-remitting phase after the second year up to onset of progression showed a deleterious effect on times from disease onset, from progression onset and from Disability Status Scale 3 to these hard endpoints. The failure of a regulatory mechanism tied to neurodegeneration is suggested. Relapse frequency beyond Year 2 does not appear to predict the key outcome of secondary progression or times to Disability Status Scale 6, 8 or 10, highlighting two distinct disease phases related to late outcome. These appear to be separated by a watershed within the relapsing-remitting phase, just a few years after clinical onset. Higher early relapse frequencies and shorter first inter-attack intervals herald more rapid deterioration via interaction with the neurodegeneration characterizing secondary progression. They increase the probability of its occurrence, its latency and influence--to a lesser degree--its slope. The prevention or delay of the progressive phase of the disease is implicated as a key therapeutic target in relapsing-remitting patients.
The pre-synaptic protein alpha-synuclein is the main component of Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites, the defining neuropathological characteristics of Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies. Mutations in the alpha-synuclein gene cause familial forms of Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies. We previously described a transgenic mouse line expressing truncated human alpha-synuclein(1-120) that develops alpha-synuclein aggregates, striatal dopamine deficiency and reduced locomotion, similar to Parkinson's disease. We now show that in the striatum of these mice, as in Parkinson's disease, synaptic accumulation of alpha-synuclein is accompanied by an age-dependent redistribution of the synaptic SNARE proteins SNAP-25, syntaxin-1 and synaptobrevin-2, as well as by an age-dependent reduction in dopamine release. Furthermore, the release of FM1-43 dye from PC12 cells expressing either human full-length alpha-synuclein(1-140) or truncated alpha-synuclein(1-120) was reduced. These findings reveal a novel gain of toxic function of alpha-synuclein at the synapse, which may be an early event in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease.
Glioblastoma cells with stem-like properties control brain tumour growth and recurrence. Here, we show that endogenous neural precursor cells perform an anti-tumour response by specifically targeting stem-like brain tumour cells. In vitro, neural precursor cells predominantly express bone morphogenetic protein-7; bone morphogenetic protein-7 is constitutively released from neurospheres and induces canonical bone morphogenetic protein signalling in stem-like glioblastoma cells. Exposure of human and murine stem-like brain tumour cells to neurosphere-derived bone morphogenetic protein-7 induces tumour stem cell differentiation, attenuates stem-like marker expression and reduces self-renewal and the ability for tumour initiation. Neurosphere-derived or recombinant bone morphogenetic protein-7 reduces glioblastoma expansion from stem-like cells by down-regulating the transcription factor Olig2. In vivo, large numbers of bone morphogenetic protein-7-expressing neural precursors encircle brain tumours in young mice, induce canonical bone morphogenetic protein signalling in stem-like glioblastoma cells and can thereby attenuate tumour formation. This anti-tumour response is strongly reduced in older mice. Our results indicate that endogenous neural precursor cells protect the young brain from glioblastoma by releasing bone morphogenetic protein-7, which acts as a paracrine tumour suppressor that represses proliferation, self-renewal and tumour-initiation of stem-like glioblastoma cells.
The motor axonal variant of Guillain-Barr syndrome is associated with anti-GD1a immunoglobulin antibodies, which are believed to be the pathogenic factor. In previous studies we have demonstrated the motor terminal to be a vulnerable site. Here we show both in vivo and ex vivo, that nodes of Ranvier in intramuscular motor nerve bundles are also targeted by anti-GD1a antibody in a gradient-dependent manner, with greatest vulnerability at distal nodes. Complement deposition is associated with prominent nodal injury as monitored with electrophysiological recordings and fluorescence microscopy. Complete loss of nodal protein staining, including voltage-gated sodium channels and ankyrin G, occurs and is completely protected by both complement and calpain inhibition, although the latter provides no protection against electrophysiological dysfunction. In ex vivo motor and sensory nerve trunk preparations, antibody deposits are only observed in experimentally desheathed nerves, which are thereby rendered susceptible to complement-dependent morphological disruption, nodal protein loss and reduced electrical activity of the axon. These studies provide a detailed mechanism by which loss of axonal conduction can occur in a distal dominant pattern as observed in a proportion of patients with motor axonal Guillain-Barr syndrome, and also provide an explanation for the occurrence of rapid recovery from complete paralysis and electrophysiological in-excitability. The study also identifies therapeutic approaches in which nodal architecture can be preserved.
Although the role of microglial activation in neural injury remains controversial, there is increasing evidence for a detrimental effect in the immature brain, which may occur in response to release of neurotoxic substances including pro-inflammatory cytokines. However, the signaling mechanisms involved in microglial-induced neuronal cell death are unclear. Microglia isolated from the brains of wild-type (WT) or MyD88 knockout (KO) mice were exposed to PBS or the TLR4-ligand LPS (100 ng/mL) for 2, 6, 14, or 24 h, and the microglia-conditioned medium (MCM) collected. Detection of multiple inflammatory molecules in MCM was performed using a mouse 22-plex cytokine microbead array kit. Primary neuronal cultures were supplemented with the 14 or 24 h MCM, and the degree of neuronal apoptosis examined after exposure for 24 h. Results showed a rapid and sustained elevation in multiple inflammatory mediators in the MCM of WT microglia exposed to LPS, which was largely inhibited in MyD88 KO microglia. There was a significant increase in apoptotic death measured at 24 h in cultured neurons exposed to CM from either 14 or 24 h LPS-stimulated WT microglia (p&lt;.05 vs. WT control). By contrast, there was no increase in apoptotic death in cultured neurons exposed to CM from 14 or 24 h LPS-stimulated MyD88 KO microglia (p=.15 vs. MyD88 KO control). These data suggest that MyD88-dependent activation of microglia by LPS causes release of factors directly toxic to neurons.
CCL21 is a homeostatic chemokine that is expressed constitutively in secondary lymph nodes and attracts immune cells via chemokine receptor CCR7. In the brain however, CCL21 is inducibly expressed in damaged neurons both in vitro and in vivo and has been shown to activate microglia in vitro, albeit not through CCR7 but through chemokine receptor CXCR3. Therefore, a role for CCL21 in CXCR3-mediated neuron-microglia signaling has been proposed. It is well established that human and mouse astrocytes, like microglia, express CXCR3. However, effects of CCL21 on astrocytes have not been investigated yet. In this study, we have examined the effects of CCL21 on calcium transients and proliferation in primary mouse astrocytes. We show that similar to CXCR3-ligand CXCL10, CCL21 (10(-9) M and 10(-8) M) induced calcium transients in astrocytes, which were mediated through CXCR3. However, in response to high concentrations of CCL21 (10(-7) M) calcium transients persisted in CXCR3-deficient astrocytes, whereas CXCL10 did not have any effect in these cells. Furthermore, prolonged exposure to CXCL10 or CCL21 promoted proliferation of wild type astrocytes. Although CXCL10-induced proliferation was absent in CXCR3-deficient astrocytes, CCL21-induced proliferation of these cells did not significantly differ from wild type conditions. It is therefore suggested that primary mouse astrocytes express an additional (chemokine-) receptor, which is activated at high CCL21 concentrations.
The effects of handedness and saccadic bilateral eye movements on autobiographical recollection were investigated. Recall of autobiographical memories was cued by the use of neutral and emotional words. Autobiographical recollection was assessed by the autobiographical memory questionnaire. Experiment 1 found that mixed-handed (vs. right handed) individuals demonstrated greater levels of autobiographical recollection on the components of seeing, hearing, and emotion. Experiment 2 found that following 30 s of bilateral eye movements, greater levels of autobiographical recollection were demonstrated on the components of reliving, seeing, hearing, emotion, self-perspective and veridicality. The results extend previous research by showing that the recollective components of real world memories can be enhanced by either mixed-handedness or eye movements. In addition, these results provide a bridge between laboratory studies of recollection and autobiographical recollection. The findings are considered in terms of research on the cognitive neuroscience of autobiographical memory.
Amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) is a key molecule in Alzheimer disease (AD). Cerebral deposition of Abeta was earlier thought to initiate the pathological cascade of AD, including the formation of senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, neuronal loss, and dementia. According to the classical amyloid hypothesis, the aggregation of Abeta into insoluble beta-sheet fibrils plays an important role in its neurotoxicity. However, this hypothesis is paradoxical: The concentrations of Abeta required for fibrillization and neurotoxicity are higher than its physiological concentrations. Cognitive decline in AD patients is not correlated with the levels of senile plaque formation or insoluble Abeta formation; instead it correlates with the levels of synapse loss and the levels of soluble Abeta. These observations suggest the existence of soluble toxic forms of Abeta in AD brains; these forms have recently been identified to be oligomeric assemblies of Abeta. At present, AD is believed to begin with synaptic dysfunction caused by soluble Abeta oligomers. This hypothesis termed the oligomer hypothesis, is based on the following observations: The levels of Abeta oligomers are high in AD brains. Exogenous Abeta oligomers at physiological concentrations cause synaptic and cognitive dysfunction in vivo and synapse loss and neuronal death in vitro. Furthermore, we observed that the E693delta mutation in the amyloid precursor protein found in AD patients causes disease by increasing the formation of Abeta oligomers without inducing the formation of Abeta fibrils or senile plaques. Currently, senile plaque formation is thought to occur in order to protect neurons from the toxicity of diffusible Abeta oligomers by sequestering them into deposits. Thus, soluble Abeta oligomers play a more important role in the etiology of AD insoluble Abeta fibrils.
Proteomics is increasingly employed in both neurological and oncological research to provide insight into the molecular basis of disease but rarely has a coherent, novel pathophysiological insight emerged. Gliomas account for &gt;50% of adult primary intracranial tumors, with malignant gliomas (anaplastic astrocytomas and glioblastoma multiforme) being the most common. In glioma, the application of proteomic technology has identified altered protein expression but without consistency of these alterations or their biological significance being established. A systematic review of multiple independent proteomic analyses of glioma has demonstrated alterations of 99 different proteins. Importantly 10 of the 99 proteins found differentially expressed in glioma [PHB, Hsp20, serum albumin, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), EA-15, RhoGDI, APOA1, GFAP, HSP70, PDIA3] were identified in multiple publications. An assessment of protein-protein interactions between these proteins compiled using novel web-based technology, revealed a robust and cohesive network for glioblastoma. The protein network discovered (containing TP53 and RB1 at its core) compliments recent findings in genomic studies of malignant glioma. The novel perspective provided by network analysis indicates that the potential of this technology to explore crucial aspects of glioma pathophysiology can now be realized but only if the conceptual and technical limitations highlighted in this review are addressed.
Little is known about the relationship between soluble amyloid beta (Abeta) and age. We have measured soluble and insoluble Abeta by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in post-mortem frontal cortex in normal brains (16-95 years) and AD. Insoluble Abeta increased with age, and was significantly higher in Alzheimer's disease (AD) than age-matched controls. However, levels of soluble Abeta declined with age and were significantly greater in younger adults than older adults with or without AD. In AD, insoluble : soluble Abeta ratio was much higher than in age-matched controls. The high levels of soluble Abeta in young adults included oligomeric species of Abeta(1-42). These observations do not preclude Abeta oligomers as neurotoxic mediators of AD but suggest that if they are, the toxicity may be restricted to certain species (eg, beta-pleated protofibrillar species not detected by our assay) or takes decades to manifest. The dramatically increased insoluble : soluble Abeta in AD points to an altered dynamic equilibrium of Abeta in AD, reflecting both enhanced aggregation and continued overproduction or impaired removal of the soluble peptide in older age, when the concentration of this peptide should be declining.
We recently found that insoluble Abeta increases, but soluble Abeta decreases with age in normal brains. We now report the changes in activities of beta-secretase (BACE-1) and Abeta-degrading enzymes with age, and their relationships to concentrations of soluble and insoluble Abeta. We measured BACE-1 activity and the levels and activities of neprilysin (NEP), insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) in normal control brains (16 years-95 years). We also compared the measurements to those in AD. BACE-1 activity correlated closely with age in controls and was significantly higher in AD. In controls, NEP and IDE activities (but not protein levels) increased with age but ACE activity and level did not. BACE-1 activity correlated directly with insoluble but inversely with soluble Abeta. IDE activity correlated directly with insoluble Abeta and NEP activity was inversely related to soluble Abeta. ACE level correlated directly with insoluble and inversely with soluble Abeta in controls but not AD. Both Abeta-synthesizing and -degrading enzyme activities increase with age, coinciding with declining soluble Abeta and increasing insoluble Abeta. Further research is needed to establish whether these changes in enzyme activity and Abeta levels are causally related and if so how.

Muscarinic cholinergic neurotransmission in the basolateral nuclear complex (BLC) of the amygdala is critical for memory consolidation in emotional/motivational learning tasks. Although knowledge of the localization of muscarinic receptor subtypes in the BLC would contribute to an understanding of the actions of acetylcholine in mnemonic function, previous receptor binding and in situ hybridization studies lacked the resolution necessary to identify which neurons in the BLC express different receptor subtypes. In the present study immunohistochemistry was used to study the neuronal localization of the m1 receptor. The intensity of m1 immunoreactivity varied in different nuclei of the amygdala, and was most robust in the BLC, and in the adjacent posterolateral cortical nucleus. The density and morphology of labeled neurons in the BLC suggested that the m1+ neuronal population included pyramidal cells, the principal neurons in this amygdalar region. In addition, there was dense punctate m1 immunoreactivity in the neuropil of the BLC. Dual labeling immunofluorescence studies of the BLC using antibodies to cell type specific markers were performed to more definitively determine the phenotype of m1-positive (m1+) neurons. An antibody to calcium/calmodulin protein kinase II (CaMK) was used to label pyramidal cells, whereas an antibody to glutamic acid decarboxylase was used to label interneurons. Virtually all of the intensely labeled m1+ neurons of the BLC were CaMK+ pyramidal cells. These data suggest that the ability of M1 receptor antagonists to impair memory consolidation in the BLC is mainly due to blockade of cholinergic influences on the activity of pyramidal neurons.







The phytochemical curcumin, from the Indian spice turmeric, has many biological properties, including anti-inflammatory and anti-carcinogenic activities. We have examined the effects of curcumin on the rat C6 glioma cell line. Treated and control cells were analyzed by Hoechst 33342 dye and flow cytometry. We observed a decrease in the side population (SP) of C6 cells after daily curcumin treatment of the C6 cells. Direct incubation of curcumin to C6 cells during the Hoechst assay also decreased SP. Since SP has been associated with stem cell populations, curcumin may be a dietary phytochemical with potential to target cancer stem cells.
Two members of the myocardin protein family, myocardin-related transcription factor (MRTF)-A and MRTF-B are co-activators of serum response factor (SRF). We recently reported that MRTF-A/B activates the transcription of several actin cytoskeletal/focal adhesion genes SRF dependently, thereby enhancing the formation of stress fibers and focal adhesions. Here, we showed that the levels of caldesmon and tropomyosin, both SRF/MRTF-regulated actin cytoskeletal proteins, were reduced in rat intestinal epithelial (RIE) cell lines that had been transformed with oncogenic ras (RIE-ras) or src (RIE-src) compared with their parental cell line. These cells exhibited morphological abnormalities associated with a disorganized actin cytoskeleton. The serum-stimulated nuclear translocation of MRTF-A/B was suppressed in the RIE-ras and RIE-src cells. However, the transient expression of constitutively active (CA) MRTF-A or MRTF-B reversed the reduced expression levels of caldesmon and tropomyosin and the associated morphological phenotypes. We isolated stable CA-MRTF-A-expressing cell lines from transfected RIE-ras and RIE-src cells and found that their levels of caldesmon and tropomyosin were close to those of untransformed RIE cells. Their morphologies were also normal, with a flattened cell shape and well-developed stress fibers. The CA-MRTF-A-expressing RIE-ras and RIE-src lines also showed lower invasiveness and anchorage-independent growth than their transformed parental cells, in vitro. In vivo, CA-MRTF-A expression suppressed tumor formation and reduced liver metastases. Therefore, we concluded that MRTF-A/B are potent repressors of cancer progression and metastasis and may be good targets for cancer therapy.
This completely computer-based module's purpose is to introduce students to bioinformatics resources. We present an easy-to-adopt module that weaves together several important bioinformatic tools so students can grasp how these tools are used in answering research questions. Students integrate information gathered from websites dealing with anatomy (Mouse Brain Library), quantitative trait locus analysis (WebQTL from GeneNetwork), bioinformatics and gene expression analyses (University of California, Santa Cruz Genome Browser, National Center for Biotechnology Information's Entrez Gene, and the Allen Brain Atlas), and information resources (PubMed). Instructors can use these various websites in concert to teach genetics from the phenotypic level to the molecular level, aspects of neuroanatomy and histology, statistics, quantitative trait locus analysis, and molecular biology (including in situ hybridization and microarray analysis), and to introduce bioinformatic resources. Students use these resources to discover 1) the region(s) of chromosome(s) influencing the phenotypic trait, 2) a list of candidate genes-narrowed by expression data, 3) the in situ pattern of a given gene in the region of interest, 4) the nucleotide sequence of the candidate gene, and 5) articles describing the gene. Teaching materials such as a detailed student/instructor's manual, PowerPoints, sample exams, and links to free Web resources can be found at http://mdcune.psych.ucla.edu/modules/bioinformatics.

Ergothioneine (ET) is an unusual sulfur-containing derivative of the amino acid, histidine, which is derived exclusively through the diet. Although ET was isolated a century ago, its physiologic function has not been clearly established. Recently, a highly specific transporter for ET (ETT) was identified in mammalian tissues, which explains abundant tissue levels of ET and implies a physiologic role. Using RNA interference, we depleted cells of its transporter. Cells lacking ETT are more susceptible to oxidative stress, resulting in increased mitochondrial DNA damage, protein oxidation and lipid peroxidation. ETT is concentrated in mitochondria, suggesting a specific role in protecting mitochondrial components such as DNA from oxidative damage associated with mitochondrial generation of superoxide. In combating cytotoxic effects of pyrogallol, a known superoxide generator, ET is as potent as glutathione. Because of its dietary origin and the toxicity associated with its depletion, ET may represent a new vitamin whose physiologic roles include antioxidant cytoprotection.
Research over the last 25 years on the cell adhesion molecule L1 has revealed its pivotal role in nervous system function. Mutations of the human L1CAM gene have been shown to cause neurodevelopmental disorders such as X-linked hydrocephalus, spastic paraplegia and mental retardation. Impaired L1 function has been also implicated in the aetiology of fetal alcohol spectrum disorders, defective enteric nervous system development and malformations of the renal system. Importantly, aberrant expression of L1 has emerged as a critical factor in the development of human carcinomas, where it enhances cell proliferation, motility and chemoresistance. This discovery promoted collaborative work between tumour biologists and neurobiologists, which has led to a substantial expansion of the basic knowledge about L1 function and regulation. Here we provide an overview of the pathological conditions caused by L1 malfunction. We further discuss how the available data on gene regulation, molecular interactions and posttranslational processing of L1 may contribute to a better understanding of associated neurological and cancerous diseases.
Since its discovery in the 1920s, relaxin has enjoyed a reputation as a peptide hormone of pregnancy. However, relaxin and other relaxin family peptides are now associated with numerous non-reproductive physiologies and disease states. The new millennium bought with it the sequence of the human genome and subsequently new directions for relaxin research. In 2002, the ancestral relaxin gene RLN3 was identified from genome databases. The relaxin-3 peptide is highly expressed in a small region of the brain and in species from teleost to primates and has both conserved sequence and sites of expression. Combined with the discovery of the relaxin family peptide receptors, interest in the role of the relaxin family peptides in the central nervous system has been reignited. This review explores the relaxin family peptides that are expressed in or act upon the brain, the receptors that mediate their actions, and what is currently known of their functions.
Daily brain rhythmicity, which controls the sleep-wake cycle and neuroendocrine functions, is generated by an endogenous circadian timing system. Within the multi-oscillatory circadian network, a master clock is located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei of the hypothalamus, whose main synchroniser (Zeitgeber) is light. In contrast, imposed meal times and temporally restricted feeding are potent synchronisers for secondary clocks in peripheral organs such as the liver and in brain regions, although not for the suprachiasmatic nuclei. Even when animals are exposed to a light-dark cycle, timed calorie restriction (i.e. when only a hypocaloric diet is given every day) is a synchroniser powerful enough to modify the suprachiasmatic clockwork and increase the synchronising effects of light. A daily chocolate snack in animals fed ad libitum with chow diet entrains the suprachiasmatic clockwork only under the conditions of constant darkness and decreases the synchronising effects of light. Secondary clocks in the brain outside the suprachiasmatic nuclei are differentially influenced by meal timing. Circadian oscillations can either be highly sensitive to food-related metabolic or reward cues (i.e. their phase is shifted according to the timed meal schedule) in some structures or hardly affected by meal timing (palatable or not) in others. Furthermore, animals will manifest food-anticipatory activity prior to their expected meal time. Anticipation of a palatable or regular meal may rely on a network of brain clocks, involving metabolic and reward systems and the cerebellum.
Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) is released from platelets following injury and also plays a role in neural development but little is known about its effects in the adult central nervous system (CNS). We have examined the expression of LPA receptors 1-3 (LPA(1-3)) in intact mouse spinal cord and cortical tissues and following injury. In intact and injured tissues, LPA(1) was expressed by ependymal cells in the central canal of the spinal cord and was upregulated in reactive astrocytes following spinal cord injury. LPA(2) showed low expression in intact CNS tissue, on grey matter astrocytes in spinal cord and in ependymal cells lining the lateral ventricle. Following injury, its expression was upregulated on astrocytes in both cortex and spinal cord. LPA(3) showed low expression in intact CNS tissue, viz. on cortical neurons and motor neurons in the spinal cord, and was upregulated on neurons in both regions after injury. Therefore, LPA(1-3) are differentially expressed in the CNS and their expression is upregulated in response to injury. LPA release following CNS injury may have different consequences for each cell type because of this differential expression in the adult nervous system.

Prior experience with a stimulus leads to multiple forms of learning that facilitate subsequent behavior (repetition priming) and neural processing (repetition suppression). Learning can occur at the level of stimulus-specific features (stimulus learning), associations between stimuli and selected decisions (stimulus-decision learning), and associations between stimuli and selected responses (stimulus-response learning). Although recent functional magnetic resonance imaging results suggest that these distinct forms of learning are associated with repetition suppression (neural priming) in dissociable regions of frontal and temporal cortex, a critical question is how these different forms of learning influence cortical response dynamics. Here, electroencephalography (EEG) measured the temporal structure of neural responses when participants classified novel and repeated stimuli, using a design that isolated the effects of distinct levels of learning. Event-related potential and spectral EEG analyses revealed electrophysiological effects due to stimulus, stimulus-decision, and stimulus-response learning, demonstrating experience-dependent cortical modulation at multiple levels of representation. Stimulus-level learning modulated cortical dynamics earlier in the temporal-processing stream relative to stimulus-decision and stimulus-response learning. These findings indicate that repeated stimulus processing, including the mapping of stimuli to decisions and actions, is influenced by stimulus-level and associative learning mechanisms that yield multiple forms of experience-dependent cortical plasticity.
Neuropathological studies suggest that the basal forebrain cholinergic system (BFCS) is affected in Alzheimer's disease (AD), but there is no in vivo evidence of early damage to this system in subjects at high risk of developing AD. Here, we found that mild cognitive impairment (MCI) patients exhibited significant volume reduction of the nucleus basalis of Meynert (NbM) using recently developed probabilistic maps of the BFCS space. In addition, volumes of different magnocellular compartments varied significantly with regional gray matter atrophy in regions known to be affected by AD and were found to correlate with cognitive decline in MCI patients. Bilateral reductions of the horizontal nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca (Ch3) and frontal lobe (medial frontal, orbital, subcallosal gyrus, anterior cingulate, and middle frontal gyrus) were significantly associated with a global decline in cognitive status, whereas volume reduction of the posterior compartment of Ch4 (NbM) and temporal lobe (including hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, and amygdala) were associated with impaired delayed recall in MCI patients. These findings establish, for the first time, a link between degeneration of specific cholinergic compartments of the BFCS and cognitive-related deficits in subjects at high risk of developing AD.
Studies in humans and monkeys report widespread multisensory interactions at or near primary visual and auditory areas of neocortex. The range and scale of these effects has prompted increased interest in interconnectivity between the putatively &quot;unisensory&quot; cortices at lower hierarchical levels. Recent anatomical tract-tracing studies have revealed direct projections from auditory cortex to primary visual area (V1) and secondary visual area (V2) that could serve as a substrate for auditory influences over low-level visual processing. To better understand the significance of these connections, we looked for reciprocal projections from visual cortex to caudal auditory cortical areas in macaque monkeys. We found direct projections from area prostriata and the peripheral visual representations of area V2. Projections were more abundant after injections of temporoparietal area and caudal parabelt than after injections of caudal medial belt and the contiguous areas near the fundus of the lateral sulcus. Only one injection was confined to primary auditory cortex (area A1) and did not demonstrate visual connections. The projections from visual areas originated mainly from infragranular layers, suggestive of a &quot;feedback&quot;-type projection. The selective localization of these connections to peripheral visual areas and caudal auditory cortex suggests that they are involved in spatial localization.
By attaching arrows to a line's ends, the Mller-Lyer illusion can be used to modulate perceived line length. In the present study, we investigated the dynamics of the brain processes underlying this illusion using magnetoencephalography. Subjects were presented with a horizontal line with arrows attached to its ends. Across trials, the angles formed by the arrows were repeatedly changed such that 2 variants of the Mller-Lyer length illusion were either induced or not. The onset of both variants of the illusion revealed consistent activations in visual areas between 85 and 130 ms after stimulus onset, as well as strong and longer lasting activations along the ventral visual processing stream including inferior occipital, inferior temporal, and fusiform gyrus within the range of 195-220 ms. Subsequent neural activation was observed in the right superior temporal cortex, as well as in the right inferior parietal and the right inferior frontal cortex. The time course and the location of the activations suggest that the mechanisms involved in generating the Mller-Lyer illusion are closely linked to the ones associated with object perception, consistent with theories considering a relevant contribution of higher visual areas to the generation of the Mller-Lyer illusion.
Human precentral and postcentral cortical areas interact to generate sensorimotor functions. Recent imaging work suggests that pre- and postcentral cortical thicknesses of an individual vary over time-scales of years and decades due to aging, disease, and other factors. In contrast, there is little understanding of how thicknesses of these areas vary in an individual over time-scales of minutes and weeks. This study used longitudinal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computational morphometry approaches in 5 healthy subjects to assess how mean thicknesses, and intra- and interhemispheric relationships in mean thicknesses, of these areas vary in an individual subject over minutes and weeks. Within each individual, absolute differences in thicknesses over these times were small and similar in the precentral (mean = 0.02-0.04 mm) and postcentral (mean = 0.03-0.05 mm) areas. Each individual also had a consistent intrahemispheric disparity and interhemispheric asymmetrical or symmetrical relationship in thicknesses of these areas over these times. The results provide new understanding of within-individual cortical thickness variability in these areas and raise the possibility that longitudinal thickness profiling can provide a baseline definition of short time-scale thickness variability that can be used to detect acute and subacute changes in pre- and postcentral thicknesses at an individual subject level.
Dr. Jo Ellen Roseman and Mary Koppal, from the American Academy for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), discuss how brain science fits into national classroom curricula. While recommendations published by AAAS, the National Research Council, the Society for Neuroscience, and the College Board all include standards relating to the brain, what students actually learn in the classroom varies greatly from state to state.
There are many simple ways to incorporate neuroscience into the K-12 classroom, even when the subject is not explicitly part of the curriculum. Here, Michaela Labriole, a science instructor at the New York Hall of Science, provides tangible examples of how teachers can encourage brain-science literacy in students at a time when growing knowledge of the brain is shaping our understanding of how to best foster learning.
Helicoverpa assulta is exceptional among heliothine species studied so far as concerns composition of the pheromone blend. Previous reports have accordingly pointed out distinct characteristics in the male-specific olfactory pathway of this species, peripherally by an unusual distribution of 2 sensillum categories and centrally by a particular anatomical arrangement of the male-specific glomeruli constituting the macroglomerular complex (MGC). In order to determine the physiological tuning of the 3 MGC units in this species, we have characterized male-specific antennal-lobe projection neurons morphologically and physiologically by use of the intracellular recording and staining technique combined with confocal microscopy. The results show 2 projection neuron types of equal numbers, one that responds to the primary pheromone component, cis-9-hexadecenal, and arborizes in the cumulus and one that responds to the interspecific signal, cis-9-tetradecenal, and arborizes in the dorsomedial unit. A third type responded to the secondary pheromone component, cis-11-hexadecenal, and innervated the smaller ventral unit. The results complement previous findings from tracing of physiologically identified receptor neurons and determine for the first time the functional specificity of each glomerulus in the MGC of H. assulta. The results are particularly interesting because heliothine moths are attractive objects for comparative studies addressing questions concerning divergence of male-specific olfactory characteristics related to speciation.
Body fluids such as urine potentially contain a wealth of information pertaining to age, sex, social and reproductive status, physiologic state, and genotype of the donor. To explore whether urine could encode information regarding environment, physiology, and development, we compared the volatile compositions of mouse urine using solid-phase microextraction and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (SPME-GC/MS). Specifically, we identified volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in individual urine samples taken from inbred C57BL/6J-H-2(b) mice under several experimental conditions-maturation state, diet, stress, and diurnal rhythms, designed to mimic natural variations. Approximately 1000 peaks (i.e., variables) were identified per comparison and of these many were identified as potential differential biomarkers. Consistent with previous findings, we found groups of compounds that vary significantly and consistently rather than a single unique compound to provide a robust signature. We identified over 49 new predictive compounds, in addition to identifying several published compounds, for maturation state, diet, stress, and time-of-day. We found a considerable degree of overlap in the chemicals identified as (potential) biomarkers for each comparison. Chemometric methods indicate that the strong group-related patterns in VOCs provide sufficient information to identify several parameters of natural variations in this strain of mice including their maturation state, stress level, and diet.
There is converging evidence for the presence of a fast subcortical face-processing route that operates on global face characteristics in the mature brain. Until now, little has been known about the development of such a route, which is surprising given suggestions that this fast subcortical face-processing route might be affected in neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism. To address this, early visual event-related potentials to pictures of fearful and neutral faces containing detailed or global information in 3- to 4-year-old (n = 20), 5- to 6-year-old (n = 25), and 7- to 8-year-old (n = 25) children were compared. In children, emotional processing was driven by detailed information. Developmental effects are discussed in terms of maturation of the fast subcortical face-processing route as well as an increase in experience with facial expressions with age.

Very little is known about the prevalence of morning work and its relationship with sleep and fatigue. The present study obtained data from a representative sample of the Swedish population (N = 5489) to address this limitation in the literature. The results show that 15% of the population commenced work, at least occasionally, before 05:30 h and approximately 2% did so most of the time. With the increasing phase advance of the start time, the time of rising also advanced, but bedtime changed very little. Thus, early start times were not compensated with earlier bedtimes. Total sleep time decreased as the work start time was advanced; sleep duration was &lt;5 h for work start times between 03:00 and 04:30 h. The results also indicated that advanced start times were linked with increased fatigue, feelings of not being well rested, and reports of early start times as a rather large or very large problem. However, difficulties in waking and disturbed sleep did not change with advanced start times. It was concluded that early start times are common and are associated with sleep problems and fatigue.
Important recent publications in the area of neuroscience and heart-brain medicine center largely around three topics: (1) mechanisms of cardiac sympathetic denervation in Parkinson disease, (2) cytoplasmic monoamine metabolites as autotoxins, and (3) the validity of power spectral analysis of heart rate variability to indicate cardiac sympathetic tone. Findings by Orimo et al support a centripetal, retrograde pathogenetic process involving alpha-synuclein deposition and degeneration of cardiac noradrenergic neurons in Parkinson disease. Several studies suggest that processes increasing cytoplasmic monoamines lead to neuronal loss from auto-oxidation or enzymatic oxidation. Lack of correlation between commonly used indices from power spectral analysis of heart rate variability and cardiac norepinephrine spillover casts doubt on the validity of power spectral analysis to indicate cardiac sympathetic tone.
Recovery of consciousness after severe brain injury involves reconstitution of brain arousal mechanisms and cerebral integrative function. This review discusses several aspects of neuroanatomy and neuropathology relevant to the process of recovery. Particular emphasis is placed on the role of the anterior forebrain and circuit mechanisms linking the frontal lobe, striatum, and central thalamus. The article concludes with some observations on the heart-brain interface and future research directions in the context of recovery from severe brain injury.
Rasmussen syndrome is characterized by continuous partial seizures with progressive neurological/cognitive impairment. Currently the only effective treatment is surgery (hemispherectomy). The objective of our study is to detect the exact epileptogenic focus through the analysis of multimodal noninvasive and innocuous functional neuroimaging. The subject is a 5-year-old female patient with Rasmussen encephalopathy. Continuous and simultaneous electroencephalography-functional magnetic resonance imaging (EEG-fMRI) was recorded. The sources of background and paroxysmal activity of EEG were computed by low resolution electromagnetic tomography (LORETA). Image analysis (SPM: statistic parametric mapping) was obtained for the areas where statistically significant differences in the fMRI BOLD response were computed, and the results from both techniques were compared. The main source of paroxysmal activity by EEG analysis was found in the anterolateral left hemisphere, with a significant increase in absolute and relative energies of slow frequency bands (theta-delta): Z &gt; or = 3. The fMRI BOLD signal (basal vs. paroxysmal activity) was significantly different in the same region (t-test &gt; or = 2.39). The generators of propagated paroxysmal activity were found in similar areas for both techniques. In conclusion, simultaneous EEG-fMRI recording allows the analysis of two harmless functional neuroimaging techniques separately and together in the same time period. In our case, it allowed the accurate delineation of epileptogenic foci and areas of spread with high spatiotemporal resolution, which is crucial for epilepsy surgery.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is known by most persons to be a neurodegenerative disorder that affects one's motor skills. However, the disease is also characterized by the less recognized cognitive symptoms, including deficits in executive functioning, as well as mood and behavioral problems, which are just as disabling and distressing as the motor symptoms. Imaging methods such as positron emission tomography (PET) have recently enhanced our understanding of cognitive disturbances in PD, and are reviewed in the current article. Furthermore, insights gained from the use of specific radiotracers in the dopaminergic and cholinergic neurotransmitter systems are discussed, as well as findings from in vivo detection of amyloid-beta. We will also discuss the potential use of a metabolic covariance network as a biomarker in clinical trials for the objective assessment of cognitive dysfunction in PD.
A patient with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) with prion protein (PrP) gene codon 180 mutation (CJD 180) experienced cognitive decline over the 1.5-year period before her death. Serial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies tracked stepwise propagation of cortical abnormal swelling and T2 elongations. On postmortem examination, the cortical areas affected by CJD for relatively short periods were associated with mild spongiform changes with the number of neurons being largely preserved. The residual neurons in these areas exhibited vacuole-like dilatation of their cell body. In contrast, the atrophic cortical areas affected by CJD for long periods exhibited predominant gemistocytic astrocytosis with severe neuronal loss. The present report depicts the unique cortical propagation of CJD 180 with corresponding radiological and pathological findings. Axonal transport through corticocortical connections might underlie the disease's propagation. MRI appeared to be useful for discriminating between different pathological states and tracking the progression of CJD 180.

Calcifying pseudoneoplasm of neuraxis (CAPNON) is a rare but distinctive lesion of the central nervous system. These are benign lesions that mimic ossified vascular lesions clinically and radiologically, and can be cured by complete resection. We report a case in a 48 year old male with complex partial seizures who had a right temporobasal calcified lesion that clinically and radiologically mimicked an oligodendroglioma. Histopathology revealed a large necrotic lobulated mass with admixture of chondromyxoid zones, nodular fibrovascular stroma, metaplastic calcification and ossification in varying proportions.
Intracerebral amyloidoma (ICA) is a type of monoclonal immunoglobulin deposition disease (MIDD) which is accompanied by an overexpression and fibrillary assembly of monoclonal light chains, ultimately leading to nodular deposits of light chains in the form of amyloid light chain (AL-amyloid). The diagnosis is made by the histological demonstration of intracerebral masses harboring the classical staining and birefringence features of amyloid. We aim to report a case of ICA and review histological features of previous cases. A 51-year-old man with epilepsy and cognitive decline was admitted for epileptic seizures. A brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) disclosed periventricular enhancing lesions, hypointense on T1 and heterogeneous on T2-weighted images. A brain stereotactic biopsy was performed. The neuropathological examination revealed several congophilic nodules, allowing the diagnosis of ICA. The immunohistochemical study was positive for transthyretin (TTR), and both lambda and kappa immunoglobulin light chains. No inflammatory infiltrates were seen. Although a plasma cell clone may play a major role in the etiopathogeny of ICA, plasma cells were scarce or even absent when reviewing histological reports. ICA has a poorly understood patgogenesis. ICA may simulate malignant neoplasms, hence the need for a definite histological diagnosis.


Lafora disease is a rare, fatal, autosomal recessive, progressive myoclonic epilepsy. It may also be considered as a disorder of carbohydrate metabolism because of the formation of polyglucosan inclusion bodies in neural and other tissues due to abnormalities of the proteins laforin or malin. The condition is characterized by epilepsy, myoclonus and dementia. Diagnostic findings on MRI and neurophysiological testing are not definitive and biopsy or genetic studies may be required. Therapy in Lafora disease is currently limited to symptomatic management of the epilepsy, myoclonus and intercurrent complications. With a greater understanding of the pathophysiological processes involved, there is justified hope for future therapies.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a difficult disease to study as it is mostly sporadic and rapidly progressive. Identification of genes causing familial ALS (FALS) has been instrumental in advancing our understanding of ALS pathogenesis, most notably with the use of mutant superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) models of disease. For 15 years SOD1 models have been the backbone of ALS research, but no effective reatments have been developed. However, recent advances have been made in the genetics of ALS with the identification of mutations in TAR DNA binding protein (TDP-43) and fused in sarcoma/translocated in liposarcoma (FUS), both of which have roles in RNA-processing and gene expression. Molecular links between ALS and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) are also suggested by linkage of ALS-FTD to chromosome 9. The study of the genetics of sporadic ALS (SALS) has been less fruitful, although this may change as we enter the era of resequencing. Further important clues as to the causes of ALS will come from the identification of other gene mutations that cause FALS, variants that increase susceptibility to SALS, and genetic factors that modify the ALS phenotype.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by loss of motor neurons both in the brain and spinal cord, which dramatically reduces life expectancy. ALS occurs either in familial ALS or, more frequently, in sporadic ALS forms. Several mechanisms have been postulated to underlie motor neuron death. In the present paper, starting from some of the genes related to familial ALS, we overview and discuss their potential role in modifying of the physiological clearance of altered proteins and organelles in motor neurons. Special emphasis is placed on the role of autophagy, which seems to prevail as a protein clearing system over other multienzymatic pathways such as the proteasome within motor neurons. The evidence which links an altered autophagy to the onset of motor neuron death proposes that this biochemical pathway might represent a final common mechanism underlying both inherited and sporadic forms of ALS. In light of these findings we also analyze the potential significance of a novel association between ALS, altered autophagy, and mutations of nuclear proteins such as TAR-DNA-Binding Protein 43 and fused in sarcoma/translated in liposarcoma. Such an association appears to be critical since it is now well demonstrated that all sporadic and most familiar forms of ALS are characterized by altered deposition and mislocalization of TAR-DNA-Binding Protein 43. These novel insights into the pathogenesis of ALS may lead to the identification of novel strategies to promote motor neuron survival.
The presence of protein inclusions within the central nervous system is a characteristic of most neurodegenerative diseases, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Aggregates may induce cell death trough several mechanisms, such as sequestration of essential cellular components, clogging of the proteasome system, and/or disruption of axonal transport. The neuropathological signature of ALS is represented by the presence of ubiquitinated inclusions immunoreactive for the protein TDP-43 in the cytoplasm of motor neurons. Recent studies demonstrated that a significant percentage of familial ALS cases are caused by pathogenic mutations in the TAR DNA binding protein and fused in sarcoma/translocated in liposarcoma genes encoding, respectively, for TDP-43 and FUS proteins. Both TDP-43 and FUS are DNA/RNA-binding proteins involved in transcriptional regulation and splicing, shuttling, maturation and transport of mRNA molecules. Mutations in the two genes seem to induce a nucleo-cytoplasmic redistribution of FUS and TDP-43, possibly promoting aggregate formation and/or disrupting their physiological nuclear functions or their interactions with specific RNA targets. Those findings collectively suggest that alterations in cellular RNA metabolism may trigger motor neuron degeneration.
Owing to uncertainty on the pathogenic mechanisms underlying motor neuron degeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) riluzole remains the only available therapy, with only marginal effects on disease survival. Here we review some of the recent advances in the search for disease-modifying drugs for ALS based on their putative neuroprotective effetcs. A number of more or less established agents have recently been investigated also in ALS for their potential role in neuroprotection and relying on antiglutamatergic, antioxidant or antiapoptotic strategies. Among them Talampanel, beta-lactam antibiotics, Coenzyme Q10, and minocycline have been investigated. Progress has also been made in exploiting growth factors for the treatment of ALS, partly due to advances in developing effective delivery systems to the central nervous system. A number of new therapies have also been identified, including a novel class of compounds, such as heat-shock protein co-inducers, which upregulate cell stress responses, and agents promoting autophagy and mitochondriogenesis, such as lithium and rapamycin. More recently, alterations of mRNA processing were described as a pathogenic mechanism in genetically defined forms of ALS, as those related to TDP-43 and FUS-TLS gene mutations. This knowledge is expected to improve our understanding of the pathogenetic mechanism in ALS and developing more effective therapies.
Given the lack of effective drug treatments for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), compelling preclinical data on stem cell research has targeted this disease as a candidate for stem cell treatment. Stem cell transplantation has been effective in several animal models, but the underlying biological pathways of restorative processes are still unresolved. Several mechanisms such as cell fusion, neurotrophic factor release, endogenous stem cell proliferation, and transdifferentiation may explain positive therapeutic results in preclinical animal models, in addition to replacement of lost motor neurons. The clinical target in ALS has shifted from being neuroncentered to focus on the interaction between motor neurons and non-neuronal cells (mainly astroglial or microglial). In fact, one of the fundamental unanswered questions in ALS is whether and how much motor neuron death depends on neighboring cells, and how wildtype non-neuronal cells may protect motor neurons expressing an ALS-causing mutation. Lately, motor neuron replacement has been successfully achieved in animal models with reinnervation of the muscle target. Even if many biological issues need to be solved in preclinical models, preliminary stem cell transplantation trials have been performed in ALS patients with conflicting results. The review discusses relevant topics regarding the application of stem cell research to ALS focusing on their therapeutic relevance and mechanisms of action.
The immune system has been found to be involved with positive and negative effects in the nervous system of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients. In general, T cells, B cells, NK cells, mast cells, macrophages, dendritic cells, microglia, antibodies, complement and cytokines participate in limiting damage. Several mechanisms of action, such as production of neurotrophic growth factors and interaction with neurons and glial cells, have been shown to preserve these latter from injury and stimulate growth and repair. The immune system also participates in proliferation of neural progenitor stem cells and their migration to sites of injury and this activity has been documented in various neurologic disorders including traumatic injury, ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke, multiple sclerosis, infection, and neurodegenerative diseases (Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and ALS). Many therapies have been shown to stimulate the protective and regenerative aspects of the immune system in humans, such as intravenous immunoglobulins, and other experimental interventions such as vaccination, minocycline, antibodies and neural stem cells, have shown promise in animal models of ALS. Consequently, several immunosuppressive and immunomodulatory therapies have been tried in ALS, generally with no success, in particular intravenous immunoglobulins. The multiple aspects of the immune response in ALS are beginning to be appreciated, and their potential as pharmacologic targets in neurologic disease is being explored.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease affecting upper and lower motor neurons characterized by progressive weakness, respiratory failure and death within 3-5 years. It has been proposed that glutamate-related excitotoxicity may promote motor neuron death in ALS. Glutamatergic circuits of the human motor cortex can be activated noninvasively using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the brain, and repetitive TMS (rTMS) can produce changes in neurotransmission that outlast the period of stimulation. In recent years a remarkable number of papers about the potential effects of rTMS in several neurological disorders including ALS has been published. Preliminary studies have shown that rTMS of the motor cortex, at frequencies that decrease cortical excitability, causes a slight slowing in the progression rate of ALS, suggesting that these effects might be related to a diminution of glutamate-driven excitotoxicity. RTMS could also interfere with motor neuron death through different mechanisms: rTMS could modulate the production of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a potent survival factor for neurons, that in turn might represent a promoter of motor neuron sparing in ALS. Despite some promising preliminary data, recent studies have demonstrated a lack of significant long-term beneficial effects of rTMS on neurological deterioration in ALS. However, further studies are warranted to evaluate the potential efficacy of different protocols of motor cortex stimulation (in terms of technique, duration and frequency of stimulation), particularly during the early stages of the disease when the progression rate is more pronounced.
It has been proposed that language and action representational systems overlap when the tasks used to assess them involve the same stimuli and require abilities acquired at similarly early developmental stage. We matched variables at task and stimulus level to test this hypothesis in a group of 12 left-damaged patients (and 17 controls). At the patients' group level, we replicated previously reported correlations between linguistic and nonlinguistic tasks. When performances were analysed individually, however, double dissociations were observed between the ability to imitate pantomimes and the ability to produce and comprehend the corresponding action verbs, as well as between the ability to use tools and the ability to comprehend the corresponding tool nouns. These findings suggest that processing action words is independent of the ability to produce the associated object-directed actions. Double dissociations were also found between the ability to comprehend action verbs and the ability to comprehend tool nouns. Moreover, action and tool naming showed differential effects of age of acquisition, suggesting that the two word categories meet the lexical organization by word class (nouns and verbs), even when related to identical action concept. Dissociations at behavioural level are supported by anatomical dissociations shown in the analysis of patients' lesions.
The interface between the conceptual and lexical systems was investigated in a word production setting. We tested the effects of two conceptual dimensions - semantic category and visual shape - on the selection of Chinese nouns and classifiers. Participants named pictures with nouns (&quot;rope&quot;) or classifier-noun phrases (&quot;one-classifier-rope&quot;) in three blocked picture naming experiments. In Experiment 1, we observed larger semantic category interference with phrases than with nouns, suggesting comparable semantic categorical effects on classifier and noun selection. In Experiments 2 and 3, items with similar shapes produced an interference effect when they were named with classifier-noun phrases, but not with bare nouns. This indicates that object shape modulates classifier (but not noun) selection. We conclude that object shape properties can by themselves influence word selection processes just as semantic relationships (captured by semantic category) do. The factors operating during word selection may be more diverse than has been previously thought.
Wiring of the brain relies initially on the correct outgrowth of axons to reach the appropriate target area for innervation. A large number of guidance receptors present in the plasma membrane of axonal growth cones and elsewhere on the neuron read and execute directional cues present in the extracellular environment of the navigating growth cone. The exact timing, levels, and localization of expression of the guidance receptors in the plasma membrane therefore determine the outcome of guidance decisions. Many guidance receptors are localized in exquisitely precise spatial and temporal patterns. The cellular mechanisms ensuring these localization patterns include spatially accurate sorting after synthesis in the secretory pathway, retrieval of inappropriately expressed receptors by endocytosis followed by degradation or recycling, and restriction of diffusion. This article will discuss the machinery and regulation underlying the restricted distribution of membrane receptors, focusing on the currently best-studied example, the L1 cell adhesion molecule. In addition to the long-range mechanisms ensuring appropriate localization, the same mechanisms can act locally to adjust levels and localization of receptors. These local mechanisms are regulated by ligand binding and subsequent activation of local signaling cascades. It is likely that the localization of all guidance receptors is regulated by a combination of sorting, retrieval, recycling and retention, similar to the ones we discuss here for L1.
LIPIDS MAY AFFECT SYNAPTIC FUNCTION IN AT LEAST TWO WAYS: by acting as ligands for effector proteins [e.g., phosphatidylinositol (4,5) bisphosphate, diacylglycerol-mediated signaling] or by modifying the physicochemical properties and molecular organization of synaptic membranes. One that acts in the latter manner is cholesterol, an essential structural component of plasma membranes that is largely enriched in the membranes of synapses and synaptic vesicles, in which it may be involved in lipid-lipid and protein-lipid interactions. Cholesterol is an important constituent of the &quot;membrane rafts&quot; that may play a role in recruiting and organizing the specific proteins of the exocytic pathways. Furthermore, many synaptic proteins bind directly to cholesterol. The regulation of cholesterol and lipid levels may therefore influence the specific interactions and activity of synaptic proteins, and have a strong impact on synaptic functions.
Contributions of cerebro-cerebellar function to executive verbal working memory were examined using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while 16 subjects completed two versions of the Sternberg task. In both versions subjects were presented with two or six target letters during the encoding phase, which were held in memory during the maintenance phase. A single probe letter was presented during the retrieval phase. In the &quot;match condition&quot;, subjects decided whether the probe matched the target letters. In the &quot;executive condition&quot;, subjects created a new probe by counting two alphabetical letters forward (e.g., f--&gt;h) and decided whether the new probe matched the target letters. Neural activity during the match and executive conditions was compared during each phase of the task. There were four main findings. First, cerebro-cerebellar activity increased as a function of executive load. Second, the dorsal cerebellar dentate co-activated with the supplementary motor area (SMA) during encoding. This likely represented the formation of an articulatory (motor) trajectory. Third, the ventral cerebellar dentate co-activated with anterior prefrontal regions Brodmann Area (BA) 9/46 and the pre-SMA during retrieval. This likely represented the manipulation of information and formation of a response. A functional dissociation between the dorsal &quot;motor&quot; dentate and &quot;cognitive&quot; ventral dentate agrees with neuroanatomical tract tracing studies that have demonstrated separate neural pathways involving each region of the dentate: the dorsal dentate projects to frontal motor areas (including the SMA), and the ventral dentate projects to frontal cognitive areas (including BA 9/46 and the pre-SMA). Finally, activity during the maintenance phase in BA 9, anterior insula, pre-SMA and ventral dentate predicted subsequent accuracy of response to the probe during the retrieval phase. This finding underscored the significant contribution of the pre-SMA/ventral dentate pathway--observed several seconds prior to any motor response to the probe--to executive verbal working memory.
Over the last decades estrogen has been recognized to be involved in normal brain function due to its neurothrophic and neuroprotective effects. Estrogen is intimately associated with neuronal survival, mitochondrial function, neuroinflammation and cognition through genomic as well as non-genomic pathways. It is also known that the neuroprotective actions mediated by estrogens are interlinked with the insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) signaling pathway. This review is mainly devoted to explore the physiological and pathophysiological effects of estrogen and its signaling pathways in the brain. The molecular mechanisms underlying these effects are also debated. Finally, we discuss the potential neuroprotection afforded by estrogens in Alzheimer's disease pathophysiology focusing in the &quot;window of opportunity&quot; for the initiation of estrogen therapy as a critical factor in the fight against neurodegeneration.
Previously we reported that apolipoprotein E (ApoE) epsilon4 negatively affects performance in the novel-image-novel-location (NINL) object recognition test in healthy non-demented elderly human study participants. In this study, the participants were invited to return for testing sessions 6 and 18 months after the baseline session. Using a longitudinal study design, effects of epsilon4 on NINL test performance were assessed in study &quot;dropouts&quot;, participants that did not return for the second and/or third session(s), and &quot;finishers&quot;, participants that returned for all sessions. There were effects of epsilon4 on dropout rates and NINL total scores as well as sub-scores in both dropouts and finishers. NINL total score was a predictor of epsilon4 participant dropout. Compared to non-epsilon4 dropouts, epsilon4 dropouts had lower NINL scores. In contrast, epsilon4 finishers had higher NINL scores than non-epsilon4 finishers. Thus, the NINL test could be a valuable tool in detecting pre-clinical signs of age-related cognitive impairments, particularly those associated with epsilon4 risk.
Stroke, a major cause of morbidity and mortality in the general population, varies in incidence in men and women of different age groups: more boys than girls have strokes; the incidence of stroke is greater in men in their 60s and 70s; and stroke is more common in women after age 80 years. These differences are attributed to hormonal (sex-related) changes and variable risk factors in women, as well as lifestyle and environmental (gender-related) co-morbid conditions. A woman, who is more likely to have a stroke in her lifetime than a myocardial infarction, has a different response to primary and secondary prevention as compared with a man. Although response to thrombolysis is similar, older age and more severe strokes in women lead to poorer outcomes in female stroke survivors.
Losing one of our main sensory systems such as hearing can have devastating consequences in the way we interact with the world. The main problem lies in the fact that the critical sensory cells, the auditory neurons and hair cells located in the cochlea are only generated during development and, when damaged, cannot be replaced. The options currently available to treat this condition are very limited, and are mostly represented by prosthetic devices such as hearing aids and cochlear implants. There is a clear need for a therapeutic breakthrough that will help the millions of people affected, and the advances in stem cell technologies are offering a glimmer of hope for this affliction. Although still at a very early stage, a growing bulk of literature is being produced attempting to pave the path for a stem cell-based therapy for deafness. From the many variables to bear in mind when developing this approach, two appear to be of paramount importance. First, different cell types are potentially to be used, all of them having advantages and disadvantages. Second, in order to target such a small and secluded organ as the cochlea, difficult surgical techniques are to be used, some of which still need to be developed. The present article will aim to present the most recent advances of the field, focussing on these two critical issues.
LY-2140023 is a methionine amide prodrug of the orthosteric metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)2/3 agonist LY-404039, being developed by Eli Lilly &amp; Co, for the potential oral treatment of schizophrenia. LY-404039 is a rigid glutamate analog that selectively binds to mGluR2/3 compared with all other glutamate receptors and transporters, and with other monoaminergic receptors that have been implicated in the therapeutic efficacy of atypical antipsychotic drugs. Activation of mGluR2 has been associated with the antipsychotic-like behavioral effects of LY-404039, as indicated by experiments using mGluR2-/- and mGluR3-/- mice. Furthermore, mGluR2 acts as a glutamatergic autoreceptor in the brain regions that are believed to be important in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, such as the prefrontal cortex, striatum, hippocampal formation and the thalamus. The antipsychotic efficacy of LY-2140023, predicted by a common battery of preclinical behavioral screens for antipsychotic drugs, was confirmed in a randomized, placebo-controlled, phase II clinical trial in patients with schizophrenia. In addition, LY-2140023 lacked the extrapyramidal and metabolic side effects that are commonly observed with the majority of currently approved antipsychotic drugs. Thus, LY-2140023 represents a rare psychiatric medicine that demonstrates the promise of being rationally developed from bench to bedside.
When circadian rhythms - the daily oscillations of various physiological and behavioral events that are controlled by a central timekeeping mechanism - become desynchronized with the prevailing light:dark cycle, a maladaptative response can result. Animal data based primarily on genetic manipulations and clinical data from biomarker and gene expression studies support the notion that circadian abnormalities underlie certain psychiatric disorders. In particular, bipolar disorder has an interesting link to rhythm-related disease biology; other mood disturbances, such as major depressive disorder, seasonal affective disorder and the agitation and aggression accompanying severe dementia (sundowning), are also linked to changes in circadian rhythm function. Possibilities for pharmacological intervention derive most readily from the molecular oscillator, the cellular machinery that drives daily rhythms.
The use of MRI-based imaging in drug development has received increased interest recently because of the difficulties associated with the development of CNS pharmacotherapies. While not yet routine, there have been significant advances in imaging that allow this technology to be used for evaluating disease state and drug effects. For disease states, both single and longitudinal studies of non-invasive measures may be obtained to provide a read-out of disease processes and, potentially, to predict the disease state and its evolution. In addition, imaging has enabled the development of improved preclinical disease models based on changes in brain circuitry. Pharmacological MRI, the imaging-based evaluation of drug effects, includes measures of direct effects on the brain, as well as the effects of chronic dosing on brain changes and neurochemical changes associated with these brain effects using magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Thus, imaging may become an integrated process in drug development, during both the preclinical and clinical stages. However, validation, the implementation of good clinical practices and regulatory acceptance are hurdles that remain to be overcome.

In comparison with conventional, first-generation antipsychotics (e.g., haloperidol), the administration of atypical antipsychotics (AAPs) has been associated with a higher risk of metabolic derangements, including body weight increase, dysregulation of glucose homeostasis, fat accumulation, and even liability to develop type II diabetes. Since this is a serious clinical problem that may be further exacerbated in overweight schizophrenics, establishing animal models of AAP-induced adverse effects may contribute to clarifying the mechanisms underlying these effects. Here we present three basic protocols by which this problem has been modeled. The three protocols differ in many aspects (routes of administration, extent of the chronic treatment, diets, and dosage regimen), and the pros and cons of each procedure are systematically detailed throughout. It should be noted that several factors (e.g., species, sex, duration, and class of AAPs) could restrict the feasibility of these models, as well as their correspondence to the clinical condition.
Understanding the basic neural processes that underlie complex higher-order cognitive operations and functional domains is a fundamental goal of cognitive neuroscience. Electroencephalography (EEG) is a non-invasive and relatively inexpensive method for assessing neurophysiological function that can be used to achieve this goal. EEG measures the electrical activity of large, synchronously firing populations of neurons in the brain with electrodes placed on the scalp. This unit outlines the basics of setting up an EEG experiment with human participants, including equipment, and a step-by-step guide to applying and preparing an electrode cap. Also included are support protocols for two event-related potential (ERP) paradigms, P50 suppression, and mismatch negativity (MMN), which are measures of early sensory processing. These paradigms can be used to assess the integrity of early sensory processing in normal individuals and clinical populations, such as individuals with schizophrenia.



Proper neural circuitry requires that growth cones, motile tips of extending axons, respond to molecular guidance cues expressed in the developing organism. However, it is unclear how guidance cues modify the cytoskeleton to guide growth cone pathfinding. Here, we show acute treatment with two attractive guidance cues, nerve growth factor (NGF) and netrin-1, for embryonic dorsal root ganglion and temporal retinal neurons, respectively, results in increased growth cone membrane protrusion, actin polymerization, and filamentous actin (F-actin). ADF/cofilin (AC) family proteins facilitate F-actin dynamics, and we found the inactive phosphorylated form of AC is decreased in NGF- or netrin-1-treated growth cones. Directly increasing AC activity mimics addition of NGF or netrin-1 to increase growth cone protrusion and F-actin levels. Extracellular gradients of NGF, netrin-1, and a cell-permeable AC elicit attractive growth cone turning and increased F-actin barbed ends, F-actin accumulation, and active AC in growth cone regions proximal to the gradient source. Reducing AC activity blunts turning responses to NGF and netrin. Our results suggest that gradients of NGF and netrin-1 locally activate AC to promote actin polymerization and subsequent growth cone turning toward the side containing higher AC activity.
The development of the human neocortex is a complex and highly regulated process involving a time-related expression of many transcription factors including the homeobox genes Pax6 and Meis2. During early development, Pax6 is expressed in nuclei of radial glia cells in the neocortical proliferative zones and controls the differentiation and neurogenetic fate of these cells in the dorsal telencephalon in rodents. Animal studies on the Meis2 gene have revealed expression in the developing telencephalon and Meis2 is known to regulate the expression of Pax6 in the eye and pancreas. Because of this functional relation between Pax6 and Meis2, we studied the spatial and temporal expression of PAX6, and MEIS2 using a developmental series of human fetal brains at 7-19 postconceptional weeks with emphasis on the forebrain to investigate whether the two genes are expressed in the same regions and zones in the same time window. We demonstrate by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry that the two homeobox genes are expressed during early fetal brain development in humans. PAX6 mRNA and protein were located in the proliferative zones of the neocortex and in single cells in the cortical preplate at 7 fetal weeks and in the developing cortical plate from 8 or 9 to 19 fetal weeks. The expression of PAX6 expanded into the ganglionic eminence just prior to the stage at which a stereological estimation showed an exponential rise in total cell number in this area. The MEIS2 gene was also present in the proliferative zones of the human fetal neocortex and a higher expression of MEIS2 than PAX6 was observed in these areas at 9 fetal weeks. Further, MEIS2 was expressed at a very high level in the developing ganglionic eminence and at a more moderate level in the cortical plate.
Slits and their Roundabout (Robo) receptors mediate repulsive axon guidance at the Drosophila ventral midline and in the vertebrate spinal cord. Slit is cleaved to produce fragments with distinct signaling properties. In a screen for genes involved in Slit-Robo repulsion, we have identified the Adam family metalloprotease Kuzbanian (Kuz). Kuz does not regulate midline repulsion through cleavage of Slit, nor is Slit cleavage essential for repulsion. Instead, Kuz acts in neurons to regulate repulsion and Kuz can cleave the Robo extracellular domain in Drosophila cells. Genetic rescue experiments using an uncleavable form of Robo show that this receptor does not maintain normal repellent activity. Finally, Kuz activity is required for Robo to recruit its downstream signaling partner, Son of sevenless (Sos). These observations support the model that Kuz-directed cleavage is important for Robo receptor activation.
Endosomal trafficking affects many cellular pathways from cell signaling to metabolism, but little is known about how these effects are coordinated. In a genetic screen for mutants affecting endosomal trafficking, we identified Drosophila acinus (dacn; hook-like). Its mammalian homolog Acinus has been implicated in RNA processing and chromatin fragmentation during apoptosis. Loss-of-function analysis of dacn revealed two distinct functions. First, dacn is required for stabilization of early endosomes, thus modulating levels of Notch and Egfr signaling. Second, loss of dacn interferes with cellular starvation responses by inhibiting autophagosome maturation. By contrast, overexpression of dacn causes lethality due to enhanced autophagy. We show that this enhanced autophagy is independent of the Tor pathway. Taken together, our data show that dacn encodes a regulator of endosomal and autophagosomal dynamics, modulating developmental signaling and the cellular response to starvation.




While long-term heroin addiction is associated with hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis dysregulation, few studies have used in vivo brain imaging to examine the impact on pituitary gland volume (PGV) or its relationship with substitution pharmacotherapy. We examined 28 heroin users stable on methadone or buprenorphine and 28 healthy controls. Heroin users exhibited larger PGVs than healthy controls, and this was particularly evident among the buprenorphine-treated group. These findings indicate that substitution pharmacotherapy may have differential effects on normalising HPA axis activity.
Hypothalamic tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic (TIDA) neurons secrete dopamine, which inhibits pituitary prolactin (PRL) secretion. PRL has demonstrated neurotrophic effects on TIDA neuron development in PRL-, GH-, and TSH-deficient Ames (df/df) and Snell (dw/dw) dwarf mice. However, both PRL and PRL receptor knockout mice exhibit normal-sized TIDA neuron numbers, implying GH and/or TSH influence TIDA neuron development. The current study investigated the effect of porcine (p) GH on TIDA neuron development in Ames dwarf hypothalamus. Normal (DF/df) and dwarf mice were treated daily with pGH or saline beginning at 3 d of age for a period of 42 d. After treatment, brains were analyzed using catecholamine histofluorescence, tyrosine hydroxylase immunocytochemistry, and bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) immunocytochemistry to detect BrdU incorporation. DF/df males and df/df treated with pGH experienced increased (P &lt;/= 0.01) weight gain compared with those treated with saline. DF/df had greater (P &lt;/= 0.01) TIDA neuron numbers than df/df, regardless of treatment. TIDA neuron number in pGH-treated df/df was greater (P &lt;/= 0.01) than in saline-treated df/df. Zona incerta and periventricular dopamine neurons were not affected by treatment or genotype. There was no effect of genotype or treatment on BrdU incorporation in the arcuate nucleus, median eminence, or periventricular region surrounding the third ventricle. Saline-treated df/df experienced decreased (P &lt;/= 0.05) dentate gyrus BrdU incorporation compared with saline-treated DF/df. In the lateral ventricle, pGH-treated males had greater BrdU immunoreactivity than pGH-treated females. The results show an effect of pGH on TIDA neuron development, although this effect is less potent than that of PRL, and likely GH-induced preservation of TIDA neurons rather than generation of new TIDA neurons via neurogenesis.
The gastrointestinal peptide, ghrelin, elicits feeding and secretion when administered systemically or centrally. Previous studies have suggested that hypothalamic projections of hindbrain catecholamine neurons are involved in both of these actions of ghrelin. The purpose of this study was to further assess the role of hindbrain catecholamine neurons in ghrelin-induced feeding and GH secretion and to determine the anatomical distribution of the catecholamine neurons involved. We lesioned noradrenergic and adrenergic neurons that innervate the medial hypothalamus by microinjecting the retrogradely transported immunotoxin, saporin (SAP) conjugated to antidopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DSAP) into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. Controls were injected with unconjugated SAP. We found that the DSAP lesion did not impair the feeding response to central or peripheral ghrelin administration, indicating that these neurons are not required for ghrelin's orexigenic effect. However, the GH response to ghrelin was prolonged significantly in DSAP-lesioned rats. We also found that expression of Fos, an indicator of neuronal activation, was significantly enhanced over baseline levels in A1, A1/C1, C1, and A5 cell groups after ghrelin treatment and in A1, A1/C1, and A5 cell groups after GH treatment. The similar pattern of Fos expression in catecholamine cell groups after GH and ghrelin and the prolonged GH secretion in response to ghrelin in DSAP rats together suggest that activation of hindbrain catecholamine neurons by ghrelin or GH could be a component of a negative feedback response controlling GH levels.

Steroid hormones, such as progestogens and androgens, influence seizures. Progestogens and androgens exert organizational and/or activational effects that may mitigate vulnerability to, and/or expression of, some seizure disorders. Progestogens, such as progesterone (P(4)) and its 5alpha-reduced metabolite, 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-THP), which vary across the reproductive cycle and lifespan, may protect against seizures through actions at intracellular progestin receptors (PRs) and membrane receptors, such as gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptors. Similarly, androgens, such as testosterone (T), which also vary across the reproductive cycle and the lifespan, can have antiseizure effects. Some of these effects of T may be due to aromatization to estrogen and/or 5alpha-reduction to dihydrotestosterone (DHT), and its subsequent conversion through 3alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase to 5alpha-androstane-3alpha,17alpha-diol (3alpha-diol). Sensitivity to steroids in some individuals may be mitigated by differences in stress, developmental phase, reproductive status, endocrine status, and treatments, such as antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), which alter levels of these ligands and/or function of their target sites. The evidence implicating sex steroids in differences associated with hormonal, reproductive, developmental, stress, seizure type, and/or therapeutics are discussed.
Extracellular matrix (ECM) in the brain is composed of molecules synthesized and secreted by neurons and glial cells, which form stable aggregates of diverse composition in the extracellular space. In the mature brain, ECM undergoes a slow turnover and restrains structural plasticity while supporting multiple physiologic processes, including perisomatic gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic inhibition, synaptic plasticity, and homeostatic regulations. Seizures lead to striking remodeling of ECM, which may be essentially engaged in different aspects of epileptogenesis. This view is supported by human genetic studies linking ECM molecules and epilepsy, by data showing altered epileptogenesis in mice deficient in ECM molecules, and by evidence that ECM may shape seizure-induced sprouting of mossy fibers, granule cell dispersion, and astrogliosis. Therefore, restraining seizure-induced remodeling of ECM or suppressing the signaling triggered by the remodeled ECM might provide effective therapeutic strategies to antagonize the progression of epileptogenesis.
Neurotrophic factors are involved in the survival of neurons as well as in the proliferation and differentiation of neuronal precursors. Therefore, modulating their levels in lesion areas may exert favorable effects on seizure-induced damage. However, it is unclear if damage limitation or repair may prevent epileptogenesis; it is also uncertain which neurotrophic factor should be administered for limiting or repairing damage while avoiding possible proepileptic effects. We used viral vectors to locally supplement fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), when an epileptogenic damage was already in place. These vectors were tested in the pilocarpine model of status epilepticus-induced neurodegeneration and epileptogenesis. FGF-2/BDNF expressing vectors increased neuronogenesis, limited neuronal damage, and reduced the occurrence of spontaneous seizures. These findings are discussed with consideration of the hurdles that will have to be overcome before clinical application.


We aim to investigate whether temporal origin of epilepsy increases the risk of developing a psychiatric disorder and more specifically a major depressive disorder. The lack of standardized diagnostic instruments and the methodologic differences between studies highlight the fact that this issue warrants further, systematic, study. Three-hundred eight patients with complex partial seizures were classified according to temporal or extratemporal origin, following the Commission on Classification and Terminology of the International League Against Epilepsy (ILAE), 1989 localization-related concept. All patients were assessed using the Structured Interview for DSM-IV axis I psychiatric disorders (SCID-I). Lifetime and previous-year prevalence of psychiatric disorders were compared in temporal and extratemporal subgroups, using multivariate analysis. Previous-year major depression was significantly associated with temporal lobe origin. Our results do not support the hypothesis that patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) have more psychiatric illness in general, although they do suggest a specific connection between TLE and major depression.
Dravet syndrome is a genetically determined severe epilepsy associated with cognitive decline and ataxia. The many types of seizures seen in these patients are typically pharmacoresistant. Here we describe two adults with Dravet syndrome who were treated with thalamic deep brain stimulation (DBS) and followed for 10 years. One patient with partial onset seizures received DBS at age 19 and showed a marked improvement in seizure control after DBS insertion and stimulation. The other patient with generalized onset seizures received DBS at age 34 and did not show any immediate benefit. No side effects or changes in cognition were observed in either of the patients. This is the first report of (short- and) long-term results in Dravet patients treated with thalamic DBS. We speculate that the results of DBS for epilepsy in patients with Dravet syndrome may be related to age at initiation of DBS treatment and seizure type.
We reviewed the medical history, EEG recordings, and developmental milestones of 19 children with speech and language dysfunction and focal epileptiform activity. Speech, language, and neuropsychological assessments and EEG recordings were performed at follow-up, and prognostic indicators were analyzed. Three patterns of language development were observed: late start and slow development, late start and deterioration/regression, and normal start and later regression/deterioration. No differences in test results among these groups were seen, indicating a spectrum of related conditions including Landau-Kleffner syndrome and epileptic language disorder. More than half of the participants had speech and language dysfunction at follow-up. IQ levels, working memory, and processing speed were also affected. Dysfunction of auditory perception in noise was found in more than half of the participants, and dysfunction of auditory attention in all. Dysfunction of communication, oral motor ability, and stuttering were noted in a few. Family history of seizures and abundant epileptiform activity indicated a worse prognosis.
Associations between cholesterol and suicidal behavior in adolescent patients have not been explored in depth. In this study, 66 patients consecutively admitted to a psychiatric inpatient unit following attempted suicide were compared with a control group of 54 patients with no history of suicide attempts. The age range of the sample was from 8 to 18 years old. Cholesterol levels were significantly lower in attempted suicide patients than in controls (p &lt; 0.02), supporting the hypothesis that lower cholesterol levels might be associated with suicidal behavior in patients with similar acute phase of their disorder.
In the present study, predictors of persistent conduct problems among children aged 4-8 years were investigated in a randomized controlled trial 1 year after treatment with the Incredible Years parent training program (PT), or combined parent training and child treatment (PT + CT). Data were collected before and after treatment and at a 1-year follow-up. Pre-treatment child characteristics predicting persistent conduct problems in the child at the 1-year follow-up were high levels of internalizing and aggression problems as reported by mothers. The only family characteristic predicting persistence of child conduct problems was having contacts with child protection services. Clinicians and researchers need to closely monitor and identify children with conduct problems not responding to parent training programs. These individuals and their families are likely to need further support.

The past few years have seen tremendous progress in our understanding of the genetics underlying complex disease, with associated variants being identified in dozens of traits. Despite the fact that this growing body of empirical evidence unequivocally shows the necessity for extreme levels of significance and large samples sizes, the reasoning behind these requirements is not always appreciated. As genome-wide association studies reach the limits of their resolution in the search for rarer and weaker effects, the need for appropriate design and interpretation will become ever more important. If the genetic analysis of complex disease is to avoid accumulating false positive claims, as it has in the past, then researchers will need to allow for less tangible variables such as power and prior odds rather than relying exclusively on significance when assessing the results of these studies. In this review, the basic foundations of association testing are explained from a Bayesian perspective and the potential benefits of Bayes factors as a means of measuring the weight of evidence in support of an association are described.
DYT1 dystonia is an autosomal-dominant movement disorder, characterised by early onset of involuntary sustained muscle contractions. It is caused by a 3-bp deletion in the DYT1 gene, which results in the deletion of a single glutamate residue in the C-terminus of the protein torsinA. TorsinA is a member of the AAA-ATPase family of; chaperones with multiple functions in the cell. There is no evidence of neurodegeneration in DYT1 dystonia, which suggests that mutant torsinA leads to functional neuronal abnormalities leading to dystonic movements. In the recent years, different functional roles have been attributed to torsinA, including being a component of the cytoskeleton and the nuclear envelope, and involvement in the secretory pathway and synaptic vesicle machinery. The aim of this review is to summarise these findings and the different models proposed, which have contributed to our current understanding of the function of torsinA.

Dystonic syndromes can be divided into primary and secondary forms. Diagnosis of secondary dystonic syndromes can be challenging as causes are multifold. They include brain lesions of various origins, metabolic disease, neurodegenerative conditions, or following exposure to drugs or toxins. However, characteristic investigational findings may be directive in the diagnostic process and facilitate making the correct diagnosis and thus allow initiating the ideal treatment. In this article, we point out some clinical clues and syndromic associations which may be helpful in the approach to a patient with dystonia.
Blepharospasm, oromandibular, lingual, laryngeal and cervical dystonia are common forms of adult-onset dystonia. Each condition may appear in isolation or manifest along with other forms of craniocervical dystonia. Although the various craniocervical dystonias typically present with involuntary muscle spasms causing abnormal postures, they differ for some clinical features. Neurophysiologic and neuroimaging studies have shown a number of motor and sensory abnormalities at cortical and subcortical levels, probably reflecting a dysfunction in the basal ganglia-thalamo-cortical circuits. The best treatment for craniocervical dystonia is botulinum toxin injected into the overactive muscles.
Neuronal postsynaptic currents consume most of the brain's energy supply. Delineating how neurons control the distribution, morphology and function of the energy-producing mitochondria that fuel synaptic communication is therefore important for our understanding of nervous system function and pathology. Here we review recent insights into the molecular mechanisms that control activity-dependent regulation of mitochondrial trafficking, morphology and activity at excitatory synapses. We also consider some implications of this regulation for synaptic function and plasticity and discuss how this may contribute to synaptic dysfunction and signalling in neurological disease, with a focus on Alzheimer's disease.
In the last few years it has become clear that AMPA-type glutamate neurotransmitter receptors are rapidly transported into and out of synapses to strengthen or weaken their function. The remarkable dynamics of AMPA receptor (AMPAR) synaptic localization provides a compelling mechanism for understanding the cellular basis of learning and memory, as well as disease states involving cognitive dysfunction. Here, we summarize the evidence for AMPAR trafficking as a mechanism underlying a variety of learned responses derived from both behavioral and cellular studies. Evidence is also reviewed supporting synaptic dysfunction related to impaired AMPAR trafficking as a mechanism underlying learning and memory deficits in Alzheimer's disease. We conclude that emerging data support the concept of multistage AMPAR trafficking during learning and that a broad approach to include examination of all of the AMPAR subunits will provide a more complete view of the mechanisms underlying multiple forms of learning.
Recently, several novel, potentially lethal and treatment-responsive syndromes that affect hippocampal and cortical function have been shown to be associated with auto-antibodies against synaptic antigens, notably glutamate or GABA-B receptors. Patients with these auto-antibodies, sometimes associated with teratomas and other neoplasms, present with psychiatric symptoms, seizures, memory deficits and decreased levels of consciousness. These symptoms often improve dramatically after immunotherapy or tumor resection. Here we review studies of the cellular and synaptic effects of these antibodies in hippocampal neurons in vitro and preliminary work in rodent models. Our work suggests that patient antibodies lead to rapid and reversible removal of neurotransmitter receptors from synaptic sites, leading to changes in synaptic and circuit function that in turn are likely to lead to behavioral deficits. We also discuss several of the many questions raised by these and related disorders. Determining the mechanisms underlying these novel anti-neurotransmitter receptor encephalopathies will provide insights into the cellular and synaptic bases of the memory and cognitive deficits that are hallmarks of these disorders, and potentially suggest avenues for therapeutic intervention.
A critical step in synaptic development is the differentiation of presynaptic and postsynaptic compartments. This complex process is regulated by a variety of secreted factors that serve as synaptic organizers. Specifically, fibroblast growth factors, Wnts, neurotrophic factors and various other intercellular signaling molecules are proposed to regulate presynaptic and/or postsynaptic differentiation. Many of these factors appear to function at both the neuromuscular junction and in the central nervous system, although the specific function of the molecules differs between the two. Here we review secreted molecules that organize the synaptic compartments and discuss how these molecules shape synaptic development, focusing on mammalian in vivo systems. Their critical role in shaping a functional neural circuit is underscored by their possible link to a wide range of neurological and psychiatric disorders both in animal models and by mutations identified in human patients.
Synapses are the primary means for transmitting information from one neuron to the next. They are formed during the development of the nervous system, and the formation of appropriate synapses is crucial for the establishment of neuronal circuits that underlie behavior and cognition. Understanding how synapses form and are maintained will allow us to address developmental disorders such as autism, mental retardation and possibly also psychological disorders. A number of biochemical and proteomic studies have revealed a diverse and vast assortment of molecules that are present at the synapse. It is now important to untangle this large array of proteins and determine how it assembles into a functioning unit. Here we focus on recent reports describing how synaptic cell adhesion molecules interact with and organize the presynaptic and postsynaptic specializations of both excitatory and inhibitory central synapses.
During brain maturation, neurons form specific connections with each other to establish functional neuronal circuits. The processes underlying the development of connectivity, such as the selection of synaptic partners and the fine-tuning of neuronal networks, act with single-synapse precision. Calcium is an intracellular secondary messenger that operates with remarkable spatio-temporal specificity and regulates functional and structural adaptations at the level of individual synapses. Although the structure, molecular composition and function of an emerging synapse changes dramatically during its development, the single-synapse specificity of calcium signaling is maintained at every step of synapse formation: when the first contacts between axons and dendrites form, during the onset of synaptic function and later, when spine synapses emerge. Here, we describe the mechanisms that help developing neurons to confine calcium signaling to individual synapses, and discuss how these local calcium dynamics facilitate the development of accurate neuronal connections at each step of synapse maturation.
Glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system. Considerable evidence suggests that both ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors are involved in pain hypersensitivity. However, glutamate receptor-based therapies are limited by side-effects because the activities of glutamate receptors are essential for many important physiological functions. Here, we review recent key findings in molecular and cellular mechanisms of glutamate receptor regulation and their roles in triggering and sustaining pain hypersensitivity. Targeting these molecular mechanisms could form the basis for new therapeutic strategies for the treatment of chronic pain.
The human extrastriate visual cortex contains functionally distinct regions where neuronal populations exhibit signals that are selective for objects. How such regions might play a causal role in underpinning our ability to recognize objects across different viewpoints remains uncertain. Here, we tested whether two extrastriate areas, the lateral occipital (LO) region and occipital face area (OFA), contained neuronal populations that play a causal role in recognizing two-dimensional shapes across different rotations. We used visual priming to modulate the rotation-sensitive activity of neuronal populations in these areas. State-dependent transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was applied after the presentation of a shape and immediately before a subsequent probe shape to which participants had to respond. We found that TMS applied to both the LO region and OFA modulated rotation-invariant shape priming but, whereas the LO region was modulated by TMS for small rotations, the OFA was modulated for larger rotations. Importantly, our results demonstrate that a node in the face-sensitive network, the OFA, participates in causally relevant encoding of non-face stimuli.
alpha-Synuclein has been linked to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease and other synucleinopathies through its propensity to form toxic oligomers. The exact mechanism for oligomeric synuclein-directed cell vulnerability has not been fully elucidated, but one hypothesis portends the formation of synuclein-containing pores within cell membranes leading to leak channel-mediated calcium influx and subsequent cell death. Here we demonstrate synuclein-induced formation of sodium dodecyl sulfate-stable oligomers, intracellular synuclein-positive aggregates, alterations in membrane conductance reminiscent of leak channels and subsequent cytotoxicity in a dopaminergic-like cell line. Furthermore we demonstrate that the synuclein-induced membrane conductance changes are blocked by direct extracellular application of an anti-synuclein antibody. The work presented here confirms that synuclein overexpression leads to membrane conductance changes and demonstrates for the first time through antibody-blocking studies that synuclein plays a direct role in the formation of leak channels.
The discovery and evaluation of high affinity dopamine transport inhibitors with low abuse liability is an important step toward the development of efficacious medications for cocaine addiction. We examined in mice the behavioural effects of (N-(n-butyl)-3alpha-[bis(4'-fluorophenyl)methoxy]-tropane) (JHW 007), a benztropine (BZT) analogue that blocks dopamine uptake, and assessed its potential to influence the actions of cocaine in clinically-relevant models of cocaine addiction. In the conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm, JHW 007 exposure did not produce place conditioning within an ample dose range but effectively blocked the CPP induced by cocaine administration. Similarly, in the CPP apparatus JHW 007 treatment failed to stimulate locomotor activity at any dose but dose-dependently suppressed the hyperactivity evoked by cocaine treatment. In locomotor sensitization assays performed in the open field, JHW 007 did not produce sensitized locomotor behaviour when given alone, but it prevented the sensitized component of the locomotor response elicited by subchronic (8-day) cocaine exposure. In the elevated plus maze (EPM), acute treatment with JHW 007, cocaine and combinations of the BZT analogue and cocaine produced an anxiogenic-like profile. Re-test in the EPM following subchronic (8-day) exposure enhanced the anxiogenic-like effect of the same drug treatments. The present findings indicate that JHW 007 exposure counteracts some critical behavioural correlates of cocaine treatment, including conditioned reward, locomotor stimulation and sensitization, and lend support to the further development of BZT analogues as potential replacement medications in cocaine addiction.
The effects of the HT(1A) receptor antagonist NAD-299 on extracellular acetylcholine (ACh) and glutamate (Glu) levels in the frontal cortex (FC) and ventral hippocampus (HPC) of the awake rats were investigated by the use of in vivo microdialysis. Systemic administration of NAD-299 (0.3; 1 and 3micromol/kg s.c.) caused a dose-dependent increase in ACh levels in FC and HPC (peak value of 209% and 221%, respectively) and this effect was comparable to that induced by donepezil (2.63micromol/kg s.c.). Moreover, the ACh levels in the FC increased even after repeated (14days) treatment with NAD-299 and when NAD-299 was injected locally into the nucleus basalis magnocellularis or perfused through the microdialysis probe implanted in the cortex. In contrast, NAD-299 failed to alter the extracellular levels of glutamate after systemic (3micromol/kg s.c.) or local (100microM) administration. The present data support the hypothesis that cholinergic transmission in cortico-limbic regions can be enhanced via blockade of postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors, which may underlie the proposed cognitive enhancing properties of NAD-299 in models characterized by cholinergic deficit.
It is unknown whether the reported brain loss in schizophrenia can be attributed to the effects of tobacco smoking. 96 Patients (54 smokers/42 non-smokers) and 113 control subjects (35/78) were included in a 5-year longitudinal MRI study. Despite the higher prevalence of smoking behavior and the higher number of cigarettes consumed per day in the patients, cigarette smoking did not explain the excessive cerebral (gray matter) volume decreases in the patients. Moreover, smoking was not associated with brain volume change over time in the healthy subjects. However, extremely heavy smoking may contribute to excessive gray matter volume loss in schizophrenia.

A conflict between an egocentric and an external reference frame can be highlighted by examining the marked deficit observed with tactile temporal order judgments (TOJ) when the hands are crossed. The anecdotally-reported large individual differences in the magnitude of this crossed-hands deficit were explored here by testing a large group of participants (48; 24 female). Given that females have been shown to be more visually dependent than males in the potentially related rod-and-frame test (RFT), we hypothesized that females would show a larger influence of the external reference frame (i.e., a larger crossed-hands deficit). As predicted, female participants produced larger tactile TOJ deficits compared to our male participants. We also administered the RFT in these participants with hands crossed and uncrossed. Crossing the hands increased the effect of the frame in the RFT, more so for females than males, further highlighting the potential difference in the way that each sex accommodates reference frame conflicts. Finally, examining the relation between the two tasks revealed a significant correlation, with larger frame effects associated with larger crossed-hands TOJ deficits, but this only held for males. We speculate that sex-specific differences in multisensory processing and spatial ability may explain why females are less able to disambiguate a crossed-hands posture than are males.
We show that spatial continuity can enable a network to learn translation invariant representations of objects by self-organization in a hierarchical model of cortical processing in the ventral visual system. During 'continuous transformation learning', the active synapses from each overlapping transform are associatively modified onto the set of postsynaptic neurons. Because other transforms of the same object overlap with previously learned exemplars, a common set of postsynaptic neurons is activated by the new transforms, and learning of the new active inputs onto the same postsynaptic neurons is facilitated. We show that the transforms must be close for this to occur; that the temporal order of presentation of each transformed image during training is not crucial for learning to occur; that relatively large numbers of transforms can be learned; and that such continuous transformation learning can be usefully combined with temporal trace training.
The purpose of this study was to elucidate the role of auditory feedback derived from one keystroke in the control of the rhythmicity and velocity of successive keystrokes during piano playing. We examined the effects of transient auditory perturbations with respect to the pitch, loudness, and timing of one tone on subsequent keystrokes while six pianists played short excerpts from three simple musical pieces having different tempi (&quot;event rates&quot;). Immediately after a delay in tone production, the inter-keystroke interval became shorter. This compensatory action depended on the tempo, being most prominent at the medium tempo. This indicates that temporal information provided by auditory feedback is utilized to regulate the timing of movement elements produced in a sequence. We also found that the keystroke velocity changed after the timing, pitch, or loudness of a tone was altered, although the response differed depending on the type of perturbation. While delaying the timing or altering the pitch led to an increase in the velocity, altering the loudness changed the velocity in an inconsistent manner. Furthermore, perturbing a tone elicited by the right hand also affected the rhythmicity and velocity of keystrokes with the left hand, indicating that bimanual coordination of tone production was maintained. Finally, altering the pitch sometimes resulted in striking an incorrect key, mostly in the slow piece, emphasizing the importance of pitch information for accurate planning and execution of sequential piano keystrokes.
When a weak shock is delivered to the finger immediately before a voluntary movement, or during a delay interval where subjects are prepared to make the movement, shock detection rates worsen progressively as the movement approaches. Further, we previously showed that shock detection improves again if a NoGo signal produces inhibition of a prepared response. Here, we used a somatosensory version of the stop-signal paradigm to investigate inhibitory processing during the 'horserace' period when motor excitation and inhibition processes may be simultaneously active. When subjects made a rapid keypress response to a go-signal, shock detection deteriorated in a time-dependent manner, replicating sensory suppression. However, when go-signals were followed by adaptively delayed stop-signals so that subjects could not inhibit the prepared movement, and made errors of commission, we found a paradoxical brief increase in shock detection performance just after the stop-signal, as if in a NoGo trial. During this brief window, the somatosensory system showed a pattern consistent with motor inhibition, even though the motor system itself was too far advanced in movement execution for action to be inhibited. Most models of stop-signal processing propose a two-horse race between excitation and inhibition, with a winner-takes-all solution. We show that there may be distinct motor and somatosensory races. Moreover, inhibitory processes may lead in the somatosensory race, at least briefly, even when excitatory processes win the motor race.
Perhaps the most intriguing disorders of body representation are those that are not due to primary disease of brain tissue. Strange and sometimes painful phantom limb sensations can result from loss of afference to the brain; and Complex Regional Pain Syndrome (CRPS)-the subject of the current report-can follow limb trauma without pathology of either the central or peripheral nervous system. This enigmatic and vexing condition follows relatively minor trauma, and can result in enduring misery and a useless limb. It manifests as severe pain, autonomic dysfunction, motor disability and 'neglect-like' symptoms with distorted body representation. For this special issue on body representation we describe the case of a patient suffering from CRPS, including symptoms suggesting a distorted representation of the affected limb. We report contrasting effects of mirror box therapy, as well as a new treatment-prism adaptation therapy-that provided sustained pain relief and reduced disability. The benefits were contingent upon adapting with the affected limb. Other novel observations suggest that: (1) pain may be a consequence, not the cause, of a disturbance of body representation that gives rise to the syndrome; (2) immobilisation, not pain, may precipitate this reorganisation of somatomotor circuits in susceptible individuals; and (3) limitation of voluntary movement is neither due to pain nor to weakness but, rather, to derangement of body representation which renders certain postures from the repertoire of hand movements inaccessible.
Although the perception of emotion in individuals is an important social skill, very little is known about how emotion is determined from a crowd of individuals. We investigated the perception of emotion in scenes of crowds populated by dynamic characters each expressing an emotion. Facial expressions were masked in these characters and emotion was conveyed using body motion and posture only. We systematically varied the proportion of characters in each scene depicting one of two emotions and participants were required to categorise the overall emotion of the crowd. In Experiment 1, we found that the perception of emotions in a crowd is efficient even with relatively brief exposures of the crowd stimuli. Furthermore, the emotion of a crowd was generally determined by the relative proportions of characters conveying it, although we also found that some emotions dominated perception. In Experiment 2, we found that an increase in crowd size was not associated with a relative decrease in the efficiency with which the emotion was categorised. Our findings suggest that body motion is an important social cue in perceiving the emotion of crowds and have implications for our understanding of how we perceive social information from groups.
In general, social neuroscience research tends to focus on visual and auditory channels as routes for social information. However, because the skin is the site of events and processes crucial to the way we think about, feel about, and interact with one another, touch can mediate social perceptions in various ways. This review situates cutaneous perception within a social neuroscience framework by discussing evidence for considering touch (and to some extent pain) as a channel for social information. Social information conveys features of individuals or their interactions that have potential bearing on future interactions, and attendant mental and emotional states. Here, we discuss evidence for an affective dimension of touch and explore its wider implications for the exchange of social information. We consider three important roles for this affective dimension of the cutaneous senses in the transmission and processing of social information: first, through affiliative behavior and communication; second, via affective processing in skin-brain pathways; and third, as a basis for intersubjective representation.
Structural changes in limbic regions are often observed in individuals with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and in animal models. However, the brain structural changes during the evolution into epilepsy remain largely unknown. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to define the temporal changes in limbic structures after experimental status epilepticus (SE) during the latency period of epileptogenesis in vivo, with quantitative diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and T2 relaxometry in an animal model of chronic TLE. A pair of fifty micron electrodes was implanted into the ventral hippocampus in twelve male adult rats. Self-sustaining SE was induced with electrical stimulation in eleven rats. Three rats served as age-matched controls. In vivo diffusion tensor and T2 magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed at 11.1 Tesla, pre- and post-implantation of electrodes and 3, 5, 7, 10, 20, 40 and 60 days post-SE to assess structural changes. Spontaneous seizures were identified with continuous time-locked video-monitoring. Following imaging in vivo, fixed, excised brains were MR imaged at 17.6 Tesla. Subsequently, histological analysis was correlated with MRI results. Following SE, 8/11 injured rats developed spontaneous seizures. Unique to these 8 rats, early T2, diffusivity and anisotropy changes were observed in vivo within the parahippocampal gyrus (contralateral) and fimbria (bilateral). In excised brains, bilateral increase in anisotropy was observed in the dentate gyrus, corresponding to mossy fiber sprouting as determined by Timm staining. Using T2 relaxometry and DTI, specific transient and long-term structural changes were observed only in rats that developed spontaneous limbic seizures.
Serotonin plays an important role in the regulation of anxiety states and physiological responses to aversive stimuli. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of the stress- and anxiety-related neuropeptide urocortin 2 (Ucn 2) increases c-Fos expression in serotonergic neurons in the dorsal (DRD) and caudal (DRC) parts of the dorsal raphe nucleus. These regions contain a subset of serotonergic neurons that projects via the dorsal raphe periventricular tract to periventricular structures, including the subfornical organ and ependymal layer, and to the ventricular system. To determine if Ucn 2 activates ventricle/periventricular-projecting serotonergic neurons in the midbrain raphe complex, we made i.c.v. injections of the retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold into the lateral ventricle, followed 7 days later by i.c.v. injection of Ucn 2. The DRD at -8.18 mm and the DRC at -8.54 mm and -9.16 mm bregma were analyzed using a combined bright field and immunofluorescence technique. Approximately 40% of the ventricle/periventricular-projecting neurons in the subdivisions sampled were serotonergic. Urocortin 2 increased c-Fos expression in ventricle/periventricular-projecting serotonergic neurons in the DRC and in non-ventricle/periventricular-projecting serotonergic neurons in the DRD and DRC. Of the total population of ventricle/periventricular-projecting serotonergic neurons in the DRC at -8.54 and -9.16 mm bregma, 35% expressed c-Fos following Ucn 2 injections. These data are consistent with previous studies showing that i.c.v. injection of Ucn 2 activates subpopulations of serotonergic neurons restricted to the mid-rostrocaudal DRD and DRC and further demonstrate that these include both subsets of serotonergic neurons that do and do not project to the ventricle/periventricular system.
The present review summarizes the latest information on the role and the pharmacological modulation of the endocannabinoid system in mood disorders and its potential implication in psychotic disorders such as schizophrenia. Reduced functionality might be considered a predisposing factor for major depression, so boosting endocannabinoid tone might be a useful alternative therapeutic approach for depressive disorders. The picture regarding endocannabinoids and anxiety is more complicated since either too much or too little anandamide can lead to anxiety states. However, a small rise in its level in specific brain areas might be beneficial for the response to a stressful situation and therefore to tone down anxiety. This effect might be achieved with low doses of cannabinoid indirect agonists, such as blockers of the degradative pathway (i.e. FAAH) or re-uptake inhibitors. Moreover several lines of experimental and clinical evidence point to a dysregulation of the endocannabinoid system in schizophrenia. The high anandamide levels found in schizophrenic patients, negatively correlated with psychotic symptoms, point to a protective role, whereas the role of 2-arachidonoyl glycerol is still unclear. There is a potential for pharmacological manipulation of the endocannabinoid system as a novel approach for treating schizophrenia, although experimental findings are still controversial, often with different effects depending on the drug, the dose, the species and the model used for simulating positive or negative symptoms. Besides all these limitations, SR141716A and cannabidiol show the most constant antipsychotic properties in dopamine- and glutamate-based models of schizophrenia, with profiles similar to an atypical antipsychotic drug.
Rewarding behaviours such as sexual activity, eating, nursing, parenting, social interactions, and play activity are conserved strongly in evolution, and they are essential for development and survival. All of these behaviours are enjoyable and represent pleasant experiences with a high reward value. Remarkably, rewarding behaviours activate the same brain circuits that mediate the positive reinforcing effects of drugs of abuse and of other forms of addiction, such as gambling and food addiction. Given the involvement of the endocannabinoid system in a variety of physiological functions of the nervous system, it is not surprising that it takes part in the complex machinery that regulates gratification and perception of pleasure. In this review, we focus first on the role of the endocannabinoid system in the modulation of neural activity and synaptic functions in brain regions that are involved in natural and nonnatural rewards (namely, the ventral tegmental area, striatum, amygdala, and prefrontal cortex). Then, we examine the role of the endocannabinoid system in modulating behaviours that directly or indirectly activate these brain reward pathways. More specifically, current knowledge of the effects of the pharmacological manipulation of the endocannabinoid system on natural (eating, sexual behaviour, parenting, and social play) and pathological (gambling) rewarding behaviours is summarised and discussed.
There is now a large volume of data indicating that compounds activating cannabinoid CB(1) receptors, either directly or indirectly by preventing the breakdown of endogenous cannabinoids, can protect against neuronal damage produced by a variety of neuronal &quot;insults&quot;. Given that such neurodegenerative stimuli result in increased endocannabinoid levels and that animals with genetic deletions of CB(1) receptors are more susceptible to the deleterious effects of such stimuli, a case can be made for an endogenous neuroprotective role of endocannabinoids. However, this is an oversimplification of the current literature, since (a) compounds released together with the endocannabinoids can contribute to the neuroprotective effect; (b) other proteins, such as TASK-1 and PPARalpha, are involved; (c) the CB(1) receptor antagonist/inverse agonist rimonabant has also been reported to have neuroprotective properties in a number of animal models of neurodegenerative disorders. Furthermore, the CB(2) receptor located on peripheral immune cells and activated microglia are potential targets for novel therapies. In terms of the clinical usefulness of targeting the endocannabinoid system for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders, data are emerging, but important factors to be considered are windows of opportunity (for acute situations such as trauma and ischemia) and the functionality of the target receptors (for chronic neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease).
Neurofibrillary tangles comprised of the microtubule-associated protein tau are pathological features of Alzheimer's disease and several other neurodegenerative diseases, such as progressive supranuclear palsy. We previously overexpressed tau in the substantia nigra of rats and mimicked some of the neurodegenerative sequelae that occur in humans such as tangle formation, loss of dopamine neurons, and microgliosis. To study molecular changes involved in the tau-induced disease state, we used DNA microarrays at an early stage of the disease process. A range of adeno-associated virus (AAV9) vector doses for tau were injected in groups of rats with a survival interval of 2 weeks. Specific decreases in messages for dopamine-related genes validated the technique with respect to the dopaminergic cell loss observed. Of the mRNAs upregulated, there was a dose-dependent effect on multiple genes involved in immune response such as chemokines, interferon-inducible genes and leukocyte markers, only in the tau vector groups and not in dose-matched controls of either transgene-less empty vector or control green fluorescent protein vector. Histological staining for dopamine neurons and microglia matched the loss of dopaminergic markers and upregulation of immune response mRNAs in the microarray data, respectively. RT-PCR for selected markers confirmed the microarray results, with similar changes found by either technique. The mRNA data correlate well with previous findings, and underscore microgliosis and immune response in the degenerative process following tau overexpression.
Hyperthermic prolongation of the laryngeal chemoreflex (LCR) in decerebrate piglets is prevented or reversed by GABA(A) receptor antagonists and adenosine A(2A) (Ad-A(2A)) receptor antagonists administered in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS). Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that enhanced GABA(A) activity and administration of the Ad-A(2A) agonist, CGS-21680, would prolong the LCR in normothermic conditions. We studied 46 decerebrate piglets ranging from 3 to 8 postnatal days of age. Focal injection into the NTS of 100 nl of 0.5 m nipecotic acid, a GABA reuptake inhibitor, significantly (P &lt; 0.05) prolonged the LCR in normothermic conditions in 10 of 11 animals tested. Injecting 100 nl of 5-12.5 microm CGS-21680 unilaterally or bilaterally into the NTS also prolonged the LCR in normothermic conditions (n = 15), but the effect was smaller than that of unilateral injection of nipecotic acid. Systemic administration of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline, prevented the CGS-21680-dependent prolongation of the LCR in normothermic animals (n = 11). We conclude that thermal prolongation of the LCR depends on a thermally sensitive process or set of neurons in the NTS, which, when activated by elevated brain temperature, enhances adenosinergic and GABAergic function in the region of the NTS. These results emphasize the importance of a thermally sensitive integrative site in the dorsal medulla that, along with sites in the ventral medulla, determine the response to laryngeal chemoreflex stimulation.
As a result of their wide acceptance and conceptual simplicity, drug-like concepts are having a major influence on the drug discovery process, particularly in the selection of the 'optimal' absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion and toxicity and physicochemical parameters space. While they have an undisputable value when assessing the potential of lead series or in evaluating inherent risk of a portfolio of drug candidates, they result much less useful in weighing up compounds for the selection of the best potential clinical candidate. We introduce the concept of drug efficiency as a new tool both to guide the drug discovery program teams during the lead optimization phase and to better assess the developability potential of a drug candidate.


MicroRNA-mediated regulation of gene expression appears to be involved in a variety of cellular processes, including development, differentiation, proliferation, and apoptosis. Mir-146a is thought to be involved in the regulation of the innate immune response, and its expression is increased in tissues associated with chronic inflammation. Among the predicted gene targets for mir-146a, the chemokine CCL8/MCP-2 is a ligand for the CCR5 chemokine receptor and a potent inhibitor of CD4/CCR5-mediated HIV-1 entry and replication. In the present study, we have analyzed changes in the expression of mir-146a in primary human fetal microglial cells upon infection with HIV-1 and found increased expression of mir-146a. We further show that CCL8/MCP-2 is a target for mir-146a in HIV-1 infected microglia, as overexpression of mir-146a prevented HIV-induced secretion of MCP-2 chemokine. The clinical relevance of our findings was evaluated in HIV-encephalitis (HIVE) brain samples in which decreased levels of MCP-2 and increased levels of mir-146a were observed, suggesting a role for mir-146a in the maintenance of HIV-mediated chronic inflammation of the brain.
The cognitive impairment in patients with Alzheimer's disease is closely associated with synaptic loss in the neocortex and limbic system. Although the neurotoxic effects of aggregated amyloid-beta oligomers in Alzheimer's disease have been studied extensively in experimental models, less is known about the characteristics of these aggregates across the spectrum of Alzheimer's disease. In this study, postmortem frontal cortex samples from controls and patients with Alzheimer's disease were fractionated and analyzed for levels of oligomers and synaptic proteins. We found that the levels of oligomers correlated with the severity of cognitive impairment (blessed information-memory-concentration score and mini-mental state examination) and with the loss of synaptic markers. Reduced levels of the synaptic vesicle protein, vesicle-associated membrane protein-2, and the postsynaptic protein, postsynaptic density-95, correlated with the levels of oligomers in the various fractions analyzed. The strongest associations were found with amyloid-beta dimers and pentamers. Co-immunoprecipitation and double-labeling experiments supported the possibility that amyloid-beta and postsynaptic density-95 interact at synaptic sites. Similarly, in transgenic mice expressing high levels of neuronal amyloid precursor protein, amyloid-beta co-immunoprecipitated with postsynaptic density-95. This was accompanied by a decrease in the levels of the postsynaptic proteins Shank1 and Shank3 in patients with Alzheimer's disease and in the brains of amyloid precursor protein transgenic mice. In conclusion, this study suggests that the presence of a subpopulation of amyloid-beta oligomers in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease might be related to alterations in selected synaptic proteins and cognitive impairment.
Bacopa monnieri is an outstanding nervine tonic used for raising the mental performance. It helps in concentration, comprehension, recall and alertness, Brahmi is particularly beneficial as it aids in categorizing information in brain and its subsequent expression. Bacopa is also called as a natural antioxidant which may give details its neuroprotective role seen in the memory centers of the brain. Epilepsy is neuronal disorder characterized by learning, cognitive and memory impairments. The present review summarizes information concerning botany, chemistry and beneficial effect of Bacopa monnieri on epilepsy associated behavioral deficits.
Mice and rats are important mammalian models in biomedical research. In contrast to other biomedical fields, work on sexual differentiation of brain and behavior has traditionally utilized comparative animal models. As mice are gaining in popularity, it is essential to acknowledge the differences between these two rodents. Here we review neural and behavioral sexual dimorphisms in rats and mice, which highlight species differences and experimental gaps in the literature, that are needed for direct species comparisons. Moving forward, investigators must answer fundamental questions about their chosen organism, and attend to both species and strain differences as they select the optimal animal models for their research questions.
Individual variation in behavior and physiology is a widespread and ecologically functional phenomenon in nature in virtually all vertebrate species. Due to domestication of laboratory animals, studies may suffer from a strong selection bias. This paper summarizes behavioral, neuroendocrine and neurobiological studies using the natural individual variation in rats and mice. Individual behavioral characteristics appear to be consistent over time and across situations. The individual variation has at least two dimensions in which the quality of the response to a challenging condition (coping style) is independent from the quantity of that response (stress reactivity). The neurobiology reveals important differences in the homeostatic control of the serotonergic neuron and the neuropeptides vasopressin and oxytocin in relation to coping style. It is argued that a careful exploitation of the broad natural and biologically functional individual variation in behavior and physiology may help in developing better animal models for understanding individual disease vulnerability.
Non-invasive brain stimulation methods, such as repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), are currently used to modulate the excitability of the cerebral cortex, providing important insights into mechanisms of cortical plasticity. Used to create long-lasting changes in the excitability of synapses, rTMS has been intensively investigated as a therapeutic tool in several neurological and psychiatric conditions and given some promising results. Recent studies have shown that rTMS of cerebellar structures is capable of inducing long-lasting changes in the excitability of cerebello-thalamo-cortical pathways. Thus, this novel approach may be important for investigating the functions of cerebellar plasticity. Indeed, cerebellar rTMS has been shown to modulate motor control, cognitive functions, emotion and mood. Moreover, recent studies seem to indicate that long-lasting modifications of cerebellar pathways could be usefully exploited in the treatment of several pathological conditions characterized by altered cortical excitability, such as Parkinson's disease, stroke, depression and schizophrenia. The high potential of cerebellar rTMS as a therapeutic tool in neurology could depend on the possibility of modulating several interconnected remote areas, through the activation of different systems, such as the cerebello-thalamo-cortical and limbic-thalamo-cortical networks.
The cerebellum plays a role in the control of sensorimotor functions and possibly also of higher cognitive processing. The granule cells, which are abundant and unique in their characteristic dendritic morphology, allow the cerebellum to combine the advantages of sparse coding with a high sensitivity for individual afferents at the input stage. Plastic changes in the granular layer circuitry may thus control instant transformation of inputs as well as long-term modifications so as to support procedural memory formation. Over recent decades, substantial research has been done to explore the mechanisms of postsynaptic changes that may sustain learning processes in the cerebellum, especially bidirectional plasticity at the parallel fiber to Purkinje cell synapse. In contrast, the presynaptic occurrence of synaptic plasticity has been relatively neglected. Here we review the current models of granular layer processing in the framework of cerebellar functioning with special emphasis on the presynaptic modulations of operations at the parallel fiber to Purkinje cell synapse. We argue that the wide range of possible mechanisms that can strengthen the parallel fiber to Purkinje cell synapse at the presynaptic level endows the cerebellar cortex with optimal computational capacities to potentiate both spatial and temporal cues that are relevant for fine-regulating memory formation.
Neurogenesis is the process by which new neural cells are generated from a small population of multipotent stem cells in the adult CNS. This natural generation of new cells is limited in its regenerative capabilities and also declines with age. The use of stem cells in the treatment of neurodegenerative disease may hold great potential; however, the age-related incidence of many CNS diseases coincides with reduced neurogenesis. This review concisely summarizes current knowledge related to adult neurogenesis and its alteration with aging and examines the feasibility of using stem cell and gene therapies to combat diseases of the CNS with advancing age.

Suxamethonium causes prolonged apnea in patients in whom pseudocholinesterase enzyme gets deactivated by organophosphorus (OP) poisons. Here, we present a similar incident in a severely depressed patient who received electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). Prolonged apnea in our case ensued because the information about suicidal attempt by OP compound was concealed from the treating team.

Animals fed daily at the same time exhibit circadian food-anticipatory activity (FAA), which has been suggested to be driven by one or several food-entrainable oscillators (FEOs). FAA is altered in mice lacking some circadian genes essential for timekeeping in the main suprachiasmatic clock (SCN). Here, we confirmed that single mutations of clock genes Per1(-/-) and Per2(Brdm1) alter FAA expression in constant darkness (DD) or under a light-dark cycle (LD). Furthermore, we found that Per1(-/-);Per2(Brdm1) and Per2(Brdm1);Cry1(-/-) double mutant animals did not display a stable and significant FAA either in DD or LD. Interestingly, rescued behavioural rhythms in Per2(Brdm1);Cry2(-/-) mice in DD were totally entrained to feeding time and re-synchronized after phase-shifts of mealtime, indicating a higher SCN sensitivity to feeding cues. However, under an LD cycle and restricted feeding at midday, FAA in double Per2(Brdm1);Cry2(-/-) mutant mice was absent. These results indicate that shutting down one or two clock genes results in altered circadian meal anticipation. Moreover, we show that in a genetically rescued SCN clock (Per2(Brdm1);Cry2(-/-)), food is a powerful zeitgeber to entrain behavioural rhythms, leading the SCN to be more sensitive to feeding cues than in wild-type littermates.
