In the last few years, many studies in the cognitive and system neuroscience found that a consistent network of brain regions, referred to as the default network, showed high levels of activity when no explicit task was performed. Some scientists believed that the resting state activity might reflect some neural functions that consolidate the past, stabilize brain ensembles and prepare us for the future. Here, we modeled default network as undirected weighted graph and then used graph theory to investigate the topological properties of the default network of the two groups of people with different intelligence levels. We found that, in both groups, the posterior cingulate cortex showed the greatest degree in comparison to the other brain regions in the default network, and that the medial temporal lobes and cerebellar tonsils were topologically separations from the other brain regions in the default network. More importantly, we found that the strength of some functional connectivities and the global efficiency of default network were significantly different between the superior intelligence group and the average intelligence group, which indicates that the functional integration of the default network might be related to the individual intelligent performance.
In this work we report a novel three dimensional electrode array for electrochemical measurements in neuronal studies. The main advantage of working with these out-of-plane structures is the enhanced sensitivity of the system in terms of measuring electrochemical changes in the environment of a cell culture in real time. In addition, the system is devised to offer a compact solution that helps to obtain a homogeneous distribution of current density among the active electrodes.
To analyze an abnormal gait pattern in mutant mice (Hugger), we conducted coarse-grained motion capture. Using a simple retroreflective marker-based approach, we could detect high-resolution mutant-specific gait patterns. The phenotypic gait patterns are caused by extreme vertical motion of limbs, revealing inefficient motor functions. To elucidate the inefficiency, we developed a musculoskeletal computer model of the mouse hindlimb based on X-ray CT data. By integrating motion data with the model, we determined mutant-specific musculotendon lengths, suggesting that three major muscles were involved in the abnormal gait. This approach worked well on laboratory mice, which were putatively too small to be motion capture subjects. Motion capture technology was originally developed for human study, and our approach may help fill neuroscience gaps between mouse and human behavioral phenotypes.
In the present study, a method is described for the determination of ATP in small samples of interstitial fluid (&lt; 100 microl) using microdialysis combined with ion-pairing high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) in a gradient elution system which gives a clear separation of ATP from other interstitial constituents. Lactic acid infusion was performed to stimulate ATP to exit the cells to appear in the interstitial space. Microdialysis probe is used to in-vivo sample the molecules in the interstitial fluid. Interstitial ATP could be reliably detected at concentrations higher than 1x10(-9) M. The present study provides a simple, sensitive and selective assay for endogenous extracellular concentrations of ATP from rat soleus muscle.
We report on the real-time creation of an application for hands-on neurophysiology in an advanced undergraduate teaching laboratory. Enabled by the rapid software development tools included in the Matlab technical computing environment (The Mathworks, Natick, MA), a team, consisting of a neurophysiology educator and a biophysicist trained as an electrical engineer, interfaced to a course of approximately 15 students from engineering and biology backgrounds. The result is the powerful freeware data acquisition and analysis environment, &quot;g-PRIME.&quot; The software was developed from week to week in response to curriculum demands, and student feedback. The program evolved from a simple software oscilloscope, enabling RC circuit analysis, to a suite of tools supporting analysis of neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission analysis in invertebrate model systems. The program has subsequently expanded in application to university courses, research, and high school projects in the US and abroad as free courseware.
Robot-mediated rehabilitation is a rapidly advancing discipline that seeks to develop improved treatment procedures using new technologies, e.g., robotics, coupled with modern theories in neuroscience and rehabilitation. A robotic device was designed and developed for rehabilitation of upper limbs of post stroke patients. A novel force feedback bimanual working mode provided real-time dynamic sensation of the paretic hand. Results of the preliminary clinical tests revealed a quantitative evaluation of the patient's level of paresis and disability.
In this study, we developed numerical methods for investigating the sources of epileptic activity from intracranial EEG recordings acquired from intracranial subdural electrodes (iEEG) in patients undergoing pre-surgical evaluation at the epilepsy center of the Mayo Clinic (Rochester, MN). The data were analyzed using independent component analysis (ICA), which identifies and isolates maximally independent signal components in multi-channel recordings. A realistic individual head model was constructed for a patient undergoing pre-surgical evaluation. Structural models of gray matter, white matter, CSF, skull, and scalp were extracted from pre-surgical MR and post-surgical CT images. The electromagnetic source localization forward problem was solved using the Boundary Element Method (BEM). Source localization was performed using the Sparse Bayesian Learning (SBL) algorithm. The multiscale patch-basis source space constructed for this purpose includes a large number of dipole elements on the cortical layer oriented perpendicular to the local cortical surface. These source dipoles are combined into overlapping multi-scalepatches. Using this approach, we were able to detect seizure activity on sulcal walls and on gyrus of the cortex.
Three-dimensional electrode arrays have a variety of potential applications in the fields of both intracortical mapping as well as basic research studies designed to characterize and understand the physiology of the brain. While higher channels counts are desired in brain-machine interface applications, the ability to analyze synchronous data from multiple cortical locations, including various depths is pivotal to fully mapping the underlying neurophysiology of sensory cortices. Within this study, we present a proof of concept validation of a 3D probe technology consisting of 16 silicon shanks in a 4x4 grid arrangement with four electrode sites per shank. This 3D array has been implanted in a rat primary auditory cortex and electrophysiological data are presented showing the utility of electrode sites spanning multilateral cortical space as well as cortical depth.
This study investigates the relationship between the sources of MEG interictal spikes and the distribution of spikes in invasive ECoG in a group of 38 epilepsy patients. An amplitude/surface area measure is defined to quantify ECoG spikes. It is found that all MEG spikes are associated with an ECoG spike that is, according to this measure, among the largest in each patient. For different brain regions considered the inter-hemispheric, tempero-lateral and central regions stand out. However, MEG may only see part of the often complex ECoG spike. In an accompanying simulation study it is shown that MEG as predicted from measured complex ECoG spikes resemble measured MEG and show similar shortcomings with respect to localization.
We have previously reported a new sparse neuroimaging method (i.e. VB-SCCD) using the L1-norm optimization technology to solve EEG inverse problems. The new method distinguishes itself from other reported L1-norm methods since it explores the sparseness in a transform domain rather than in the original source domain. In the present study, we conducted a Monte Carlo simulation study to compare the performance of VB-SCCD and other two popular L2-norm neuroimaging methods (i.e. wMNE and cLORETA) in reconstructing extended cortical neural electrical activations. Our simulation data suggests that the VB-SCCD method is able to reconstruct extended cortical sources with the overall high accuracy. It has significantly higher accuracy, less number of false alarms and less number of missing sources when studying complex brain activations (up to 5 simultaneous sources). This new sparse neuroimaging method is thus promising to have many valuable applications in neuroscience and neurology problems. It is also applicable to MEG neuroimaging.
This study examines the effects of neurofeedback provided by support vector machine (SVM) classification-based real-time functional magnetic resonance imaging (rt-fMRI) during two types of motor tasks. This approach also enables the examination of the neural regions associated with predicting mental states in different domains of motor control, which is critical to further our understanding of normal and impaired function. Healthy volunteers (n = 13) performed both a simple button tapping task, and a covert rate-of-speech counting task. The average prediction accuracy was approximately 95% for the button tapping task and 86% for the speech task. However, subsequent offline analysis revealed that classification of the initial runs was significantly lower - 75% (p&lt;0.001) for button and 72% (p&lt;0.005) for speech. To explore this effect, a group analysis was performed using the spatial maps derived from the SVM models, which showed significant differences between the two fMRI runs. One possible explanation for the difference in spatial patterns and the asymmetry in the prediction accuracies is that when subjects are actively engaged in the task (i.e. when they are trying to control a computer interface), they are generating stronger BOLD responses in terms of both intensity and spatial extent.
Since the 1950s, we have developed mature theories of modern control theory and computational neuroscience with almost no interaction between these disciplines. With the advent of computationally efficient nonlinear Kalman filtering techniques, along with improved neuroscience models that provide increasingly accurate reconstruction of dynamics in a variety of important normal and disease states in the brain, the prospects for a synergistic interaction between these fields are now strong. I show recent examples of the use of nonlinear control theory for the assimilation and control of single neuron dynamics, the modulation of oscillatory wave dynamics in brain cortex, a control framework for Parkinsonian dynamics and seizures, and the use of optimized parameter model networks to assimilate complex network data - the 'consensus set'.
This paper presents the design of versatile platform for advanced neuroscience on the high-level brain functions and neural prostheses. The platform enables researchers to record and stimulate brain activities of multiple free behaving animals wirelessly. The platform consists of three major functional blocks of neural interface, wireless communication system, and neural signal processing software, which of each has fundamental challenges to be overcome. Ultra wideband communication system makes it possible to transmit a large amount of data produced by high-density microelectrode wirelessly and miniaturize the entire system so that it can be implanted or carried by animals. Multiple access capability is achieved by a sophisticated communication protocol optimized for biomedical applications. Noise is one of the most important factors affecting the design of the neural interface and neural signal processing technique to reduce the noise is presented. Prototype chips were fabricated to verify the feasibility of the platform and test results are shown as well.
Multiunit recording with multi-site electrodes in the brain has been widely used in neuroscience studies. After the data recording, neuronal spikes should be sorted according to the pattern of spike waveforms. For the spike sorting, independent component analysis (ICA) has recently been used because ICA has potential for resolving the problem to separate the overlapped multiple neuronal spikes. However the performance of spike sorting by using ICA has not been examined in detail. In this study, we quantitatively evaluate the performance of ICA-based spike sorting method by using simulated multiunit signals. The simulated multiunit signal is constructed by compositing real extracellular action potentials recorded from guinea-pig brain. It is found that the spike sorting by using ICA hardly avoids significant false positive and negative errors due to the cross-talk noise contamination on the separated signals. The cross-talk occurs when the multiunit signal of each recording channel have significant time difference; this situation does not satisfy the assumption of instantaneous source mixture for the major ICA algorithms. Since the channel delay problem is hardly resolved, an ICA algorithm which does not require the instantaneous source mixing assumption would be appropriate for use of spike sorting.
One of the most challenging questions open in Neuroscience today is the characterization of the brain responses during social interaction. A major limitation of the approaches used in most of the studies performed so far is that only one of the participating brains is measured each time. The &quot;interaction&quot; between cooperating, competing or communicating brains is thus not measured directly, but inferred by independent observations aggregated by cognitive models and assumptions that link behavior and neural activation. In this paper, we present the results of the simultaneous neuroelectric recording of 5 couples of subjects engaged in cooperative games (EEG hyperscanning). The simultaneous recordings of couples of interacting subjects allows to observe and model directly the neural signature of human interactions in order to understand the cerebral processes generating and generated by social cooperation or competition. We used a paradigm called Prisoner's dilemma derived from the game theory. Results collected in a population of 10 subjects suggested that the most consistently activated structure in social interaction paradigms is the orbitofrontal region (roughly described by the Brodmann area 10) during the condition of competition.
To meet the emerging demand of high-throughput intimate interfaces in neuroscience research and neural prosthetics, a multilayer wiring interconnect technology for implementing high-density, integratable polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) based conformable microelectrode arrays (MEAs) is developed. This technology has two parts: first, multilayer interconnects are fabricated within PDMS, which provides the potential for implementing high-density, large-capacity PDMS-based MEAs; second, interconnects are fabricated between PDMS and a substrate material, e.g., glass or silicon, which provides the potential for directly integrating PDMS-based MEAs with silicon-based ICs to achieve an integrated system solution for neural interfacing. Preliminary muscle surface recording experiments using a connector-integrated MEA have successfully demonstrated multichannel recording capability with good device conformability to the muscle surface during contraction. Important and promising applications will be found in neural prostheses, functional electrical stimulation (FES), and basic electrophysiology research.
Electroencephalography (EEG) of the mouse brain offers the advantage to monitor brain states in freely moving conditions under genetic or molecular manipulation. We present a novel, flexible, and biocompatible microfabricated electrode based on polyimide to record a multi-channel EEG from a mouse. Our microelectrode has 32 recording electrodes, including two ground electrodes. The connectors for the signal transmission are carefully affixed to the microelectrode. The overall weight of the microelectrode does not exceed 150 mg, including connectors. The implantation of the microelectrodes does not require invasive surgery and the mouse can be easily discharged from the wires when it is not being recorded. Simultaneous measurements with the microelectrode and a conventional screw electrode show that the microelectrode successfully collects the broad band EEG signals from the skull.
Neural prostheses rely upon electric stimulation to control neural activity. However, electrode corrosion and tissue damage may result from the injection of high charge densities. During electrical stimulation with traditional voltage-controlled square-wave pulses, the current density distribution on the surface of the stimulating electrode is highly nonuniform, with the highest current densities located at the edge of disk-shaped electrodes. Current density is implicated in tissue damage and electrode corrosion because it determines the charge density distribution. Through recent computer modeling work, we have found that Gaussian and sinusoidal stimulus waveforms produce a current density distribution that is significantly more uniform than the one produced by square-wave pulses. In this manner, these non-rectangular waveforms reduce the peak current densities without decreasing the efficacy of the neural stimulus. In the present work, we utilize an in vitro mouse retinal preparation to compare the same set of alternative stimulus waveforms. The -1V amplitude voltage-controlled stimuli were delivered through 20 microm diameter titanium nitride electrodes. Importantly, when normalized for the amount of injected charge, the data demonstrate that each waveform is similarly effective at eliciting a neural response. Also, the suprathreshold Gaussian and sinusoidal waveforms possessed much lower peaks in current. For this reason, these non-rectangular waveforms may be useful in reducing electrode corrosion and tissue damage.
Mood and anxiety disorders confer marked personal and fiscal cost. Current therapeutic efforts show only moderate efficacy, and little is known about the characteristics of those who respond to specific treatment regimens. The lack of objective descriptors of symptom severity and reliable predictors of illness outcome contributes to limited diagnostic and treatment success. Here, we have begun to develop a normative neurobehavioral database of responses to affective stimuli by combining functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), with comprehensive behavioral assessment and quantitative analyses of neural responses to standard emotional cues. These data reveal robust and distinct neural patterns between two groups with similar low self-reported depression and anxiety, and one group with high depression and anxiety scores. This and related strategies may be used to identify covert phenotypes associated with psychiatric illness and resilience.
Quantitative evaluation of respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA) may provide important information in clinical practice of anesthesia and postoperative care. In this paper, we apply a point process method to assess dynamic RSA during propofol general anesthesia. Specifically, an inverse Gaussian probability distribution is used to model the heartbeat interval, whereas the instantaneous mean is identified by a linear or bilinear bivariate regression on the previous R-R intervals and respiratory measures. The estimated second-order bilinear interaction allows us to evaluate the nonlinear component of the RSA. The instantaneous RSA gain and phase can be estimated with an adaptive point process filter. The algorithm's ability to track non-stationary dynamics is demonstrated using one clinical recording. Our proposed statistical indices provide a valuable quantitative assessment of instantaneous cardiorespiratory control and heart rate variability (HRV) during general anesthesia.
The learning of a novel task currently rely heavily on conventional classroom instruction with qualitative assessment and observation. Introduction of individualized tutorials with integrated neuroscience-based evaluation techniques could significantly accelerate skill acquisition and provide quantitative evidence of successful training. We have created a suite of adaptive and interactive neuro-educational technologies (I-NET) to increase the pace and efficiency of skill learning. It covers four major themes: 1) Integration of brain monitoring into paced instructional tutorials, 2) Identifying psychophysiological characteristics of expertise using a model population, 3) Developing sensor-based feedback to accelerate novice-to-expert transition, 4) Identifying neurocognitive factors that are predictive of skill acquisition to allow early triage and interventions. We selected rifle marksmanship training as the field of application. Rifle marksmanship is a core skill for the Army and Marine Corps and it involves a combination of classroom instructional learning and field practice involving instantiation of a well-defined set of sensory, motor and cognitive skills. The instrumentation that incorporates the I-NET technologies is called the Adaptive Peak Performance Trainer (APPT). Preliminary analysis of pilot study data for performance data from a novice population that used this device revealed an improved learning trajectory.
Different control strategies exist for use in a brain-computer interface (BCI). Although process control is the prevailing control strategy for most sensorimotor rhythm based BCIs, the goal selection strategy more closely resembles normal motor control and may be more accurate, faster to use, and easier to learn. We describe here a sensorimotor rhythm based goal selection BCI and a pilot study to compare it with process control strategy in terms of accuracy and speed of use. In both trained and nave subjects studied, goal selection outperformed process control.
A comprehensive classification of contrast agents currently used or under development for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is presented. Agents based on small chelates, macromolecular systems, iron oxides and other nanosystems, as well as responsive, chemical exchange saturation transfer (CEST) and hyperpolarization agents are covered in order to discuss the various possibilities of using MRI as a molecular imaging technique. The classification includes composition, magnetic properties, biodistribution and imaging applications. Chemical compositions of various classes of MRI contrast agents are tabulated, and their magnetic status including diamagnetic, paramagnetic and superparamagnetic are outlined. Classification according to biodistribution covers all types of MRI contrast agents including, among others, extracellular, blood pool, polymeric, particulate, responsive, oral, and organ specific (hepatobiliary, RES, lymph nodes, bone marrow and brain). Various targeting strategies of molecular, macromolecular and particulate carriers are also illustrated.
During the last decades, models of music processing in the brain have mainly discussed the specificity of brain modules involved in processing different musical components. We argue that predictive coding offers an explanatory framework for functional integration in musical processing. Further, we provide empirical evidence for such a network in the analysis of event-related MEG-components to rhythmic incongruence in the context of strong metric anticipation. This is seen in a mismatch negativity (MMNm) and a subsequent P3am component, which have the properties of an error term and a subsequent evaluation in a predictive coding framework. There were both quantitative and qualitative differences in the evoked responses in expert jazz musicians compared with rhythmically unskilled non-musicians. We propose that these differences trace a functional adaptation and/or a genetic pre-disposition in experts which allows for a more precise rhythmic prediction.
Previous studies have indicated that physical movement on either every second or on every third beat of an unaccented auditory rhythm pattern can disambiguate whether it is perceived in double time as a march or in triple time as a waltz. Here we demonstrate that this disambiguation can also be accomplished by direct galvanic stimulation of the vestibular system. The galvanically induced sensation, without any actual movement, that the head moved from side to side on either every second or on every third beat of the ambiguous auditory rhythm pattern strongly biased whether adults perceived it as being in double or in triple time. These results imply that the vestibular system plays a primal role in the perception of musical rhythm.
In prior work (Corriveau et al., 2007), we showed that children with speech and language impairments (SLI) were significantly less sensitive than controls to two auditory cues to rhythmic timing, amplitude envelope rise time and duration. Here we explore whether rhythmic problems extend to rhythmic motor entrainment. Tapping in synchrony with a beat has been described as the simplest rhythmic act that humans perform. We explored whether tapping to a beat would be impaired in children for whom auditory rhythmic timing is impaired. Children with SLI were indeed found to be impaired in a range of measures of paced rhythmic tapping, but were not equally impaired in tapping in an unpaced control condition requiring an internally-generated rhythm. The severity of impairment in paced tapping was linked to language and literacy outcomes.
This study assessed a 26-week voucher-based intervention to reinforce abstinence and participation in treatment-related activities among substance-abusing offenders court referred to outpatient treatment under drug diversion legislation (California's Substance Abuse and Crime Prevention Act). Standard treatment consisted of criminal justice supervision and an evidence-based model for treating stimulant abuse. Participants were randomly assigned to four groups, standard treatment (ST) only, ST plus vouchers for testing negative, ST plus vouchers for performing treatment plan activities, and ST plus vouchers for testing negative and/or performing treatment plan activities. Results indicate that voucher-based reinforcement of negative urines and of treatment plan tasks (using a flat reinforcement schedule) showed no statistically significant effects on measures of retention or drug use relative to the standard treatment protocol. It is likely that criminal justice contingencies had a stronger impact on participants' treatment retention and drug use than the relatively low-value vouchers awarded as part of the treatment protocol.


Patients with severe aortic arch plaque are at high risk for stroke. This article addresses the complex nature of the association between aortic arch plaque and stroke. The aortic arch plaque poses a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge to the clinician. The different imaging modalities currently available for evaluating aortic plaque are discussed. Therapy to prevent emboli from aortic plaque is not yet established. Retrospective data in patients with severe aortic plaque support using oral anticoagulation and statins to prevent stroke. Iatrogenic embolization can occur as a result of aortic manipulation during invasive vascular procedures or cardiovascular surgery. The risks and benefits of these procedures must be carefully weighed, and alternate approaches should be considered for patients with severe aortic arch plaque. Assessing aortic arch plaque combined with a specific prevention strategy may reduce the risk of its feared complication, stroke.
Hyperalgesia has been observed during ethanol withdrawal, comparable to the hyperalgesia observed during withdrawal from opioids. To determine the extent of this phenomenon and its potential mechanisms, both behavioral and in vitro studies are examined, and the roles of GABA(A), glutamate and other receptors in mediating the acute and chronic antinociceptive effects of ethanol are reviewed. Hyperalgesia during ethanol withdrawal is a robust phenomenon that has been observed in various strains of mice and rats, with different methods of exposure to ethanol, and with a variety of nociceptive assays. GABA receptors play an important role in mediating the antinociceptive effects of ethanol, but too little research has examined the role of glutamate receptors to make any conclusion about their importance. Adenosine receptors, calcium channels, and protein kinase C appear to play central roles in mediating tolerance to antinociceptive effects of ethanol and mediating the hyperalgesia seen during withdrawal. Although some key pathways have been identified, further mechanistic work is necessary to fully characterize the mechanisms for the development of hyperalgesia following chronic exposure to ethanol. An understanding of how the hyperalgesia may fit in with other manifestations of ethanol withdrawal may be an important variable in determining treatment outcome. Clinical research is essential to determine the significance of the hyperalgesia to the severity of withdrawal and to relapse.
A variety of evidence suggests important commonalities in the neurochemical basis of reinforcement in pathological gambling (PG) and psychostimulant addiction. This article focuses on the parallel and specific roles that dopamine (DA) activation plays in these two disorders, beyond its generic role in reinforcement. A psychostimulant-mimetic model for PG is proposed based on evidence from the following domains: Acute subjective-behavioral effects of gambling and psychostimulants; Effects of anticipated rewards and uncertainty of reward delivery (key elements of gambling) on DA release; Relationship between DA release and positive arousal; Cross-priming of motivation for gambling by amphetamine; Effects of DA D2 antagonists on gambling and amphetamine reward; Effects of mixed D1-D2 antagonists on clinical symptoms of PG; Effects of DA D2 agonists on experimental measures of risk-taking, gambling, and induction of PG in patients with Parkinson's disease; Electrophysiological and cognitive disturbances associated with chronic exposure to gambling and psychostimulants, and the possible role of sensitization in these effects. Limitations of the model regarding the exclusive role of DA are discussed with particular reference to genetic risk, co-morbidity, and sub-types of PG. Suggestions for future research include isolating the roles of DA receptor subtypes in PG, and parallel within-subject assessment of DA manipulations on gambling and psychostimulant reinforcement in PG subjects and controls.
Mitochondria are recognized as the producers of the majority of energy cells need for their normal activity. After the initial comprehension of how mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation produces energy, mitochondrial research was not a priority for most cell biologists until novel mitochondrial functions were identified. In fact, it is now known that mitochondria are not only involved in cell calcium homeostasis, intermediate metabolism and free radical generation but are also a crucial crossroad for several cell death pathways. The notion that several clinically used drugs and other xenobiotics induce organ degeneration through damaging mitochondrial bioenergetics led to the use of the organelle as an effective and reliable bio-sensor to predict drug safety. Classic methods used to test the toxicity of a wide range of compounds on isolated mitochondrial fractions were later replaced by novel high-throughput methods to investigate the safety of a very large number of new molecules. Without surprise, the assessment of &quot;mitochondrial safety&quot; for new discovered molecules is of clear interest for pharmaceutical companies which can now select compounds lacking mitochondrial toxicity to undergo further trials, thus avoiding the possibility of later human toxicity due to mitochondrial liabilities.
This review, a sequel to part 1 in the series, collects about 107 chemical entities separated from the roots, leaves and flower buds of Panax ginseng, quinquefolius and notoginseng, and categorizes these entities into about 18 groups based on their structural similarity. The bioactivities of these chemical entities are described. The 'Yin and Yang' theory and the fundamentals of the 'five elements' applied to the traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) are concisely introduced to help readers understand how ginseng balances the dynamic equilibrium of human physiological processes from the TCM perspectives. This paper concerns the observation and experimental investigation of biological activities of ginseng used in the TCM of past and present cultures. The current biological findings of ginseng and its medical applications are narrated and critically discussed, including 1) its antihyperglycemic effect that may benefit type II diabetics; in vitro and in vivo studies demonstrated protection of ginseng on beta-cells and obese diabetic mouse models. The related clinical trial results are stated. 2) its aphrodisiac effect and cardiovascular effect that partially attribute to ginseng's bioactivity on nitric oxide (NO); 3) its cognitive effect and neuropharmacological effect that are intensively tested in various rat models using purified ginsenosides and show a hope to treat Parkinson's disease (PD); 4) its uses as an adjuvant or immunotherapeutic agent to enhance immune activity, appetite and life quality of cancer patients during their chemotherapy and radiation. Although the apoptotic effect of ginsenosides, especially Rh2, Rg3 and Compound K, on various tumor cells has been shown via different pathways, their clinical effectiveness remains to be tested. This paper also updates the antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, anti-apoptotic and immune-stimulatory activities of ginseng, its ingredients and commercial products, as well as common side effects of ginseng mainly due to its overdose, and its pharmacokinetics.
The anthracycline doxorubicin (DOX) is widely used in chemotherapy due to its efficacy in fighting a wide range of cancers such as carcinomas, sarcomas and hematological cancers. Despite extensive clinical utilization, the mechanisms of action of DOX remain under intense debate. A growing body of evidence supports the view that this drug can be a double-edge sword. Indeed, injury to nontargeted tissues often complicates cancer treatment by limiting therapeutic dosages of DOX and diminishing the quality of patients' life during and after DOX treatment. The literature shows that the heart is a preferential target of DOX toxicity. However, this anticancer drug also affects other organs like the brain, kidney and liver. This review is mainly devoted to discuss the mechanisms underlying not only DOX beneficial effects but also its toxic outcomes. Additionally, clinical studies focusing the therapeutic efficacy and side effects of DOX treatment will be discussed. Finally, some potential strategies to attenuate DOX-induced toxicity will be debated.
The anticonvulsant and neuroprotective properties of agonist and antagonist of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) have been known for 15 years or so. However, it is not yet clear whether these agents, and allied compounds, can be considered as candidate drugs for eventual use in the clinic to control the development of epilepsy, (i.e. as anti- epileptogenics), or for the control of seizures themselves (i.e. as anticonvulsants). In fact, few studies have been designed to test for these properties by, for instance, administering these agents during the chronic stages of experimental epilepsy to determine whether a tendency to generate spontaneously recurrent seizures, which often appear by epileptogenesis, could be prevented or stopped. Even in the acute stages, there are substantial differences in experimental design between the published studies. Thus, there are large variations in such factors as timing, and the route of administration of candidate drugs, the age, or species and strain of experimental animal used, and the experimental epilepsy model employed. Such variations often make it difficult to accurately assess the anticonvulsant, neuroprotective and anti-epileptogenic properties of each candidate drug across a wide range of studies. This paper, will review neuroanatomical, neurochemical, neuropharmacological studies of mGluRs in animal models and in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy, and summarize anticonvulsive and neuroprotective effects of their agonists and antagonists in different seizure and epilepsy models in order to give direction for the development of new generation anti-epileptogenic and anticonvulsive drugs.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a devastating condition generally leading to a permanent and irreversible loss of sensory and motor functions. We have identified recently a number of serotonergic, adrenergic and dopaminergic receptor agonists or precursors that can acutely elicit some motor and locomotor-like movements in completely spinal cord-transected (thoracic level) animals. However, only partial central network-activating effects were found with single molecules since none administered separately could elicit weight-bearing and functional stepping movements in Tx animals. In turn, a recent breakthrough revealed that full spinal locomotor network-activating effects may be induced with synergistic drug combinations. Indeed, specific cocktails comprising some of these agonists and precursors were found, indeed, to powerfully generate weight-bearing stepping with plantar foot placement in untrained, non-assisted and non-sensory-stimulated Tx mice. This significant finding provides clear evidence suggesting that combinatorial approaches based on drug-drug synergistic interactions may constitute innovative solutions for the design and development of novel pharmacological therapies in the field of SCI and related neurological disorders.
Since the introduction into clinical practice of vinca alkaloids, tubulin has become a key and well-established target of modern antineoplastic chemotherapy. When taxanes became available their broad spectrum of activity was striking and opened up new horizons for cancer patients' treatment. However, taxanes' susceptibility to drug resistance caused by the drug efflux pump protein, P-glycoprotein, is not infrequent and their use may be limited by poor solubility, synthetic problems and toxicity. The epothilones are a new class of chemotherapeutic agents with a mechanism of action similar to that of taxanes, but different enough to escape, for example, the multidrug resistance caused by P-glycoprotein. Moreover, the epothilones (that are strong promoters of tubulin polymerization) have significant antitumor activity against human cancer cells that are taxane-resistant, express the multidrug resistance gene MDR-1, and have acquired tubulin mutations. Finally, starting from the natural molecules, several synthetic analogues have been developed. Besides their antineoplastic efficacy, all the antitubulin drugs share a common toxicity on the peripheral nervous system and peripheral neurotoxicity is a major, potentially dose-limiting side effect also of the epothilones. The current knowledge regarding the features of epothilones' peripheral neurotoxicity and their comparison with taxanes will be reviewed.
For a long time it was believed that the adult mammalian brain was completely unable to regenerate after insults. However, recent advances in the field of stem cell biology, including the identification of adult neural stem cells (NSCs) and evidence regarding a continuous production of neurons throughout life in the dentate gyrus (DG) and the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricles (SVZ), have provided new hopes for the development of novel therapeutic strategies to induce regeneration in the damaged brain. Moreover, proofs have accumulated this last decade that endogenous stem/progenitor cells of the adult brain have an intrinsic capacity to respond to brain disorders. Here, we first briefly summarize our current knowledge related to adult neurogenesis before focusing on the behaviour of adult neural stem/progenitors cells following stroke and seizure, and describe some of the molecular cues involved in the response of these cells to injury. In the second part, we outline the consequences of three main neurodegenerative disorders on adult neurogenesis and we discuss the potential therapeutic implication of adult neural stem/progenitors cells during the course of these diseases.
Temozolomide (TMZ) is an oral anticancer agent approved for the treatment of newly diagnosed glioblastoma in combination with radiotherapy. Moreover, TMZ has shown comparable efficacy with respect to dacarbazine, the reference drug for metastatic melanoma. Due to its favorable toxicity and pharmacokinetic profile, TMZ is under clinical investigation for brain metastasis from solid tumors and refractory leukemias. TMZ interacts with DNA generating a wide spectrum of methyl adducts mainly represented by N-methylpurines. However, its antitumor activity has been mainly attributed to O(6)-methylguanine, since tumor cell sensitivity inversely correlates with the levels of O(6)-alkylguanine DNA alkyltransferase and requires an intact mismatch repair system. Therefore, an increasing number of studies have been performed in order to identify patients who will benefit from TMZ treatment on the basis of their molecular/genetic profile. Unfortunately, resistance to the methylating agent occurs relatively often and strongly affects the rate and durability of the clinical response in cancer patients. Thus, different approaches have been developed to abrogate resistance or to increase the efficacy of TMZ and for many of them investigation is still underway. Herein, we provide an overview on the recent findings of preclinical and clinical studies on TMZ in combination with inhibitors of DNA repair, chemotherapeutic drugs with different mechanisms of action or radiotherapy, anti-angiogenic agents and other biological modulators.
The therapeutic potential of cannabinoids has been studied and investigated through centuries, although many interesting discoveries have emerged from this field in the past decades. Indeed, peripheral analgesic effects of cannabinoids are a new avenue of treatment since they are avoiding the deleterious central side effects of systemic administration. Recently, it has been demonstrated that cannabinoid receptors (more specifically CB(1) and CB(2) receptors) and their endogenous ligands are present at the peripheral level, especially in different layers of skin, and mostly, in the epidermis and dermis. Those findings are reinforcing and confirming the efficacy of peripheral administration of cannabinoids used to alleviate pain in many different animal models. However, many studies have shown that the endocannabinoid system interacts with other receptors and pathways to modulate pain at the peripheral level. Thereof, the main goal of this review is to explain, in a better way, the different interactions regarding the cannabinoid system with other cellular components of its environment, its involvement in the modulation of pain at the peripheral level and, more precisely, in different layers of the skin.
The p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR) was originally identified as a low-affinity receptor for neurotrophins. Recent studies have revealed that p75NTR can promote cell death or survival and modulate neurite outgrowth depending on the operative ligands and co-receptors. Up-regulation and ligand activation of p75NTR have been shown to be involved in neuronal cell death in cultured cells and animal models of neurodegenerative diseases. The levels of proneurotrophins, which bind to p75NTR to promote neuronal death, have been found to be increased in postmortem brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease. Furthermore, there is some evidence for the involvement of this molecule in psychiatric diseases, such as depression and schizophrenia. Mice lacking p75NTR have been shown to have several alterations in central nervous system and cognitive function. Notably, recent progress in genome-based drug discovery has enabled the identification of peptides and non-peptide small molecules targeting p75NTR, which may be potentially beneficial in the treatment of neuropsychiatric diseases. In this review, we focus on recent findings on p75NTR as a therapeutic target for neuropsychiatric diseases.
Lessons from viral hijacks of cells and cancer biology suggest that the activation of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) often results in the modulation of various transcription factors and cofactors. Since drugs acting on GPCRs represent a significant portion of therapeutic agents currently in use, it is important to understand the actions of GPCRs on gene expression. GPCRs and their associated heterotrimeric G proteins are known to regulate gene transcription through complex signaling networks. The G protein-mediated signaling cascades have been extensively studied and accumulating evidence indicates that the four subfamilies of G proteins may utilize both common and unique pathways for transcriptional regulation. This review aims to provide a contemporary account of our understanding on the regulation of transcription factors by GPCRs, with a special emphasis on specific regulations of transcription factors such as STAT3 and NF-kappaB by individual G protein subfamilies. Functional impacts of the signal integration between different pathways and the contributions by other GPCR-interacting molecules will also be briefly discussed.
Somatic cell nuclear transfer or therapeutic cloning has provided great hope for stem cell-based therapies. However, therapeutic cloning has been experiencing both ethical and technical difficulties. Recent breakthrough studies using a combination of four factors to reprogram human somatic cells into pluripotent stem cells without using embryos or eggs have led to an important revolution in stem cell research. Comparative analysis of human induced pluripotent stem cells and human embryonic stem cells using assays for morphology, cell surface marker expression, gene expression profiling, epigenetic status, and differentiation potential have revealed a remarkable degree of similarity between these two pluripotent stem cell types. This mini-review summarizes these ground-breaking studies. These advances in reprogramming will enable the creation of patient-specific stem cell lines to study various disease mechanisms. The cellular models created will provide valuable tools for drug discovery. Furthermore, this reprogramming system provides great potential to design customized patient-specific stem cell therapies with economic feasibility.


The ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) plays a fundamental role in maintaining the correct balance of protein levels inside all living cells. Degradation of proteins by this pathway is essential for most cellular processes including cell signalling, DNA repair, apoptosis and gene transcription. Any disruption to the system is likely to have severe consequences which may lead to disorders including neurodegeneration and cancer. Ubiquitin protein ligases are a group of UPS proteins of particular importance because these proteins determine targeting specificity via recognition of a 'target' protein and its' subsequent 'tagging' with ubiquitin. The 26S proteasome recognises these mutli-ubiquitylated proteins, allowing the correct protein to be degraded at the correct time and place within each cell. Several types of ubiquitin protein ligase have now been identified, however, the largest group by far are those proteins containing a 'RING' motif. In this review, examples will be given whereby abnormal protein ubiquitylation due to absence or inefficiency of a RING protein ligase is proposed to be a key regulator of the disease process. Ways in which we may be able to reverse these effects or manipulate these proteins to restore function will be discussed.
The heterogeneity of symptoms and disease progression observed in synucleinopathies, of which Parkinson's disease (PD) is the most common representative, poses large problems for its treatment and for the discovery of novel therapeutics. The molecular basis for pathology is currently unclear, both in familial and in sporadic cases. While the therapeutic effects of L-DOPA and dopamine receptor agonists are still the gold standards for symptomatic treatment in PD, the development of neuroprotective and/or neurorestorative treatments for these disorders faces significant challenges due to the poor knowledge of the putative targets involved. Recent experimental evidence strongly suggests a central role for neurotoxic alpha-synuclein oligomeric species in neurodegeneration. The events leading to protein oligomerization, as well as the oligomeric species themselves, are likely amenable to modulation by small molecules, which are beginning to emerge in high throughput compound screens in a variety of model organisms. The therapeutic potential of small molecule modulators of oligomer formation demands further exploration and validation in cellular and animal disease models in order to accelerate human drug development.
Despite confirmed evidences about some neurochemical effects of antidepressant treatments, there is still a high level of uncertainty about which biological changes are needed to recover from a major depressive episode. Changes of monoaminergic neurotransmission are paralleled by profound changes in brain metabolism, neural responses to stimuli, sleep architecture, biological rhythms, and, at the intracellular level, neuronal signaling pathways regulating gene expression, neuroplasticity, and neurotrophic mechanisms. Sleep deprivation targets the biological mechanisms which are responsible for the possibility, unique to mood disorders, of rapid switching between depression, euthymia, and mania. The rapidity of action of sleep deprivation enables the study of the correlates of antidepressant response at close time points, providing a good model to study the biological basis of the antidepressant response and of the pathophysiology of affective illness. Current knowledge suggests that multiple neurobiological effects of sleep deprivation are responsible for the clinical mood amelioration, suggesting a multi-target mechanism of action. An impressive group of brain imaging studies using different brain imaging techniques (positron emission tomography, single photon emission tomography, functional magnetic resonance imaging, proton spectroscopy, arterial spin labeling) showed that clinical response is associated with changes in the functioning of specific brain areas. The combination of these new methodological acquisitions with the classical neurobiological and pharmacogenetic perspective provides an evolving knowledge about brain changes associated with antidepressant response, and will then help to identify the real targets of antidepressant treatment.
In this review, we debate the evidence for abnormal white matter microstructure and myelination in bipolar disorder, as mainly detected by diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) studies. The effects of mood stabilizers on white matter are discussed, based on available findings from human and animal studies. Last, perspectives in this field of research are also drawn.
One thing we know for certain after decades of functional imaging in schizophrenia is that it is not a disorder that can simply be attributed to circumscribed lesions in the brain. It is, in other words, a disorder of the connectivity of the brain. In this overview, we will consider the power of connectivity analyses of functional MRI (and PET) data as tools for translational neuroscience. We describe the patterns of functional and effective disconnectivity seen in schizophrenia and particular psychotic symptoms, those that appear to be attributable to genetic and/or environmental risk factors for psychosis, the potential of these disconnectivities as trait and state biomarkers, and their sensitivity to drug effects. We conclude that substantial work needs to be done on standardising connectivity analyses across laboratories and that disconnectivity studies should be an integral part of drug discovery programmes.
Recent evidence suggests that genetic variation is associated with individual variability in response to treatment with antipsychotics. Although numerous studies have been performed for identification of potential genetic variants affecting response to treatment, initial enthusiasm has been tempered by inconsistent results. Along with some specific methodological issues, another plausible explanation for such inconsistencies is lack of sensitivity of the phenotype (clinical measures) used to define response. In this paper, we review use of Imaging Genetics, a relatively new approach that combines genetic assessment with functional neuroimaging, to explore in vivo neurobiological effects of genetic variation. Moreover, we propose to use Imaging Genetics as a tool to evaluate and predict response to treatment with antipsychotics based on the individual genetic makeup.
Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels underlie the pacemaker currents in neurons and cardiac cells designated as I(h) and I(f), respectively. HCN channels are activated at negative membrane potentials and specifically upon repolarization following action potential firing resulting in a depolarizing current influencing the threshold for subsequent action potential generation. Consequently, HCN channels and I(h)/I(f) play a critical role in regulating excitability and rhythmic activity in excitable cells. The distribution of the four HCN channel subtypes has been studied in some detail in sensory neurons demonstrating a diverse and widespread distribution and raising the question as to their potential involvement in pain pathophysiology, frequently ascribed to aberrant neuronal hyperexcitability. This review discusses the evidence implicating a role for HCN channels in pain.
There is a brief summary of the early background literature about purinergic signalling and its involvement in pain, of ATP storage, release and ectoenzymatic breakdown and of the current classification of receptor subtypes for purines and pyrimidines. The review then focuses on purinergic mechanosensory transduction involved in visceral, cutaneous and musculoskeletal nociception and on the roles played by P2X-(3), P2Y(2/3), P2X(4), P2X(7) and P2Y(12) receptors in neuropathic and inflammatory pain. Current developments of compounds for the therapeutic treatment of both visceral and neuropathic pain are discussed.
Advances in the characterization of pain signaling in recent years indicate that distinct neurophysiological and neurochemical mechanisms contribute to pain arising from injury to the nervous system (neuropathic pain). Tissue injury results in the release of pro-nociceptive mediators that sensitize peripheral nerve terminals (peripheral sensitization), leading to neurochemical and phenotypic alterations of sensory neurons and increased excitability of spinal cord dorsal horn neurons (central sensitization). In addition, the response of the nervous system to pain is not static, but is modulated by descending systems originating in the brain that can modulate pain thresholds. In this review, attention is given to the experimental modeling of neuropathic pain in preclinical studies. Recently, an increased understanding of the neurophysiological plasticity of the nervous system in response to chronic pain has led to the discovery and development of novel pharmacological interventions that may have clinical utility in treating neuropathic pain.
The pathophysiology of mood disorders involves several genetic and social predisposing factors, as well as a dysregulated response to a chronic stressor, i.e. chronic pain. Our present view that depression involves a dysfunction of the monoaminergic system is a result of important clinical and preclinical observations over the past 40 years. In fact, current pharmacological treatment for depression is based on the use of drugs that act mainly by enhancing brain serotonin and noradrenaline neurotransmission by the blockade of the active reuptake mechanism for these neurotransmitters. However, a substantial number of patients do not respond adequately to antidepressant drugs. In view of this, there is an intense search to identify novel targets (receptors) for antidepressant therapy. Opioid peptides and their receptors are potential candidates for the development of novel antidepressant treatment. In this context, endogenous opioid peptides are co-expressed in brain areas known to play a major role in affective disorders and in the action of antidepressant drugs. The actions of endogenous opioids and opiates are mediated by three receptor subtypes (mu, delta and kappa), which are coupled to different intracellular effector systems. Also, antidepressants which increase the availability of noradrenaline and serotonin through the inhibition of the reuptake of both monoamines lead to the enhancement of the opioid pathway. Tricyclic antidepressants show an analgesic effect in neuropathic and inflammatory pain that is blocked by the opioid antagonist naloxone. A compilation of the most significant studies will illustrate the actual and potential value of the opioid system for clinical research and drug development.
Proteomics has evolved from genomic science due to the convergence of advances in protein chemistry, separations, mass spectroscopy, and peptide and protein databases. Where identifying protein-protein interactions was once limited to yeast two-hybrid analyses or empirical data, protein-protein interactions can now be examined in both cells and native tissues by precipitation of the protein complex of interest. Coupling this field to receptor pharmacology has recently allowed for the identification of proteins that differentially and selectively interact with receptors and are integral to their biological effects. It is becoming increasingly apparent that receptors in neurons do not exist as singular independent units, but rather are part of large macromolecular complexes of interacting proteins. It is a primary quest of neuroscience to piece together these interactions and to characterize the regulatory signalplexes of all proteins. This unit presents co-immunoprecipitation-coupled mass spectroscopy as one way of identifying signalplex partners.
In the 1950s, the discovery of anti-nerve growth factor, an immunotoxin stunting sympathetic neural development, signaled the advent of neurotoxins as research modalities. Other selective neurotoxins were discovered in rapid succession. In the 1960s, 6-hydroxydopamine and 6-hydroxydopa were shown to destroy noradrenergic and dopaminergic nerves. Excitotoxins (glutamate, aspartate, and analogs) were discovered in the 1970s. DSP-4 [N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine] proved to be selective for noradrenergic destruction, while 5,6- and 5,7-dihydroxytryptamines were relatively selective for serotonin neurons. Additional neurotoxins were discovered, but it was MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) that predominated neurotoxicity research in the 1980s. Eventually, Clostridium botulinum neurotoxin (BoNT), discovered as a &quot;poisonous&quot; principle in the late 1800s, resurfaced in purified and standardized forms as a clinically useful drug. Neurotoxins represent chemical tools, useful not only for discerning neuronal mechanisms and animal modeling of neurological disorders, but also for their use in medicine and potential as treatments for medical disorders. This unit reviews the early discovery of neurotoxins, describes categories of neurotoxins, and finally characterizes their usefulness--first as research tools, and eventually as clinical therapeutic agents.
Many drugs of abuse, including cannabinoids, opioids, alcohol and nicotine, can alter the levels of endocannabinoids in the brain. Recent studies show that release of endocannabinoids in the ventral tegmental area can modulate the reward-related effects of dopamine and might therefore be an important neurobiological mechanism underlying drug addiction. There is strong evidence that the endocannabinoid system is involved in drug-seeking behavior (especially behavior that is reinforced by drug-related cues), as well as in the mechanisms that underlie relapse to drug use. The cannabinoid CB(1) antagonist/inverse agonist rimonabant has been shown to reduce the behavioral effects of stimuli associated with drugs of abuse, including nicotine, alcohol, cocaine, and marijuana. Thus, the endocannabinoid system represents a promising target for development of new treatments for drug addiction.
Pharmacological and biochemical investigations on the endocannabinoid system are facilitated by the availability of compounds which interact with its constituents in specific and understandable ways. This chapter describes the main representatives of several classes of chemicals employed as pharmacological tools in this field, focusing on small organic compounds having, where possible, a drug-like structure. Many compounds having different intrinsic activity and selectivity towards the G-protein coupled receptors (GPCR) CB and CB are now available and are currently employed in research protocols. Recently, allosteric ligands for CB receptor and selective ligands for GPR55, a newly characterised GPCR, have also been described in the literature. As for compounds affecting endocannabinoid levels in living tissues, many classes of selective and, in some cases, drug-like inhibitors of FAAH are available, while only compounds with poor selectivity or in vivo activity are known to inhibit other enzymes involved in endocannabinoid catabolism, such as NAAA or MGL, and in endocannabinoid biosynthesis.
This chapter will review the basic pharmacology of endocannabinoid receptors. As the best-described cannabinoid receptors are G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), those will be the focus of this chapter. We will start with a basic review of GPCR signaling, as these concepts are critical to understanding the function of cannabinoid receptors. Next, several features of cannabinoid receptor signaling will be presented, with an emphasis on the effectors modulated by cannabinoid receptors. Finally, we will finish with a discussion of cannabinoid receptor agonists and antagonists and future directions. The aim of this chapter is to introduce the cannabinoid receptor pharmacology that will be necessary to appreciate the intricacies of endocannabinoid signaling presented in later chapters.
In this chapter, we summarise the current thinking about the nature of endocannabinoids. In describing the life cycle of these agents, we highlight the synthetic and catabolic enzymes suggested to be involved. For each of these, we provide a systematic analysis of information on sequence, subcellular and cellular distribution, as well as physiological and pharmacological substrates, enhancers and inhibitors, together with brief descriptions of the impact of manipulating enzyme levels through genetic mechanisms (dealt with in more detail in the chapter &quot;Genetic Models of the Endocannabinoid System&quot; by Monory and Lutz, this volume). In addition, we describe experiments investigating the stimulation of endocannabinoid synthesis and release in intact cell systems.
Motor behaviors are the primary means by which animals interact with their environment, forming the final output of most central nervous system (CNS) activity. The neural circuits that govern basic locomotor functions appear to be genetically hard wired and are comprised of discrete groups of neurons residing within the spinal cord. These local microcircuits coordinate simple reflexive behaviors in response to sensory stimuli and underlie the generation of rhythmic patterns of neural activity necessary for walking. In recent years there have been significant advances in understanding the genetic and molecular programs that determine the specificity of neural connections within the spinal cord that are critical for the emergence of coordinate motor behaviors. The assembly of circuits within the spinal cord requires the generation of diverse cell types to accommodate the intricate sets of interconnections between motor neurons, sensory neurons, interneurons, and muscle. The first and most critical aspect of this process is that motor neurons select their appropriate muscle targets in the periphery with fidelity and precision. All of the subsequent steps in motor neuron connectivity, such as their descending inputs from higher brain centers, their circuits with sensory neurons and interneurons are constrained by the early connections formed between motor neurons and their muscle targets. The actions of a single family of transcription factors, encoded by the chromosomally clustered Hox genes, appear to have a central role in defining the specificity of motor neuron-muscle connectivity. The emerging logic of Hox protein function in motor neuron specification may provide more general insights into the programs that determine synaptic specificity in other CNS regions.
The emergence of coordinated locomotor behaviors in vertebrates relies on the establishment of selective connections between discrete populations of neurons present in the spinal cord and peripheral nervous system. The assembly of the circuits necessary for movement presumably requires the generation of many unique cell types to accommodate the intricate connections between motor neurons, sensory neurons, interneurons, and muscle. The specification of diverse neuronal subtypes is mediated largely through networks of transcription factors that operate within progenitor and postmitotic cells. Selective patterns of transcription factor expression appear to define the cell-type-specific cellular programs that govern the axonal guidance decisions and synaptic specificities of neurons, and may lay the foundation through which innate motor behaviors are genetically predetermined. Recent studies on the developmental programs that specify two highly diverse neuronal classes-spinal motor neurons and proprioceptive sensory neurons-have provided important insights into the molecular strategies used in the earliest phases of locomotor circuit assembly. This chapter reviews progress toward elucidating the early transcriptional networks that define neuronal identity in the locomotor system, focusing on the pathways controlling the specific connections of motor neurons and sensory neurons in the formation of simple reflex circuits.
The central goal of this manuscript is to survey our present knowledge of how cortical interneuron subtypes are generated. To achieve this, we will first define what is meant by subtype diversity. To this end, we begin by considering the mature properties that differentiate between the different populations of cortical interneurons. This requires us to address the difficulties involved in determining which characteristics allow particular interneurons to be assigned to distinct subclasses. Having grappled with this thorny issue, we will then proceed to review the progressive events in development involved in the generation of interneuron diversity. Starting with their origin and specification within the subpallium, we will follow them up through the first postnatal weeks during their integration into a functional network. Finally, we will conclude by calling the readers attention to the devastating consequences that result from developmental failures in the formation of inhibitory circuits within the cortex.
The nervous system consists of hundreds of billions of neurons interconnected into the functional neural networks that underlie behaviors. The capacity of a neuron to innervate and function within a network is mediated via specialized cell junctions known as synapses. Synapses are macromolecular structures that regulate intercellular communication in the nervous system, and are the main gatekeepers of information flow within neural networks. Where and when synapses form determines the connectivity and functionality of neural networks. Therefore, our knowledge of how synapse formation is regulated is critical to our understanding of the nervous system and how it goes awry in neurological disorders. Synapse formation involves pairing of the pre- and postsynaptic partners at a specific neurospatial coordinate. The specificity of synapse formation requires the precise execution of multiple developmental events, including cell fate specification, cell migration, axon guidance, dendritic growth, synaptic target selection, and synaptogenesis (Juttner and Rathjen in Cell. Mol. Life Sci. 62:2811, 2005; Salie et al., in Neuron 45:189, 2005; Waites et al., in Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 28:251, 2005). Remarkably, during the development of the vertebrate nervous system, these developmental processes occur almost simultaneously in billions of neurons, resulting in the formation of trillions of synapses. How this remarkable specificity is orchestrated during development is one of the outstanding questions in the field of neurobiology, and the focus of discussion of this chapter. We center the discussion of this chapter on the early developmental events that orchestrate the process of synaptogenesis prior to activity-dependent mechanisms. We have therefore limited the discussion of important activity-dependent synaptogenic events, which are discussed in other chapters of this book. Moreover, our discussion is biased toward lessons we have learned from invertebrate systems, in particular from C. elegans and Drosophila. We did so to complement the discussions from other chapters in this book, which focus on the important findings that have recently emerged from the vertebrate literature. The chapter begins with a brief history of the field of synaptic biology. This serves as a backdrop to introduce some of the historically outstanding questions of synaptic development that have eluded us during the past century, and which are the focus of this review. We then discuss some general features of synaptic structure as it relates to its function. In particular, we will highlight evolutionarily conserved traits shared by all synaptic structures, and how these features have helped optimize these ancient cellular junctions for interneural communication. We then discuss the regulatory signals that orchestrate the precise assembly of these conserved macromolecular structures. This discussion will be framed in the context of the neurodevelopmental process. Specifically, much of our discussion will focus on how the seemingly disparate developmental processes are intimately linked at a molecular level, and how this relationship might be crucial in the developmental orchestration of circuit assembly. We hope that the discussion of the multifunctional cues that direct circuit development provides a conceptual framework into understanding how, with a limited set of signaling molecules, precise neural wiring can be coordinated between synaptic partners.
Proper wiring up of the nervous system is critical to the development of organisms capable of complex and adaptable behaviors. Besides the many experimental advances in determining the cellular and molecular machinery that carries out this remarkable task precisely and robustly, theoretical approaches have also proven to be useful tools in analyzing this machinery. A quantitative understanding of these processes can allow us to make predictions, test hypotheses, and appraise established concepts in a new light. Three areas that have been fruitful in this regard are axon guidance, retinotectal mapping, and activity-dependent development. This chapter reviews some of the contributions made by mathematical modeling in these areas, illustrated by important examples of models in each section. For axon guidance, we discuss models of how growth cones respond to their environment, and how this environment can place constraints on growth cone behavior. Retinotectal mapping looks at computational models for how topography can be generated in populations of neurons based on molecular gradients and other mechanisms such as competition. In activity-dependent development, we discuss theoretical approaches largely based on Hebbian synaptic plasticity rules, and how they can generate maps in the visual cortex very similar to those seen in vivo. We show how theoretical approaches have substantially contributed to the advancement of developmental neuroscience, and discuss future directions for mathematical modeling in the field.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder characterised by dopaminergic cell loss in the substantia nigra. In addition, neurodegeneration occurs at a number of extra-nigral locations and involves a variety of non-dopaminergic neurotransmitter systems. Etiopathogenic mechanisms leading to cell death include oxidative stress and free radical generation, mitochondrial dysfunction, glutamate receptor mediated excitotoxicity, inflammation, oligodendrocytic interaction and neurotrophic factors, ubiquitin-proteosome system involvement, autophagy and apoptosis. Each of these is a potential target for novel pharmacotherapies including bioenergetic agents, inhibitors of excitotoxicity, neurotrophic factors, proteosomal enhancers and anti-apoptotic agents. Evidence has also been gained from cell culture and animal models for the potential disease modifying action of currently available dopaminergic therapies. These drugs have undergone clinical evaluation using studies with novel designs including &quot;delayed start&quot; methodology and studies using neuroimaging as a surrogate marker of dopaminergic cell loss. It is estimated from clinical, pathological and imaging studies that at least 50% of dopaminergic neurons are lost before the development of significant motor symptoms with a pre-motor phase of approximately 6-8 years. A number of pre- and post-synaptic neuroplastic homeostatic mechanisms occur during this period to maintain motor function. However these changes have been implicated in the development of motor complications (wearing &quot;off&quot; and dyskinesias). The evidence for treatments of motor complications in PD is discussed as are potential non-dopaminergic therapeutic targets to delay or improve motor complications.
Peripheral nerve injury triggers a series of responses in the injured nerve, such as the dissolution of distal axons, the activation of Schwann cells, the production of various proinflammatory mediators, and the infiltration of circulating immune cells. These orchestrated events regulate the degeneration and subsequent regeneration of the injured nerve. In addition, peripheral nerve injury often accompanies chronic pain. Studies in this field have revealed that spinal cord microglia activation plays a critical role in the development of pain hypersensitivity. Recent studies using genetically modified mice indicate that Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are involved in nerve degeneration (Wallerian degeneration) and chronic pain (neuropathic pain) development after nerve injury. Here, we review studies that have implicated TLRs in mediating nerve degeneration/regeneration and neuropathic pain following nerve injury. In addition, we discuss possible mechanisms underlying the roles of TLRs in these neurological disorders.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the formation of insoluble deposits of beta-amyloid (Abeta) within the parenchyma of the brain. These deposits are associated with a robust microglia-mediated inflammatory response. Recent work has demonstrated that Toll-like receptors (TLRs) participate in this inflammatory response. This chapter reviews the mechanisms whereby TLRs contribute to the induction of a microglial inflammatory response to promote AD pathogenesis. Specifically, the involvement of CD14 and the TLRs in microglial activation is delineated. The TLR-mediated microglial response has beneficial roles in stimulating phagocytosis as well as detrimental roles in the Abeta-stimulated release of neurotoxic products.
In the past years, many reports have described the existence of neural progenitor and stem cells in the adult central nervous system capable of generating new neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. This discovery has overturned the central assumption in the neuroscience field, of no new neurons being originated in the brain after birth and provided the fundaments to understand the molecular basis of neural differentiation and to develop new therapies for neural tissue repair. Although the mechanisms underlying cell fate during neural development are not yet understood, the importance of intrinsic and extrinsic factors and of an appropriate microenvironment is well known. In this context, emerging evidence strongly suggests that glial cells play a key role in controlling multiple steps of neurogenesis. Those cells, of particular radial glia, are important for migration, cell specification, and integration of neurons into a functional neural network. This review aims to present an update in the neurogenesis area and highlight the modulation of neural stem cell differentiation by neurotransmitters, growth factors, and their receptors, with possible applications for cell therapy strategies of neurological disorders.
Multipotent human neural stem cells (hNSC) have traditionally been isolated directly from the central nervous system (CNS). To date, as a therapeutic tool in the treatment of neurologic disorders, the most promising results have been obtained using hNSC isolated directly from the human fetal neuroectoderm. The propagation ability of such tissue-derived hNSC is often limited, however, making it difficult to establish a large-scale culture. Following engraftment, these hNSC often show low efficiency in generating the desired neuronal cells necessary for reconstruction of the damaged host milieu and, as a result, have failed to give satisfactory results in clinical trials so far. Alternatively, human embryonic stem cells (hESC) offer a pluripotent reservoir for in vitro derivation of a rich spectrum of well-characterized neural-lineage committed stem/progenitor/precursor cells that can, theoretically, be picked at precisely their safest and most efficacious state of plasticity to meet a given clinical challenge. However, the need for 'foreign' biologic additives and multilineage differentiation inclination may make direct use of such cell-derived hNSC in patients problematic. The hNSC, when derived from pluripotent cells under protocols presently employed in the field, tend to display not only a low efficiency in neuronal differentiation, but also an inclination for phenotypic heterogeneity and instability and, hence, increased risk of tumorigenesis following engraftment. For hNSC derived in vitro to be used safely in therapeutic paradigms, it requires conversion of human pluripotent cells uniformly to cells that are restricted to the neural lineage in need of repair. Developing strategies for direct induction of human pluripotent cells exclusively into neural-committed progenies at a broad range of developmental stages will allow a large supply of optimal therapeutic hNSC tailor-made for safe and effective treatment of particular neurologic diseases and injuries in patients.
Evoked potentials are commonly used in neurology but standardized protocols have to be carried out during both application and evaluation. Otherwise adequacy and reliability might be questioned, which is unacceptable in evidence-based modern science. Both motor and somatosensory evoked potential studies can only be interpreted as a neurophysiologic measure in cord lesions if applied irreproachably.
Following the technological advances that have enabled genome-wide analysis in most model organisms over the last decade, there has been unprecedented growth in genomic and post-genomic science with concomitant generation of an exponentially increasing volume of data and material resources. As a result, numerous repositories have been created to store and archive data, organisms and material, which are of substantial value to the whole community. Sustained access, facilitating re-use of these resources, is essential, not only for validation, but for re-analysis, testing of new hypotheses and developing new technologies/platforms. A common challenge for most data resources and biological repositories today is finding financial support for maintenance and development to best serve the scientific community. In this study we examine the problems that currently confront the data and resource infrastructure underlying the biomedical sciences. We discuss the financial sustainability issues and potential business models that could be adopted by biological resources and consider long term preservation issues within the context of mouse functional genomics efforts in Europe.
Background/Aims: Abnormal inflammatory response has been associated to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and may be a marker of an ongoing neurodegenerative process. The aim of this study was to evaluate the serum levels of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and AD. Methods: One hundred and sixty-three older adults (58 with mild to moderate AD, 74 with MCI and 31 healthy controls) were recruited for this study. Serum IL-1beta levels were measured by ELISA. Patients with MCI were subcategorized in single-domain amnestic (aMCI), nonamnestic (naMCI), and multiple-domain (mdMCI) subtypes. Results: Patients with AD and MCI (all subtypes) had a significant increase in serum IL-1beta levels as compared to controls (p = 0.03). Patients with mdMCI had serum IL-1beta levels comparable to those with AD, and significantly higher than those observed in aMCI and naMCI (p = 0.02). Discussion: The present study provides evidence that inflammatory mechanisms, represented by elevated IL-1beta, are observed in patients with MCI, specifically in those with impairment in multiple cognitive domains. As these patients are at higher risk of conversion to dementia, we propose that an increased serum IL-1beta level is a stage marker of the ongoing brain neurodegeneration in the continuum between normal ageing and AD.









Although selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are reported to be effective in decreasing posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms, a subgroup of PTSD patients remain chronically symptomatic and maintain conditioned fear responses to traumatic stimuli. In this context, the establishment of an appropriate animal model of PTSD is necessary to promote better understanding of the mechanisms of the disorder and to facilitate the development of more effective therapeutic alternatives to SSRIs. Although no single widely accepted animal model of PTSD has been established to date, the single prolonged stress (SPS) animal model has been partially validated as a model for PTSD. SPS rats mimic the pathophysiological abnormalities and behavioral characteristics of PTSD, such as enhanced anxiety-like behavior and glucocorticoid negative feedback, and they exhibit the expected therapeutic response to paroxetine on enhanced fear memory. In addition, SPS rats exhibit enhanced freezing in response to contextual fear conditioning, and impaired extinction of fear memory, which is alleviated by D-cycloserine. The enhanced consolidation and impaired extinction of fear memory found in SPS rats suggests that this model has additional value because recent studies of PTSD indicate that memory abnormalities are a central feature. In this study, we summarize the behavioral and pathophysiological PTSD-like symptoms in SPS, focusing on memory abnormalities, and evaluate the validity of SPS as an animal model of PTSD.




Since the identification of fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) over 35 years ago, mounting evidence about the impact of maternal alcohol consumption during pregnancy has prompted increased attention to the link between prenatal alcohol exposure (PAE) and a constellation of developmental disabilities that are characterized by physical, cognitive, and behavioral impairments. These disabilities include a continuum of developmental disorders known as fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs). Longitudinal studies suggest that individuals with FASDs are at a greatly increased risk for adverse long-term outcomes, including mental health problems and poor social adjustment. This review summarizes the existing literature on mental health outcomes for individuals with PAE across the lifespan, including findings in infancy and early childhood, middle childhood, and adolescence and early adulthood. Research on the psychiatric disabilities suffered by individuals with FASDs throughout development highlights the need for training of mental health professionals in the identification and the provision of specific treatments to address the unique features of this developmental disability since early identification and treatment have been demonstrated to be protective against more serious secondary disabilities. It is hoped that with greater awareness of the mental health problems experienced by individuals with FASDs, these individuals can receive appropriate and early treatment resulting in more adaptive and rewarding lives.
Exposure to alcohol in utero is considered to be the leading cause of developmental disabilities of known etiology. The most severe consequence of such exposure, fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS), is characterized by a distinct constellation of characteristic facial anomalies, growth retardation, and central nervous system (CNS) dysfunction. Some individuals with prenatal alcohol exposure (PAE) do not meet the full criteria for FAS, but instead are diagnosed with partial FAS, alcohol related neurodevelopmental disorder (ARND), or alcohol related birth defects (ARBD). The entire continuum of effects from PAE is increasingly being referred to under the umbrella term of fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs). An extensive body of research has documented major cognitive, behavioral, adaptive, social, and emotional impairments among individuals with FASDs. Although FAS was identified in the U.S. over 35 years ago, the development, evaluation, and dissemination of evidence-based interventions for individuals with FASDs have lagged behind significantly. Encouragingly, however, in recent years there has been a marked increase in efforts to design and test interventions to remediate the impairments associated with prenatal alcohol exposure. This article will review treatment needs and considerations for individuals with FASDs and their families, current empirically tested treatment approaches, case management issues, and suggestions for future directions in research on the treatment of FASDs.
What is mathematical learning disability (MLD)? The reviews in this special issue adopt different approaches to defining the construct of MLD. Collectively, they demonstrate the current status of efforts to establish a consensus definition and the challenges faced in this endeavor. In this commentary, we reflect upon the proposed pathways to mathematical learning difficulties and disabilities presented across the reviews. Specifically we consider how each of the reviews contributes to identifying the MLD phenotype by specifying the range of assets and deficits in mathematics, identifying sources of individual variation, and characterizing the natural progression of MLD over the life course. We show how principled comparisons across disorders address issues about the cognitive and behavioral co-morbidities of MLD, and whether commonalities in brain dysmorphology are associated with common mathematics performance profiles. We project the status of MLD research ten years hence with respect to theoretical gains, advances in methodology, and principled intervention studies.
In this report, we describe a successful protocol for isolating and expression-profiling live fluorescent-protein-labelled neurons from zebrafish embryos. As a proof-of-principle for this method, we FAC-sorted and RNA-profiled GFP-labelled spinal CiA interneurons and compared the expression profile of these cells to those of post-mitotic spinal neurons in general and to all trunk cells. We show that RNA of sufficient quality and quantity to uncover both expected and novel transcription profiles via Affymetrix microarray analysis can be extracted from 5,700 to 20,000 FAC-sorted cells. As part of this study, we also further confirm the genetic homology of mammalian and zebrafish V1 interneurons, by demonstrating that zebrafish V1 cells (CiAs) express genes that encode for the transcription factors Lhx1a and Lhx5. This protocol for dissociating, sorting and RNA-profiling neurons from organogenesis-stage zebrafish embryos should also be applicable to other developing organs and tissues and potentially other model organisms.
A table of developmental stages of the target species is useful for studying the development of any animal. Although tables of developmental stages have been established for several squamates, none has been published for gekkonid lizards. We have established a table of developmental stages for the Madagascar ground gecko Paroedura pictus. The table includes 27 embryonic stages from oviposition to hatching based on chronology and external morphology. The interval from oviposition to hatching is 60 days. Eleven to sixteen somites were observed at oviposition, and 5 to 6 somites were formed each day. Limb bud swellings were recognized by the third day after oviposition. After 2 weeks of incubation, the presumptive autopod was detected by carpal/tarsal cartilage formation. Cartilages in all digits were seen by 3 weeks after oviposition. Skin pigment was visible after 4 weeks incubation, and the skin color pattern was apparent 40 days after oviposition.
In developing central nervous system, a variety of mechanisms couple cell cycle exit to differentiation during neurogenesis. The cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitor p57Kip2 controls the transition from proliferation to differentiation in many tissues, but roles in developing brain remain uncertain. To characterize possible functions, we defined p57Kip2 protein expression in embryonic (E) day 12.5 to 20.5 rat brains using immunohistochemistry combined with markers of proliferation and differentiation. The p57Kip2 was localized primarily in cell nuclei and positive cells formed two distinct patterns including wide dispersion and laminar aggregation that were brain region-specific. From E12.5 to E16.5, p57Kip2 expression was detected mainly in ventricular zone (VZ) and/or mantle zone of hippocampus, septum, basal ganglia, thalamus, hypothalamus, midbrain, and spinal cord. After E18.5, p57Kip2 was detected in select regions undergoing differentiation. The p57Kip2 expression was also compared with regional transcription factors, including Ngn2, Nkx2.1, and Pax6. Time course studies performed in diencephalon showed that p57Kip2 immunoreactivity colocalized with BrdU at 8 hr in nuclei exhibiting the wide dispersion pattern, whereas colocalization in the laminar pattern occurred only later. Moreover, p57Kip2 frequently colocalized with neuronal marker, beta-III tubulin. Finally, we characterized relationships of p57Kip2 to CDK inhibitor p27Kip1: in proliferative regions, p57Kip2 expression preceded p27Kip1 as cells underwent differentiation, though the proteins colocalized in substantial numbers of cells, suggesting potentially related yet distinct functions of Cip/Kip family members during neurogenesis. Our observations that p57Kip2 exhibits nuclear expression as precursors exit the cell cycle and begin expressing neuronal characteristics suggests that the CDK inhibitor contributes to regulating the transition from proliferation to differentiation during brain development.
The purpose of this study was to explore the relationship between electroencephalogram (EEG) phase reset in autism spectrum disorder (ASD) subjects as compared to age matched control subjects. The EEG was recorded from 19 scalp locations from 54 autistic subjects and 241 control subjects ranging in age from 2.6 years to 11 years. Complex demodulation was used to compute instantaneous phase differences between all pairs of electrodes and the 1st and 2nd derivatives were used to measure phase reset by phase shift duration and phase lock duration. In both short (6 cm) and long (21-24 cm) inter-electrode distances phase shift duration in ASD subjects was significantly shorter in all frequency bands but especially in the alpha-1 frequency band (8-10 Hz) (p &lt; .0001). Phase lock duration was significantly longer in the alpha-2 frequency band (10-12 Hz) in ASD subjects (p &lt; .0001). An anatomical gradient was present with the occipital-parietal regions the most significant. The findings in this study support the hypothesis that neural resource recruitment occurs in the lower frequency bands and especially the alpha-1 frequency band while neural resource allocation occurs in the alpha-2 frequency band. The results are consistent with a general GABA inhibitory neurotransmitter deficiency resulting in reduced number and/or strength of thalamo-cortical connections in autistic subjects.
Children with specific language impairment (SLI) who show impaired phonological processing are at risk of developing reading disabilities, which raises the question of phonological impairment commonality between developmental dyslexia (DD) and SLI. In order to distinguish the failing phonological processes in SLI and DD, we investigated the different steps involved in speech processing going from perceptual discrimination through various aspects of phonological memory. Our results show that whereas the memory for sequence is likewise impaired in either disorder, children with SLI have to face additional impairment in phonological discrimination and short-term memory, which may account for even poorer phonological awareness than dyslexics'.



This review examines the general hypothesis that cellular plasticity may be related to genomic plasticity. Using a novel approach to microarray analysis, recent studies from our laboratory showed that, in genetically identical mice, variability in the large-scale organization of gene expression was associated with individual differences in behavior. An association of the large-scale organization of gene expression in the hippocampus with behavioral variability suggests that an important aspect of gene expression regulation had gone unrecognized with traditional genomic approaches designed to look for specific differences in gene expression levels. Here we introduce the concept of a 'genomic tone' as a global genomic property related to the levels and balance between factors that generally promote and factors that generally inhibit gene expression. We suggest that genomic tone may be related to the plasticity of the gene expression system and may be an important target for developmental and therapeutic interventions.
Sleep deprivation among adolescents is epidemic. We argue that this sleep deprivation is due in part to pubertal changes in the homeostatic and circadian regulation of sleep. These changes promote a delayed sleep phase that is exacerbated by evening light exposure and incompatible with aspects of modern society, notably early school start times. In this review of human and animal literature, we demonstrate that delayed sleep phase during puberty is likely a common phenomenon in mammals, not specific to human adolescents, and we provide insight into the mechanisms underlying this phenomenon.
Computer analyses of EEG/sleep states can be used as physiologic biomarkers of developmental neural plasticity. Frequency- and time-dependent signal processing strategies of cerebral and noncerebral measures can help test current theories of neuronal network maturation in terms of segregation and integration of short-distance versus long-distance neuronal connections throughout the neuroaxis. Specific phenotypic expressions of adaptive or maladaptive neuronal connectivity are proposed based on comparisons of whole-brain EEG/sleep resting states between preterm and full-term cohorts when developmental outcome measures are applied. Combined use of neurophysiological datasets with neuroimaging and genetic methodologies define endophenotypes that will more accurately diagnose children at risk for developmental disorders, as well as design appropriate neuroprotective interventions for the individual's age and disease progress.
Early developmental treatment of rats with 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) was previously found to cause an abnormal pattern of forebrain serotonergic axon density in adulthood consisting of a cortical hypoinnervation and a striatal hyperinnervation. The present study tested the hypothesis that this reorganization was due to regional differences in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression. Rats received MDMA (10 mg/kg, s.c., b.i.d.) on postnatal days (PD) 1-4, after which brain tissues were collected on PD 11, 30, and 67 for analysis. BDNF protein levels were found to be elevated in the occipital cortex but not in the hippocampus or striatum following MDMA administration. Serotonin transporter binding (an index of serotonergic fiber integrity) was significantly reduced in the hippocampus at PD 11 but returned to normal by PD 30, whereas the cortex exhibited a delayed reduction that was not manifested until PD 30. These results do not support the view that a region-specific enhancement in BDNF expression mediates the abnormal serotonergic reinnervation observed following neonatal MDMA exposure.
Behavioral changes in adult mice after prenatal exposure to cocaine have been identified. Mice exposed to cocaine in utero (40 or 20 mg/kg/day) and controls were given a sensitizing cocaine regimen (15 mg/kg every other day x 7 doses), withdrawn for 21 days, and challenged with 15 mg/kg cocaine. In vivo microdialysis for dopamine (DA), serotonin, and their metabolites in awake behaving mice on the first, seventh and challenge doses showed increased cocaine-stimulated DA release in the nucleus accumbens, which was significantly enhanced after prenatal cocaine exposure. This effect was not due to fetal malnutrition or changes in the total tissue DA content. Early developmental cocaine exposure may alter adaptation of brain reward systems to chronic psychostimulant exposure in adulthood.
Developing neurons pass through periods of sensitivity to environmental factors, e.g., alterations induced by ethanol are defined when the exposure occurs. We tested the hypothesis that timely episodic prenatal exposure to ethanol can change the lineage of cortical neurons. This study exploited mice in which many layer V neurons expressed a Thy1-YFPh transgene and endogenously fluoresced yellow. Fetuses were exposed to ethanol or saline on gestational day (G) 14 (when layer V neurons were generated) or on G 15 or 17 (when these layer V neurons were migrating). Fetuses dosed on G 14 exhibited an increased frequency of YFP+ neurons across cortex. This contrasted with a decreased frequency following ethanol exposure on G 17. Ethanol did not affect overall density of layer V neurons or their generation. Thus, the magnitude and valence of ethanol-induced changes in YFP+ neurons are time-dependent. Cell lineage is defined at the time of origin and the window of lability for this definition continues into the early post-mitotic (migratory) period.
Defects in the development of the brain have a profound impact on mature brain functions and underlying psychopathology. Classical neurotransmitters and neuromodulators, such as dopamine, serotonin, norepinephrine, acetylcholine, glutamate and GABA, have pleiotropic effects during brain development. In other words, these molecules produce multiple diverse effects to serve as regulators of distinct cellular functions at different times in neurodevelopment. These systems are impacted upon by abuse of a variety of illicit drugs, neurotherapeutics and environmental contaminants. In this review, we describe the impact of drugs and chemicals on brain formation and function in animal models and in human populations, highlighting sensitive periods and effects that may not emerge until later in life.
A fundamental problem in developmental neuroscience is understanding how extracellular cues link to complex intracellular signaling pathways to drive stage-specific developmental decisions. During the formation of the mammalian peripheral nervous system, bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) promote neuronal differentiation. BMPs also maintain the expression of early glial genes such as GFAP, while blocking the acquisition of a mature, myelinating Schwann cell phenotype. We investigated the BMP-activated signaling pathways that contribute to early glial gene expression to address the question of how specific signaling interactions contribute to cell fate decisions in neural crest lineages. Using a neural-crest-derived cell line that exhibits the characteristics of immature Schwann cells, we found that BMP2 promotes GFAP expression using Smad signaling as well as the phosphoinositide-3 kinase (PI3K) and mitogen-activated protein kinase1/2extracellular signal-regulated kinase- (MEK1/2/ERK) pathways. The GFAP promoter does not contain known Smad consensus sites, suggesting that Smads may act indirectly to promote GFAP expression. We provide evidence that this indirect effect may be mediated via induction of immediate early genes and the transcription factor Sp1 by demonstrating that these transcriptional regulators are induced by BMP2 and contribute to GFAP promoter activity. These findings demonstrate new roles for intracellular kinase pathways in mediating the effects of BMPs during the early stages of glial differentiation and suggest that differential contributions by signaling and transcriptional networks may contribute to the range of effects of BMPs on neuronal and glial development during the formation of the peripheral nervous system.
Amphetamines are among the most widely abused drugs. The user population includes a large proportion of women of child-bearing age. The early ontogeny of the axons in the neocortex and other neural structures positions them to influence the development and connectivity of non-aminergic dendrites and axons in these structures. A cascade of abnormalities in neural circuitry may result from the effects of amphetamines on the dopaminergic system. An attempt has been made to investigate the possible changes in the dopaminergic system in neonatal rats (a human third trimester equivalent model) following chronic D-amphetamine exposure. Neonatal rats were administered 5-15 mg/kg D-amphetamine subcutaneously daily from postnatal day 4 to day 10. Several parameters related to the dopaminergic system were measured. The results showed that tyrosine hydroxylase enzyme levels were significantly decreased in the prefrontal cortex, dorsal striatum and nucleus accumbens. Dopamine D1 receptor (DRD1) levels increased in the dorsal striatum whereas dopamine D2 receptor (DRD2) levels significantly decreased in both the prefrontal cortex and the dorsal striatum but significantly increased in the nucleus accumbens. In order to investigate whether these changes occurred at the transcriptional level, DRD1 and DRD2 mRNAs were detected. The results showed that DRD1 mRNA levels were significantly increased in the dorsal striatum whereas DRD2 mRNA levels were significantly increased in all three brain regions. These results indicate that early D-amphetamine exposure altered the dopaminergic system in the developing rat brain. This change may lead to abnormal perinatal stimulation that may yield long-term consequences.
In this article, the authors introduce a new theoretical framework for understanding intersensory development. Their approach is based upon insights gained from adults who experience synesthesia, in whom sensory stimuli induce extra cross-modal or intramodal percepts. Synesthesia appears to represent one way that typical developmental mechanisms can play out by magnifying connections present in early life that are pruned and/or inhibited during development but persist in muted form in all adults. As such, the study of synesthesia provides valuable insights into the nature of intersensory development. The authors review evidence on the perceptual reality and neural basis of synesthesia, then summarize developmental models and evidence that its underlying mechanisms are universal in adults. They illustrate how evidence for consistent sensory associations in adults leads to predictions about toddlers' perception and present 3 bodies of work that have confirmed those hypotheses. They end by describing novel hypotheses about intersensory development that arise from this framework. Such intersensory associations appear to reflect intrinsic sensory cortical organization that influences the development of perception and of language and that may constrain the learning of environmentally based associations.
It is proposed that the mind and brain often work at a gross level and only with fine tuning or inhibition act in a more differentiated manner, even when one might think the domains being issued the global command should be distinct. This applies to disparate findings in cognitive science and neuroscience in both children and adults. Thus, it is easier to switch everything, or nothing, than to switch one thing (the rule one is following or which button to press) but not the other. It is easier to issue the same command to both hands than to move only one hand. If one needs to respond to the opposite (or antonym) of a stimulus, one is faster if the correct response is to the side opposite the stimulus. People tend to think of the nervous system as sending out very precise commands only to the relevant recipient, but it appears that often the command goes out more globally and then parts of the system need to be inhibited from acting on the command.
Social life rests in large part on the capacity to understand the intentions behind the behavior of others. What are the origins of this capacity? How is one to construe its development in ontogenesis? By assuming that action understanding can be explained only in terms of the ability to read the minds of others--that is, to represent mental states--the traditional view claims that a sharp discontinuity occurs in both phylogeny and ontogeny. Over the last few years this view has been challenged by a number of ethological and psychological studies, as well as by several neurophysiological findings. In particular, the functional properties of the mirror neuron system and its direct matching mechanism indicate that action understanding may be primarily based on the motor cognition that underpins one's own capacity to act. This article aims to elaborate and motivate the pivotal role of such motor cognition, providing a biologically plausible and theoretically unitary account for the phylogeny and ontogeny of action understanding and also its impairment, as in the case of autistic spectrum disorder.
This article argues that one dominant position in psychology, linguistics, neuroscience, and philosophy about how genetic disorders point to the innate specification of dissociated modules in the human brain should be replaced by a dynamic, neuroconstructivist approach in which genes, brain, cognition, and environment interact multidirectionally. The article challenges current thinking about a series of questions: (a) Do significantly better scores in one domain necessarily indicate an intact module? (b) What do scores in the normal range suggest? (c) What is wrong with mental-age matching? (d) Why is the notion of an intact module unlikely? (e) Do developmental disorders suggest associations rather than dissociations? (f) Is the environment the same for atypically developing individuals? The article concludes by examining the implications of taking a neuroconstructivist approach and by arguing that human intelligence is not a state (i.e., not a collection of static, built-in modules that can be intact or impaired) but a process (i.e., the emergent property over developmental time of dynamic, multidirectional interactions between genes, brain, cognition, behavior, and environment) with domain-specific outcomes impossible without the process of development.
To examine the neurobiological consequences of early institutionalization, the authors recorded event-related potentials (ERPs) from 3 groups of Romanian children--currently institutionalized, previously institutionalized but randomly assigned to foster care, and family-reared children--in response to pictures of happy, angry, fearful, and sad facial expressions of emotion. At 3 assessments (baseline, 30 months, and 42 months), institutionalized children showed markedly smaller amplitudes and longer latencies for the occipital components P1, N170, and P400 compared to family-reared children. By 42 months, ERP amplitudes and latencies of children placed in foster care were intermediate between the institutionalized and family-reared children, suggesting that foster care may be partially effective in ameliorating adverse neural changes caused by institutionalization. The age at which children were placed into foster care was unrelated to their ERP outcomes at 42 months. Facial emotion processing was similar in all 3 groups of children; specifically, fearful faces elicited larger amplitude and longer latency responses than happy faces for the frontocentral components P250 and Nc. These results have important implications for understanding of the role that experience plays in shaping the developing brain.
This commentary reviews and reflects on the studies of this special section: studies that collectively provide compelling evidence for meaningful changes in stress- and emotionally reactive psychophysiological systems with the transition from middle childhood into adolescence. The observed changes were complex and often overlaid upon ontogenetic differences in basal levels of activation of these systems. Maturational increases in responsiveness to stressors were stressor dependent and differentially expressed across autonomic and hormonal measures. Pubertal status increased the impact of some affective valence manipulations, although not significantly influencing others, including negative affect-related potentiation of startle/reflexes. Such ontogenetic increases in stressor and affect sensitivity may have implications for developmental psychopathology. Developmental increases in stressor reactivity may normally aid youth in responding adaptively to the challenges of adolescence, but may result in stress dysregulation among at-risk adolescents, increasing further their vulnerability for psychopathology. Pubertal-related increases in sensitivity to emotionally laden stimuli may exacerbate individual predispositions for exaggerated affective processing, perhaps contributing to the emergence of psychological disorders in these youth. Together, these studies, with their innovative use of autonomic, reflexive, and hormonal measures to index age- and pubertal-related changes in reactivity to stressors and affective stimuli, provide promising directions for future research. Some of these, along with a few cautionary notes, are outlined.
Executive functions, including working memory and inhibition, are of central importance to much of human behavior. Interventions intended to improve executive functions might therefore serve an important purpose. Previous studies show that working memory can be improved by training, but it is unknown if this also holds for inhibition, and whether it is possible to train executive functions in preschoolers. In the present study, preschool children received computerized training of either visuo-spatial working memory or inhibition for 5 weeks. An active control group played commercially available computer games, and a passive control group took part in only pre- and posttesting. Children trained on working memory improved significantly on trained tasks; they showed training effects on non-trained tests of spatial and verbal working memory, as well as transfer effects to attention. Children trained on inhibition showed a significant improvement over time on two out of three trained task paradigms, but no significant improvements relative to the control groups on tasks measuring working memory or attention. In neither of the two interventions were there effects on non-trained inhibitory tasks. The results suggest that working memory training can have significant effects also among preschool children. The finding that inhibition could not be improved by either one of the two training programs might be due to the particular training program used in the present study or possibly indicate that executive functions differ in how easily they can be improved by training, which in turn might relate to differences in their underlying psychological and neural processes.
In their first years, children's understanding of mental states seems to improve dramatically, but the mechanisms underlying these changes are still unclear. Such 'theory of mind' (ToM) abilities may arise during development, or have an innate basis, developmental changes reflecting limitations of other abilities involved in ToM tasks (e.g. inhibition). Special circumstances such as early bilingualism may enhance ToM development or other capacities required by ToM tasks. Here we compare 3-year-old bilinguals and monolinguals on a standard ToM task, a modified ToM task and a control task involving physical reasoning. The modified ToM task mimicked a language-switch situation that bilinguals often encounter and that could influence their ToM abilities. If such experience contributes to an early consolidation of ToM in bilinguals, they should be selectively enhanced in the modified task. In contrast, if bilinguals have an advantage due to better executive inhibitory abilities involved in ToM tasks, they should outperform monolinguals on both ToM tasks, inhibitory demands being similar. Bilingual children showed an advantage on the two ToM tasks but not on the control task. The precocious success of bilinguals may be associated with their well-developed control functions formed during monitoring and selecting languages.
In the Drosophila CNS, combinatorial, interdependent, sequential genetic programs in neuroectodermal (NE) cells, prior to the formation of neuroblasts (NBs), determine the initial identity of NBs. Temporal factors are then sequentially expressed to change the temporal identity. It is unclear at what levels this positional and temporal information integrates to determine progeny cell identity. One idea is that this is a top-down linear process: the identity of a NB determines the identity of its daughter, the ganglion mother cell (GMC), the asymmetric division of the GMC and the fate specification of daughter cells of the GMC. Our results with midline (mid), which encodes a T-box protein, in a typical lineage, NB4-2--&gt;GMC-1--&gt;RP2/sib, suggest that at least part of the process operates in GMCs. That is, a GMC or a neuronal identity need not be determined at the NB or NE level. This is demonstrated by showing that Mid is expressed in a row 5 GMC (M-GMC), but not in its parent NB or NE cell. In mid mutants, M-GMC changes into GMC-1 and generates an RP2 and a sib without affecting the expression of key genes at the NE/NB levels. Expression of Mid in the M-GMC in mid mutants rescues the fate change, indicating that Mid specifies neurons at the GMC level. Moreover, we found a significant plasticity in the temporal window in which a neuronal lineage can develop. Although the extra GMC-1 in mid mutants is born approximately 2 hours later than the bona fide GMC-1, it follows the same developmental pattern as the bona fide GMC-1. Thus, a GMC identity can be independent of parental identity and GMC formation and elaboration need not be strictly time-bound.
The acquisition and maintenance of final neuronal identity depends in part upon the implementation of fate-specification programs in postmitotic neurons; however, the mechanisms involved remain unclear. In the developing spinal cord, retinoic acid (RA) signaling pathways specify the columnar and divisional identities of postmitotic motoneurons (MNs). Here we show that RA signals induce expression of the NET transcriptional regulator Nolz1 in differentiated chick MNs, where it regulates the progressive specification of prospective Lim3-negative motor columns. Nolz1 controls the initial formation of forelimb and thoracic Lim3-negative motor columns by downregulating Lim3 expression and maintaining the expression of key homeodomain proteins necessary for MN identity and survival. At forelimb levels, Nolz1 specifies lateral motor column (LMC) identity by inducing the expression of the postmitotic LMC determinant Hoxc6, and implements the partial specification of lateral LMC identity through Lim1 induction. The specificity of Nolz1 function depends upon distinct repressor activities that require, in part, the modulatory activity of Grg5, an atypical member of the Gro-TLE family of co-repressors. Thus, RA signals regulate diverse events in MN subtype specification by inducing the expression of a key transcriptional regulator that controls multiple developmental pathways via functionally distinct repressor complexes.

Current treatment of Major Depressive Disorder utilizes a trial-and-error sequential treatment strategy that results in delays in achieving response and remission for a majority of patients. Protracted ineffective treatment prolongs patient suffering and increases health care costs. In addition, long and unsuccessful antidepressant trials may diminish patient expectations, reinforce negative cognitions, and condition patients not to respond during subsequent antidepressant trials, thus contributing to further treatment resistance. For these reasons, it is critical to identify reliable predictors of antidepressant treatment response that can be used to shorten or eliminate lengthy and ineffective trials. Research on possible endophenotypic as well as genomic predictors has not yet yielded reliable predictors. The most reliable predictors identified thus far are symptomatic and physiologic characteristics of patients that emerge early in the course of treatment. We propose here the term &quot;response endophenotypes&quot; (REs) to describe this class of predictors, defined as latent measurable symptomatic or neurobiologic responses of individual patients that emerge early in the course of treatment, and which carry strong predictive power for individual patient outcomes. Use of REs constitutes a new paradigm in which medication treatment trials that are likely to be ineffective could be stopped within 1 to 2 weeks and other medication more likely to be effective could be started. Data presented here suggest that early changes in symptoms, quantitative electroencephalography, and gene expression could be used to construct effective REs. We posit that this new paradigm could lead to earlier recovery from depressive illness and ultimately produce profound health and economic benefits.

During development, dynamic changes in the actin cytoskeleton determine both cell motility and morphological differentiation. In most mature tissues, cells are generally minimally motile and have morphologies specialized to their functions. In metastatic cancer, cells generally lose their specialized morphology and become motile. Therefore, proteins that regulate the transition between the motile and morphologically differentiated states can play important roles in determining cancer outcomes. AFAP120 is a neuronal-specific protein that binds Src kinase and protein kinase C (PKC) and cross-links actin filaments. Here we report that expression and tyrosine phosphorylation of AFAP120 are developmentally regulated in the cerebellum. In cerebellar cultures, PKC activation induces Src kinase-dependent phosphorylation of AFAP120, indicating that AFAP120 may be a downstream effector of Src. In neuroblastoma cells induced to differentiate by treatment with a PKC activator, tyrosine phosphorylation of AFAP120 appears to regulate the formation of the lamellar actin structures and subsequent neurite initiation. Together, these results indicate that AFAP120 plays a role in organizing dynamic actin structures during neuronal differentiation and suggest that AFAP120 may help regulate the transition from motile precursor to morphologically differentiated neurons.








Methamphetamine (MP) is a widely abused psychostimulant. There are currently no FDA approved pharmacotherapies for the MP addict. The antidepressant, mirtazapine (Mirt) is a high affinity antagonist at several monoaminergic receptors that are affected by MP. This study evaluated the potential of Mirt as a therapeutic agent for MP addiction and described associated changes in neuronal signaling. A single pairing conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm was utilized as a behavioral measure of MP-induced effects. Rats learned to associate unique environmental cues with the effects of 1.0 mg/kg (i.p.) MP (day 1) or saline (day 2). Mirt (5.0 mg/kg i.p.) was given in the home cage on day 3 and CPP was assessed on day 4. To evaluate signaling events that correlate with this behavior, brain tissue of these rats were dissected for immunoblot assays of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and a transcriptional regulator, cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) after the CPP test. During the CPP test, rats conditioned with MP spent more time in the environment associated with MP. Importantly, rats given Mirt did not express CPP. MP-induced CPP was associated with a decrease in phosphorylated CREB (pCREB) in the ventral tegmental area, and decreased phosphorylated ERK and pCREB in the nucleus accumbens and treatment with Mirt did not reverse these changes. No changes in signaling proteins were obtained from rats similarly treated with MP and Mirt, without exposure to cues of the conditioning paradigm. Overall, a post-conditioning treatment with Mirt can nullify MP-induced associative learning. However, additional studies are needed to ascertain the molecular events underlying this effect of Mirt.
Male mice from 14 standard inbred strains were exposed to morphine in a sustained released preparation injected subcutaneously. Five hours later withdrawal was precipitated by intraperitoneal injection of naloxone. Mice were tested from 0 to 15 min after naloxone for withdrawal jumping behavior, and then from minute 15-16 for other signs, including boli count, presence of soft stool, lacrimation, &quot;wet dog&quot; shakes, and air chewing. They were also assessed for change in body temperature 17 min after naloxone. Strains differed markedly in the severity of withdrawal for jumping, change in body temperature, and number of fecal boli. Strains also differed in percentage of animals displaying soft stool and air chewing behavior. The other two signs were seen at too low frequency for analysis. Correlations of strain mean withdrawal severity with other responses to morphine and other abused drugs showed that high morphine withdrawal jumping and low change in body temperature were both genetically related to high morphine consumption, but not generally to other measures of morphine withdrawal or morphine sensitivity.
Successful wound healing depends upon angiogenesis, and impaired angiogenesis is a hallmark of the chronic wounds encountered with diabetes and venous or arterial insufficiency. To intervene and improve wound closure, it is essential to investigate the effects of different natural remedies in wound healing. The chicken dorsum skin excisional wound assay was used to investigate the influence of different concentrations of aged garlic solution (AGS) on wound healing. Gross, histopathology, scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and computer-based three-dimensional (3D) image-probing techniques were utilized to determine the effects of AGS on wound closure, re-epithelialization, dermal matrix regeneration, and angiogenesis. Ninety chicks, aged 1 week and divided in 6 groups, were topically exposed to different concentrations of AGS for 6 days: control (group A), 1% (group B), 5% (group C), 10% (group D), 15% (group E), and skin lotion (group F). Different patterns, ranging from incomplete to almost complete wound closure, were observed among different groups with highly significant results (P &lt; 0.001) in group E. Histological investigations revealed a positive augment in the re-epithelialization of all AGS exposed wounds. An increase in the number of new loosely packed collagen and maturation of collagen bundles was observed in all treated wounds at days 4 and 6 post-wounding, respectively. Similar results were achieved through SEM of treated wounds. Histological investigations revealed the profuse dose-dependent neovascularization among AGS-treated wounds. Abbott curve, angular spectrum, and different parameters of 3D surface roughness of wounds were also measured for the precise quantification of angiogenesis. A very highly significant (P &lt; 0.001) increase in angiogenesis was observed among all treated groups. No significant change was observed among control and skin lotion-treated groups. These observations substantiate the beneficial use of AGS in the treatment of wounds. Additional studies are needed to study the specific wound-healing mechanisms of chemical, or group of chemicals, present in AGS.
Using three surveys, a comparative assessment of needle performance and patient preference for 27-gauge (G) and 29G needles for glatiramer acetate administration for multiple sclerosis therapy was performed. Eligible patients participated in a specialty pharmacy program and administered glatiramer acetate for 1 month. In Survey 1 on the 27G needle, 545 (82.70%) patients reported no needle problems, 106 (16.09%) cited one type (dull, bent, or broken), five (0.76%) cited two types, and three (0.46%) cited all three types. In Survey 2 on the 29G needle, 553 (98.05%) indicated no problems, two (0.35%) cited dull needles, and nine (1.60%) cited bent needles. On the 29G needles versus 27G needles pain comparison, 219 (38.83%) reported the 29G needle was a little better, and 155 (27.48%) reported it was a lot better than the 27G. For injection-site experiences, 515 patients (91.31%) reported no, very slight, or mild reactions with the 29G needle. In Survey 3, over 76% of patients preferred the 29G to the 27G needle and significantly fewer patients reported one or more problems with the 29G needle compared to patients reporting problems with the 27G needle (P &lt; 0.00001). In conclusion, significantly fewer patients reported problems after 30 days of use of the 29G than the 27G needle. Fewer injection-site experiences occurred with the 29G needle and the 29G needle was preferred overall.
Co-morbid insomnia is a much more frequent problem than primary insomnia. In co-morbid insomnia, management of the underlying disease can improve sleep difficulty. Conversely, treating the sleep disorder may also improve the co-morbid condition. For example, patients with painful chronic illnesses are more likely to experience sleep disturbance than patients with non-painful illnesses. Moreover, there is evidence that insomnia further exacerbates pain in these illnesses. This suggests that a reciprocal relationship exists between pain and sleep, and that intervention targeted primarily at insomnia may improve pain. Treatment options for sleep disorders in the context of pain that have been assessed include cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia and various pharmacological therapies. In randomized clinical trials, cognitive behavioural therapy significantly improved insomnia secondary to chronic pain compared with control therapy, but pain was only improved in patients in whom it was associated with pain disorders other than fibromyalgia. Of the pharmacological agents studied (zopiclone, zolpidem and triazolam), only triazolam improved both sleep and pain to a greater extent than placebo. Overall, clinical data supporting a cause-effect relationship between insomnia and pain are preliminary and are limited to several small trials. Further investigation is required to clarify the extent of the link between insomnia and pain and whether successfully managing insomnia secondary to pain improves pain symptoms. Areas of particular interest include investigation of the effect of sleep agents on analgesia and the effect of analgesics on sleep.
The proportions of Stage 2 spindles present per second over the prefrontal and temporal lobes of a patient who had been experiencing complex partial epileptic-like experiences and disturbances in sleep patterns for four years following a closed head injury were measured while a weak (1 microT) burst-firing magnetic field was applied transcerebrally through the temporoparietal regions. In several successive segments during the exposure the onsets of the spindles were significantly correlated (rhos between 0.30 and 0.40) with the onset of the field that was presented once every 3 s for about 0.7 s. Lag/lead analyses indicated only the contemporary occurrence of the fields and the spindles were significantly correlated over time. These results suggest that some states of consciousness, particularly those associated with the &quot;epilepsy spectrum disorder&quot; may be more sensitive to entrainment or &quot;synchronization&quot; by weak complex magnetic fields whose temporal structures are designed to simulate natural brain activity.
Circadian rhythms are periodic variations over approximately 24hours in many biological and physiological processes and are controlled by the internal clock. The environment can influence or even synchronise rhythms over a different phase than the internal clock, although a specific phase relationship exists between the rhythms. Measuring circadian rhythms involves mathematical modelling which defines different parameters (amplitude, period phase, mean level or mesor). To identify these parameters, different protocols need to be applied which remove the impact of external factors liable to change the variable being measured. Markers of circadian rhythms are the wake/sleep cycle examined by the sleep diary and polysomnographic recording, the rest/activity cycle investigated by actimetry, chronotype, body temperature and melatonin secretion in particular with pre-sleeping measurements (DMLO), cortisol secretion and activity of clock genes. Improved knowledge of circadian rhythm parameters particularly stability is essential to understand the pathophysiological mechanisms underpinning some psychiatric diseases.
Whilst early onset schizophrenias are rare all studies show a clear increase in the incidence and prevalence of the disorder from the age of 15 onwards. The clinical picture in adolescence is similar to that described in adults although the diagnosis of schizophrenia at this age is still difficult, as the disorder shares many common symptoms with the affective psychoses (particularly with bipolar disorder). Some clinical features, the premorbid history and past family history can help with the differential diagnosis in this situation. Studies on the fate of schizophrenic adolescents show that the disorder has particularly harmful consequences on the individuals' development and psychosocial adaptation. The risk of suicide or accidental death are highlighted. This may be partly explained by the progressive deterioration of cognitive function seen, with the progression and the prevalence of co-morbid disorders (conduct disorders, substance abuse). Paradoxically there are few objective data available as yet about the efficacy of the different treatment strategies offered ; medical and psychotherapeutic, behavioural or psychosocial. Whilst early intervention programmes for adolescents at high risk of schizophrenia have been introduced, their utility and efficacy remain to be shown.
The CRH family of ligands signals via two distinct receptors, CRH-R1 and CRH-R2. Previous studies localized CRH-R1 and CRH-R2 to a subset of anterior pituitary corticotropes and gonadotropes, respectively. However, numerous studies have indicated that stress and CRH activity can alter the secretion of multiple anterior pituitary hormones, suggesting a broader expression of the CRH receptors in pituitary. To examine this hypothesis, the in vivo expression of CRH-R1 and CRH-R2 mRNA was further characterized in adult mouse pituitary. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis demonstrated that CRH-R1 mRNA is greater than 100-fold more abundant than CRH-R2 mRNA in male and female mouse pituitaries. Dual in situ hybridization analysis identified cell-specific CRH-R1 expression in the anterior pituitary. At least half of the CRH-R1-positive cells expressed proopiomelanocortin-mRNA (50% in females; 70% in males). In females, a significant percentage of the cells expressing CRH-R1 also expressed transcript for prolactin (40%), LHbeta (10%), or TSH (3%), all novel sites of CRH-R1 expression. Similarly in males, a percentage of CRH-R1-positive cells expressed prolactin (12%), LHbeta (13%), and TSH (5%). RT-PCR studies with immortalized murine anterior pituitary cell lines showed CRH-R1 and/or CRH-R2 expression in corticotropes (AtT-20 cells), gonadotropes (alphaT3-1 and LbetaT2 cells), and thyrotropes (alphaTSH cells). Whereas CRH-R1 expression in corticotropes is well established, the presence of CRH-R1 mRNA in a subset of lactotropes, gonadotropes, and thyrotropes establishes these cell types as novel sites of murine CRH-R1 expression and highlights the pituitary as an important site of interaction between the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal and multiple endocrine axes.
Increased neuropeptide Y (NPY) activity drives the chronic hyperphagia of lactation and may contribute to the suppression of GnRH activity. The majority of GnRH neurons are contacted by NPY fibers, and GnRH cells express NPY Y5 receptor (Y5R). Therefore, NPY provides a neurocircuitry for information about food intake/energy balance to be directly transmitted to GnRH neurons. To investigate the effects of lactation on GnRH neuronal activity, hypothalamic slices were prepared from green fluorescent protein-GnRH transgenic rats. Extracellular loose-patch recordings determined basal GnRH neuronal activity from slices of ovariectomized control and lactating rats. Compared with controls, hypothalamic slices from lactating rats had double the number of quiescent GnRH neurons (14.51 +/- 2.86 vs. 7.04 +/- 2.84%) and significantly lower firing rates of active GnRH neurons (0.25 +/- 0.02 vs. 0.37 +/- 0.03 Hz). To study the NPY-postsynaptic Y5R system, whole-cell current-clamp recordings were performed in hypothalamic slices from control rats to examine NPY/Y5R antagonist effects on GnRH neuronal resting membrane potential. Under tetrodotoxin treatment, NPY hyperpolarized GnRH neurons from -56.7 +/- 1.94 to -62.1 +/- 1.83 mV; NPY's effects were blocked by Y5R antagonist. To determine whether increased endogenous NPY tone contributes to GnRH neuronal suppression during lactation, hypothalamic slices were treated with Y5R antagonist. A significantly greater percentage of GnRH cells were activated in slices from lactating rats (52%) compared with controls (28%). These results suggest that: 1) basal GnRH neuronal activity is suppressed during lactation; 2) NPY can hyperpolarize GnRH neurons via postsynaptic Y5R; and 3) increased inhibitory NPY tone during lactation is a component of the mechanisms responsible for suppression of GnRH neuronal activity.
Epigenetic changes are commonly considered stable modifications of the chromatin that define the differentiation state of cells during the development. Within the central nervous system however, chromatin is not static, but acts as a highly dynamic scaffold that supports the functional plasticity of fully differentiated, post-mitotic neurons. In the present review, we discuss relevant studies that have shown how specific chromatin remodeling events provide the basis to encode environmental stimuli and, consequently, express associated behavioral responses. This has been demonstrated for both physiological and pathological conditions, including cognition and drug addiction. Among chromatin modifications, histone acetylation appears to play a pivotal role in the regulation of behavior, making histone acetylases and deacetylases promising candidates for the pharmacological treatment of several neurological disorders.

Here we describe the unusual condition of selective semantic amnesia related to cryptogenic temporal lobe epilepsy. XY, an adult male patient, presented with partial seizures and disabling dysnomia. Neuropsychological tests revealed seriously impaired semantic memory. Electroencephalography documented ictal epileptic abnormalities in the left temporal lobe. Positron emission tomography showed reduced metabolism in the temporoparietal regions, but the results of magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy were normal. After 11 years, neuropsychological tests showed selective impairment of semantic memory and computed tomography provided normal results. This case shows that semantic memory may be selectively and lastingly altered, highlighting a distinction between semantic amnesia and global amnesia. Moreover, it is unique in that it occurred without evidence of gross temporal lobe pathology. The pathophysiological pattern of epileptic abnormalities in the left temporoparietal cortex supports the role played by dysfunctional neuronal networks (as provoked by focal epileptic discharges) in determining selective semantic amnesia.
Topiramate, an antiepileptic drug with multiple mechanisms of action, was assessed as a neuroprotective agent following status epilepticus. We administered topiramate or normal saline chronically beginning 1 hour after cessation of lithium pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. Control animals not subjected to status epilepticus were also treated with topiramate or normal saline. Following completion of the topiramate treatment, animals were tested in the water maze to assess spatial learning and underwent in vivo single-cell place cell recordings. Spontaneous seizure frequency following status epilepticus in the topiramate-treated rats was similar to that in the rats treated with saline. Following status epilepticus, rats had profound deficits in water maze performance and place cell function. Rats subjected to status epilepticus and treated with topiramate were also severely impaired in the water maze, but performed slightly better than rats treated with saline. Following status epilepticus, topiramate-treated rats did not differ from rats treated with normal saline in the platform switch, a test of prefrontal function. Although place cell firing patterns were similar in both the topiramate- and saline-treated rats, rats treated with topiramate had higher information content scores than rats treated with saline. Topiramate-treated animals had less supragranular sprouting following status epilepticus than nontreated rats. Control animals treated with topiramate did not differ from saline-treated controls on any measures. Taken together, this study shows that topiramate administered following status epilepticus has modest neuroprotective effects.
Artists with epilepsy present unique views of their condition to the world, and their artistic expressions have implications for researchers interested in the neurophysiological, psychological, and social aspects of epilepsy. Among the many works of contemporary artists with epilepsy that I have collected, a subgroup pertains to the nature of seizure experiences and associated mood disorders. Often, these images provide insights into underlying neurophysiology that are not otherwise possible to obtain through in vitro assays, animal models, psychometric instruments, or the verbal expressions of patients. This article focuses on examples of art that may inspire neuroscientists to generate hypotheses that will further explore the underlying neurological basis to the experiential phenomena of epilepsy and complement the sophisticated studies described elsewhere in this supplement.
The aim of this article is to reflect on the relationship between art and science so far as it concerns a symposium on neurosciences. We undertake a historical overview of that relationship, paying particular attention to the sui generis case of Leonardo da Vinci, who very often is regarded as the man who worked on art and science with equal ease. We then explain why his idea of merging these two forms of knowledge failed, considering the clear-cut distinction between art and science in his time. With this clarification, we explore the matter today. We look at Raphael's The Transfiguration, in which the representation of the possessed boy is seen by neuroscientists as indicative of an epileptic seizure. We also look at the ideas of neuroscientists Semir Zeki and Vilayanur Ramachandran, who study particular aspects of brain function and suggest a new merging of art and science.
The brain is a complex system that, in the normal condition, has emergent properties like those associated with activity-dependent plasticity in learning and memory, and in pathological situations, manifests abnormal long-term phenomena like the epilepsies. Data from our laboratory and from the literature were classified qualitatively as sources of complexity and emergent properties from behavior to electrophysiological, cellular, molecular, and computational levels. We used such models as brainstem-dependent acute audiogenic seizures and forebrain-dependent kindled audiogenic seizures. Additionally we used chemical or electrical experimental models of temporal lobe epilepsy that induce status epilepticus with behavioral, anatomical, and molecular sequelae such as spontaneous recurrent seizures and long-term plastic changes. Current computational neuroscience tools will help the interpretation, storage, and sharing of the exponential growth of information derived from those studies. These strategies are considered solutions to deal with the complexity of brain pathologies such as the epilepsies.
Many types of electrographic seizures are readily identifiable by direct visual examination of electroencephalographic or electrocorticographic recordings. This process can, however, be painstakingly slow, and much effort has been expended to automate the process using various dynamic properties of epileptiform waveforms. As methods have become more subtle and powerful they have been used for seizure subclassification, seizure prediction, and seizure onset identification and localization. Here we concentrate on the last, with reference to seizures of neocortical origin. We briefly review some of the methods used and introduce preliminary results from a very simple dynamic model based on key electrophysiological properties found in some seizure types: occurrence of very fast oscillations (sometimes called ripples), excess gamma frequency oscillations, electroencephalographic/electrocorticographic flattening, and changes in global synchrony. We show how this multiscale analysis may reveal features unique to seizure onset and speculate on the underlying cellular and network phenomena responsible.

Despite the advent of new antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) over the past 15 years, the treatment of uncontrolled partial-onset seizures remains a dilemma for clinicians. The most recent AEDs offer new mechanisms of action and more favorable safety profiles than the first generation of AEDs. Lacosamide (LCM) is the latest AED awaiting approval by the FDA for adjunctive use in partial-onset seizures. It differs from all other approved AEDs in that it has two novel mechanisms of action and favorable pharmacokinetic and safety profiles. The purposes of this article are to present the significant parameters for its use in clinical practice, by summarizing the preliminary results of phase II and III clinical trials, and to compare its efficacy data with other second-generation AEDs.
The purpose of this study is to weigh psychological state, patients' demographics, seizure-related factors, and medical comorbidity in older adults with epilepsy against the same parameters in younger adults in an attempt to identify best quality of life (QoL) predictors. The Quality of Life in Epilepsy Inventory for Adults (QOLIE-31) and the Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II) were completed by 146 patients with localization-related epilepsy. There was no statistical difference in the QOLIE-31 total score between younger and older adults. Best QoL predictors were BDI-II and seizure frequency, with BDI-II providing more than 3 times the impact of seizure frequency. BDI-II also substantively predicted most QOLIE-31 domains. Additionally, epilepsy duration positively correlated with overall QoL only among older adults. In summary, in younger as well as older adult epilepsy patients, depressive symptoms emerge as the strongest predictor of QoL. However, older adults appear to adapt better to their chronic health problem.

The efficacy of the Incredible Years parent training and child therapy programs was examined in a randomized controlled study including 127 Norwegian children aged 4-8 years. Children diagnosed with oppositional defiant disorder (ODD) or conduct disorder (CD) were randomized to parent training (PT), parent training combined with child therapy (PT + CT), or a waiting-list control condition (WLC). Assessments were carried out at baseline, posttreatment and at a one-year follow-up using standardized measures and a semi-structured interview. Both active treatment conditions reduced child conduct problems posttreatment as opposed to the WLC, while differences between the two treatment conditions were small and nonsignificant. About two thirds of the treated children functioned within normal variation after treatment, and the same proportion no longer received an ODD diagnosis at the one-year follow-up. Parental use of positive strategies increased after treatment, and the use of harsh and inconsistent discipline decreased as did mother experience of stress. The outcome of this study emphasizes the importance of offering parent training to young children with severe conduct problems exhibited at home. The findings and usefulness of the Incredible Years program in the present Norwegian replication study further support and extend positive outcomes of previous controlled trials conducted primarily in Anglo-Saxon countries.
In the light of findings indicating that cannabinoids can affect the proliferation of a number of cancer cell types and that cannabinoid receptor expression is higher in prostate cancer cell lines than in non-malignant cells, we investigated whether the level of cannabinoid 1 receptor immunoreactivity (CB(1)IR) in prostate cancer tissues is associated with disease severity and outcome. Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded non-malignant and tumour tissue samples from patients who were diagnosed with prostate cancer at a transurethral resection for voiding problems were used. CB(1)IR, which was scored in a total of 399 cases, was associated with the epithelial cell membranes, with little staining in the stroma. Patients with a tumour CB(1)IR score greater or equal to the median (2) had a significantly higher proportion of Gleason scores 8-10, metastases at diagnosis, tumour size and rate of cell proliferation at diagnosis than patients with a score&lt;2. For 269 cases, tumour CB(1)IR was measured for patients who only received palliative therapy at the end stages of the disease, allowing the influence of CB(1)IR upon the disease outcome to be determined. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves showed an area under the curve of 0.67 (95% confidence limits 0.59-0.74) for CB(1)IR in the tumour. CB(1)IR in non-malignant tissue was not associated with disease outcome. A tumour CB(1)IR score &gt;or=2 was associated with a significantly lower disease specific survival. A Cox proportional hazards regression indicated that the tumour CB(1)IR score and the Gleason score were independent prognostic variables. It is concluded that a high tumour CB(1)IR score is associated with prostate cancer severity and outcome.
Viral infections are probably involved in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS). A recent cohort study in the Gothenburg population revealed no change in MS incidence associated with the introduction of the Swedish measles, mumps and rubella vaccination programmes. The aim of the present study was to clarify whether these infections or vaccinations, and two other infections, varicella and infectious mononucleosis, influence MS risk. We performed a population-based case-control study in Gothenburg that included 509 MS cases and 2,067 controls, born 1959-1986. Data on infections and vaccinations were obtained from questionnaires and from child health and school health records. We found no significant associations between measles, mumps, rubella or varicella and MS risk. These results were consistent between the two source materials. Infectious mononucleosis was associated with significantly higher MS risk (odds ratio 2.03, 95% CI 1.52-2.73). Overall, there was no significant association between measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccination and MS risk, while those MMR vaccinated before age ten only were at significantly higher MS risk (odds ratio 4.92, 95% CI 1.97-12.20). Those MMR vaccinated both before and after age ten had intermediate MS risk. Infection with measles, mumps, rubella and varicella did not influence MS risk in contrast to infectious mononucleosis which conferred doubled MS risk. The association with 'early' MMR vaccination only was an isolated finding, limited by a small number of subjects and multiple testing. Most likely this was a chance finding. Future studies could investigate it on an a priori basis.
On the basis of the structural similarity of N-substituted glycolamides with N-glycolyl muramic acid residues of the cell wall of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, a series of these compounds were designed and synthesized by the reaction of glycolic acid acetonide 1 (2,2-dimethyl-5-oxo-1,3-dioxolane) with the proper amines. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) was determined against M. tuberculosis H(37)Rv in BACTEC 12B medium, using the Microplate Alamar Blue Assay (MABA). Among the synthesized compounds, all those with disubstituted amide structure accompanied by one or two heteroatom(s) with loan pair(s) of electrons atom(s) beta to the amide nitrogen demonstrated moderate anti-tuberculosis activity and all the monosubstituted amides showed no activity at all.
We report a 22-year-old man with PEO and optic atrophy. PEO developed before the onset of optic atrophy. The patient showed mitochondrial myopathy with cytochrome c oxidase deficient fibers. In skeletal muscle the patient was homoplasmic for the mtDNA G11778A Leber hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) mutation and heteroplasmic for the mtDNA 5 kb &quot;common&quot; deletion mutation. In blood only the homoplasmic LHON mutation was identified. The occurrence of two pathogenic mtDNA mutations is exceedingly rare. The clinical findings in this patient indicate that the combination of the two mtDNA mutations resulted in the expected combined phenotype since the mtDNA deletion mutation accounted for the PEO and the mtDNA G11778A point mutation for the optic atrophy.



A number of electrophysiological studies have been conducted in recent years in order to clarify the dynamics of visual motion processing in the human brain. Using a variety of event-related potential (ERP) measures, several parameters such as onset, offset, contrast and velocity have been investigated, while a critical aspect of visual motion, that of direction, has received less attention. Here we used multichannel electroencephalography and distributed source localization to study brain activity for different directions of visual motion using random dot stimuli. Our data reveal differential extrastriate activation at 164-226 ms after motion onset that coded for motion direction with different ERP maps and underlying electrical generators for each tested direction. This activation was paralleled initially (164-186 ms) by a distinct extrastriate activation encoding whether the motion stimulus consisted of directed motion stimuli (as above) or contained undirected incoherent motion (control stimulus). Application of a linear inverse solution localized the brain activity for each tested motion direction to distinct brain regions within the same larger network of extrastriate brain regions. These regions included bilateral temporo-occipital and bilateral parieto-occipital cortex. The present data in healthy subjects are compatible with extrastriate activity that is tuned to different directions of visual motion. This extends previous clinical data and suggests the presence of distributed macroscopic motion direction tuning in primate extrastriate cortex that may complement the classical microscopic motion tuning at the columnar level.
The dissociability of novelty detection in relational (RM) and non-relational memory (NRM) is currently under debate. To further address the time courses and underlying brain correlates of novelty detection, event-related potentials (ERPs) were analysed for encoding and retrieval on three memory tasks in healthy subjects. Spatial and non-spatial RM as well as NRM were assessed separately. The ERPs related to RM and NRM were dissociable for hits and correct rejections in an early and late time window. An early old/new effect was observed for NRM. A late old/new effect replicated the frequently reported recollection-associated old/new effect in terms of direction and amplitudes. Four different novelty types (spatial relational, non-spatial relational, horizontal non-relational and inverted non-relational) were examined. The P3a related to novelty detection differed in horizontal vs. inverted distractors in NRM, but not in spatial vs. non-spatial RM. ERPs for repetition detection (hits during retrieval) and also for subsequent hits (encoding phase) differed between RM and NRM. These findings are discussed in relation to potential brain correlates in RM and NRM during encoding and retrieval.
Microglia can express Na+-dependent high-affinity glutamate transporters during pathological conditions in the CNS. The transporter expression seems to be activation dependent, and we therefore sought to identify factors that could induce it, in addition to the well-known effect of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) that is mediated by tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). The complement-derived anaphylatoxins C3a and C5a are of potential interest as the complement system is activated in nearly all insults to the nervous system, and both C3a and C5a have been shown to protect against excitotoxicity. We have found that C5a, but not C3a, increased the expression of the microglial glutamate transporter GLT-1 in a dose-dependent manner without eliciting or modulating the release of TNF-alpha. However, the increase was not as prominent as the one induced by LPS, indicating that the microglia are in different activity states. The increase in microglial GLT-1 expression led to an increased functional uptake of glutamate without affecting the release. This suggests that C5a-stimulated microglia can be self- and neuroprotective by removing extracellular glutamate.
Postnatal neurogenesis takes place in two brain regions, the hippocampus and the subventricular zone (SVZ). The transcriptional cascade controlling hippocampal neurogenesis has been described in detail; however, the transcriptional control of olfactory bulb neurogenesis is still not well mapped. In this study, we provide insights into the molecular events controlling postnatal olfactory bulb neurogenesis. We first show the existence of diverse neural stem cell/progenitor populations along the SVZ-rostral migratory stream (RMS) axis, focusing on those expressing the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor Mash1. We provide evidence that Mash1-derived progenies generate oligodendrocytic and neuronal precursors through the transient expression of the bHLH transcription factors Olig2 and neurogenin2 (Ngn2), respectively. Furthermore, we reveal that Ngn2-positive progenies express the T-box transcription factors Tbr2 and Tbr1, which are usually present during cortical and hippocampal glutamatergic neuronal differentiation. We also highlight a cell population expressing another bHLH transcription factor, neuroD1 (ND1). The ND1-positive cells are located in the SVZ-RMS axis and also co-express Tbr2, Tbr1 and neuroD2. The observations that these cells incorporate bromodeoxyuridine and express both doublecortin and polysialylated form of neural cell adhesion molecule suggest that they are newborn neurons. Finally, using an in vitro assay, we demonstrate that Ngn2 and ND1 equally and exclusively direct differentiation of Mash1-expressing precursors into calbindin-expressing and calretinin-expressing neurons, which are both neuronal subtypes normally found in the olfactory bulb. Taken together, our data illustrate that Ngn2, neuroD and Tbr transcription factors are involved in postnatal neurogenesis in the olfactory bulb.
Top-down control processes are thought to interact with bottom-up stimulus-driven task demands to facilitate the smooth execution of behaviour. Frontal and midline brain areas in humans are believed to subserve these control processes but their distinct roles and the interactions between them remain to be fully elucidated. In this functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study, we utilized a GO/NO-GO task with cued and uncued inhibitory events to investigate the effect of cue-induced levels of top-down control on NO-GO trial response conflict. We found that, on a within-subjects, trial-for-trial basis, high levels of top-down control, as indexed by left dorsolateral prefrontal activation prior to the NO-GO, resulted in lower levels of activation on the NO-GO trial in the pre-supplementary motor area. These results suggest that prefrontal and midline regions work together to implement cognitive control and reveal that intra-subject variability is reflected in these lateral and midline interactions.
Activation of the Fas receptor has been recently linked to apoptotic cell death after spinal cord injury (SCI). Although it is generally considered that Fas activation mediates apoptosis predominantly through the extrinsic pathway, we hypothesized that intrinsic mitochondrial signaling could be involved in the underlying mechanism of Fas-induced apoptosis after SCI. In the present study, we utilized the Fejota clip compression model of SCI at T5-6 in C57BL/6 Fas-deficient (lpr) and wild-type mice. Complementary studies were conducted using an in vitro model of trauma or a Fas-activating antibody to induce apoptosis in primary neuronal-glial mixed spinal cord cultures. After in vivo SCI, lpr mice, in comparison with wild-type mice, exhibited reduced numbers of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL)-positive cells at the lesion, reduced expression of truncation of Bid (tBid), apoptosis-inducing factor, activated caspase-9 and activated caspase-3, and increased expression of the antiapoptotic proteins Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL. After in vitro neurotrauma or the induction of Fas signaling by the Jo2 activating antibody, lpr spinal cord cultures showed an increased proportion of cells retaining mitochondrial membrane integrity and a reduction of tBid expression, caspase-9 and caspase-3 activation, and TUNEL-positive cells as compared to wild-type spinal cord cultures. The neutralization of Fas ligand (FasL) protected against traumatically induced or Fas-mediated caspase-3 activation and the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential and tBid expression in wild-type spinal cord cultures. However, in lpr spinal cord cultures, FasL neutralization had no protective effects. In summary, these data provide direct evidence for the induction of intrinsic mitochondrial signaling pathways following Fas activation after SCI.
Long-term depression (LTD) at striatal synapses is mediated by postsynaptic endocannabinoid (eCB) release and presynaptic cannabinoid 1 receptor (CB(1)R) activation. Previous studies have indicated that eCB mobilization at excitatory synapses might be regulated by afferent activation. To further address the role of neuronal activity in synaptic plasticity we examined changes in synaptic strength induced by the L-type calcium channel activator 2,5-dimethyl-4-[2-(phenylmethyl)benzoyl]-1H-pyrrole-3-carboxylic acid methyl ester (FPL 64176, FPL) at glutamatergic and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic synapses in the striatum. We found that the basic mechanisms for FPL-mediated eCB signaling are the same at glutamatergic and GABAergic synapses. FPL-induced LTD (FPL-LTD) was blocked in slices treated with the CB(1)R antagonist AM251 (2 microm), but established depression was not reversed by AM251. FPL-LTD was temperature dependent, blocked by protein translation inhibitors and prevented by intracellular loading of the anandamide transporter inhibitor VDM11 (10 microm) at both glutamatergic and GABAergic synapses. FPL-LTD at glutamatergic synapses required paired-pulse afferent stimulation, while FPL-LTD at GABAergic synapses could be induced even in the absence of explicit afferent activation. By evaluating tetrodotoxin-insensitive spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents we found that neuronal firing is vital for eCB release and LTD induction at GABAergic synapses, but not for short-term depression induced by CB(1)R agonist. The data presented here suggest that the level of neuronal firing regulates eCB signaling by modulating release from the postsynaptic cell, as well as interacting with presynaptic mechanisms to induce LTD at both glutamatergic and GABAergic synapses in the striatum.
Golgi cells regulate the flow of information from mossy fibres to the cerebellar cortex, through a mix of feedback and feedforward inhibitory actions on granule cells. The aim of the current study was to examine mossy fibre input to Golgi cells, in order to assess their impact on switching Golgi cells into feedforward behaviour. In urethane-anaesthetized rats, extracellular recordings were made from Golgi cells in Crus II (n = 18). Spikes were evoked in all Golgi cells by microstimulation within the contralateral hemispheral cortex, via branches of mossy fibres that terminate in both cerebellar hemispheres. The latencies of these responses were very short, consistent with a monosynaptic mossy fibre contact [average onset latency 2.3 +/- 0.1 ms (SEM)]. The same stimuli had no measurable effect on spike responses of nearby Purkinje cells (n = 12). Systematic mapping in the contralateral cerebellar hemisphere (Crus Ib, IIa, IIb and the paramedian lobule) usually revealed one low-intensity stimulus 'hotspot' (12-35 microA) from which short-latency spikes could be evoked in an individual Golgi cell. Microinjections of red and green retrograde tracers (latex beads, approximately 50-150 nL injection volume) made at the recording site and the stimulation hotspot resulted in double-labelled neurons within the pontine nuclei. Overall, this suggests that subsets of pontine neurons supply mossy fibres that branch to both hemispheres, some of which directly target Golgi cells. Such an arrangement may provide a common feedforward inhibitory link to temporally couple activity on both sides of the cerebellum during behaviour.
Circadian rhythms regulate most physiological processes. Adjustments to circadian time, called phase shifts, are necessary following international travel and on a more frequent basis for individuals who work non-traditional schedules such as rotating shifts. As the disruption that results from frequent phase shifts is deleterious to both animals and humans, we sought to better understand the kinetics of resynchronization of the mouse circadian system to one of the most disruptive phase shifts, a 6-h phase advance. Mice bearing a luciferase reporter gene for mPer2 were subjected to a 6-h advance of the light cycle and molecular rhythms in suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), thymus, spleen, lung and esophagus were measured periodically for 2 weeks following the shift. For the SCN, the master pacemaker in the brain, we employed high-resolution imaging of the brain slice to describe the resynchronization of rhythms in single SCN neurons during adjustment to the new light cycle. We observed significant differences in shifting kinetics among mice, among organs such as the spleen and lung, and importantly among neurons in the SCN. The phase distribution among all Period2-expressing SCN neurons widened on the day following a shift of the light cycle, which was partially due to cells in the ventral SCN exhibiting a larger initial phase shift than cells in the dorsal SCN. There was no clear delineation of ventral and dorsal regions, however, as the SCN appear to have a population of fast-shifting cells whose anatomical distribution is organized in a ventral-dorsal gradient. Full resynchronization of the SCN and peripheral timing system, as measured by a circadian reporter gene, did not occur until after 8 days in the advanced light cycle.

Previously, it was shown that school-aged (9-14 yr) preterm and fullterm children with neonatal pain exposure exhibit elevated heat pain thresholds and heightened perceptual sensitization to tonic painful heat when tested under standard conditions [Hermann C, Hohmeister J, Demirakca S, Zohsel K, Flor H. Long-term alteration of pain sensitivity in school-aged children with early pain experiences. Pain 2006;125:278-85]. Here, changes in the psychosocial context of pain responses in these children, who had been hospitalized &gt;or=7 days after birth including &gt;or=3 days of treatment in a neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), are reported. Nineteen preterm (&lt;or=31 weeks gestational age) and 20 fullterm children (&gt;or=37 weeks gestational age) with NICU experience, recruited retrospectively and selected based on strict exclusion criteria, and 20 fullterm control children participated. Preterm NICU children endorsed more pain catastrophizing as compared to controls. Mothers of preterm children, who had been more severely ill and had been hospitalized longer than fullterm NICU children, were more likely to engage in solicitous pain-related behavior. Maternal influence was also assessed by comparing heat pain thresholds and perceptual sensitization to tonic painful heat obtained in the presence versus absence (i.e. standard testing conditions) of the mother. In all three groups, maternal presence was associated with increased heat pain thresholds. Control children habituated significantly more to tonic heat when their mother was present. The NICU children showed overall significantly less habituation than the controls; there was no modulating effect of maternal presence. Especially in highly vulnerable children such as preterms, neonatal pain exposure and prolonged hospitalization may, aside from neuronal plasticity, promote maladaptive pain-related cognitions and foster parental behavior that reinforces the child's pain response.
When early neurophysiologists, like William Grey Walter (1910-1977), started using intermittent photic driving in electroencephalography, they were struck by a wide range of visual hallucinations that were reported. In current neuroscience, the phenomenon is used mainly to model hallucinations that are related to altered neuronal activity between the thalamus and the visual cortex, such as the Charles Bonnet syndrome. However, during the psychedelic 1960s, Brion Gysin (1916-1986), a painter and a poet, became interested in the hallucinations and designed his own stroboscope or dream machine, as a means for spiritual enlightenment. This article traces back the history of flicker-induced hallucinations from the early use of stroboscopes in neurophysiology to the dream machine.
Much effort has been made to identify and verify diagnostic biomarkers for early stage Alzheimer's disease (AD). The need for this is often advocated by possible future disease-modifying treatments, likely to be most effective if initiated early in the disease process. Since the neurodegenerative process probably starts many years before the first onset of symptoms, such future drugs are likely to invoke a need for screening presymptomatic individuals. Here, we speculate on the performance of currently available AD biomarkers in hypothetical screening programs of different designs. We note that many diagnostic tests will have an excellent ability to exclude upcoming AD. However, even the best tests will suffer from poor positive predictive values given the relatively low disease prevalence in populations with no or very few symptomatic individuals, also when taking future converters to AD into account. The magnitude of this problem, which is common among most screening programs, will depend on the efficacy, safety and cost of the future anti-AD drugs. A number of tentative solutions to the problem, apart from better tests, are discussed.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder causing muscular rigidity, resting tremor and bradykinesia. We conducted an association study assessing how PD risk in Italy was influenced by the serotonin transporter gene (SLC6A4) polymorphic region 5-HTTLPR, consisting of an insertion/deletion (long allele-L/short allele-S) of 43 bp in the SLC6A4 promoter region. The SLC6A4 promoter single nucleotide polymorphism rs25531(A--&gt;G) was evaluated too. We collected 837 independent subjects (393 PD, 444 controls). An association between the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism and risk of PD (S/S genotype OR [95% CI]: 1.7[1.2-2.5], p = 0.002) was found. The rs25531 and the haplotype 5-HTTLPR/rs25531 did not associate with risk of PD. Our data indicate that the 5-HTTLPR polymorphic element within the SLC6A4 promoter may govern the genetic risk of PD in Italians.
In the 1920s, the neurosciences in Germany were world-class. Then came Hitler's regime, and with it 2 distinct changes happened to the research milieus in Berlin and elsewhere. First, the persecution of Jews and others deprived Germany of many of its most outstanding scientists. Second, numerous German and Austrian physicians became active in National Socialist (NS)-euthanasia programs. In recent years, the medical community has become more aware of the ethical burden associated with eponyms derived from scientists of the Third Reich. Yet a list of these eponyms with emphasis on clinical neurology is still missing. This paper therefore reviews 30 neurological eponyms derived from 29 physicians who lived in the Nazi era. Among them are victims who were forced out of the country or murdered in concentration camps, protestors who risked their academic careers and often their lives, beneficiaries who published on brains from 'euthanized' children, and collaborators who were directly involved in the planning and execution of NS-euthanasia programs.
The child prodigy Marie-Jean-Pierre Flourens received his medical degree at Montpellier when aged 19. As a young promising physician Flourens was asked to investigate Gall's controversial views on cerebral localization. To test Gall's assertions, Flourens developed ablation as a procedure to explore the workings of the brain. By removing anatomically defined areas of the brain of an animal and watching its behaviour, he thought he might localize certain functions. Flourens did not favour the idea of cerebral localization and concluded that the brain functioned as a whole and thus arose the concept of 'cerebral equipotentiality'. This culminated in his 1824 Recherches exprimentales sur les proprits et les fonctions du systme nerveux. His techniques were, however, crude and imperfect, and his experiments were mainly on birds. Much criticism and debate ensued. A gifted man, Flourens also advanced the physiology of the vestibular apparatus and described the anaesthetic properties of ether.


The study briefly reviews the life and work of Alfons Maria Jakob (1884-1931), a notable representative of pre-war German neuropathology. Today Jakob is mainly remembered by neurologists for the spongiform encephalopathy with progressive dementia and spasticity that he, and Kiel neuropathologist Hans Gerhard Creutzfeldt (1885-1964), described independently. However, Jakob has left additional contributions to neuroanatomy, neuropathology and neuropsychiatry in the form of original articles and valuable monographs.
Over the last 75 years there has been continuous debate about the existence of vascular parkinsonism (VP). The condition has been named and renamed several times, with terms such as arteriosclerotic parkinsonism, arteriosclerotic pseudo-parkinsonism and lower-body parkinsonism. Despite the progress in our understanding of other parkinsonian syndromes, such as progressive supranuclear palsy and multiple-system atrophy, and significant developments in neuroimaging techniques, the concept of VP is still unclear and the clinical diagnosis is often difficult. There are no widely agreed diagnostic criteria. This article reviews the current literature relating to VP in particular to identify the different clinical presentations that have been described.
Depressive disorder is associated with problems of coping with life's difficulties, including episodes of frustration and disappointment, operationally defined as an unexpected reinforcer omission or a reduction of reinforcer magnitude. In a novel model aimed at detecting potential antidepressants, rats were trained in the operant task under progressive ratio schedule of reinforcement with the break point (BP, the value of the last completed response ratio) as a behavioral endpoint. In the main experiment, a 32% sucrose solution was initially used as the reinforcer. Once the stable responding was achieved, for the following 5 days animals were treated once daily with the experimental drugs, and were offered a 4% sucrose solution instead. In vehicle-treated controls, the reduction of sucrose concentration resulted in a decrease in responding from a BP of about 40 (totaling 166 responses) to a BP of about 9 (totaling 22 responses). Chlordiazepoxide (4 and 8 mg/kg), fluoxetine (3 mg/kg), citalopram (6 mg/kg) and cocaine (2.5 and 5 mg/kg) markedly inhibited this response decrement, while fluoxetine (6 mg/kg) augmented it. Neither desipramine (1-6 mg/kg) nor morphine (1-5 mg/kg) affected responding under the reduced sucrose concentration condition. In the control experiment, the rats have never been offered 32% sucrose solution but their responding was always maintained by 4% sucrose. Under these unchanged conditions, only cocaine (5 mg/kg) affected (increased) responding. The present results suggest that the antidepressants selectively inhibiting serotonin reuptake and a benzodiazepine anxiolytic but not psychostimulant cocaine may specifically protect animals from the effects of a reinforcer downshift.
Interpretation of brain images from older patients requires knowledge of changes that occur with healthy ageing. We constructed and tested a reference template for older subjects. We used MR images from normal subjects aged 65-70 and 75-80 to generate average age-specific images. We ranked the T2-weighted images by worsening brain tissue loss to create a diagram of key centiles. Two neuroradiologists tested the template during routine reporting; eight radiologists read 99 MR examinations without and then with the template. Fifty-four subjects (65-70 years) and 25 subjects (75-80 years) formed the reference images. For the two neuroradiologists, the reference template reduced the abnormal scan reporting from 28/42 without to 3/42 with the template. Of 99 MR examinations assessed by eight radiologists, 39/58 scans (67%) reported as moderate or severe atrophy without the template were reported as normal with the template (p = 0.00011). Reference templates of the brain at older ages can &quot;calibrate&quot; radiology reporting. They could also be useful for research into ageing and related conditions. Larger numbers of examinations from more diverse populations and at different ages are required to increase the versatility of these templates.
In the literature, there are few and conflicting reports regarding age-related changes in adult mentalizing abilities: whereas Happe et al. (1998, Developmental Psychology, 34, 358-362) showed better performances of elderly compared with young subjects in an advanced theory of mind (ToM) task, Mayor et al. (2002, British Journal of Psychology, 93, 465-485) and Sullivan and Ruffmann (2004, British Journal of Psychology, 95(Pt 1), 1-18) found an age-related decline. Former studies addressing the issue compared young to elderly subjects and did not investigate earlier changes in middle-aged adults. To shed light on changes in ToM skills along adulthood, the authors used the revised version of the &quot;Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test&quot; (Baron-Cohen et al., 2001, Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, 42, 241-251) to compare four groups of people of different ages covering the whole span of adult life. The authors found aged-related decline in ToM skills as early as the fifth decade of life. Awareness of the age-related changes in adult mentalizing is important to differentiate normal aging effects from ToM impairments due to neuropsychiatric diseases.

The superior colliculus (SC) of the monkey has been shown to be involved in not only initiation of saccades but in the selection of the target to which the saccade can be directed. The present experiments examine whether SC neuronal activity related to target selection is also related to saccade generation. In an asynchronous target task, the monkey was required to make a saccade to the first of two spots of light to appear. Using choice probability analysis over multiple trials, we determined the earliest time at which neurons in the SC intermediate layers indicated target selection. We then determined how closely the neuronal selection was correlated to saccade onset by using our asynchronous reaction time task, which allowed the monkey to make a saccade to the target as soon as the selection had been made. We found that the selection became evident at widely differing times for different neurons. Some neurons indicated target selection just before the saccade (close to the pre-saccadic burst of activity), others did so at the time of the visual response, and some showed an increase in their activity even before the target appeared. A fraction of this pre-stimulus bias resulted from a priming effect of the previous trial; a saccade to the target in the movement field on the previous trial produced both a higher level of neuronal activity and a higher probability for a saccade to that target on the current trial. We found that most of the neurons (76%) showed a correlation between selection time and reaction time. Furthermore, within this 76% of neurons, many indicated a selection very early during the visual response. There was no evidence of a sequence from target selection first and saccade selection later, but rather that target selection and saccade initiation are intertwined and are probably inseparable.
We review two studies aimed at understanding the role of prefrontal cortex (PFC) in the control of attention. The first study examined which attentional functions are critically dependent on PFC by removing PFC unilaterally and transecting the forebrain commissures in two macaques. The monkeys fixated a central cue and discriminated the orientation of a colored target grating presented among colored distracter gratings in either the hemifield affected by the PFC lesion or the normal control hemifield. When the cue was held constant for many trials, task performance in the affected hemifield was nearly normal. However, performance was severely impaired when the cue was switched frequently across trials. The monkeys were unimpaired in a pop-out task with changing targets that did not require top-down attentional control. Thus, the PFC lesion resulted in selective impairment in the monkeys' ability to switch top-down control. In the second study, we used fMRI to investigate the neural correlates of top-down control in humans performing tasks identical to those used in the monkey experiments. Several fronto-parietal and posterior visual areas showed enhanced activation when attention was switched, which was greater on color cueing (top-down) trials relative to pop-out trials. Taken together, our findings indicate that both frontal and parietal cortices are involved in generating top-down control signals for attentive switching, which may then be fed back to visual processing areas. The PFC in particular plays a critical role in the ability to switch attentional control on the basis of changing task demands.
In this paper, we outline some important milestones in the history of the term &quot;plasticity&quot; in reference to the nervous system. Credit is given to William James for first adopting the term to denote changes in nervous paths associated with the establishment of habits; to Eugenio Tanzi for first identifying the articulations between neurons, not yet called synapses, as possible sites of neural plasticity; to Ernesto Lugaro for first linking neural plasticity with synaptic plasticity; and to Cajal for complementing Tanzi's hypothesis with his own hypothesis of plasticity as the result of the formation of new connections between cortical neurons. Cajal's early use of the word plasticity is demonstrated, and his subsequent avoidance of the term is tentatively accounted for by the fact that other authors extended it to mean neuronal reactions partly pathological and no doubt quite different from those putatively associated with normal learning. Evidence is furnished that in the first two decades of the twentieth century the theory was generally accepted that learning is based on a reduced resistance at exercized synapses, and that neural processes become associated by coactivation. Subsequently the theory fell in disgrace when Lashley's ideas about mass action and functional equipotentiality of the cortex tended to outmode models of the brain based on orthodox neural circuitry. The synaptic plasticity theory of learning was rehabilitated in the late 1940s when Konorski and particularly Hebb argued successfully that there was no better alternative way to think about the modifiability of the brain by experience and practice. Hebb's influential hypothesis about the mechanism of adult learning contained elements strikingly similar to the early speculations of James, Tanzi and Cajal, but Hebb did not acknowledge specifically these roots of his thinking about the brain, though he was fully aware that he had resurrected old ideas wrongly neglected for a long time. Lately the concept of neural plasticity has been complicated by attributing considerably different meanings to it. A scholarly paper by Paillard is used to show how an analysis in depth can clarify some confusion engendered by an unrestricted use of the concept and term of neural plasticity.
We sought to determine the effects of prism adaptation on peripherally cued visual attention shifting in patients with spatial neglect, using a task devised by Egly et al. (J Exp Psychol Gen 123:161-177, 1994) based on the classic Posner paradigm. This task allowed a comparison of &quot;within-object&quot; versus &quot;between-object&quot; attention shifts. A display was presented containing two parallel outline rectangles, and subjects were asked to make rapid responses to a target, which would appear at one end of one of the rectangles. The target location was pre-cued with 75% validity: on invalid trials attention was directed either to the other end of the same rectangle, or to the other rectangle. Healthy subjects and right-hemisphere patients without neglect showed a left-right symmetrical pattern, with a larger validity effect when required to shift attention between rectangles, thus indicating a greater difficulty of attention-shifting between than within the respective shapes. The neglect patients showed the typical leftward &quot;disengage deficit&quot; previously observed in neglect, but only for attention shifts between objects, indicating that the effect is object-based rather than purely spatial. A comparison of vertical and horizontal shift costs showed that this attention-shifting deficit for left-hemifield target stimuli was directional rather than hemifield-based: it was absent for vertical shifts of attention within the left hemifield. Finally, we found that prism adaptation abolished the disengage deficit. We found no effects of prism adaptation in the control subjects. We argue that prism adaptation has a powerful effect on one of the fundamental manifestations of the neglect syndrome.
To elucidate the time course and processes underlying pre-movement modification of planned actions, participants prepared to make an action at a time of their own choosing within a specified temporal window. In some conditions, participants prepared to make a single right index finger key press, whereas in others, they prepared to make a sequence of two key presses consisting of a right index finger key press followed by a right middle finger key press. On a proportion of trials, their internal preparation was interrupted by an auditory tone, in response to which they made either: the same action as they were intending, a different action requiring an additional effector (i.e. switch from preparing a single right index finger key press to executing a right index, middle finger sequence), or a different action requiring one less effector (i.e. switch from preparing a right index, middle finger sequence to executing a right index finger key press). For unmodified actions, switching from an internally generated to an externally triggered mode of response production produced a significant reaction time cost (RT cost) for both single and sequential actions, with the cost for single actions being significantly greater than that for sequential actions. Given that the RT cost did not increase as the complexity of the actions increased it is unlikely that the source of the cost is related to motor execution processes, and it is suggested that it may arise at a higher level cognitive stage of processing. In addition, reaction times to produce modified actions were significantly greater than those to produce unmodified actions. Finally, it took significantly longer to produce modified actions requiring one less effector than to produce modified actions requiring one more effector. We suggest that two time-consuming processes are involved in switching between internally generated and externally triggered actions that are modified or unmodified: a trigger switch cost when the same action has to be produced in response to an external trigger as opposed to an internal trigger, and a switch cost reflecting changes in the pattern of executed motor commands when modification is necessary. It is suggested that such processes may be mediated by regions of the frontal lobes.
The simple spike firing of cerebellar Purkinje cells encodes information on the kinematics of limb movements. However, these conclusions have been primarily based on averaging the discharge of Purkinje cells across trials and time and there is little information on whether Purkinje cell simple spike firing encodes specific motor errors during limb movements. Therefore, this study investigated single-trial correlations between the instantaneous simple spike firing of Purkinje cells with various kinematics and error signals. Purkinje cells (n = 126) were recorded in the intermediate and lateral zones centered on the primary fissure while three monkeys intercepted and tracked a target moving in a circle. Cross-correlation analysis was performed between the instantaneous simple spike firing rate and speed, the directional component of the velocity vector, and error signals during single movement trials. Significant correlations at physiologically relevant lags of +/-250 ms were observed with tracking speed for 37% of Purkinje cells, with the velocity component in 39%, with direction error in 6% and speed error in 25%. Simple spike firing of the majority of Purkinje cells with significant correlation showed a negative lag with respect to speed and a positive lag with respect to error signals. We hypothesize that the cerebellum is involved in movement planning and control by continuously monitoring movement errors and making intermittent corrections that are represented as fluctuations in the speed profile.
Evidence for the simplification of motor control of the limbs through a reduction in the number of degrees of freedom exists in areas of research such as neuroscience, robotics, and biomechanics. Human hopping in place can be modeled well with spring-mass dynamics and provides a tractable model by which to study how the locomotor system compensates through inter-joint coordination to achieve stability of performance variables, leg length and orientation. This study provides the first evidence for how the redundancy of human leg joints may be simply coordinated to stabilize spring-mass dynamics throughout the hopping cycle using an uncontrolled manifold (UCM) analysis. We use a UCM analysis to quantify the structure of joint variance that stabilizes the hypothesized performance variables, leg length and leg orientation. For one-legged human hopping in place, we hypothesized that leg length and orientation would each be stabilized throughout the entire hopping cycle. We also hypothesized that hopping at non-preferred frequencies would be more difficult for subjects and stabilization of leg length and orientation would increase. Kinematic data from eleven subjects hopping at three frequencies (2.2, 2.8, and 3.2 Hz) were collected and analyzed within the framework of the UCM. Maximum leg length stabilization was observed at mid-stance when leg length was most susceptible to small changes in joint angles. Overall stabilization of leg length increased as subjects hopped at higher frequencies, reflecting the increased demands on the control system. The stabilization of leg orientation during aerial phase acted to position the foot at initial contact to determine velocity and trajectory of the center of mass during the stance phase. Because hopping in place does not require a change in forward velocity, the control strategy for leg orientation remained the same across frequencies. We conclude that stabilization of leg length and orientation may signify a reduction in degrees of freedom in the control system.
For prospective functional imaging studies of learning and for clinical studies of recovery or disease progression, it is important that the magnitude of brain activity does not exhibit a trend over repeated sessions in the absence of changes in task performance. This may confuse the interpretation of proposed mechanisms. The objective of this study was to use functional magnetic resonance imaging to determine if a linear trend in brain activity was present for simple and commonly used motor and cognitive tasks. Fourteen healthy individuals participated in three sessions on different days during which four scans each of a finger flexion task and a working memory task were performed in a block design. The general linear model was used to determine brain regions exhibiting activity differences between sessions conducted on different days, as well as between scans performed within the same session. Task-related brain activity decreased over sessions and scans in prefrontal and frontal cortices for both tasks. No increases, nor quadratic trends, were detected. Activity within premotor and ipsilateral primary somatosensory cortex decreased over scans for externally cued finger flexion and over sessions for self-paced finger flexion. Activity within parietal cortex and contralateral supplementary motor area decreased over sessions for all forms of finger flexion. These results suggest that motor planning and sensory regions, as well as frontal and parietal cortices, exhibit linear decreasing brain activity over repeated sessions in the absence of changes in task performance for even the simplest block design paradigms.
Recent research on attention has identified three separable components, known as alerting, orienting, and executive functioning, which are thought to be subserved by distinct neural networks. Despite systematic investigation into their relatedness to each other and to psychopathology, little is known about how these three networks might be modulated by such factors as time-of-day and chronotype. The present study administered the Attentional Network Test (ANT) and a self-report measure of alertness to 80 participants at 0800, 1200, 1600, and 2000 hours on the same day. Participants were also chronotyped with a morningness/eveningness questionnaire and divided into evening versus morning/neither-type groups; morning chronotypes tend to perform better early in the day, while evening chronotypes show enhanced performance later in the day. The results replicated the lack of any correlations between alerting, orienting, and executive functioning, supporting the independence of these three networks. There was an effect of time-of-day on executive functioning with higher conflict scores at 1200 and 1600 hours for both chronotypes. The efficiency of the orienting system did not change as a function of time-of-day or chronotype. The alerting measure, however, showed an interaction between time-of-day and chronotype such that alerting scores increased only for the morning/neither-type participants in the latter half of the day. There was also an interaction between time-of-day and chronotype for self-reported alertness, such that it increased during the first half of the day for all participants, but then decreased for morning/neither types (only) toward evening. This is the first report to examine changes in the trinity of attentional networks measured by the ANT throughout a normal day in a large group of normal participants, and it encourages more integration between chronobiology and cognitive neuroscience for both theoretical and practical reasons.
To investigate binocular interactions as the neuronal substrate for disparity sensitivity in the ferret (Mustela putorius furo), we measured the effects of relative horizontal disparities on responses of neurons in areas 17 and 18 of the visual cortex. Stimulation by moving bars and sinusoidal gratings showed that about half of our sample in pigmented ferrets was sensitive to relative horizontal disparity. This also included many neurons, which were classified as only monocularly activated when testing either eye alone. However, the tuning width was about two or three times coarser (median tuning width 4 degrees of visual angle) than that in the cat. In albino ferrets, only 8% of the neurons in the early visual cortex displayed some sort of disparity-dependent binocular interactions, but none could be clearly identified as relative disparity-coding neuron.
The cortical areas of the two hemispheres interact via the corpus callosum. This paper reviews recent findings in animals and man, showing that the visual areas of the two hemispheres control each other's dynamics. The interaction is stimulus-dependent and stimulus-specific. It consists of both excitatory and inhibitory inputs controlling the formation of synchronous neuronal assemblies across and within the hemispheres. The findings are consistent with the geometry of callosal axons and their inferred computational properties. These are the first findings to suggest a direct relationship between the geometry of cortical connections, and the formation of stimulus-driven synchronous neuronal assemblies.
I discuss three examples of neuroscientists whose ideas were ignored by their contemporaries but were accepted as major insights decades or even centuries later. The first is Emanuel Swedenborg (1688-1772) whose ideas on the functions of the cerebral cortex were amazingly prescient. The second is Claude Bernard (1813-1878) whose maxim that the constancy of the internal environment is the condition for the free life was not understood for about 50 years when it came to dominate the development of modern physiology. The third is Joseph Altman (1925-) who overturned the traditional dogma that no new neurons are made in the adult mammalian brain and was vindicated several decades later.

In higher organisms dependent on the regenerative ability of tissue stem cells to maintain tissue integrity throughout adulthood, the failure of stem cells to replace worn out, dead, or damaged cells is seen as one mechanism that limits life span. In these organisms, tumor suppressors such as p53 are central participants in the control of longevity because they regulate stem cell proliferation. Several recent reports have identified p53 as a longevity gene in organisms such as Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster, which lack proliferative stem cells in all but the germline and have relatively short life spans. This has forced us to reevaluate the role of p53 in the control of life span. We discuss how p53 might regulate longevity in both long- and short-lived species by controlling the activity of insulin-like molecules that operate in proliferating and non-proliferating compartments of adult somatic tissues. We also discuss the hierarchical structure of life span regulation where loss of p53 has life span extending effects. Finally, we suggest a molecular mechanism by which p53 might facilitate the response to severe nutrient deprivation that allows metabolically active cells to survive periods of starvation. Paradoxically, loss of p53 function in these cells would compromise life span.
Spontaneous atrophy of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons occurs with aging in the non-human primate brain. Short-term reversal of this atrophy has been reported following ex vivo nerve growth factor (NGF) gene delivery, but long-term effects of in vivo NGF gene delivery in the aged primate brain have not to date been examined. We tested the hypothesis that long-term lentiviral NGF intraparenchymal gene delivery would reverse age-related cholinergic decline, without induction of adverse effects previously observed following sustained intracerebroventricular growth factor protein exposure. Three aged rhesus monkeys underwent intraparenchymal lentiviral NGF gene delivery to the cholinergic basal forebrain. 1 year later, cholinergic neuronal numbers were quantified stereologically and compared to findings in four controls, non-treated aged monkeys and four young adult monkeys. Safety was assessed on several variables related to growth factor exposure. We now report that lentiviral gene delivery of NGF to the aged primate basal forebrain sustains gene expression for at least 1 year, and significantly restores cholinergic neuronal markers to levels of young monkeys. Aging resulted in a significant 17% reduction (p&lt;0.05) in the number of neurons labeled for the cholinergic marker p75 among basal forebrain neurons. Lentiviral NGF gene delivery induced significant (p&lt;0.05) and nearly complete recovery of p75-labeled neuronal numbers in aged subjects to levels observed in young monkeys. Similarly, the size of cholinergic neurons in aged monkeys was significantly reduced by 16% compared to young subjects (p&lt;0.05), and lentiviral NGF delivery to aged subjects induced complete recovery of neuronal size. Intraparenchymal NGF gene delivery over a one-year period did not result in systemic leakage of NGF, activation of inflammatory markers in the brain, pain, weight loss, Schwann cell migration, or formation of anti-NGF antibodies. These findings indicate that extended trophic support to neurons in the non-human primate brain reverses age-related neuronal atrophy. These findings also support the safety and feasibility of lentiviral NGF gene transfer for potential testing in human clinical trials to protect degenerating cholinergic neurons in Alzheimer's disease.
An unmet challenge of spinal cord injury research is the identification of mechanisms that promote regeneration of corticospinal motor axons. Recently it was reported that IGF-I promotes corticospinal axon growth during nervous system development. We therefore investigated whether IGF-I also promotes regeneration or survival of adult lesioned corticospinal neurons. Adult Fischer 344 rats underwent C3 dorsal column transections followed by grafts of IGF-I-secreting marrow stromal cell grafts into the lesion cavity. IGF-I secreting cell grafts promoted growth of raphespinal and cerulospinal axons, but not corticospinal axons, into the lesion/graft site. We then examined whether IGF-I-secreting cell grafts promote corticospinal motor neuron survival or axon growth in a subcortical axotomy model. IGF-I expression coupled with infusion of the IGF binding protein inhibitor NBI-31772 significantly prevented corticospinal motor neuron death (93% cell survival compared to 49% in controls, P&lt;0.05), but did not promote corticospinal axon regeneration. Coincident with observed effects of IGF-I on corticospinal survival but not growth, expression of IGF-I receptors was restricted to the somal compartment and not the axon of adult corticospinal motor neurons. Thus, whereas IGF-I influences corticospinal axonal growth during development, its application to sites of adult spinal cord injury or subcortical axotomy fails to promote corticospinal axonal regeneration under conditions that are sufficient to prevent corticospinal cell death and promote the growth of other supraspinal axons. We conclude that developmental patterns of growth factor responsiveness are not simply recapitulated after adult injury, potentially due to post-natal shifts in patterns of IGF-I receptor expression.
Edaravone is a lipophilic drug with multiple mechanisms of action. Because edaravone is a promising drug candidate for the treatment of stroke, we tested the hypothesis that edaravone would be neuroprotective following cerebral ischemia using a rabbit embolic stroke model with a well-defined behavioral endpoint. Using the rabbit small clot embolic stroke model (RSCEM), a drug or drug combination is considered beneficial if it significantly increases the amount of microclots (mg) measured in brain that produce neurologic dysfunction in 50% of a group of animals (P(50)) compared to the control group. Edaravone (100 mg/kg, s.c.), increased the P(50) value to 1.80+/-0.24 mg (p&lt;0.05) when administered 5 min following embolization and increased P(50) values by 195% and 161% (compared to control) when administered 1 and 3 h following embolization, respectively, but was inactive when applied 6 h following embolization, compared to the cumulative control group (P(50)=0.93+/-0.16 mg). To simulate the design of current clinical trials, edaravone was also given following a standard tPA regimen, which by itself increased the P(50) value to 2.72+/-0.28 mg. When tPA was infused 1 h following embolization and edaravone was given 3 h following embolization, the P(50) was 2.68+/-0.56 mg. This study indicates that edaravone may have substantial therapeutic benefit for the treatment of AIS since it had a therapeutic widow of at least 3 h in rabbits. Edaravone can also be administered with a thrombolytic to improve behavior.
This comparative study of myonuclear domain (MND) size in mammalian species representing a 100,000-fold difference in body mass, ranging from 25 g to 2500 kg, was undertaken to improve our understanding of myonuclear organization in skeletal muscle fibres. Myonuclear domain size was calculated from three-dimensional reconstructions in a total of 235 single muscle fibre segments at a fixed sarcomere length. Irrespective of species, the largest MND size was observed in muscle fibres expressing fast myosin heavy chain (MyHC) isoforms, but in the two smallest mammalian species studied (mouse and rat), MND size was not larger in the fast-twitch fibres expressing the IIA MyHC isofom than in the slow-twitch type I fibres. In the larger mammals, the type I fibres always had the smallest average MND size, but contrary to mouse and rat muscles, type IIA fibres had lower mitochondrial enzyme activities than type I fibres. Myonuclear domain size was highly dependent on body mass in the two muscle fibre types expressed in all species, i.e. types I and IIA. Myonuclear domain size increased in muscle fibres expressing both the beta/slow (type I; r = 0.84, P &lt; 0.001) and the fast IIA MyHC isoform (r = 0.90; P &lt; 0.001). Thus, MND size scales with body size and is highly dependent on muscle fibre type, independent of species. However, myosin isoform expression is not the sole protein determining MND size, and other protein systems, such as mitochondrial proteins, may be equally or more important determinants of MND size.
Adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) is a cotransmitter with classical transmitters in most nerves in the peripheral and central nervous systems, although the proportions vary between tissues and species and in different developmental and pathophysiological circumstances. There was early evidence that ATP was released together with acetylcholine (ACh) from motor nerves supplying skeletal muscle, although it was considered at the time as a molecule involved in the vesicular uptake and storage of ACh. Later it was shown that in the developing neuromuscular junction, released ATP acted on P2X receptor ion channels as a genuine cotransmitter with ACh. Adenosine triphosphate was shown to be released from sympathetic nerves supplying the guinea-pig taenia coli in 1971. Soon after, the possibility was raised that ATP was coreleased with noradrenaline from sympathetic nerves to guinea-pig seminal vesicle, cat nictitating membrane and guinea-pig vas deferens. Sympathetic purinergic cotransmission has also been demonstrated in many blood vessels. Parasympathetic nerves supplying the urinary bladder use ACh and ATP as cotransmitters; ATP acts through P2X ionotropic receptors, whereas the slower component of the response is mediated by the metabotropic muscarinic receptor. Adenosine triphosphate and glutamate appear to be cotransmitters in primary afferent sensory neurons. Adenosine triphosphate, calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P coexist in some sensory-motor nerves. A subpopulation of intramural enteric nerves provides non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic inhibitory innervation of gut smooth muscle. Three cotransmitters are involved, namely ATP, nitric oxide and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. In recent years, studies have shown that ATP is released with ACh, noradrenaline, glutamate, gamma-aminobutyric acid, 5-hyroxytryptamine and dopamine in different subpopulations of neurons in the central nervous system.
Angiotensin II (AngII) stimulation of water and NaCl intake is a classic model of the behavioural effects of hormones. In vitro studies indicate that the AngII type 1 (AT(1)) receptor stimulates intracellular pathways that include protein kinase C (PKC) and mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase activation. Previous studies support the hypotheses that PKC is involved in AngII-induced water, but not NaCl intake and that MAP kinase plays a role in NaCl consumption, but not water intake, after injection of AngII. The present experiments test these hypotheses in rats using central injections of AngII in the presence or absence of a PKC inhibitor or a MAP kinase inhibitor. Pretreatment with the PKC inhibitor chelerythrine attenuated AngII-induced water intake, but NaCl intake was unaffected. In contrast, pretreatment with U0126, a MAP kinase inhibitor, had no effect on AngII-induced water intake, but attenuated NaCl intake. These data support the working hypotheses and significantly extend our earlier findings and those of others. Perhaps more importantly, these experiments demonstrate the remarkable diversity of peptide receptor systems and add support for the surprising finding that intracellular signalling pathways can have divergent behavioural relevance.
Recent research has shown that the contents of working memory (WM) can guide the early deployment of attention in visual search. Here, we assessed whether this guidance occurred for all attributes of items held in WM, or whether effects are based on just the attributes relevant for the memory task. We asked observers to hold in memory just the shape of a coloured object and to subsequently search for a target line amongst distractor lines, each embedded within a different object. On some trials, one of the objects in the search display could match the shape, the colour or both dimensions of the cue, but this object never contained the relevant target line. Relative to a neutral baseline, where there was no match between the memory and the search displays, search performance was impaired when a distractor object matched both the colour and the shape of the memory cue. The implications for the understanding of the interaction between WM and selection are discussed.
The prepared reflex (PR) metaphor (Woodworth, R. S. (1938). Experimental psychology. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston) suggests that stimulus-response (S-R) instructions held in working memory (WM) can lead to autonomous response activation even without any practice. Cohen-Kdoshay and Meiran (Cohen-Kdoshay, O., &amp; Meiran, N. (2007). The representation of instructions in working memory leads to autonomous response activation: Evidence from the first trials in the flanker paradigm. The Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology, 60 (8), 1140-1154) showed that the flanker compatibility effect (FCE) is found in the eight trials following S-R instructions supporting the PR hypothesis. Nonetheless, performance in the first trials forms long-term memory (LTM) traces which link abstract categories with responses and the retrieval of these LTM traces may be the reason for the autonomous response activation seen in the FCE. This account predicts FCEs to be absent in the first trial and present afterwards. The authors show that the FCE was present in the first trial immediately following the instructions, thus providing unequivocal support for the PR metaphor.
Background: Neurodegenerative diseases are a group of chronic and progressive disorders of the nervous system. A hallmark event in these diseases is the misfolding and accumulation in the brain of protein aggregates. Objective: In this article, we describe the knowledge of the mechanism of protein misfolding and aggregation, its role in neurodegeneration and the diverse therapeutic targets for intervention. We also critically review various strategies under development to discover drugs attacking this process. Conclusion: In spite of the substantial progress on understanding the critical role of protein misfolding and aggregation, drugs effective against this process are still years away from approval.

Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a serious mental illness of considerable importance from a public health perspective. Management of PTSD may involve the use of various treatment modalities, involving both nondrug treatments and pharmacotherapy. Nondrug treatment is regarded as the first-line option for PTSD and should be routinely incorporated into management plans for patients with PTSD. However, some patients do not achieve a sufficient response to nondrug therapy or are left with disabling residual symptoms in one or more areas. Antidepressants are currently the preferred medication for PTSD, with the most substantial evidence available to support the use of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. Many patients with PTSD have symptoms that are resistant to initial drug treatment, meaning that it is often necessary to explore additional pharmacotherapy options to achieve optimal symptom control: antipsychotics, anti-adrenergic drugs, anxiolytics and anticonvulsants have all been advocated as treatments for PTSD. In addition to the management of core PTSD symptoms, it is also necessary for clinicians to address important associated comorbidities, most notably, substance-use disorders and mood disturbances. Interpretation of research studies of the efficacy and safety of PTSD pharmacotherapy is often difficult owing to methodological limitations and factors such as inclusion bias. Further research in fundamental neurosciences and pharmacogenomics may help to elucidate optimal pharmacotherapy options for PTSD in the future.
Therapy incorporating the repeated practice of motor tasks has been found to enhance motor function after stroke. This type of therapy may be facilitated by robotic devices and several such devices are being developed for use in rehabilitation. The Myomo e100 NeuroRobotic system is a novel device developed to provide assistance during elbow movements in stroke survivors. The device uses surface electromyographic signals to control a powered elbow orthosis. Data from a pilot study reveals that the device can be used successfully by stroke survivors and suggests that it may be effective in helping to restore motor control after stroke. Further studies are needed to confirm these preliminary results.
Schizophrenia is a devastating psychiatric disorder; the diagnosis probably encompasses a number of illnesses with similar clinical presentations, complicating both treatment and studies into the pathology of the disorder. The development of antipsychotic medications revolutionized treatment for the disorder. However, there are still symptom domains that are relatively untouched by the drugs currently available; these are the cognitive deficits and the negative symptoms. Basic research strongly supports a role of acetylcholine in cognitive processes, making it a primary target for drugs designed to improve this most impairing symptom. In addition, the fact that acetylcholine can modulate dopamine release makes the cholinergic system a target for novel antipsychotic drugs, ideally without the side-effect profiles that contribute to patient noncompliance seen with current antipsychotic drugs. Thus far, the results of clinical trials with cholinomimetics have been equivocal; where beneficial effects are seen they are, by and large, modest rather than compelling. These trials and studies investigating the role of both nicotinic and muscarinic receptors in the pathology of the disorder, published during the last 5 years, are reviewed to ascertain whether there is a role for the cholinergic system in the treatment of schizophrenia.
The endogenous phospholipid l-alpha-lysophosphatidylinositol (LPI) was recently identified as a novel ligand for the orphan G protein-coupled receptor 55 (GPR55). In this study we define the downstream signaling pathways activated by LPI in a human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cell line engineered to stably express recombinant human GPR55. We find that treatment with LPI induces marked GPR55 internalization and stimulates a sustained, oscillatory Ca(2+) release pathway, which is dependent on Galpha13 and requires RhoA activation. We then establish that this signaling cascade leads to the efficient activation of NFAT (nuclear factor of activated T cells) family transcription factors and their nuclear translocation. Analysis of cannabinoid ligand activity at GPR55 revealed no clear effect of the endocannabinoids anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol; however, the classical CB(1) antagonist AM251 evoked GPR55-mediated Ca(2+) signaling. Thus, LPI is a potent and efficacious ligand at GPR55, which is likely to be a key plasma membrane mediator of LPI-mediated signaling events and changes in gene expression.
Because clinical trials of pharmacological neuroprotective strategies in stroke have been disappointing, attention has turned to the brain's own endogenous strategies for neuroprotection. Two endogenous mechanisms have been characterized so far, namely ischemic preconditioning and ischemic postconditioning. The neuroprotective concept of preconditioning is based on the observation that a brief, noninjurious episode of ischemia is able to protect the brain from a subsequent longer ischemic insult. Recently, a hypothesis has been offered that modified reperfusion subsequent to a prolonged ischemic episode may also confer ischemic neuroprotection, a phenomenon termed postconditioning. Many pathways have been proposed as plausible mechanisms to explain the neuroprotection offered by preconditioning and postconditioning. Unfortunately, so far, none of them has clearly identified the mechanism involved in preconditioning and postconditioning. The present article will review the main mechanisms reported to date to explain the neuroprotective effect of both ischemic preconditioning and postconditioning.
Mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) comprise the leading cause of autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease, with age of onset and symptoms identical to those of idiopathic forms of the disorder. Several of these pathogenic mutations are thought to affect its kinase activity, so understanding the roles of LRRK2, and modulation of its kinase activity,may lead to novel therapeutic strategies for treating Parkinson's disease. In this study, highly purified, baculovirus-expressed proteins have been used,for the first time providing large amounts of protein that enable a thorough enzymatic characterization of the kinase activity of LRRK2.Although LRRK2 undergoes weak autophosphorylation, it exhibits high activity towards the peptidic substrate LRRKtide, suggesting that it is a catalytically efficient kinase. We have also utilized a time-resolved fluorescence resonance energy transfer (TR-FRET) assay format (Lantha-ScreenTM) to characterize LRRK2 and test the effects of nonselective kinase inhibitors. Finally, we have used both radiometric and TR-FRETassays to assess the role of clinical mutations affecting LRRK2's kinase activity. Our results suggest that only the most prevalent clinical mutation,G2019S, results in a robust enhancement of kinase activity with LRRKtideas the substrate. This mutation also affects binding of ATP to LRRK2,with wild-type binding being tighter (Km,app of 57 lm) than with theG2019S mutant (Km,app of 134 lm). Overall, these studies delineate the catalytic efficiency of LRRK2 as a kinase and provide strategies by which a therapeutic agent for Parkinson's disease may be identified.

A biological understanding of memory remains one of the great quests of neuroscience. For over 30 years the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster has primarily been viewed as an excellent vehicle to find 'memory genes'. However, the recent advent of sophisticated genetic tools to manipulate neural activity has meant that these genes can now be viewed within the context of functioning neural circuits. A holistic understanding of memory in flies is therefore now a realistic goal. Larvae and adult flies exhibit remarkable behavioral complexity and they can both be trained in a number of ways. In this review, our intention is to summarize the many assays that have been developed to study plastic behaviors in flies. More specific and detailed reviews have been published by us and others, reviewed in references 1-6. While our bias for olfactory conditioning paradigms is obvious, our purpose here is not to pass judgment on each method. We would rather leave that to those readers who might be inspired to try each assay for themselves.
Isolated human populations have provided a natural experimental laboratory for the ongoing study of human disease. In the mid-20th century a number of high-incidence foci of neurodegenerative diseases were brought to medical attention including kuru, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and parkinsonism-dementia. These foci were discovered in Papua New Guinea, West New Guinea, the Kii Peninsula of Japan, and in the Mariana Islands. The study of these diseases in isolated human groups has significantly contributed to our understanding of the cause and mechanisms of pathogenesis of these and related neurodegenerative disorders globally. This paper is dedicated to D. Carleton Gajdusek, a pioneer in the study of neurodegenerative diseases, whose decades of fieldwork and laboratory studies have led to numerous scientific discoveries that have reshaped our thinking and understanding about neurodegeneration.
Resveratrol, a natural polyphenol abundant in grapes and red wine, has been reported to exert numerous beneficial health effects. Among others, acute neuroprotective effects of resveratrol have been described in several models of neurodegeneration, both in vitro and in vivo. In the present study we examined the neuroprotective effects of long-term dietary supplementation with resveratrol in mice on behavioral, neurochemical and cerebrovascular level. We report a preserved cognitive function in resveratrol-treated aging mice, as shown by an enhanced acquisition of a spatial Y-maze task. This was paralleled by a higher microvascular density and a lower number of microvascular abnormalities in comparison to aging non-treated control animals. We found no effects of resveratrol supplementation on cholinergic cell number or fiber density. The present findings support the hypothesis that resveratrol exerts beneficial effects on the brain by maintaining cerebrovascular health. Via this mechanism resveratrol can contribute to the preservation of cognitive function during aging.
Calcium (Ca(2+)) is a highly versatile intracellular signaling molecule that is essential for regulating a variety of cellular and physiological processes ranging from fertilization to programmed cell death. Research has provided ample evidence that brain aging is associated with altered Ca(2+) homeostasis. Much of the work has focused on the hippocampus, a brain region critically involved in learning and memory, which is particularly susceptible to dysfunction during senescence. The current review takes a broader perspective, assessing age-related changes in Ca(2+) sources, Ca(2+) sequestration, and Ca(2+) binding proteins throughout the nervous system. The nature of altered Ca(2+) homeostasis is cell specific and may represent a deficit or a compensatory mechanism, producing complex patterns of impaired cellular function. Incorporating the knowledge of the complexity of age-related alterations in Ca(2+) homeostasis will positively shape the development of highly effective therapeutics to treat brain disorders.
We sought to validate the psychometric properties of a recently developed paradigm that aims to measure salience attribution processes proposed to contribute to positive psychotic symptoms, the Salience Attribution Test (SAT). The &quot;aberrant salience&quot; measure from the SAT showed good face validity in previous results, with elevated scores both in high-schizotypy individuals, and in patients with schizophrenia suffering from delusions. Exploring the construct validity of salience attribution variables derived from the SAT is important, since other factors, including latent inhibition/learned irrelevance (LIrr), attention, probabilistic reward learning, sensitivity to probability, general cognitive ability and working memory could influence these measures. Fifty healthy participants completed schizotypy scales, the SAT, a LIrr task, and a number of other cognitive tasks tapping into potentially confounding processes. Behavioural measures of interest from each task were entered into a principal components analysis, which yielded a five-factor structure accounting for approximately 75% of the variance in behaviour. Implicit aberrant salience was found to load onto its own factor, which was associated with elevated &quot;Introvertive Anhedonia&quot; schizotypy, replicating our previous finding. LIrr loaded onto a separate factor, which also included implicit adaptive salience, but was not associated with schizotypy. Explicit adaptive and aberrant salience, along with a measure of probabilistic learning, loaded onto a further factor, though this also did not correlate with schizotypy. These results suggest that the measures of LIrr and implicit adaptive salience might be based on similar underlying processes, which are dissociable both from implicit aberrant salience and explicit measures of salience.
Several lines of evidence suggest the involvement of prefrontal cortex in time interval estimation. The underlying neural processes are poorly understood, however, in part because of the paucity of physiological studies. The goal of this study was to establish an interval timing task for physiological recordings in rats, and test the requirement of intact medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) for performing the task. We established a temporal bisection procedure using six different time intervals ranging from 3018 to 4784 ms that needed to be discriminated as either long or short. Bilateral infusions of muscimol (GABA(A) receptor agonist) into the mPFC significantly impaired animal's performance in this task, even when the animals were required to discriminate between only the longest and shortest time intervals. These results show the requirement of intact mPFC in rats for time interval discrimination in the range of a few seconds.
Decisions frequently have consequences that play out over time and these temporal factors can exert strong influences on behavior. For example, decision-makers exhibit delay discounting, behaving as though immediately consumable goods are more valuable than those available only after some delay. With the use of functional magnetic resonance imaging, we are now beginning to characterize the physiological bases of such behavior in humans and to link work on this topic from neuroscience, psychology, and economics. Here we review recent neurocognitive investigations of temporal decision-making and outline the theoretical picture that is beginning to take shape. Taken as a whole, this body of work illustrates the progress made in understanding temporal choice behavior. However, we also note several questions that remain unresolved and areas where future work is needed.
Studies in both rodents and humans have shown that acute inflammatory pain experienced during the perinatal period produces long-term decreases in pain sensitivity (hypoalgesia) (Grunau et al., 1994a, 2001; Ren et al., 2004; LaPrairie and Murphy, 2007). To date, the mechanisms underlying these long-term adaptations, however, have yet to be elucidated. The present studies tested the hypothesis that neonatal inflammatory pain induces an upregulation in endogenous opioid tone that is maintained into adulthood, and that this increase in opioid tone provides the underlying mechanism for the observed hypoalgesia. On the day of birth (P0), inflammatory pain was induced in male and female Sprague-Dawley rats by intraplantar administration of carrageenan (CGN; 1%). In adulthood (P60), these animals displayed significantly increased paw withdrawal latencies in response to a noxious thermal stimulus in comparison to controls. Systemic administration of the brain-penetrant opioid receptor antagonist naloxone HCl, but not the peripherally restricted naloxone methiodide, significantly attenuated the injury-induced hypoalgesia. Direct administration of naloxone HCl or antagonists directed at the mu or delta opioid receptors into the midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG) also significantly reversed the injury-induced hypoalgesia in adult rats. Parallel anatomical studies revealed that inflammatory pain experienced on the day of birth significantly increased beta-endorphin and met/leu-enkephalin protein levels and decreased opioid receptor expression in the PAG of the adult rat. Thus, early noxious insult produces long-lasting alterations in endogenous opioid tone, thereby profoundly impacting nociceptive responsiveness in adulthood.
The striatum participates in multiple forms of behavioral adaptation, including habit formation, other forms of procedural memory, and short- and long-term responses to drugs of abuse. The cyclic-AMP response element binding protein (CREB) family of transcription factors has been implicated in various forms of behavioral plasticity, but its role in the dorsal portion of the striatum-has been little explored. We previously showed that in transgenic mice in which CREB function is inhibited in the dorsal striatum, bidirectional synaptic plasticity and certain forms of long-term procedural memory are impaired. Here we show, in startling contrast, that inhibition of striatal CREB facilitates cocaine- and morphine-place conditioning and enhances locomotor sensitization to cocaine. These findings propose CREB as a positive regulator of dorsal striatum-dependent procedural learning but a negative regulator of drug-related learning.
Early social attachments lie at the heart of emotional and social development in many mammals, including humans. In nature, monogamous prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster) experience considerable natural variation in early social attachment opportunities due to differences in family structure [e.g., single-mothers (SM), solitary breeding pairs, and communal groups]. We exploited some of this natural variation in family structure to examine the influence of early social environment on the development of adult social behavior. First, we characterized the parental care received by pups reared biparentally (BP) or by SM in the laboratory. Second, we examined whether BP- and SM-reared offspring differed in adult nurturing, bonding, and emotional behaviors. Finally, we investigated the effects of rearing condition on neuropeptide systems that regulate adult social behavior [oxytocin (OT), vasopressin, and corticotropin-releasing factor, (CRF)]. Observations revealed that SM-reared pups were exposed more frequently (P &lt; 0.01), licked and groomed less (P &lt; 0.01), and matured more slowly (P &lt; 0.01) than BP-reared pups. In adulthood, there were striking socio-behavioral differences: SM-reared females showed low spontaneous, pup-directed alloparental behavior (P &lt; 0.01) and both males and females from the SM-reared condition showed delayed partner preference formation. While rearing did not impact neuropeptide receptor densities in the ventral forebrain as we predicted, SM-reared animals, particularly females, had increased OT content (P &lt; 0.01) and greater dorsal raphe CRF2 densities (P &lt; 0.05) and both measures correlated with licking and grooming experienced during the first 10 days of life. These results suggest that naturalistic variation in social rearing conditions can introduce diversity into adult nurturing and attachment behaviors.
To represent value for learning and decision making, the brain must encode information about both the motivational relevance and affective valence of anticipated outcomes. The nucleus accumbens (NAcc) and ventral tegmental area (VTA) are thought to play key roles in representing these and other aspects of valuation. Here, we manipulated the valence (i.e., monetary gain or loss) and personal relevance (i.e., self-directed or charity-directed) of anticipated outcomes within a variant of the monetary incentive delay task. We scanned young-adult participants using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), utilizing imaging parameters targeted for the NAcc and VTA. For both self-directed and charity-directed trials, activation in the NAcc and VTA increased to anticipated gains, as predicted by prior work, but also increased to anticipated losses. Moreover, the magnitude of responses in both regions was positively correlated for gains and losses, across participants, while an independent reward-sensitivity covariate predicted the relative difference between and gain- and loss-related activation on self-directed trials. These results are inconsistent with the interpretation that these regions reflect anticipation of only positive-valence events. Instead, they indicate that anticipatory activation in reward-related regions largely reflects the motivational relevance of an upcoming event.
The immune system is well characterized for its critical role in host defense. Far beyond this limited role however, there is mounting evidence for the vital role the immune system plays within the brain, in both normal, &quot;homeostatic&quot; processes (e.g., sleep, metabolism, memory), as well as in pathology, when the dysregulation of immune molecules may occur. This recognition is especially critical in the area of brain development. Microglia and astrocytes, the primary immunocompetent cells of the CNS, are involved in every major aspect of brain development and function, including synaptogenesis, apoptosis, and angiogenesis. Cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)alpha, interleukin [IL]-1beta, and IL-6 are produced by glia within the CNS, and are implicated in synaptic formation and scaling, long-term potentiation, and neurogenesis. Importantly, cytokines are involved in both injury and repair, and the conditions underlying these distinct outcomes are under intense investigation and debate. Evidence from both animal and human studies implicates the immune system in a number of disorders with known or suspected developmental origins, including schizophrenia, anxiety/depression, and cognitive dysfunction. We review the evidence that infection during the perinatal period of life acts as a vulnerability factor for later-life alterations in cytokine production, and marked changes in cognitive and affective behaviors throughout the remainder of the lifespan. We also discuss the hypothesis that long-term changes in brain glial cell function underlie this vulnerability.
There is growing appreciation that social decision making in humans is strongly influenced by hedonic and emotional processing. The field of social neuroeconomics has shown that neural systems important for reward are associated with social choice and social preferences in humans. Here, we show that the neurobiology of social preferences in a monogamous rodent species, the prairie vole, is also regulated by neural systems involved in reward and emotional processing. Specifically, we describe how mesolimbic dopamine transmission differentially mediates the formation and maintenance of monogamous pair bonds in this species. Thus, reward processing exerts tremendous regulation over social choice behaviors that serve as the foundation of a rather complex social organization. We conclude that prairie voles are an excellent model system for the neuroscience of social choice and that complex social decision-making can be robustly explained by reward and hedonic processing.
Subchronic treatment with the psychotomimetic phencyclidine (PCP) has been proposed as a rodent model of the negative and cognitive/executive symptoms of schizophrenia. There has, however, been a paucity of studies on this model in mice, despite the growing use of the mouse as a subject in genetic and molecular studies of schizophrenia. In the present study, we evaluated the effects of subchronic PCP treatment (5 mg/kg twice daily x 7 days, followed by 7 days withdrawal) in C57BL/6J mice on (1) social behaviors using a sociability/social novelty-preference paradigm, and (2) pairwise visual discrimination and reversal learning using a touchscreen-based operant system. Results showed that mice subchronically treated with PCP made more visits to (but did not spend more time with) a social stimulus relative to an inanimate one, and made more visits and spent more time investigating a novel social stimulus over a familiar one. Subchronic PCP treatment did not significantly affect behavior in either the discrimination or reversal learning tasks. These data encourage further analysis of the potential utility of mouse subchronic PCP treatment for modeling the social withdrawal component of schizophrenia. They also indicate that the treatment regimen employed was insufficient to impair our measures of discrimination and reversal learning in the C57BL/6J strain. Further work will be needed to identify alternative methods (e.g., repeated cycles of subchronic PCP treatment, use of different mouse strains) that reliably produce discrimination and/or reversal impairment, as well as other cognitive/executive measures that are sensitive to chronic PCP treatment in mice.
Amyloid-beta (Abeta) cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) affects most Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and ~30% of otherwise-normal elderly people. APOE epsilon 4 is a major risk factor for CAA in AD. Neurons are probably the source of the vascular Abeta. CAA develops when Abeta is deposited in the vessel walls along or across which it normally passes into the CSF and bloodstream. Vascular deposition is facilitated by factors that increase Abeta40:Abeta42, impede perivascular passage of Abeta or raise its concentration. The levels of some Abeta-degrading enzymes are reduced in AD patients with CAA. However, angiotensin-converting enzyme activity is increased and may act via angiotensin II to increase transforming growth factor beta1, a potent inducer of ECM synthesis. CAA is a cause of intracerebral haemorrhage and cerebral ischaemic damage. In AD, neuritic degeneration is accentuated around Abeta-laden vessels. Rarely, CAA is associated with angiitis. The balance between parenchymal and cerebrovascular degradation of Abeta, and regulation of perivascular extracellular matrix production, are likely to be key determinants of Abeta distribution and pathogenicity within the brain.
The use of deep brain stimulation (DBS) to control severely disabling neurological and psychiatric conditions is an exciting and fast emerging area of neuroscience. Deep brain stimulation has generally the same clinical effects as a lesion with respect to the improvement of clinical disability, but has more advantages such as its adjustability and reversibility. To this day, fundamental knowledge regarding the application of electrical currents to deep brain structures is far from complete. Despite improving key symptoms in movement disorders, DBS can be associated with the occurrence of a variety of changes in cognitive and limbic functions both in humans and animals. Furthermore, in psychiatric disorders, DBS is primarily used to evoke cognitive and limbic changes to reduce the psychiatric disability. Preclinical DBS experiments have been carried out to investigate the mechanisms underlying the clinical effects of DBS for at least three (interrelated) reasons: to increase our scientific knowledge, to optimize/refine the technology, or to prevent/reduce side-effects. In this review, we will discuss the limbic and cognitive effects of DBS in preclinical studies.
Neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by premature neuronal loss in specific brain regions. During the past decades our knowledge on molecular mechanisms underlying neurodegeneration has increased immensely and resulted in promising drug candidates that might slow down or even stop the neuronal loss. These advances have put a strong focus on the development of diagnostic tools for early or pre-clinical detection of the disorders. In this review we discuss our experience in the field of neuroproteomics/peptidomics, with special focus on biomarker discovery studies that have been performed on CSF samples from well-defined patient and control populations.
In order to infect pathogens must breach the epithelial barriers that separate the organism from the external environment or that cover the internal cavities and ducts of the body. Epithelia seal the passage through the paracellular pathway with the apical junctional complex integrated by tight and adherens junctions. In this review we describe how viruses like coxsackie, swine vesicular disease virus, adenovirus, reovirus, feline calcivirus, herpes viruses 1 and 2, pseudorabies, bovine herpes virus 1, poliovirus and hepatitis C use as cellular receptors integral proteins present at the AJC of epithelial cells. Interaction with these proteins contributes in a significant manner in defining the particular tropism of each virus. Besides these proteins, viruses exhibit a wide range of cellular co-receptors among which proteins present in the basolateral cell surface like integrins are often found. Therefore targeting proteins of the AJC constitutes a strategy that might allow viruses to bypass the physical barrier that blocks their access to receptors expressed on the basolateral surface of epithelial cells.
The IGF-IR is a multifunctional tyrosine kinase receptor involved in several biological processes including cell proliferation, differentiation, DNA repair, and cell survival. In the brain IGF-I plays a critical role during embryonic and early postnatal development. In the mature brain, IGF-I binding sites have been found in different regions of the brain, and multiple reports confirmed a strong neuroprotective action of the IGF-IR against different pro-apoptotic insults. When the IGF-IR signaling system is insufficiently deployed, either by low level of expression in elderly individuals, or by the inhibition associated with inflammatory cytokines, neuronal function and survival could be compromised. The examples of such CNS pathologies include HIV associated dementia, diabetic neuropathies, and Alzheimer's disease. On the other hand, elevated expression activity of the IGF-IR may support uncontrolled cell proliferation and protection from apoptosis. Probably the best example of the IGF-IR involvement in brain tumors is medulloblastomas in which functional cooperation between viral oncoprotein, JC virus large T-antigen, and IGF-IR has been recently established. Therefore, better understanding of the beneficial and potentially harmful aspects of the IGF-IR can be critical for the development of new clinical regimens against neurodegenerative disorders and brain tumors.
Oscillatory synchrony in the gamma (30-120 Hz) range has initially been related both theoretically and experimentally to visual grouping. Its functional role in human visual cognition turns out to be much broader, especially when attention, memory or awareness are concerned. Induced gamma oscillations are thus not related to a single cognitive function, and are probably better understood in terms of a population mechanism taking advantage of the neuron's fine temporal tuning: the 10-30 ms time precision imposed by gamma-band rhythms could favor the selective transmission of synchronized information (attention) and foster synaptic plasticity (memory). Besides, gamma oscillatory synchrony also seems related to the emergence of visual awareness. The recent discovery that gamma oscillations could appear simultaneously in distinct areas at distinct frequencies and with different functional correlates further suggests the existence of a flexible multiplexing schema, integrating frequency bands within the gamma range but also at lower frequency bands. Understanding how and when oscillations at different frequencies interact has become a major challenge for the years to come.
Potassium ion current in nerve membrane, I(K), has traditionally been described by I(K) = g(K)(V - E(K)), where g(K) is the K ion conductance, V is membrane potential and E(K) is the K(+) Nernst potential. This description has been unchallenged by most investigators in neuroscience since its introduction almost 60 years ago. The problem with the I(K) approximately (V - E(K)) proportionality is that it is inconsistent with the unequal distribution of K ions in the intra- and extracellular bathing media. Under physiological conditions the intracellular K(+) concentration is significantly higher than the extracellular concentration. Consequently, the slope conductance at potentials positive to E(K) cannot be the same as that for potentials negative to E(K), as the linear proportionality between I(K) and (V - E(K)) requires. Instead I(K) has a non-linear dependence on (V - E(K)) which is well described by the Goldman-Hodgkin-Katz equation. The implications of this result for K(+) channel gating and membrane excitability are reviewed in this report.
The compensatory eye movement (CEM) system maintains a stable retinal image, integrating information from different sensory modalities to compensate for head movements. Inspired by recent models of the physiology of limb movements, we suggest that CEM can be modeled as a control system with three essential building blocks: a forward model that predicts the effects of motor commands; a state estimator that integrates sensory feedback into this prediction; and, a feedback controller that translates a state estimate into motor commands. We propose a specific mapping of nuclei within the CEM system onto these control functions. Specifically, we suggest that the Flocculus is responsible for generating the forward model prediction and that the Vestibular Nuclei integrate sensory feedback to generate an estimate of current state. Finally, the brainstem motor nuclei - in the case of horizontal compensation this means the Abducens Nucleus and the Nucleus Prepositus Hypoglossi - implement a feedback controller, translating state into motor commands. While these efforts to understand the physiological control system as a feedback control system are in their infancy, there is the intriguing possibility that CEM and targeted voluntary movements use the same cerebellar circuitry in fundamentally different ways.
Since the emergence of the first living cells, survival has hinged on the ability to detect and localize chemicals in the environment. Modern animal species ranging from insects to mammals express large odorant receptor repertoires to detect the structurally diverse array of volatile molecules important for survival. Despite the essential nature of chemical detection, there is surprising diversity in the signaling mechanisms that different species use for odorant detection. In vertebrates, odorant receptors are classical G-protein coupled, seven transmembrane receptors that activate downstream effector enzymes that, in turn, produce second messengers that open ion channels. However, recent work reveals that insects have adopted different strategies to detect volatile chemicals. In Drosophila, the odorant receptors, predicted to have seven transmembrane domains, have reversed membrane topology compared to classical G-protein coupled receptors. Furthermore, insect odorant receptors appear to form odorant-gated ion channels. Pheromone detection in insects is even more unusual, utilizing soluble, extracellular receptors that undergo conformational activation. These alternate olfactory signaling strategies are discussed in terms of receptor design principles.
Climbing fiber discharges within the rat cerebellar cortex have been shown to display synchrony, especially for climbing fibers terminating in the same parasagittal bands. In addition, Purkinje cells which have the smallest rostrocaudal separation also seem to have the highest degree of synchrony. But this has so far only been investigated for distances down to 250 mum. In the present study, we wanted to investigate whether Purkinje cells that are located immediately next to each other display a particularly pronounced synchrony in their climbing fiber discharges. To this end, we used a previously undescribed type of electrophysiological recording, a single electrode, loose patch, dual dendritic recording, from pairs of adjacent Purkinje cells in the decerebrated, non-anesthetized cat. From each recorded dendrite, this technique provided well isolated, unitary calcium spikes, which we found to have a spontaneous activity that was essentially identical with the pattern of spontaneous climbing fiber discharges. By calculating the coupling in firing between the adjacent dendrites, we found that most climbing fiber responses occurred independently of each other and that the probability of coupled discharges was less than 8%. These values are comparable to those obtained in previous studies for Purkinje cells located within the same parasagittal band and show that climbing fiber coupling within a microzone exists also in non-rodent mammalian species. However, since the degree of synchrony of climbing fiber discharge was not particularly pronounced in adjacent Purkinje cells, it seems unlikely that climbing fiber synchrony has pronounced systematic regional variations within the same microzone.
Early in postnatal life correlated GABAergic activity in the hippocampus is thought to play a crucial role in synaptogenesis and in the development of adult neuronal networks. Unlike adulthood, at this developmental stage, mossy fibers (MF) which are the axons of granule cells, release GABA into CA3 principal cells and interneurons. Here, we tested the hypothesis that at MF-CA3 connections, tonic activation of GABA(B) autoreceptors by GABA is responsible for the low probability of release and synapse silencing. Blocking GABA(B) receptors with CGP55845 enhanced the probability of GABA release and switched on silent synapses while the opposite was observed with baclofen. Both these effects were presynaptic and were associated with changes in paired-pulse ratio and coefficient of variation. In addition, enhancing the extracellular GABA concentration by repetitive stimulation of MF or by blocking the GABA transporter GAT-1, switched off active synapses, an effect that was prevented by CGP55845. In the presence of CGP55845, stimulation of MF-induced synaptic potentiation. The shift of E(GABA) from the depolarizing to the hyperpolarizing direction with bumetanide, a blocker of the cation-chloride co-transporter NKCC1, prevented synaptic potentiation and caused synaptic depression, suggesting that the depolarizing action of GABA observed in the presence of CGP55845 is responsible for the potentiating effect. It is proposed that, activation of GABA(B) receptors by spillover of GABA from MF terminals reduces the probability of release and contributes to synapses silencing. This would act as a filter to prevent excessive activation of the auto-associative CA3 network and the emergence of seizures.
The timing of action potentials in spiking neurons depends on the temporal dynamics of their inputs and contains information about temporal fluctuations in the stimulus. Leaky integrate-and-fire neurons constitute a popular class of encoding models, in which spike times depend directly on the temporal structure of the inputs. However, optimal decoding rules for these models have only been studied explicitly in the noiseless case. Here, we study decoding rules for probabilistic inference of a continuous stimulus from the spike times of a population of leaky integrate-and-fire neurons with threshold noise. We derive three algorithms for approximating the posterior distribution over stimuli as a function of the observed spike trains. In addition to a reconstruction of the stimulus we thus obtain an estimate of the uncertainty as well. Furthermore, we derive a 'spike-by-spike' online decoding scheme that recursively updates the posterior with the arrival of each new spike. We use these decoding rules to reconstruct time-varying stimuli represented by a Gaussian process from spike trains of single neurons as well as neural populations.
Inverse problems in computational neuroscience comprise the determination of synaptic weight matrices or kernels for neural networks or neural fields respectively. Here, we reduce multi-dimensional inverse problems to inverse problems in lower dimensions which can be solved in an easier way or even explicitly through kernel construction. In particular, we discuss a range of embedding techniques and analyze their properties. We study the Amari equation as a particular example of a neural field theory. We obtain a solution of the full 2D or 3D problem by embedding 0D or 1D kernels into the domain of the Amari equation using a suitable path parametrization and basis transformations. Pulses are interconnected at branching points via path gluing. As instructive examples we construct logical gates, such as the persistent XOR and binary addition in neural fields. In addition, we compare results of inversion by dimensional reduction with a recently proposed global inversion scheme for neural fields based on Tikhonov-Hebbian learning. The results show that stable construction of complex distributed processes is possible via neural field dynamics. This is an important first step to study the properties of such constructions and to analyze natural or artificial realizations of neural field architectures.
It is still unclear to what extent structural plasticity in terms of synaptic rewiring is the cause for cortical remapping after a lesion. Recent two-photon laser imaging studies demonstrate that synaptic rewiring is persistent in the adult brain and is dramatically increased following brain lesions or after a loss of sensory input (cortical deafferentation). We use a recurrent neural network model to study the time course of synaptic rewiring following a peripheral lesion. For this, we represent axonal and dendritic elements of cortical neurons to model synapse formation, pruning and synaptic rewiring. Neurons increase and decrease the number of axonal and dendritic elements in an activity-dependent fashion in order to maintain their activity in a homeostatic equilibrium. In this study we demonstrate that synaptic rewiring contributes to neuronal homeostasis during normal development as well as following lesions. We show that networks in homeostasis, which can therefore be considered as adult networks, are much less able to compensate for a loss of input. Interestingly, we found that paused stimulation of the networks are much more effective promoting reorganization than continuous stimulation. This can be explained as neurons quickly adapt to this stimulation whereas pauses prevents a saturation of the positive stimulation effect. These findings may suggest strategies for improving therapies in neurologic rehabilitation.
In this perspective we provide an example for the limits of reverse engineering in neuroscience. We demonstrate that application of reverse engineering to the study of the design principle of a functional neuro-system with a known mechanism, may result in a perfectly valid but wrong induction of the system's design principle. If in the very simple setup we bring here (static environment, primitive task and practically unlimited access to every piece of relevant information), it is difficult to induce a design principle, what are our chances of exposing biological design principles when more realistic conditions are examined? Implications to the way we do Biology are discussed.

The Decade of the Mind is a proposal for a research initiative focused on four areas of neuroscience, including mental health, high-level cognitive function, education, and computational applications. Organizing efforts to date have primarily included cognitive scientists, computer scientists, and engineers, as well as physicians. At the same time anthropologists have started to explore the implications of neuroscience for understanding culture. Here we suggest that evolutionary neuroscience can be used to bridge knowledge obtained by social scientists with that obtained in the neurosciences for a more complete appreciation of the mind. We consider such a perspective as neuroanthropology. We use embodiment, an anthropological concept that has been substantiated by recent findings in neuroscience, to illustrate an integrative biocultural approach within neuroanthropology and suggest future possible directions for research.

Functional neuroimaging has increased our understanding of human brain function tremendously and has become a standard tool in clinical and cognitive neuroscience research. We briefly review its methodological foundations and describe remaining challenges for translational research. The application of neuroimaging results to individual subjects, for example in predicting treatment response or determining the veracity of a statement, is limited by these challenges, in particular by the anatomical and statistical procedures commonly employed. We thus argue for sincere caution in the translation of functional neuroimaging to real-world applications.
This perspective considers the present and the future role of different neuroimaging techniques in the field of psychiatry. After identifying shortcomings of the mainly symptom-focussed diagnostic processes and treatment decisions in modern psychiatry, we suggest topics where neuroimaging methods have the potential to help. These include better understanding of the pathophysiology, improved diagnoses, assistance in therapeutic decisions and the supervision of treatment success by direct assessment of improvement in disease-related brain functions. These different questions are illustrated by examples from neuroimaging studies, with a focus on severe mental and neuropsychiatric illnesses such as schizophrenia and depression. Despite all reservations addressed in the article, we are optimistic that neuroimaging has a huge potential with regard to the above-mentioned questions. We expect that neuroimaging will play an increasing role in the future refinement of the diagnostic process and aid in the development of new therapies in the field of psychiatry.

The decoding of visually presented line segments into letters, and letters into words, is critical to fluent reading abilities. Here we investigate the temporal dynamics of visual orthographic processes, focusing specifically on right hemisphere contributions and interactions between the hemispheres involved in the implicit processing of visually presented words, consonants, false fonts, and symbolic strings. High-density EEG was recorded while participants detected infrequent, simple, perceptual targets (dot strings) embedded amongst a of character strings. Beginning at 130 ms, orthographic and non-orthographic stimuli were distinguished by a sequence of ERP effects over occipital recording sites. These early latency occipital effects were dominated by enhanced right-sided negative-polarity activation for non-orthographic stimuli that peaked at around 180 ms. This right-sided effect was followed by bilateral positive occipital activity for false-fonts, but not symbol strings. Moreover the size of components of this later positive occipital wave was inversely correlated with the right-sided ROcc180 wave, suggesting that subjects who had larger early right-sided activation for non-orthographic stimuli had less need for more extended bilateral (e.g., interhemispheric) processing of those stimuli shortly later. Additional early (130-150 ms) negative-polarity activity over left occipital cortex and longer-latency centrally distributed responses (&gt;300 ms) were present, likely reflecting implicit activation of the previously reported 'visual-word-form' area and N400-related responses, respectively. Collectively, these results provide a close look at some relatively unexplored portions of the temporal flow of information processing in the brain related to the implicit processing of potentially linguistic information and provide valuable information about the interactions between hemispheres supporting visual orthographic processing.
We all have memories that we prefer not to think about. The ability to suppress retrieval of unwanted memories has been documented in behavioral and neuroimaging research using the Think/No-Think (TNT) paradigm with adults. Attempts to stop memory retrieval are associated with increased activation of lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) and concomitant reduced activation in medial temporal lobe (MTL) structures. However, the extent to which children have the ability to actively suppress their memories is unknown. This study investigated memory suppression in middle childhood using the TNT paradigm. Forty children aged 8-12 and 30 young adults were instructed either to remember (Think) or suppress (No-Think) the memory of the second word of previously studied word-pairs, when presented with the first member as a reminder. They then performed two different cued recall tasks, testing their memory for the second word in each pair after the TNT phase using the same first studied word within the pair as a cue (intra-list cue) and also an independent cue (extra-list cue). Children exhibited age-related improvements in memory suppression from age 8 to 12 in both memory tests, against a backdrop of overall improvements in declarative memory over this age range. These findings suggest that memory suppression is an active process that develops during late childhood, likely due to an age-related refinement in the ability to engage PFC to down-regulate activity in areas involved in episodic retrieval.
This review briefly summarises recent research on the neural basis of cognition in depression. Two broad areas are covered: emotional and non-emotional processing. We consider how research findings support models of depression based on disrupted cortico-limbic circuitry, and how modern connectivity analysis techniques can be used to test such models explicitly. Finally we discuss clinical implications of cognitive imaging in depression, and specifically the possible role for these techniques in diagnosis and treatment planning.
Decisions about whether to trust someone can be influenced by competing sources of information, such as analysis of facial features versus remembering specific information about the person. We hypothesized that such sources can differentially influence trustworthiness judgments depending on the circumstances in which judgments are made. In our experiments, subjects first learned face-word associations. Stimuli were trustworthy and untrustworthy faces, selected on the basis of consensus judgments, and personality attributes that carried either the same valence (consistent with face) or the opposite valence (inconsistent with face). Subsequently, subjects rated the trustworthiness of each face. Both learned and perceptual information influenced ratings, but learned information was less influential under speeded than under non-speeded conditions. EEG data further revealed neural evidence of the processing of these two competing sources. Perceptual influences were apparent earlier than memory influences, substantiating the conclusion that time pressure can selectively disrupt memory retrieval relevant to trustworthiness attributions.
Human communication has been described as involving the coding-decoding of a conventional symbol system, which could be supported by parts of the human motor system (i.e. the &quot;mirror neurons system&quot;). However, this view does not explain how these conventions could develop in the first place. Here we target the neglected but crucial issue of how people organize their non-verbal behavior to communicate a given intention without pre-established conventions. We have measured behavioral and brain responses in pairs of subjects during communicative exchanges occurring in a real, interactive, on-line social context. In two fMRI studies, we found robust evidence that planning new communicative actions (by a sender) and recognizing the communicative intention of the same actions (by a receiver) relied on spatially overlapping portions of their brains (the right posterior superior temporal sulcus). The response of this region was lateralized to the right hemisphere, modulated by the ambiguity in meaning of the communicative acts, but not by their sensorimotor complexity. These results indicate that the sender of a communicative signal uses his own intention recognition system to make a prediction of the intention recognition performed by the receiver. This finding supports the notion that our communicative abilities are distinct from both sensorimotor processes and language abilities.
In the water maze, mice are trained to navigate to an escape platform located below the water's surface, and spatial learning is most commonly evaluated in a probe test in which the platform is removed from the pool. While contemporary tracking software provides precise positional information of mice for the duration of the probe test, existing performance measures (e.g., percent quadrant time, platform crossings) fail to exploit fully the richness of this positional data. Using the concept of entropy (H), here we develop a new measure that considers both how focused the search is and the degree to which searching is centered on the former platform location. To evaluate how H performs compared to existing measures of water maze performance we compiled five separate databases, containing more than 1600 mouse probe tests. Random selection of individual trials from respective databases then allowed us to simulate experiments with varying sample and effect sizes. Using this Monte Carlo-based method, we found that H outperformed existing measures in its ability to detect group differences over a range of sample or effect sizes. Additionally, we validated the new measure using three models of experimentally induced hippocampal dysfunction: (1) complete hippocampal lesions, (2) genetic deletion of alphaCaMKII, a gene implicated in hippocampal behavioral and synaptic plasticity, and (3) a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. Together, these data indicate that H offers greater sensitivity than existing measures, most likely because it exploits the richness of the precise positional information of the mouse throughout the probe test.
Previous studies showed that dopamine depletion leads to both changes in firing rate and in neuronal synchrony in the basal ganglia. Since dopamine D1 and D2 receptors are preferentially expressed in striatonigral and striatopallidal medium spiny neurons, respectively, we investigated the relative contribution of lack of D1 and/or D2-type receptor activation to the changes in striatal firing rate and synchrony observed after dopamine depletion. Similar to what was observed after dopamine depletion, co-administration of D1 and D2 antagonists to mice chronically implanted with multielectrode arrays in the striatum caused significant changes in firing rate, power of the local field potential (LFP) oscillations, and synchrony measured by the entrainment of neurons to striatal local field potentials. However, although blockade of either D1 or D2 type receptors produced similarly severe akinesia, the effects on neural activity differed. Blockade of D2 receptors affected the firing rate of medium spiny neurons and the power of the LFP oscillations substantially, but it did not affect synchrony to the same extent. In contrast, D1 blockade affected synchrony dramatically, but had less substantial effects on firing rate and LFP power. Furthermore, there was no consistent relation between neurons changing firing rate and changing LFP entrainment after dopamine blockade. Our results suggest that the changes in rate and entrainment to the LFP observed in medium spiny neurons after dopamine depletion are somewhat dissociable, and that lack of D1- or D2-type receptor activation can exert independent yet interactive pathological effects during the progression of Parkinson's disease.

This study examined the contributions of the primary and secondary motor cortices (M1 and M2) to action differentiation and sequencing in mice. In Experiment 1, mice with excitotoxic lesions of M1 and M2 and sham controls learned to emit lever presses exceeding a criterion duration to earn food rewards. Duration differentiation obeys Weber's law - i.e. the spread of the distribution is proportional to the average duration. M1 or M2 lesions did not affect differentiation of press durations. Experiment 2 studied the effects of the same lesions on the learning of a simple sequence consisting of two lever presses, one distal, and the other proximal, to the reward. M2 lesions impaired the acquisition and reversal of this sequence. M1 lesions, by contrast, had no effect on acquisition but impaired sequence reversal. Moreover, duration of the first press in a sequence was on average twice as long as that of the second press, though this ratio was not affected by motor cortex lesions. Together these results offer a first glimpse into the cortical substrates of instrumental differentiation in mice.
Free-word association has been used as a vehicle to understand the organization of human thoughts. The original studies relied mainly on qualitative assertions, yielding the widely intuitive notion that trajectories of word associations are structured, yet considerably more random than organized linguistic text. Here we set to determine a precise characterization of this space, generating a large number of word association trajectories in a web implemented game. We embedded the trajectories in the graph of word co-occurrences from a linguistic corpus. To constrain possible transport models we measured the memory loss and the cycling probability. These two measures could not be reconciled by a bounded diffusive model since the cycling probability was very high (16% of order-2 cycles) implying a majority of short-range associations whereas the memory loss was very rapid (converging to the asymptotic value in approximately 7 steps) which, in turn, forced a high fraction of long-range associations. We show that memory loss and cycling probabilities of free word association trajectories can be simultaneously accounted by a model in which transitions are determined by a scale invariant probability distribution.
THIS ARTICLE EXPLORES THE CONVERGENCE OF TWO FIELDS, WHICH HAVE SIMILAR THEORETICAL ORIGINS: a clinical field originally known as sensory integration and a branch of neuroscience that conducts research in an area also called sensory integration. Clinically, the term was used to identify a pattern of dysfunction in children and adults, as well as a related theory, assessment, and treatment method for children who have atypical responses to ordinary sensory stimulation. Currently the term for the disorder is sensory processing disorder (SPD). In neuroscience, the term sensory integration refers to converging information in the brain from one or more sensory domains. A recent subspecialty in neuroscience labeled multisensory integration (MSI) refers to the neural process that occurs when sensory input from two or more different sensory modalities converge. Understanding the specific meanings of the term sensory integration intended by the clinical and neuroscience fields and the term MSI in neuroscience is critical. A translational research approach would improve exploration of crucial research questions in both the basic science and clinical science. Refinement of the conceptual model of the disorder and the related treatment approach would help prioritize which specific hypotheses should be studied in both the clinical and neuroscience fields. The issue is how we can facilitate a translational approach between researchers in the two fields. Multidisciplinary, collaborative studies would increase knowledge of brain function and could make a significant contribution to alleviating the impairments of individuals with SPD and their families.
Periodic activity patterns or oscillations within the gamma frequency band (20-80 Hz) have been implicated in sensory processing and cognition in many areas of the cerebral cortex, including primary visual cortex (V1). Although periodic activity appears to be a hallmark of cortical neurons, little is known about the dynamics of these activity patterns as signals progress within local cortical circuits. This study compares the strength of periodic activity between neurons in the input and output stages of cortical processing - neurons in layers 4 and 6 - of V1 in the alert macaque monkey. Our results demonstrate that while both populations of neurons display significant gamma-band activity, this activity increases from the input to output layers of the cortex. These data suggest that local cortical circuits enhance periodic activity within a cortical area.
Local field potential (LFP) oscillations in the brain reflect organization thought to be important for perception, attention, movement, and memory. In the basal ganglia, including dorsal striatum, dysfunctional LFP states are associated with Parkinson's disease, while in healthy subjects, dorsal striatal LFPs have been linked to decision-making processes. However, LFPs in ventral striatum have been less studied. We report that in rats running a spatial decision task, prominent gamma-50 (45-55 Hz) and gamma-80 (70-85 Hz) oscillations in ventral striatum had distinct relationships to behavior, task events, and spiking activity. Gamma-50 power increased sharply following reward delivery and before movement initiation, while in contrast, gamma-80 power ramped up gradually to reward locations. Gamma-50 power was low and contained little structure during early learning, but rapidly developed a stable pattern, while gamma-80 power was initially high before returning to a stable level within a similar timeframe. Putative fast-spiking interneurons (FSIs) showed phase, firing rate, and coherence relationships with gamma-50 and gamma-80, indicating that the observed LFP patterns are locally relevant. Furthermore, in a number of FSIs such relationships were specific to gamma-50 or gamma-80, suggesting that partially distinct FSI populations mediate the effects of gamma-50 and gamma-80.
That language processing is primarily a function of the left hemisphere has led to the supposition that auditory temporal discrimination is particularly well-tuned in the left hemisphere, since speech discrimination is thought to rely heavily on the registration of temporal transitions. However, physiological data have not consistently supported this view. Rather, functional imaging studies often show equally strong, if not stronger, contributions from the right hemisphere during temporal processing tasks, suggesting a more complex underlying neural substrate. The mismatch negativity (MMN) component of the human auditory evoked-potential provides a sensitive metric of duration processing in human auditory cortex and lateralization of MMN can be readily assayed when sufficiently dense electrode arrays are employed. Here, the sensitivity of the left and right auditory cortex for temporal processing was measured by recording the MMN to small duration deviants presented to either the left or right ear. We found that duration deviants differing by just 15% (i.e. rare 115 ms tones presented in a stream of 100 ms tones) elicited a significant MMN for tones presented to the left ear (biasing the right hemisphere). However, deviants presented to the right ear elicited no detectable MMN for this separation. Further, participants detected significantly more duration deviants and committed fewer false alarms for tones presented to the left ear during a subsequent psychophysical testing session. In contrast to the prevalent model, these results point to equivalent if not greater right hemisphere contributions to temporal processing of small duration changes.
The water maze is commonly used to assay spatial cognition, or, more generally, learning and memory in experimental rodent models. In the water maze, mice or rats are trained to navigate to a platform located below the water's surface. Spatial learning is then typically assessed in a probe test, where the platform is removed from the pool and the mouse or rat is allowed to search for it. Performance in the probe test may then be evaluated using either occupancy-based (percent time in a virtual quadrant [Q] or zone [Z] centered on former platform location), error-based (mean proximity to former platform location [P]) or counting-based (platform crossings [X]) measures. While these measures differ in their popularity, whether they differ in their ability to detect group differences is not known. To address this question we compiled five separate databases, containing more than 1600 mouse probe tests. Random selection of individual trials from respective databases then allowed us to simulate experiments with varying sample and effect sizes. Using this Monte Carlo-based method, we found that the P measure consistently outperformed the Q, Z and X measures in its ability to detect group differences. This was the case regardless of sample or effect size, and using both parametric and non-parametric statistical analyses. The relative superiority of P over other commonly used measures suggests that it is the most appropriate measure to employ in both low- and high-throughput water maze screens.
Flexible decision-making strategies (such as planning) are a key component of adaptive behavior, yet their neural mechanisms have remained resistant to experimental analysis. Theories of planning require prediction and evaluation of potential future rewards, suggesting that reward signals may covertly appear at decision points. To test this idea, we recorded ensembles of ventral striatal neurons on a spatial decision task, in which hippocampal ensembles are known to represent future possibilities at decision points. We found representations of reward which were not only activated at actual reward delivery sites, but also at a high-cost choice point and before error correction. This expectation-of-reward signal at decision points was apparent at both the single cell and the ensemble level, and vanished with behavioral automation. We conclude that ventral striatal representations of reward are more dynamic than suggested by previous reports of reward- and cue-responsive cells, and may provide the necessary signal for evaluation of internally generated possibilities considered during flexible decision-making.
GlyR alpha3 has previously been found to play a critical role in pain hypersensitivity following spinal PGE(2) injection, complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) and zymosan induced peripheral inflammation. In this study, although all models displayed typical phenotypic behaviours, no significant differences were observed when comparing the pain behaviours of Glra3(-/-) and wild-type littermates following the injection of capsaicin, carrageenan, kaolin/carrageenan or monosodium iodoacetate, models of rheumatoid and osteoarthritis, respectively. However, clear differences were observed following CFA injection (p &lt; 0.01). No significant differences were observed in the pain behaviours of Glra3(-/-) and wild-type littermates following experimentally induced neuropathic pain (partial sciatic nerve ligation). Similarly, Glra3(-/-) and wild-type littermates displayed indistinguishable visceromotor responses to colorectal distension (a model of visceral pain) and in vivo spinal cord dorsal horn electrophysiology revealed no differences in responses to multimodal suprathreshold stimuli, intensities which equate to higher pain scores such as those reported in the clinic. These data suggest that apart from its clear role in CFA- and zymosan-induced pain sensitisation, hypersensitivity associated with other models of inflammation, neuropathy and visceral disturbances involves mechanisms other than the EP2 receptor - GlyR alpha3 pathway.
Neuronal circuits depend on the precise regulation of cell-surface receptors and ion channels. An ongoing challenge in neuroscience research is deciphering the functional contribution of specific receptors and ion channels using engineered modulators. A novel strategy, termed &quot;tethered toxins&quot;, was recently developed to characterize neuronal circuits using the evolutionary derived selectivity of venom peptide toxins and endogenous peptide ligands, such as lynx1 prototoxins. Herein, the discovery and engineering of cell-surface tethered peptides is reviewed, with particular attention given to their cell-autonomy, modular composition, and genetic targeting in different model organisms. The relative ease with which tethered peptides can be engineered, coupled with the increasing number of neuroactive venom toxins and ligand peptides being discovered, imply a multitude of potentially innovative applications for manipulating neuronal circuits and tissue-specific cell networks, including treatment of disorders caused by malfunction of receptors and ion channels.
Inhibitory neurotransmitter receptors for glycine (GlyR) are heteropentameric chloride ion channels that are comprised of four functional subunits, alpha1-3 and beta and that facilitate fast-response, inhibitory neurotransmission in the mammalian brain and spinal cord. We have investigated the distribution of GlyRs in the human forebrain, brainstem, and cervical spinal cord using immunohistochemistry at light and confocal laser scanning microscopy levels. This review will summarize the present knowledge on the GlyR distribution in the human brain using our established immunohistochemical techniques. The results of our immunohistochemical labeling studies demonstrated GlyR immunoreactivity (IR) throughout the human basal ganglia, substantia nigra, various pontine regions, rostral medulla oblongata and the cervical spinal cord present an intense and abundant punctate IR along the membranes of the neuronal soma and dendrites. This work is part of a systematic study of inhibitory neurotransmitter receptor distribution in the human CNS, and provides a basis for additional detailed physiological and pharmacological studies on the inter-relationship of GlyR, GABA(A)R and gephyrin in the human brain. This basic mapping exercise, we believe, will provide important baselines for the testing of future pharmacotherapies and drug regimes that modulate neuroinhibitory systems. These findings provide new information for understanding the complexity of glycinergic functions in the human brain, which will translate into the contribution of inhibitory mechanisms in paroxysmal disorders and neurodegenerative diseases such as Epilepsy, Huntington's and Parkinson's Disease and Motor Neuron Disease.
Loss of respiratory function is one of the leading causes of death following spinal cord injury. Because of this, much work has been done in studying ways to restore respiratory function following spinal cord injury (SCI) - including pharmacological and regeneration strategies. With the emergence of new and powerful tools from molecular neuroscience, new therapeutically relevant alternatives to these approaches have become available, including expression of light sensitive proteins called channelrhodopsins. In this article we briefly review the history of various attempts to restore breathing after C2 hemisection, and focus on our recent work using the activation of light sensitive channels to restore respiratory function after experimental SCI. We also discuss how such light-induced activity can help shed light on the inner workings of the central nervous system respiratory circuitry that controls diaphragmatic function.
Neuronal migration is a key process in the developing and adult brain. Numerous factors act on intracellular cascades of migrating neurons and regulate the final position of neurons. One robust migration route persists postnatally - the rostral migratory stream (RMS). To identify genes that govern neuronal migration in this unique structure, we isolated RMS neuroblasts by making use of transgenic mice that express EGFP in this cell population and performed microarray analysis on RNA. We compared gene expression patterns of neuroblasts obtained from two sites of the RMS, one closer to the site of origin, the subventricular zone, and one closer to the site of the final destination, the olfactory bulb (OB). We identified more than 400 upregulated genes, many of which were not known to be involved in migration. These genes were grouped into functional networks by bioinformatics analysis. Selecting a specific upregulated intracellular network, the cytoskeleton pathway, we confirmed by functional in vitro and in vivo analysis that the identified genes of this network affected RMS neuroblast migration. Based on the validity of this approach, we chose four new networks and tested by functional in vivo analysis their involvement in neuroblast migration. Thus, knockdown of Calm1, Gria1 (GluA1) and Camk4 (calmodulin-signaling network), Hdac2 and Hsbp1 (Akt1-DNA transcription network), Vav3 and Ppm1a (growth factor signaling network) affected neuroblast migration to the OB.
The ability of the nervous system to convert transient experiences into long-lasting structural changes at the synapse relies upon protein synthesis. It has become increasingly clear that a critical subset of this synthesis occurs within the synaptic compartment. While this process has been extensively characterized in the postsynaptic compartment, the contribution of local translation to presynaptic function remains largely unexplored. However, recent evidence highlights the potential importance of translation within the presynaptic compartment. Work in cultured neurons has shown that presynaptic translation occurs specifically at synapses undergoing long-term plasticity and may contribute to the maintenance of nascent synapses. Studies from our laboratory have demonstrated that Fragile X proteins, which regulate mRNA localization and translation, are expressed at the presynaptic apparatus. Further, mRNAs encoding presynaptic proteins traffic into axons. Here we discuss recent advances in the study of presynaptic translation as well as the challenges confronting the field. Understanding the regulation of presynaptic function by local protein synthesis promises to shed new light on activity-dependent modification of synaptic architecture.
Localization of mRNAs to dendrites and local protein synthesis afford spatial and temporal regulation of gene expression and endow synapses with the capacity to autonomously alter their structure and function. Emerging evidence indicates that RNA binding proteins, ribosomes, translation factors and mRNAs encoding proteins critical to synaptic structure and function localize to neuronal processes. RNAs are transported into dendrites in a translationally quiescent state where they are activated by synaptic stimuli. Two RNA binding proteins that regulate dendritic RNA delivery and translational repression are cytoplasmic polyadenylation element binding protein and fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). The fragile X syndrome (FXS) is the most common known genetic cause of autism and is characterized by the loss of FMRP. Hallmark features of the FXS include dysregulation of spine morphogenesis and exaggerated metabotropic glutamate receptor-dependent long term depression, a cellular substrate of learning and memory. Current research focuses on mechanisms whereby mRNAs are transported in a translationally repressed state from soma to distal process and are activated at synaptic sites in response to synaptic signals.
Firing synchrony among neurons is thought to play functional roles in several brain regions. In theoretical analyses, firing synchrony among neurons within sub-millisecond precision is feasible to convey information. However, little is known about the occurrence and the functional significance of the sub-millisecond synchrony among closely neighboring neurons in the brain of behaving animals because of a technical issue: spikes simultaneously generated from closely neighboring neurons are overlapped in the extracellular space and are not easily separated. As described herein, using a unique spike sorting technique based on independent component analysis together with extracellular 12-channel multi-electrodes (dodecatrodes), we separated such overlapping spikes and investigated the firing synchrony among closely neighboring pyramidal neurons in the hippocampal CA1 of rats during a delayed non-matching to sample task. Results showed that closely neighboring pyramidal neurons in the hippocampal CA1 can co-fire with sub-millisecond precision. The synchrony generally co-occurred with the firing rate modulation in relation to both internal (retention and comparison) and external (stimulus input and motor output) events during the task. However, the synchrony occasionally occurred in relation to stimulus inputs even when rate modulation was clearly absent, suggesting that the synchrony is not simply accompanied with firing rate modulation and that the synchrony and the rate modulation might code similar information independently. We therefore conclude that the sub-millisecond firing synchrony in the hippocampus is an effective carrier for propagating information - as represented by the firing rate modulations - to downstream neurons.
The mammalian neocortex has a remarkable ability to precisely reproduce behavioral sequences or to reliably retrieve stored information. In contrast, spiking activity in behaving animals shows a considerable trial-to-trial variability and temporal irregularity. The signal propagation and processing underlying these conflicting observations is based on fundamental neurophysiological processes like synaptic transmission, signal integration within single cells, and spike formation. Each of these steps in the neuronal signaling chain has been studied separately to a great extend, but it has been difficult to judge how they interact and sum up in active sub-networks of neocortical cells. In the present study, we experimentally assessed the precision and reliability of small neocortical networks consisting of trans-columnar, intermediate-range projections (200-1000 mum) on a millisecond time-scale. Employing photo-uncaging of glutamate in acute slices, we activated a number of distant presynaptic cells in a spatio-temporally precisely controlled manner, while monitoring the resulting membrane potential fluctuations of a postsynaptic cell. We found that signal integration in this part of the network is highly reliable and temporally precise. As numerical simulations showed, the residual membrane potential variability can be attributed to amplitude variability in synaptic transmission and may significantly contribute to trial-to-trial output variability of a rate signal. However, it does not impair the temporal accuracy of signal integration. We conclude that signals from intermediate-range projections onto neocortical neurons are propagated and integrated in a highly reliable and precise manner, and may serve as a substrate for temporally precise signal transmission in neocortical networks.
The organization and connections of the primary visual area (V1) were examined in mice that lacked functional rods (Gnat-/-), but had normal cone function. Because mice are nocturnal and rely almost exclusively on rod vision for normal behaviors, the Gnat-/- mice used in the present study are considered functionally blind. Our goal was to determine if visual cortex is reorganized in these mice, and to examine the neuroanatomical connections that may subserve reorganization. We found that most neurons in V1 responded to auditory, or some combination of auditory, somatosensory, and/or visual stimulation. We also determined that cortical connections of V1 in Gnat-/- mice were similar to those in normal animals, but even in normal animals, there is sparse input from auditory cortex (AC) to V1. An important observation was that most of the subcortical inputs to V1 were from thalamic nuclei that normally project to V1 such as the lateral geniculate (LG), lateral posterior (LP), and lateral dorsal (LD) nuclei. However, V1 also received some abnormal subcortical inputs from the anterior thalamic nuclei, the ventral posterior, the ventral lateral and the posterior nuclei. While the vision generated from the small number of cones appears to be sufficient to maintain most of the patterns of normal connectivity, the sparse abnormal thalamic inputs to VI, existing inputs from AC, and possibly abnormal inputs to LG and LP may be responsible for generating the alterations in the functional organization of V1.
The carotid body or glomus caroticum is a chemosensory organ bilaterally located between the external and internal carotid arteries. Although known by anatomists since the report included by Von Haller and Taube in the mid XVIII century, its detailed study started the first quarter of the XX. The Austro-German physiologist Heinrich E. Hering studied the cardio-respiratory reflexes searched for the anatomical basis of this reflex in the carotid sinus, while the Ghent School leaded by the physio-pharmacologists Jean-Franois Heymans and his son Corneille focussed in the cardio-aortic reflexogenic region. In 1925, Fernando De Castro, one of the youngest and more brilliant disciples of Santiago Ramn y Cajal at the Laboratorio de Investigaciones Biolgicas (Madrid, Spain), profited from some original novelties in histological procedures to study the fine structure and innervation of the carotid body. De Castro unravelled them in a series of scientific papers published between 1926 and 1929, which became the basis to consider the carotid body as a sensory receptor (or chemoreceptor) to detect the chemical changes in the composition of the blood. Indeed, this was the first description of arterial chemoreceptors. Impressed by the novelty and implications of the work of De Castro, Corneille Heymans invited the Spanish neurologist to visit Ghent on two occasions (1929 and 1932), where both performed experiences together. Shortly after, Heymans visited De Castro at the Instituto Cajal (Madrid). From 1932 to 1933, Corneille Heymans focused all his attention on the carotid body his physiological demonstration of De Castro's hypothesis regarding chemoreceptors was awarded with the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1938, just when Spain was immersed in its catastrophic Civil War.
Gamma-aminobutyric-acidergic (GABAergic) cells form a very heterogeneous population of neurons that play a crucial role in the coordination and integration of cortical functions. Their number and diversity increase through mammalian brain evolution. Does evolution use the same or different developmental rules to provide the increased population of cortical GABAergic neurons? In rodents, these neurons are not generated in the pallial proliferative zones as glutamatergic principal neurons. They are produced almost exclusively by the subpallial proliferative zones, the ganglionic eminence (GE) and migrate tangentially to reach their target cortical layers. The GE is organized in molecularly different subdomains that produce different subpopulations of cortical GABAergic neurons. In humans and non-human primates, in addition to the GE, cortical GABAergic neurons are also abundantly generated by the proliferative zones of the dorsal telencephalon. Neurogenesis in ventral and dorsal telencephalon occurs with distinct temporal profiles. These dorsal and ventral lineages give rise to different populations of GABAergic neurons. Early-generated GABAergic neurons originate from the GE and mostly migrate to the marginal zone and the subplate. Later-generated GABAergic neurons, originating from both proliferative sites, populate the cortical plate. Interestingly, the pool of GABAergic progenitors in dorsal telencephalon produces mainly calretinin neurons, a population known to be significantly increased and to display specific features in primates. We conclude that the development of cortical GABAergic neurons have exclusive features in primates that need to be considered in order to understand pathological mechanisms leading to some neurological and psychiatric diseases.
The advent of transmission electron microscopy (TEM) in the 1950s represented a fundamental step in the study of neuronal circuits. The application of this technique soon led to the realization that the number of synapses changes during the course of normal life, as well as under certain pathological or experimental circumstances. Since then, one of the main goals in neurosciences has been to define simple and accurate methods to estimate the magnitude of these changes. Contrary to analysing single sections, TEM reconstructions are extremely time-consuming and difficult. Therefore, most quantitative studies use stereological methods to define the three-dimensional characteristics of synaptic junctions that are studied in two dimensions. Here, to count the exact number of synapses per unit of volume we have applied a new three-dimensional reconstruction method that involves the combination of focused ion beam milling and scanning electron microscopy (FIB/SEM). We show that the images obtained with FIB/SEM are similar to those obtained with TEM, but with the advantage that FIB/SEM permits serial reconstructions of large volumes of tissue to be generated rapidly and automatically. Furthermore, we compared the estimates of the number of synapses obtained with stereological methods with the values obtained by FIB/SEM reconstructions. We concluded that FIB/SEM not only provides the actual number of synapses per volume but it is also much easier and faster to use than other currently available TEM methods. More importantly, it also avoids most of the errors introduced by stereological methods and overcomes the difficulties associated with these techniques.
The developing cerebral cortex contains a distinct class of cells, subplate neurons, which form one of the first functional cortical circuits. Subplate neurons reside in the cortical white matter, receive thalamic inputs and project into the developing cortical plate, mostly to layer 4. Subplate neurons are present at key time points during development. Removal of subplate neurons profoundly affects cortical development. Subplate removal in visual cortex prevents the maturation of thalamocortical synapse, the maturation of inhibition in layer 4, the development of orientation selective responses in individual cortical neurons, and the formation of ocular dominance columns. In addition, monocular deprivation during development reveals that ocular dominance plasticity is paradoxical in the absence of subplate neurons. Because subplate neurons projecting to layer 4 are glutamatergic, these diverse deficits following subplate removal were hypothesized to be due to lack of feed-forward thalamic driven cortical excitation. A computational model of the developing thalamocortical pathway incorporating feed-forward excitatory subplate projections replicates both normal development and plasticity of ocular dominance as well as the effects of subplate removal. Therefore, we postulate that feed-forward excitatory projections from subplate neurons into the developing cortical plate enhance correlated activity between thalamus and layer 4 and, in concert with Hebbian learning rules in layer 4, allow maturational and plastic processes in layer 4 to commence. Thus subplate neurons are a crucial regulator of cortical development and plasticity, and damage to these neurons might play a role in the pathology of many neurodevelopmental disorders.
Neurons may serve different functions over the course of an organism's life. Recent evidence suggests that cortical subplate (SP) neurons including those that reside in the white matter may perform longitudinal multi-tasking at different stages of development. These cells play a key role in early cortical development in coordinating thalamocortical reciprocal innervation. At later stages of development, they become integrated within the cortical microcircuitry. This type of longitudinal multi-tasking can enhance the capacity for information processing by populations of cells serving different functions over the lifespan. Subplate cells are initially derived when cells from the ventricular zone underlying the cortex migrate to the cortical preplate that is subsequently split by the differentiating neurons of the cortical plate with some neurons locating in the marginal zone and others settling below in the SP. While the cortical plate neurons form most of the cortical layers (layers 2-6), the marginal zone neurons form layer 1 and the SP neurons become interstitial cells of the white matter as well as forming a compact sublayer along the bottom of layer 6. After serving as transient innervation targets for thalamocortical axons, most of these cells die and layer 4 neurons become innervated by thalamic axons. However, 10-20% survives, remaining into adulthood along the bottom of layer 6 and as a scattered population of interstitial neurons in the white matter. Surviving SP cells' axons project throughout the overlying laminae, reaching layer 1 and issuing axon collaterals within white matter and in lower layer 6. This suggests that they participate in local synaptic networks, as well. Moreover, they receive excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs, potentially monitoring outputs from axon collaterals of cortical efferents, from cortical afferents and/or from each other. We explore our understanding of the functional connectivity of these cells at different stages of development.
Neuronal circuitry relies to a large extent on the presence of functional myelin produced in the brain by oligodendrocytes. Schizophrenia has been proposed to arise partly from altered brain connectivity. Brain imaging and neuropathologic studies have revealed changes in white matter and reduction in myelin content in patients with schizophrenia. In particular, alterations in the directionality and alignment of axons have been documented in schizophrenia. Moreover, the expression levels of several myelin-related genes are decreased in postmortem brains obtained from patients with schizophrenia. These findings have led to the formulation of the oligodendrocyte/myelin dysfunction hypothesis of schizophrenia. In this review, we present a brief overview of the neuropathologic findings obtained on white matter and oligodendrocyte status observed in schizophrenia patients, and relate these changes to the processes of brain maturation and myelination. We also review recent data on oligodendrocyte/myelin genes, and present some recent mouse models of myelin deficiencies. The use of transgenic and mutant animal models offers a unique opportunity to analyze oligodendrocyte and neuronal changes that may have a clinical impact. Lastly, we present some recent morphological findings supporting possible causal involvement of white and grey matter abnormalities, in the aim of determining the morphologic characteristics of the circuits whose alteration leads to the cortical dysfunction that possibly underlies the pathogenesis of schizophrenia.
Our brain contains a multiplicity of neuronal networks. In many of these, information sent from presynaptic neurons travels through a variety of pathways of different distances, yet arrives at the postsynaptic cells at the same time. Such isochronicity is achieved either by changes in the conduction velocity of axons or by lengthening the axonal path to compensate for fast conduction. To regulate the conduction velocity, a change in the extent of myelination has recently been proposed in thalamocortical and other pathways. This is in addition to a change in the axonal diameter, a previously identified, more accepted mechanism. Thus, myelination is not a simple means of insulation or acceleration of impulse conduction, but it is rather an exquisite way of actively regulating the timing of communication among various neuronal connections with different length.
Oligodendrocytes are cells that myelinate axons, providing saltatory conduction of action potentials and proper function of the central nervous system. Myelination begins prenatally in the human, and the sequence of oligodendrocyte development and the onset of myelination are not thoroughly investigated. This knowledge is important to better understand human diseases, such as periventricular leukomalacia, one of the leading causes of motor deficit in premature babies, and demyelinating disorders such as multiple sclerosis (MS). In this review we discuss the spatial and temporal progression of oligodendrocyte lineage characterized by the expression of specific markers and transcription factors in the human fetal brain from the early embryonic period (5 gestational weeks, gw) until midgestation (24 gw). Our in vitro evidence indicated that a subpopulation of human oligodendrocytes may have dorsal origin, from cortical radial glia cells, in addition to their ventral telencephalic origin. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the regulation of myelination in the human fetal brain includes positive and negative regulators. Chemokines, such as CXCL1, abundant in proliferative zones during brain development and in regions of remyelination in adult, are discussed in the view of their potential roles in stimulating oligodendrocyte development. Other signals are inhibitory and may include, but are not limited to, polysialic acid modification of the neural cell adhesion molecule on axons. Overall, important differences in temporal and spatial distribution and regulatory signals for oligodendrocyte differentiation exist between human and rodent brains. Those differences may underlie the unique susceptibility of humans to demyelinating diseases, such as MS.
The frontal eye field (FEF) contributes to directing visual attention and saccadic eye movement through intrinsic processing, interactions with extrastriate visual cortical areas (e.g., V4), and projections to subcortical structures (e.g., superior colliculus, SC). Several models have been proposed to describe the relationship between the allocation of visual attention and the production of saccades. We obtained anatomical information that might provide useful constraints on these models by evaluating two characteristics of FEF. First, we investigated the laminar distribution of efferent connections from FEF to visual areas V4 + TEO and to SC. Second, we examined the laminar distribution of different populations of GABAergic neurons in FEF. We found that the neurons in FEF that project to V4 + TEO are located predominantly in the supragranular layers, colocalized with the highest density of calbindin- and calretinin-immunoreactive inhibitory interneurons. In contrast, the cell bodies of neurons that project to SC are found only in layer 5 of FEF, colocalized primarily with parvalbumin inhibitory interneurons. None of the neurons in layer 5 that project to V4 + TEO also project to SC. These results provide useful constraints for cognitive models of visual attention and saccade production by indicating that different populations of neurons project to extrastriate visual cortical areas and to SC. This finding also suggests that FEF neurons projecting to visual cortex and SC are embedded in different patterns of intracortical circuitry.
Dual transneuronal tracing is a novel viral tracing methodology which employs two recombinant viruses, each expressing a different reporter protein. Peripheral injection of recombinant pseudorabies viruses has been used as a powerful method to define neurons that coordinate outputs to various peripheral targets of motor and autonomic systems. Here, we assessed the feasibility of recombinants of rabies virus (RV) vector for dual transneuronal tracing in the central nervous system. First, we examined whether two different RV-vectors can double label cells in vitro, and showed that efficient double labeling can be realized by infecting targeted cells with the two RV-vectors within a short time interval. The potential of dual transneuronal tracing was then examined in vivo in the entorhinal-hippocampal circuit, using the chain of projections from CA3 pyramidal cells to CA1 pyramidal cells and subsequently to entorhinal cortex. Six days after the injection of two RV-vectors into the left and right entorhinal cortex respectively, double-labeled neurons were observed in CA3 bilaterally. Some double-labeled neurons showed a Golgi-like labeling. Dual transneuronal tracing potentially provides a powerful and sensitive method to study issues such as the amount of convergence and divergence within and between circuits in the central nervous system. Using this sensitive technique, we established that single neurons in CA3 are connected to the entorhinal cortex bilaterally with only one synaptic relay.
Metal microelectrodes are widely used in neuroscience research, and could potentially replace macroelectrodes in various neuro-stimulation applications where their small size, specificity, and their ability to also measure unit activity are desirable. The design of stimulating microelectrodes for specific applications requires knowledge on how tip geometry affects function, but several fundamental aspects of this relationship are not yet well understood. This study uses a combined experimental and physical finite elements simulation approach to formulate three new relationships between the geometrical and electrical properties of stimulating cone-tipped tungsten microelectrodes: (1) The empirical relationship between microelectrode 1-kHz impedance and the exposed tip surface area is best approximated by an inverse square-root function (as expected for a cone-tipped resistive interface). (2) Tip angle plays a major role in determining current distribution along the tip, and as a consequence crucially affects the charge injection capacity of a microelectrode. (3) The critical current for the onset of corrosion is independent of tip surface area in sharp microelectrodes.
We present a computational framework suitable for a data-driven approach to structural equation modeling (SEM) and describe several workflows for modeling functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data within this framework. The Computational Neuroscience Applications Research Infrastructure (CNARI) employs a high-level scripting language called Swift, which is capable of spawning hundreds of thousands of simultaneous R processes (R Development Core Team, 2008), consisting of self-contained SEMs, on a high performance computing system (HPC). These self-contained R processing jobs are data objects generated by OpenMx, a plug-in for R, which can generate a single model object containing the matrices and algebraic information necessary to estimate parameters of the model. With such an infrastructure in place a structural modeler may begin to investigate exhaustive searches of the model space. Specific applications of the infrastructure, statistics related to model fit, and limitations are discussed in relation to exhaustive SEM. In particular, we discuss how workflow management techniques can help to solve large computational problems in neuroimaging.
The ability to computationally extract mentions of neuroanatomical regions from the literature would assist linking to other entities within and outside of an article. Examples include extracting reports of connectivity or region-specific gene expression. To facilitate text mining of neuroscience literature we have created a corpus of manually annotated brain region mentions. The corpus contains 1,377 abstracts with 18,242 brain region annotations. Interannotator agreement was evaluated for a subset of the documents, and was 90.7% and 96.7% for strict and lenient matching respectively. We observed a large vocabulary of over 6,000 unique brain region terms and 17,000 words. For automatic extraction of brain region mentions we evaluated simple dictionary methods and complex natural language processing techniques. The dictionary methods based on neuroanatomical lexicons recalled 36% of the mentions with 57% precision. The best performance was achieved using a conditional random field (CRF) with a rich feature set. Features were based on morphological, lexical, syntactic and contextual information. The CRF recalled 76% of mentions at 81% precision, by counting partial matches recall and precision increase to 86% and 92% respectively. We suspect a large amount of error is due to coordinating conjunctions, previously unseen words and brain regions of less commonly studied organisms. We found context windows, lemmatization and abbreviation expansion to be the most informative techniques. The corpus is freely available at http://www.chibi.ubc.ca/WhiteText/.
In this paper, we suggest that perception could be modeled by assuming that sensory input is generated by a hierarchy of attractors in a dynamic system. We describe a mathematical model which exploits the temporal structure of rapid sensory dynamics to track the slower trajectories of their underlying causes. This model establishes a proof of concept that slowly changing neuronal states can encode the trajectories of faster sensory signals. We link this hierarchical account to recent developments in the perception of human action; in particular artificial speech recognition. We argue that these hierarchical models of dynamical systems are a plausible starting point to develop robust recognition schemes, because they capture critical temporal dependencies induced by deep hierarchical structure. We conclude by suggesting that a fruitful computational neuroscience approach may emerge from modeling perception as non-autonomous recognition dynamics enslaved by autonomous hierarchical dynamics in the sensorium.
Neuroscience is witnessing increasing knowledge about the anatomy and electrophysiological properties of neurons and their connectivity, leading to an ever increasing computational complexity of neural simulations. At the same time, a rather radical change in personal computer technology emerges with the establishment of multi-cores: high-density, explicitly parallel processor architectures for both high performance as well as standard desktop computers. This work introduces strategies for the parallelization of biophysically realistic neural simulations based on the compartmental modeling technique and results of such an implementation, with a strong focus on multi-core architectures and automation, i.e. user-transparent load balancing.
A framework that integrates an object model, research methods (workflows), the capture of experimental data sets and the provenance of those data sets for subject-centric research is presented. The design of the Framework object model draws on and extends pre-existing object models in the public domain. In particular the Framework tracks the state and life cycle of a subject during an experimental method, provides for reusable subjects, primary, derived and recursive data sets of arbitrary content types, and defines a user-friendly and practical scheme for citably identifying information in a distributed environment. The Framework is currently used to manage neuroscience Magnetic Resonance and microscopy imaging data sets in both clinical and basic neuroscience research environments. The Framework facilitates multi-disciplinary and collaborative subject-based research, and extends earlier object models used in the research imaging domain. Whilst the Framework has been explicitly validated for neuroimaging research applications, it has broader application to other fields of subject-centric research.
Neuromorphic hardware systems provide new possibilities for the neuroscience modeling community. Due to the intrinsic parallelism of the micro-electronic emulation of neural computation, such models are highly scalable without a loss of speed. However, the communities of software simulator users and neuromorphic engineering in neuroscience are rather disjoint. We present a software concept that provides the possibility to establish such hardware devices as valuable modeling tools. It is based on the integration of the hardware interface into a simulator-independent language which allows for unified experiment descriptions that can be run on various simulation platforms without modification, implying experiment portability and a huge simplification of the quantitative comparison of hardware and simulator results. We introduce an accelerated neuromorphic hardware device and describe the implementation of the proposed concept for this system. An example setup and results acquired by utilizing both the hardware system and a software simulator are demonstrated.
Progress in experimental tools and design is allowing the acquisition of increasingly large datasets. Storage, manipulation and efficient analyses of such large amounts of data is now a primary issue. We present OpenElectrophy, an electrophysiological data- and analysis-sharing framework developed to fill this niche. It stores all experiment data and meta-data in a single central MySQL database, and provides a graphic user interface to visualize and explore the data, and a library of functions for user analysis scripting in Python. It implements multiple spike-sorting methods, and oscillation detection based on the ridge extraction methods due to Roux et al. (2007). OpenElectrophy is open source and is freely available for download at http://neuralensemble.org/trac/OpenElectrophy.
Neuroscience modeling experiments often involve multiple complex neural network and cell model variants, complex input stimuli and input protocols, followed by complex data analysis. Coordinating all this complexity becomes a central difficulty for the experimenter. The Python programming language, along with its extensive library packages, has emerged as a leading &quot;glue&quot; tool for managing all sorts of complex programmatic tasks. This paper describes a toolkit called Brainlab, written in Python, that leverages Python's strengths for the task of managing the general complexity of neuroscience modeling experiments. Brainlab was also designed to overcome the major difficulties of working with the NCS (NeoCortical Simulator) environment in particular. Brainlab is an integrated model-building, experimentation, and data analysis environment for the powerful parallel spiking neural network simulator system NCS.
Nengo (http://nengo.ca) is an open-source neural simulator that has been greatly enhanced by the recent addition of a Python script interface. Nengo provides a wide range of features that are useful for physiological simulations, including unique features that facilitate development of population-coding models using the neural engineering framework (NEF). This framework uses information theory, signal processing, and control theory to formalize the development of large-scale neural circuit models. Notably, it can also be used to determine the synaptic weights that underlie observed network dynamics and transformations of represented variables. Nengo provides rich NEF support, and includes customizable models of spike generation, muscle dynamics, synaptic plasticity, and synaptic integration, as well as an intuitive graphical user interface. All aspects of Nengo models are accessible via the Python interface, allowing for programmatic creation of models, inspection and modification of neural parameters, and automation of model evaluation. Since Nengo combines Python and Java, it can also be integrated with any existing Java or 100% Python code libraries. Current work includes connecting neural models in Nengo with existing symbolic cognitive models, creating hybrid systems that combine detailed neural models of specific brain regions with higher-level models of remaining brain areas. Such hybrid models can provide (1) more realistic boundary conditions for the neural components, and (2) more realistic sub-components for the larger cognitive models.
Computational neuroscience is increasingly moving beyond modeling individual neurons or neural systems to consider the integration of multiple models, often constructed by different research groups. We report on our preliminary technical integration of recent hippocampal formation, basal ganglia and physical environment models, together with visualisation tools, as a case study in the use of Python across the modelling tool-chain. We do not present new modeling results here. The architecture incorporates leaky-integrator and rate-coded neurons, a 3D environment with collision detection and tactile sensors, 3D graphics and 2D plots. We found Python to be a flexible platform, offering a significant reduction in development time, without a corresponding significant increase in execution time. We illustrate this by implementing a part of the model in various alternative languages and coding styles, and comparing their execution times. For very large-scale system integration, communication with other languages and parallel execution may be required, which we demonstrate using the BRAHMS framework's Python bindings.
Information theory, the mathematical theory of communication in the presence of noise, is playing an increasingly important role in modern quantitative neuroscience. It makes it possible to treat neural systems as stochastic communication channels and gain valuable, quantitative insights into their sensory coding function. These techniques provide results on how neurons encode stimuli in a way which is independent of any specific assumptions on which part of the neuronal response is signal and which is noise, and they can be usefully applied even to highly non-linear systems where traditional techniques fail. In this article, we describe our work and experiences using Python for information theoretic analysis. We outline some of the algorithmic, statistical and numerical challenges in the computation of information theoretic quantities from neural data. In particular, we consider the problems arising from limited sampling bias and from calculation of maximum entropy distributions in the presence of constraints representing the effects of different orders of interaction in the system. We explain how and why using Python has allowed us to significantly improve the speed and domain of applicability of the information theoretic algorithms, allowing analysis of data sets characterized by larger numbers of variables. We also discuss how our use of Python is facilitating integration with collaborative databases and centralised computational resources.
The Python programming language is steadily increasing in popularity as the language of choice for scientific computing. The ability of this scripting environment to access a huge code base in various languages, combined with its syntactical simplicity, make it the ideal tool for implementing and sharing ideas among scientists from numerous fields and with heterogeneous methodological backgrounds. The recent rise of reciprocal interest between the machine learning (ML) and neuroscience communities is an example of the desire for an inter-disciplinary transfer of computational methods that can benefit from a Python-based framework. For many years, a large fraction of both research communities have addressed, almost independently, very high-dimensional problems with almost completely non-overlapping methods. However, a number of recently published studies that applied ML methods to neuroscience research questions attracted a lot of attention from researchers from both fields, as well as the general public, and showed that this approach can provide novel and fruitful insights into the functioning of the brain. In this article we show how PyMVPA, a specialized Python framework for machine learning based data analysis, can help to facilitate this inter-disciplinary technology transfer by providing a single interface to a wide array of machine learning libraries and neural data-processing methods. We demonstrate the general applicability and power of PyMVPA via analyses of a number of neural data modalities, including fMRI, EEG, MEG, and extracellular recordings.
The NEURON simulation program now allows Python to be used, alone or in combination with NEURON's traditional Hoc interpreter. Adding Python to NEURON has the immediate benefit of making available a very extensive suite of analysis tools written for engineering and science. It also catalyzes NEURON software development by offering users a modern programming tool that is recognized for its flexibility and power to create and maintain complex programs. At the same time, nothing is lost because all existing models written in Hoc, including graphical user interface tools, continue to work without change and are also available within the Python context. An example of the benefits of Python availability is the use of the xml module in implementing NEURON's Import3D and CellBuild tools to read MorphML and NeuroML model specifications.



Stiff person syndrome (SPS), stiff limb syndrome, jerking SPS and progressive encephalomyelitis with rigidity and myoclonus (PERM) are a family of rare, insidiously progressive diseases of the central nervous system. They all share the core clinical features of appendicular and axial rigidity caused by continuous involuntary motor unit activity, and superimposed stimulus-sensitive spasms. There is good evidence for a primary auto-immune aetiology. Anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase (anti-GAD) antibodies, specifically to the GAD65 isoform, are present in serum or cerebrospinal fluid of 60-80% of patients with SPS and its variants. A paraneoplastic form of SPS is recognized in about 5%, associated with a different profile of auto-antibodies. Repeated intravenous immunoglobulin is the mainstay of disease-modifying therapy in SPS. Rigidity and spasms may be treated symptomatically with benzodiazepines, baclofen, tiagabine and levetiracetam. After an initial progressive phase, patients with SPS generally stabilize over a period of months to years. However, 10% will require prolongedadmission to intensive care at some stage during the disease. Sudden death has been reported in asmany as 10% of patients because of unexplained metabolic acidosis or autonomic crises. The prognosis in paraneoplastic SPS, jerking SPS and PERM, in terms of mortality, is generally worse than in primary SPS.

Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by senile plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, synaptic loss, neuronal death and cholinergic deficits, causing cognitive, behavioral and psychological deficits, as well as a functional impairment that results in serious caregiver distress and a great economic burden worldwide. High hopes rose with the development of symptomatic treatments,resulting from randomized controlled trials using cholinergic enhancers or cholinesterase inhibitors, such as donepezil, galantamine and rivastigmine. When memantine, an NMDA antagonist,was approved and the first phase III antiamyloid immunization was launched, many clinicians eagerly anticipated the first disease-modifying drugs in their daily practice. For the treatment of behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD), atypical antipsychotics and new-generation antidepressants also seemed to offer great promises, mainly because of their good tolerance and side effect profiles. Hopes, however, were followed by desillusions: subsequent studies demonstrated that cholinesterase inhibitors and memantine had only modest and short-lived effects on cognition and BPSD, and the effect of antipsychotics on BPSD appeared questionable. Disease-modifying drugs such as antiamyloid immunization or amyloid clearance medication had to be abandoned for safety reasons or absence of efficacy. Although the early treatment of vascular risk factors is increasingly recognized in Alzheimer's disease prevention because of their implication in the amyloid cascade, randomized controlled trials have yielded largely negative results. Therefore,pharmacological as well as fundamental research that better underpins the complex pathophysiology of this devastating disease constitutes one of the biggest challenges of the 21st century.
Pattern generators found in the spinal cord are no more seen as simple rhythmic oscillators for motion control. Indeed, they achieve flexible and dynamical coordination in interaction with the body and the environment dynamics giving to rise motor synergies. Discovering the mechanisms underlying the control of motor synergies constitutes an important research question not only for neuroscience but also for robotics: the motors coordination of high dimensional robotic systems is still a drawback and new control methods based on biological solutions may reduce their overall complexity. We propose to model the flexible combination of motor synergies in embodied systems via partial phase synchronization of distributed chaotic systems; for specific coupling strength, chaotic systems are able to phase synchronize their dynamics to the resonant frequencies of one external force. We take advantage of this property to explore and exploit the intrinsic dynamics of one specified embodied system. In two experiments with bipedal walkers, we show how motor synergies emerge when the controllers phase synchronize to the body's dynamics, entraining it to its intrinsic behavioral patterns. This stage is characterized by directed information flow from the sensors to the motors exhibiting the optimal situation when the body dynamics drive the controllers (mutual entrainment). Based on our results, we discuss the relevance of our findings for modeling the modular control of distributed pattern generators exhibited in the spinal cord, and for exploring the motor synergies in robots.
Intrinsic cellular properties of neurons in culture or slices are usually studied by the whole cell clamp method using low-resistant patch pipettes. These electrodes allow detailed analyses with standard electrophysiological methods such as current- or voltage-clamp. However, in these preparations large parts of the network and dendritic structures may be removed, thus preventing an adequate study of synaptic signal processing. Therefore, intact in vivo preparations or isolated in vitro whole brains have been used in which intracellular recordings are usually made with sharp, high-resistant electrodes to optimize the impalement of neurons. The general non-linear resistance properties of these electrodes, however, severely limit accurate quantitative studies of membrane dynamics especially needed for precise modelling. Therefore, we have developed a frequency-domain analysis of membrane properties that uses a Piece-wise Non-linear Electrode Compensation (PNEC) method. The technique was tested in second-order vestibular neurons and abducens motoneurons of isolated frog whole brain preparations using sharp potassium chloride- or potassium acetate-filled electrodes. All recordings were performed without online electrode compensation. The properties of each electrode were determined separately after the neuronal recordings and were used in the frequency-domain analysis of the combined measurement of electrode and cell. This allowed detailed analysis of membrane properties in the frequency-domain with high-resistant electrodes and provided quantitative data that can be further used to model channel kinetics. Thus, sharp electrodes can be used for the characterization of intrinsic properties and synaptic inputs of neurons in intact brains.


Neuroscience simulators allow scientists to express models in terms of biological concepts, without having to concern themselves with low-level computational details of their implementation. The expressiveness, power and ease-of-use of the simulator interface is critical in efficiently and accurately translating ideas into a working simulation. We review long-term trends in the development of programmable simulator interfaces, and examine the benefits of moving from proprietary, domain-specific languages to modern dynamic general-purpose languages, in particular Python, which provide neuroscientists with an interactive and expressive simulation development environment and easy access to state-of-the-art general-purpose tools for scientific computing.
Perceptual and cognitive content is thought to be represented in the brain by patterns of activity across populations of neurons. In order to test whether a computational model can explain a given population code and whether corresponding codes in man and monkey convey the same information, we need to quantitatively relate population-code representations. Here I give a brief introduction to representational similarity analysis, a particular approach to this problem. A population code is characterized by a representational dissimilarity matrix (RDM), which contains a dissimilarity for each pair of activity patterns elicited by a given stimulus set. The RDM encapsulates which distinctions the representation emphasizes and which it deemphasizes. By analyzing correlations between RDMs we can test models and compare different species. Moreover, we can study how representations are transformed across stages of processing and how they relate to behavioral measures of object similarity. We use an example from object vision to illustrate the method's potential to bridge major divides that have hampered progress in systems neuroscience.
Using recombinant rabies virus (RV), we developed a dual transsynaptic retrograde tracing technique in the rat central nervous system. Two strains of recombinant RV, injected into two separate loci of the brain, were taken up through axon terminals and carried retrogradely and transsynaptically from neuron to neuron. Each viral strain expresses a unique marker in infected neurons. Therefore, neurons that project transsynaptically to two brain loci can be detected by double-labeling. In this review, we will introduce the advantage of dual viral tracing by recombinant RV, and will also address some potential weaknesses of this technique. Although false negative results may arise due to interference between two strains of RV, the ability of the recombinant RV to visualize the morphology of the infected cell and to infect primates in addition to rodents will make this technique a potential tool to provide new insights into the complex organization of brain networks.
Humans and rodents retain memories for stressful events very well. The facilitated retention of these memories is normally very useful. However, in susceptible individuals a variety of pathological conditions may develop in which memories related to stressful events remain inappropriately present, such as in post-traumatic stress disorder. The memory enhancing effects of stress are mediated by hormones, such as norepinephrine and glucocorticoids which are released during stressful experiences. Here we review recently identified molecular mechanisms that underlie the effects of stress hormones on synaptic efficacy and learning and memory. We discuss AMPA receptors as major target for stress hormones and describe a model in which norepinephrine and glucocorticoids are able to strengthen and prolong different phases of stressful memories.
We use the moth Heliothis virescens as model organism for studying the neural network involved in chemosensory coding and learning. The constituent neurons are characterised by intracellular recordings combined with staining, resulting in a single neuron identified in each brain preparation. In order to spatially relate the neurons of different preparations a common brain framework was required. We here present an average shaped atlas of the moth brain. It is based on 11 female brain preparations, each stained with a fluorescent synaptic marker and scanned in confocal laser-scanning microscope. Brain neuropils of each preparation were manually reconstructed in the computer software Amira, followed by generating the atlas using the Iterative Shape Average Procedure. To demonstrate the application of the atlas we have registered two olfactory and two gustatory interneurons, as well as the axonal projections of gustatory receptor neurons into the atlas, visualising their spatial relationships. The olfactory interneurons, showing the typical morphology of inner-tract antennal lobe projection neurons, projected in the calyces of the mushroom body and laterally in the protocerebral lobe. The two gustatory interneurons, responding to sucrose and quinine respectively, projected in different areas of the brain. The wide projections of the quinine responding neuron included a lateral area adjacent to the projections of the olfactory interneurons. The sucrose responding neuron was confined to the suboesophageal ganglion with dendritic arborisations overlapping the axonal projections of the gustatory receptor neurons on the proboscis. By serving as a tool for the integration of neurons, the atlas offers visual access to the spatial relationship between the neurons in three dimensions, and thus facilitates the study of neuronal networks in the Heliothis virescens brain. The moth standard brain is accessible at http://www.ntnu.no/biolog/english/neuroscience/brain.
Understanding the link between neuronal responses (NRs) and metabolic signals is fundamental to our knowledge of brain function and it is a milestone in our efforts to interpret data from modern non invasive optical techniques such as fMRI, which are based on the close coupling between metabolic demand of active neurons and local changes in blood flow. The challenge is to unravel the link. Here we show, using spectrophotometry to record oxyhaemoglobin and methemoglobin (surrogate markers of cerebral flow and nitric oxide levels respectively) together with extracellular neuronal recordings in vivo and applying a multiple polynomial regression model, that the markers are able to predict up about 80% of variability in NR. Furthermore, we show that the coupling between blood flow and neuronal activity is heavily influenced by nitric oxide (NO). While NRs show the typical saturating response, blood flow shows a linear behaviour during contrast-response curves, with nitric oxide from different sources acting differently for low and high intensity.
When an object is introduced moving in the visual field of view, the object maps with different delays in each of the six cortical layers in many visual areas by mechanisms that are poorly understood. We combined voltage sensitive dye (VSD) recordings with laminar recordings of action potentials in visual areas 17, 18, 19 and 21 in ferrets exposed to stationary and moving bars. At the area 17/18 border a moving bar first elicited an ON response in layer 4 and then ON responses in supragranular and infragranular layers, identical to a stationary bar. Shortly after, the moving bar mapped as moving synchronous peak firing across layers. Complex dynamics evolved including feedback from areas 19/21, the computation of a spatially restricted pre-depolarization (SRP), and firing in the direction of cortical motion prior to the mapping of the bar. After 350 ms, the representations of the bar (peak firing and peak VSD signal) in areas 19/21 and 17/18 moved over the cortex in phase. The dynamics comprise putative mechanisms for automatic saliency of novel moving objects, coherent mapping of moving objects across layers and areas, and planning of catch-up saccades.
Thalamic relay cells fire action potentials that transmit information from retina to cortex. The amount of information that spike trains encode is usually estimated from the precision of spike timing with respect to the stimulus. Sensory input, however, is only one factor that influences neural activity. For example, intrinsic dynamics, such as oscillations of networks of neurons, also modulate firing pattern. Here, we asked if retinal oscillations might help to convey information to neurons downstream. Specifically, we made whole-cell recordings from relay cells to reveal retinal inputs (EPSPs) and thalamic outputs (spikes) and then analyzed these events with information theory. Our results show that thalamic spike trains operate as two multiplexed channels. One channel, which occupies a low frequency band (&lt;30 Hz), is encoded by average firing rate with respect to the stimulus and carries information about local changes in the visual field over time. The other operates in the gamma frequency band (40-80 Hz) and is encoded by spike timing relative to retinal oscillations. At times, the second channel conveyed even more information than the first. Because retinal oscillations involve extensive networks of ganglion cells, it is likely that the second channel transmits information about global features of the visual scene.
During the intrauterine period the fetal brain develops in the male direction through a direct action of testosterone on the developing nerve cells, or in the female direction through the absence of this hormone surge. In this way, our gender identity (the conviction of belonging to the male or female gender) and sexual orientation are programmed into our brain structures when we are still in the womb. However, since sexual differentiation of the genitals takes place in the first two months of pregnancy and sexual differentiation of the brain starts in the second half of pregnancy, these two processes can be influenced independently, which may result in transsexuality. This also means that in the event of ambiguous sex at birth, the degree of masculinization of the genitals may not reflect the degree of masculinization of the brain. There is no proof that social environment after birth has an effect on gender identity or sexual orientation.

Promoters with high levels of ubiquitous expression are of significant utility in the production of transgenic animals and cell lines. One such promoter is derived from the human cytomegalovirus immediate early (CMV-IE) gene. We sought to ascertain if the simian CMV-IE promoter (sCMV), used extensively in non-mammalian vertebrate research, also directs intense, widespread expression when stably introduced into zebrafish. Analysis of sCMV-driven expression revealed a temporal and spatial pattern not predicted by studies using the hCMV promoter in other transgenic animals or by observations of early F0 embryos expressing injected sCMV-reporter plasmids. Unexpectedly, in transgenic fish produced by both integration of linearized plasmid or Tol2-mediated transgenesis, sCMV promoter expression was generally observed in a small population of cells in telencephalon and spinal cord between days 2 and 7, and was thereafter confined to discrete regions of CNS that included the olfactory bulb, retina, cerebellum, spinal cord, and lateral line. In skeletal muscle, intense transgene expression was not observed until well into adulthood (&gt;2-3 months post-fertilization). One final unexpected characteristic of the sCMV promoter in stable transgenic fish was tissue-specific responsiveness of the promoter to heat shock at both embryonic and adult stages. These data suggest that, in the context of stable transgenesis, the simian CMV-IE gene promoter responds differently to intracellular regulatory forces than other characterized CMV promoters.
The Tre-2/Bub2/Cdc16 (TBC) domain is a conserved protein motif that consists of approximately 200 amino acids and is thought to function as a specific Rab-GAP domain. Although more than 40 distinct TBC domain-containing proteins have been identified in humans, the GAP activity and specificity of most TBC proteins have never been determined. In this study we developed a novel method of screening for Rab3A-GAP and identified two TBC proteins (FLJ13130 and RN-tre) whose expression in PC12 cells was associated with exclusion of endogenous Rab3A molecules from dense-core vesicles. As expression of RN-tre caused fragmentation of the Golgi, which presumably resulted in the loss of dense-core vesicles themselves, we further characterized FLJ13130 as a candidate Rab3A-GAP. The results showed that expression of FLJ13130, but not of its catalytically inactive R134K mutant, greatly reduced the amount of GTP-Rab3A in living cells and promoted the GTPase activity of Rab3A in vitro. Unexpectedly, however, FLJ13130 also promoted the GTPase activity of Rab22A, Rab27A, and Rab35, but not of Rab2A or Rab6A. Based on these results, we propose that FLJ13130 is a novel type of Rab-GAP that exhibits broad GAP specificity and inactivates several distinct Rab isoforms, including Rab3A, just near the plasma membrane.
Comparison of a regulatory network that specifies dopaminergic neurons in Caenorhabditis elegans to the development of vertebrate dopamine systems in the mouse reveals a possible partial conservation of such a network.
The laboratory rat (Rattus norvegicus) is a key tool for the study of medicine and pharmacology for human health. A large database of phenotypes for integrated fields such as cardiovascular, neuroscience, and exercise physiology exists in the literature. However, the molecular characterization of the genetic loci that give rise to variation in these traits has proven to be difficult. Here we show how one obstacle to progress, the fine-mapping of quantitative trait loci (QTL), can be overcome by using an outbred population of rats. By use of a genetically heterogeneous stock of rats, we map a locus contributing to variation in a fear-related measure (two-way active avoidance in the shuttle box) to a region on chromosome 5 containing nine genes. By establishing a protocol measuring multiple phenotypes including immunology, neuroinflammation, and hematology, as well as cardiovascular, metabolic, and behavioral traits, we establish the rat HS as a new resource for the fine-mapping of QTLs contributing to variation in complex traits of biomedical relevance.




Peptides released in the spinal cord from the central terminals of nociceptors contribute to the persistent hyperalgesia that defines the clinical experience of chronic pain. Using substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) as examples, this review addresses the multiple mechanisms through which peptidergic neurotransmission contributes to the development and maintenance of chronic pain. Activation of CGRP receptors on terminals of primary afferent neurons facilitates transmitter release and receptors on spinal neurons increases glutamate activation of AMPA receptors. Both effects are mediated by cAMP-dependent mechanisms. Substance P activates neurokinin receptors (3 subtypes) which couple to phospholipase C and the generation of the intracellular messengers whose downstream effects include depolarizing the membrane and facilitating the function of AMPA and NMDA receptors. Activation of neurokinin-1 receptors also increases the synthesis of prostaglandins whereas activation of neurokinin-3 receptors increases the synthesis of nitric oxide. Both products act as retrograde messengers across synapses and facilitate nociceptive signaling in the spinal cord. Whereas these cellular effects of CGRP and SP at the level of the spinal cord contribute to the development of increased synaptic strength between nociceptors and spinal neurons in the pathway for pain, the different intracellular signaling pathways also activate different transcription factors. The activated transcription factors initiate changes in the expression of genes that contribute to long-term changes in the excitability of spinal and maintain hyperalgesia.
P2X and P2Y nucleotide receptors are described on sensory neurons and their peripheral and central terminals in dorsal root, nodose, trigeminal, petrosal, retinal and enteric ganglia. Peripheral terminals are activated by ATP released from local cells by mechanical deformation, hypoxia or various local agents in the carotid body, lung, gut, bladder, inner ear, eye, nasal organ, taste buds, skin, muscle and joints mediating reflex responses and nociception. Purinergic receptors on fibres in the dorsal spinal cord and brain stem are involved in reflex control of visceral and cardiovascular activity, as well as relaying nociceptive impulses to pain centres. Purinergic mechanisms are enhanced in inflammatory conditions and may be involved in migraine, pain, diseases of the special senses, bladder and gut, and the possibility that they are also implicated in arthritis, respiratory disorders and some central nervous system disorders is discussed. Finally, the development and evolution of purinergic sensory mechanisms are considered.
The somatosensory effects of natural products such as capsaicin, mustard oil, and menthol have been long recognized. Over the last decade, the identification of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels in primary sensory neurons as the targets for these agents has led to an explosion of research into the roles of &quot;thermoTRPs&quot; TRPV1, TRPV2, TRPV3, TRPV4, TRPA1, and TRPM8 in nociception. In concert, through the efforts of many industrial and academic teams, a number of agonists and antagonists of these channels have been discovered, paving the way for a better understanding of sensory biology and, potentially, for novel treatments for diseases.
Advances in radiotracer chemistry have resulted in the development of novel molecular imaging probes for adenosine receptors (ARs). With the availability of these molecules, the function of ARs in human pathophysiology as well as the safety and efficacy of approaches to the different AR targets can now be determined. Molecular imaging is a rapidly growing field of research that allows the identification of molecular targets and functional processes in vivo. It is therefore gaining increasing interest as a tool in drug development because it permits the process of evaluating promising therapeutic targets to be stratified. Further, molecular imaging has the potential to evolve into a useful diagnostic tool, particularly for neurological and psychiatric disorders. This chapter focuses on currently available AR ligands that are suitable for molecular neuroimaging and describes first applications in healthy subjects and patients using positron emission tomography (PET).
The adenosine receptors (ARs) in the nervous system act as a kind of &quot;go-between&quot; to regulate the release of neurotransmitters (this includes all known neurotransmitters) and the action of neuromodulators (e.g., neuropeptides, neurotrophic factors). Receptor-receptor interactions and AR-transporter interplay occur as part of the adenosine's attempt to control synaptic transmission. A(2A)ARs are more abundant in the striatum and A(1)ARs in the hippocampus, but both receptors interfere with the efficiency and plasticity-regulated synaptic transmission in most brain areas. The omnipresence of adenosine and A(2A) and A(1) ARs in all nervous system cells (neurons and glia), together with the intensive release of adenosine following insults, makes adenosine a kind of &quot;maestro&quot; of the tripartite synapse in the homeostatic coordination of the brain function. Under physiological conditions, both A(2A) and A(1) ARs play an important role in sleep and arousal, cognition, memory and learning, whereas under pathological conditions (e.g., Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, stroke, epilepsy, drug addiction, pain, schizophrenia, depression), ARs operate a time/circumstance window where in some circumstances A(1)AR agonists may predominate as early neuroprotectors, and in other circumstances A(2A)AR antagonists may alter the outcomes of some of the pathological deficiencies. In some circumstances, and depending on the therapeutic window, the use of A(2A)AR agonists may be initially beneficial; however, at later time points, the use of A(2A)AR antagonists proved beneficial in several pathologies. Since selective ligands for A(1) and A(2A) ARs are now entering clinical trials, the time has come to determine the role of these receptors in neurological and psychiatric diseases and identify therapies that will alter the outcomes of these diseases, therefore providing a hopeful future for the patients who suffer from these diseases.
This chapter considers the neurobiological mechanisms that are thought to mediate the reinforcing or rewarding properties of nicotine. It focuses on the data (derived principally from studies with experimental animals) showing that nicotine, like other drugs of dependence, stimulates the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) neurones that project to the nucleus accumbens and that these effects play a pivotal role in the biology underlying nicotine dependence. The reinforcing or rewarding properties of nicotine are thought to be associated particularly with the increase in DA overflow evoked in the shell subdivision of the accumbens. However, behavioural studies suggest that these properties of nicotine in experimental animals do not seem to be sufficiently potent to explain the powerful addiction to tobacco experienced by most habitual smokers. This chapter also considers the biological mechanisms that mediate the effects of cues and stimuli associated with the presentation of nicotine, which are thought to contribute significantly to the powerful addictive properties of tobacco smoke.
Dendritic cells (DCs) play a crucial role in linking innate and adaptive immunity, by virtue of their unique ability to take up and process antigens in the peripheral blood and tissues and, upon migration to draining lymph nodes, to present antigen to resting lymphocytes. Notably, these DC functions are modulated by cytokines and chemokines controlling the activation and maturation of these cells, thus shaping the response towards either immunity or tolerance.An ensemble of recent studies have emphasized an important role of type I IFNs in the DC differentiation/activation, suggesting the existence of a natural alliance between these cytokines and DCs in linking innate and adaptive immunity. Herein, we will review how type I IFNs can promote the ex vivo differentiation of human DCs and orient DC functions towards the priming and expansion of protective antitumor immune responses. We will also discuss how the knowledge on type I IFN-DC interactions could be exploited for the design of more selective and effective strategies of cancer immunotherapy.
Women with mood disorders, especially bipolar disorder (BD), have been shown to have high rates of reproductive and metabolic dysfunction. The available data on the functional, anatomic, and clinical neuroendocrine abnormalities in women with BD suggest a two-tiered relationship with mood pathology. First, many of the medications commonly used in the treatment of BD can have deleterious effects on blood levels of reproductive hormones and consequently on the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis and reproductive function. Studies that have specifically addressed the association between psychotropic medications and menstrual abnormalities, polycystic ovary syndrome, and overall reproductive endocrine function in women with BD have found high rates of HPG irregularities in women with BD. Second, there is evidence of reproductive dysfunction in women with BD prior to treatment. In addition, many of the psychotropic medications used in the treatment of BD are associated with weight gain, insulin resistance, and dyslipidemia. These metabolic side effects further compound the neuroendocrine system dysregulation in women with BD. Current understanding of the reproductive and metabolic function in women with BD points to vulnerability, which in turn increases the risk of later-life cardiovascular disease and diabetes, among other morbidities, for women with BD.
Professor Leo described cortical spreading depression (CSD) in 1944 and changed the way migraine pathophysiology is scientifically conceived. This Brazilian professor and researcher developed his career in Rio de Janeiro. Because of him, the city once became the CSD world capital, attracting scientists from many laboratories around the globe. Aristides Leo was first and foremost a naturalist, a man genuinely interested in birds, fishes, plants, shells, and neuroscience. He could easily fascinate whoever would come for a chat, leaving no question without answers. He was born in 1914 and died in 1993. This report focuses on his life, family, habits, and hobbies, describing a little of Leo apart from CSD and the year of 1944.
The human auditory system is efficient at restoring sounds of interest. In noisy environments, for example, an interrupted target sound may be illusorily heard as continuing smoothly when a loud noise masks the interruptions. In quiet environments, however, sudden interruptions might signal important events. In that case, restoration of the target sound would be disadvantageous. Achieving useful perceptual stability may require the restoration mechanism to adapt its output to current perceptual demands, a hypothesis which has not yet been fully evaluated. In this study, we investigated whether auditory restoration depends on preceding auditory scenes, and we report evidence that restoration adapts to the perceived continuity of target sounds and to the loudness of interrupting sounds. In the first experiment, listeners adapted to illusory and non-illusory tone sweeps (targets) and interrupting noise, and we observed that the perceived continuity of the target and the loudness of the interrupting noise influenced the extent of subsequent restorations. A second experiment revealed that these adaptation effects were unrelated to the adapted spectra, indicating that non-sensory representations of the perceived auditory scene were involved. We argue that auditory restoration is a dynamic illusory phenomenon which recalibrates continuity hearing to different acoustic environments.
Cisplatin, a platinum-based chemotherapeutic drug, has severe dose-limiting side effects which include ototoxicity. In this study, we investigate the ototoxic effects of cisplatin in relation to the concentration of platinum in whole blood, plasma and perilymph. Guinea pigs were equipped with a permanent round window electrode for electrocochleography and treated with cisplatin on a daily basis (1.5mg/kg/day ip) until a 40dB shift of the compound action potential (CAP) threshold (3 microV isoresponse criterion) at 8kHz stimulation occurred. When this criterion was reached blood and perilymph was sampled and the total platinum concentration was measured. The number of days necessary to reach criterion threshold shift varied from 6 to 22. At this time, platinum concentration was found to be slightly more than 10 times higher in whole blood and plasma than in perilymph. While a significant correlation became apparent between threshold shift and total platinum concentration in whole blood and plasma, this was not the case for threshold shift and platinum concentration in perilymph.
Trace conditioning relies on the maintained representation of a stimulus across a trace interval, and may involve a persistent trace of the conditioned stimulus (CS) and/or a contribution of contextual conditioning. The role of hippocampal structures in these two types of conditioning was studied by means of pretraining lesions and reversible inactivation of the hippocampus in rats. Similar levels of conditioning to a tone CS and to the context were obtained with a trace interval of 30 s. Neurotoxic lesions of the whole hippocampus or reversible muscimol inactivation of the ventral hippocampus impaired both contextual and tone freezing in both trace- and delay-conditioned rats. Dorsal hippocampal injections impaired contextual freezing and trace conditioning, but not delay conditioning. No dissociation between trace and contextual conditioning was observed under any of these conditions. Altogether, these data indicate that the ventral and dorsal parts of the hippocampus compute different aspects of trace conditioning, with the ventral hippocampus being involved in fear and anxiety processes, and the dorsal hippocampus in the temporal and contextual aspects of event representation.
Rats use time-of-day cues to modulate learned taste aversion memories. If adult rats are accustomed to drinking saline in the evening and they receive a lithium chloride injection after drinking saline in the morning, they form a stronger aversion to saline than rats that were conditioned after drinking saline at the familiar time. The difference indicated that the rats formed segregated representations of saline taste and the time of day the saline was consumed. This was inferred because the modulation of learning by time of day was observed when the aversions were tested at the familiar evening drinking time. If the rats had formed a compound representation of saline taste and the time of day it was consumed, the opposite pattern of differences would be expected. We used this modulation of learning by time of day to assay whether aged rats have an impaired ability to form segregated representations of experience. We find that aged rats had similar saline aversions if they were conditioned at either the familiar or the unfamiliar time of day. Furthermore, dorsal hippocampal lesions affecting also the overlying parietal cortex in the aged rats caused greater saline aversions if the rats were conditioned after drinking saline at the familiar time of day. This indicated that aged rats are aware of the time of day but after the lesion, they act as if they do not segregate saline taste from the time of day it was consumed. The results suggest that the ability to form segregated representations of a complex experience is impaired in aging and abolished by hippocampal lesions.
The essay analyzes the influence of evolutionary thought in the work of Sigmund Freud. Based on Freud's initial occupation as a neuro-anatomist and physiologist certain aspects stemming from the history of nature and developmental biological reasoning that played a role in his endeavours to find a new basis for medical psychology will be pointed out. These considerations are to be regarded as prolegomena of the task to reread Freud once again, and in doing so avoiding the verdict that holds his neuro-anatomic and comparative-morphological works as simply &quot;pre-analytic.&quot; In fact, the time seems ripe to reconsider in a new context particularly those evolutionary, medical, and cultural-scientific elements in Freud's work that appear inconsistent at first sight. The substantial thesis is that Freud, given the fact that he was trained in comparative anatomy and physiology in the tradition of Johannes Mller, had the capability of synthesizing elements of this new point of view with the findings and interrogations concerning developmental history and the theory of evolution. More over, this was perceived not merely metaphoric, as he himself stressed it (Freud 1999, XIII, 99), but in the sense of Ubertragung, that inscribed terms and methods deriving from the given field into the realm of psychology. The moving force behind this particular Ubertragung came from a dynamically-neurological perception of the soul that emerged in France since 1800, which Freud came to know trough the late work of Charcot.
In the last years, it has been reported that bone marrow stromal cells (BMSC) are able to differentiate towards a neuronal phenotype, in vitro as well as in vivo, and consequently, the possible use of these cells for the treatment of neurological diseases has acquired enormous importance. The objective of this review is to discuss the experimental findings that suggested the utility of BMSC for the treatment of paraplegia, and the possibilities of its clinical application in patients. For this reason, we revise our previous experimental findings about neuronal transdifferentiation of BMSC, and the utility of local BMSC transplantation in an experimental model of chronic paraplegia. Our current experience supports that a neural transdifferentiation of BMSC is possible after these mesenchymal stem cells are transplanted into injured spinal cord tissue. Furthermore, this cell therapy achieves a clear functional improvement of paraplegic animals, together with morphological evidence of spinal cord regeneration. Although at present our efforts should be guided to obtain a better knowledge of the mechanisms of nervous regeneration induced by bone-marrow derived stem cells, it is obvious that cell therapy for nervous system repair is beginning, and BMSC transplantation offers new hope for the treatment of traumatic paraplegia in humans.
Novel male mice can accelerate reproductive maturation in proximal developing females, an effect mediated by the chemistry of the males' urine. Exogenous estrogens can similarly accelerate female sexual development. In Experiment 1, adult male mice were housed across wire grid from either empty compartments or those containing post-weanling females. Proximity of females caused males to urinate more, progressively over days of exposure, with most urination directed towards females' compartments. Male urine collected after 5 days in these conditions was analyzed by enzyme immunoassay for 17beta-estradiol, testosterone, and creatinine. Urinary creatinine of isolated males significantly exceeded that of female-exposed males. Unadjusted urinary steroids also trended toward higher levels in isolates, but creatinine-adjusted estradiol and testosterone of female-exposed males significantly exceeded that of isolated males. In Experiment 2, measurement of water consumption indicated significantly greater drinking by female-exposed as opposed to isolated males. In Experiment 3, males were housed in isolation or beside post-weanling intact (sham-operated) females, ovariectomized females, or intact (sham-operated) males. Male water consumption was elevated in all conditions involving social contact. Urinary creatinine was significantly lower in female-exposed males compared to isolated controls, while unadjusted testosterone was significantly lower in males in all social conditions. Again, creatinine-adjusted estradiol in female-exposed males significantly exceeded that of isolates. These data indicate that adult males drink and urinate more, have more dilute urine, and have a higher ratio of estradiol to creatinine when they are near developing females. These dynamics increase females' exposure to urinary steroids and other urinary constituents that can hasten sexual maturity.
We previously reported that the trait/baseline prefrontal cortex (PFC) activity expresses a dynamic plasticity during female menstrual cycle. The shift of asymmetric lateralization of PFC baseline activity pinpoints a possible emotional regulation of negative affection. The current emotional Go/NoGo study aimed to investigate the state PFC responses of different menstrual phases during fear facial stimulation in fourteen healthy women. Our data disclosed that the menstrual cycle was coupled with a shift of asymmetric lateralization of frontal activation across different menstrual phases. Evoked magnetic field activity in the time window 200-300 ms (M1) and 300-450 ms (M2) after stimulus onset demonstrated significant interactions between hemispheric side and menstrual phase. The right hemispheric dominance in periovulatory phase (OV) changed to left hemispheric dominance in menstrual (MC) phase. Significant association between the anxiety score and the left PFC activation was particularly observed in MC phase. Our study revealed a plastic resilience of functional organization of human brain and a dynamic automaticity of inter-hemispheric synergism for possible adaptive regulation under the aversive confrontation in accordance with hormonal fluctuation during the menstrual cycle.
Juvenile hamsters are typically less vulnerable to social subjugation than adults, although they will avoid aggressive individuals in some situations. The purpose of this study was to determine the extent to which social subjugation stimulates fear- or anxiety-like behavior in juvenile hamsters in both social and non-social contexts. Social context testing was conducted in a Y-maze while the non-social context apparatus consisted of an open field arena and a lat-maze. In the Y-maze, subjects were exposed to an unfamiliar aggressive adult hamster. Compared with non-subjugated controls, subjugated juveniles spent significantly more time in the area furthest from the aggressive adult stimulus. In addition, socially stressed animals were more likely to avoid the arm of the maze containing the social stimulus. When they did walk in the arm containing the social stimulus, subjugated individuals were more likely to ambulate slowly. Subjugated hamsters also performed fewer olfactory investigations in the proximity of the unfamiliar aggressive individual. Despite these behavioral differences detected between groups during testing in a social context, we observed no differences between groups in the open field and lat-maze. This suggests that the effects of subjugation observed in the Y-maze are specific to exposure to a social context and that social subjugation in juvenile hamsters does not result in a generalized state of fear. Instead, subjugated juveniles learned to avoid adult males and were otherwise behaviorally similar to non-subjugated controls.
Female songbirds use male songs as an important criterion for mate selection. Properties of male songs are thought to indicate the male's quality as a potential mate. Song preferences in female zebra finches are known to be influenced by two factors--early auditory experience and the acoustic characteristics of males' songs. Studies often investigate song preferences by priming females with estrogen. However, estrogenic influences on song preferences have not been studied. We investigated the relative influence of early auditory experience, acoustic features of songs, and estrogen availability on song responsiveness in female zebra finches. Juvenile female zebra finches were tutored for 10 days with 40 songs per day with one of three acoustically different song types--simple songs, long-bout songs or complex songs. A fourth group of females was untutored. Aside from this brief song exposure, females were raised and maintained without exposure to male songs. During adulthood, females' behavioral responses to the three song types were tested under three hormone conditions--untreated, estradiol-treated and 1,4,6-androstatriene-3,17-dione (ATD)-treated (to lower endogenous estrogen). Based on the results of our study, four conclusions can be drawn. First, song responsiveness in female zebra finches is strongly affected by minimal early acoustic experience. Second, inexperienced female zebra finches are inherently biased to respond more to complex songs over other song types Third, although female zebra finches are inherently biased to respond more to complex songs, early acoustic experience may either reinforce or weaken this inherent responsiveness to complex songs. Fourth, estrogen selectively accentuates song responsiveness in acoustically-experienced female zebra finches.
There is broad acceptance for the idea that during development estradiol 'organizes' many aspects of reproductive behavior including partner preferences in the laboratory rat. With respect to partner preference, this idea is drawn from studies where estrogen action was in someway blocked, either through aromatase or estrogen receptor inhibition, during development in male rats. The lack of estrogens neonatally results in a decrease in the male rat's preference for females. In this study, the effect of early postnatal estradiol treatment on the partner preferences of female rats was examined as a further test of the hypothesis that male-typical partner preference is dependent upon early exposure to estrogens. Our principal finding was that increased postnatal estradiol exposure during development affected partner preference in the expected direction, and this effect was seen under several adult hormonal and behavioral testing conditions. Female rats that received exogenous estradiol during development spent more time with an estrous female and less time with a sexually active male than did cholesterol treated females. The estradiol treatment also disrupted normal female sexual behavior, receptivity, and proceptivity.
Hormones are both growth stimulatory and growth inhibitory in utero. They regulate tissue growth and development by controlling the rates of cell proliferation, apoptosis and differentiation in many fetal tissues. They also signal the level of resources available for intrauterine growth to the fetal tissues and relay back to the placenta the degree of mismatch between the actual fetal nutrient supply and the fetal nutrient demands for growth. They affect intrauterine growth by anabolic and catabolic actions on fetal metabolism and by altering the nutrient transfer capacity and endocrine function of the placenta. By modifying the fetal growth trajectory, hormones have a central role in programming development in utero and in determining the phenotypic outcome of changes in feto-placental growth during adverse intrauterine conditions. This review examines the role of hormones in feto-placental growth with particular emphasis on insulin, the insulin-like growth factors and glucocorticoids.
The sulcal morphology of the human frontal lobe is highly variable. Although the structural images usually acquired in functional magnetic resonance imaging studies provide information about this interindividual variability, this information is only rarely used to relate structure and function. Here, we investigated the spatial relationship between posterior frontolateral activations in a task-switching paradigm and the junction of the inferior frontal sulcus and the inferior precentral sulcus (inferior frontal junction, IFJ) on an individual-subject basis. Results show that, although variable in terms of stereotaxic coordinates, the posterior frontolateral activations observed in task-switching are consistently and reliably located at the IFJ in the brains of individual participants. The IFJ shares such consistent localization with other nonprimary areas as motion-sensitive area V5/MT and the frontal eye field. Building on tension-based models of morphogenesis, this structure-function correspondence might indicate that the cytoarchitectonic area underlying activations of the IFJ develops at early stages of cortical folding.
Equine infectious anemia virus (EIAV) is a nonprimate lentivirus that does not cause human disease. Subretinal injection into mice of a recombinant EIAV lentiviral vector in which lacZ is driven by a CMV promoter (EIAV CMV LacZ) resulted in rapid and strong expression of LacZ in retinal pigmented epithelial (RPE) cells and some other cells including ganglion cells, resulting in the presence of 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-beta-D-galactopyranoside within the optic nerve. Substitution of the RPE-specific promoter from the vitelliform macular dystrophy (VMD2) gene for the CMV promoter resulted in prolonged (at least 1 year) expression of LacZ that was restricted to RPE cells, albeit reduced 6- to 10-fold compared with the CMV promoter. Similarly, the amount of FLAG-tagged endostatin detected in eyes injected with the EIAV VMD2 Endo(FLAG) vector was similar to that seen in eyes injected with a vector that expressed both endostatin and angiostatin [EIAV VMD2 Endo(FLAG)/Angio]; expression was approximately 6-fold lower than with identical vectors in which the CMV promoter drove expression. Compared with murine eyes treated with a control EIAV vector, subretinal injection of EIAV vectors expressing murine endostatin alone or in combination with angiostatin driven by either the CMV or VMD2 promoter caused significant suppression of choroidal neovascularization (NV) at laser-induced rupture sites in Bruch's membrane. These data support proceeding toward clinical studies with EIAV-based gene therapy for choroidal NV, using the VMD2 promoter to selectively drive expression of a combination of endostatin and angiostatin in RPE cells.
In familial and sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and in rodent models of the disease, alterations in the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) may be responsible for the accumulation of potentially harmful ubiquitinated proteins, leading to motor neuron death. In the spinal cord of transgenic mice expressing the familial ALS superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) gene mutation G93A (SOD1G93A), we found a decrease in constitutive proteasome subunits during disease progression, as assessed by real-time PCR and immunohistochemistry. In parallel, an increased immunoproteasome expression was observed, which correlated with a local inflammatory response due to glial activation. These findings support the existence of proteasome modifications in ALS vulnerable tissues. To functionally investigate the UPS in ALS motor neurons in vivo, we crossed SOD1G93A mice with transgenic mice that express a fluorescently tagged reporter substrate of the UPS. In double-transgenic Ub(G76V)-GFP /SOD1G93A mice an increase in Ub(G76V)-GFP reporter, indicative of UPS impairment, was detectable in a few spinal motor neurons and not in reactive astrocytes or microglia, at symptomatic stage but not before symptoms onset. The levels of reporter transcript were unaltered, suggesting that the accumulation of Ub(G76V)-GFP was due to deficient reporter degradation. In some motor neurons the increase of Ub(G76V)-GFP was accompanied by the accumulation of ubiquitin and phosphorylated neurofilaments, both markers of ALS pathology. These data suggest that UPS impairment occurs in motor neurons of mutant SOD1-linked ALS mice and may play a role in the disease progression.
Mitochondrial ferritin (FtMt) is a nuclear-encoded iron-sequestering protein that specifically localizes in mitochondria. In mice it is highly expressed in cells characterized by high-energy consumption, while is undetectable in iron storage tissues like liver and spleen. FtMt expression in mammalian cells was shown to cause a shift of iron from cytosol to mitochondria, and in yeast it rescued the defects associated with frataxin deficiency. To study the role of FtMt in oxidative damage, we analyzed the effect of its expression in HeLa cells after incubation with H(2)O(2) and Antimycin A, and after a long-term growth in glucose-free media that enhances mitochondrial respiratory activity. FtMt reduced the level of reactive oxygen species (ROS), increased the level of adenosine 5'triphosphate and the activity of mitochondrial Fe-S enzymes, and had a positive effect on cell viability. Furthermore, FtMt expression reduces the size of cytosolic and mitochondrial labile iron pools. In cells grown in glucose-free media, FtMt level was reduced owing to faster degradation rate, however it still protected the activity of mitochondrial Fe-S enzymes without affecting the cytosolic iron status. In addition, FtMt expression in fibroblasts from Friedreich ataxia (FRDA) patients prevented the formation of ROS and partially rescued the impaired activity of mitochondrial Fe-S enzymes, caused by frataxin deficiency. These results indicate that the primary function of FtMt involves the control of ROS formation through the regulation of mitochondrial iron availability. They are consistent with the expression pattern of FtMt observed in mouse tissues, suggesting a FtMt protective role in cells characterized by defective iron homeostasis and respiration, such as in FRDA.






Automated analysis of human affective behavior has attracted increasing attention from researchers in psychology, computer science, linguistics, neuroscience, and related disciplines. However, the existing methods typically handle only deliberately displayed and exaggerated expressions of prototypical emotions despite the fact that deliberate behaviour differs in visual appearance, audio profile, and timing from spontaneously occurring behaviour. To address this problem, efforts to develop algorithms that can process naturally occurring human affective behaviour have recently emerged. Moreover, an increasing number of efforts are reported toward multimodal fusion for human affect analysis including audiovisual fusion, linguistic and paralinguistic fusion, and multi-cue visual fusion based on facial expressions, head movements, and body gestures. This paper introduces and surveys these recent advances. We first discuss human emotion perception from a psychological perspective. Next we examine available approaches to solving the problem of machine understanding of human affective behavior, and discuss important issues like the collection and availability of training and test data. We finally outline some of the scientific and engineering challenges to advancing human affect sensing technology.
Stem cells, as subjects of study for use in treating neurological diseases, are envisioned as a replacement for lost neurons and glia, a means of trophic support, a therapeutic vehicle, and, more recently, a tool for in vitro modeling to understand disease and to screen and personalize treatments. In this review we analyze the requirements of stem cell-based therapy for clinical translation, advances in stem cell research toward clinical application for neurological disorders, and different animal models used for analysis of these potential therapies. We focus on Parkinson's disease (typically defined by the progressive loss of dopaminergic nigral neurons), stroke (neurodegeneration associated with decreased blood perfusion in the brain), and multiple sclerosis (an autoimmune disorder that generates demyelination, axonal damage, astrocytic scarring, and neurodegeneration in the brain and spinal cord). We chose these disorders for their diversity and the number of people affected by them. An additional important consideration was the availability of multiple animal models in which to test stem cell applications for these diseases. We also discuss the relationship between the limited number of systematic stem cell studies performed in animals, in particular nonhuman primates and the delayed progress in advancing stem cell therapies to clinical success.
Weakly electric fishes have been an important model system in behavioral neuroscience for more than 40 years. These fishes use a specialized electric organ to produce an electric field that is typically below 1 volt/cm and serves in many behaviors including social communication and prey detection. Electrical behaviors are easy to study because inexpensive and widely available tools enable continuous monitoring of the electric field of individual or groups of interacting fish. Weakly electric fish have been routinely used in tightly controlled neurophysiological experiments in which the animal is immobilized using neuromuscular blockers (e.g., curare). Although experiments that involve immobilization are generally discouraged because it eliminates movement-based behavioral signs of pain and distress, many observable electrosensory behaviors in fish persist when the animal is immobilized. Weakly electric fish thus offer a unique opportunity to assess the effects of immobilization on behaviors including those that may reflect pain and distress. We investigated the effects of both immobilization and restraint on a variety of electrosensory behaviors in four species of weakly electric fishes and observed minor effects that were not consistent between the species tested or between particular behaviors. In general, we observed small increases and decreases in response magnitude to particular electrosensory stimuli. Stressful events such as asphyxiation and handling, however, resulted in significant changes in the fishes electrosensory behaviors. Signs of pain and distress include marked reductions in responses to electrosensory stimuli, inconsistent responses, and reductions in or complete cessation of the autogenous electric field.

Rats have developed antipredator defensive adaptations to protect themselves from the large number of animals that prey on them. One such adaptation is the ability to communicate by ultrasonic vocalization, which decreases the likelihood of detection by a predator. Almost all rat vocalizations are inaudible to the human ear as well, so laboratory studies of ultrasonic vocalization require specialized electronic equipment. The most popular of these is the bat detector, which lowers ultrasonic frequency to a humanly audible frequency. Adult rats emit two types of ultrasonic calls: alarm (22 kHz) calls, in aversive and dangerous situations, and appetitive (50 kHz) calls, in appetitive or &quot;friendly&quot; (i.e., nonaggressive) behavioral situations. These two types of calls differ in all acoustic parameters, and their initiation depends on activity in different ascending tegmental pathways to the forebrain: 22 kHz calls require activity in the cholinergic system, and 50 kHz calls in the mesolimbic dopaminergic system. The release of acetylcholine in the diencephalon and forebrain is associated with the emission of 22 kHz vocalizations, and the release of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens with 50 kHz calls. Thus the two calls are reliable predictors of increased cholinergic or dopaminergic activity in the brain. The calls serve as indices of the rat's state, including its affective state, induced by activity of one or the other neurochemical system.
There is much evidence that naturally occurring behaviors (e.g., the ingestion of food and water) and social behaviors (e.g., play, maternal behavior) can induce a reward state. This review includes definitions to distinguish between &quot;reward&quot; and &quot;reinforcement,&quot; and a description of methods to assess reward and demonstrate that social interactions can indeed produce a positive affective (PA) state. Operant responses, partner preference, and sexual incentive motivation are all effective methods for evaluating approach behaviors under different conditions. The method most frequently used to evaluate a positive affective or reward state is conditioned place preference (CPP), which entails modification of an animal's initial preference after alternating exposure to a control stimulus in one chamber and a rewarding condition in the other. At the end of the training the animal shows a clear preference for the compartment associated with the rewarding stimulus. CPP demonstrates that it is possible to use different treatments and naturally occurring behaviors (e.g., water or food consumption, exercise) to induce a reward state. Sexual interactions and other social behaviors also produce a clear change of preference, indicating the induction of a reward or PA state. The reward state in males and females is mediated by opioids, and the medial preoptic area of the anterior hypothalamus is a crucial site for sexual reward.
Discovering the hormonal and neural mechanisms that promote affiliative social behavior is a high priority in behavioral neuroscience. Although studies with standard laboratory rodents have afforded many important insights, exciting advances are also occurring through comparative research with nonstandard species that vary in sociality or form socially monogamous pair bonds, work that is often informed by an explicitly evolutionary perspective. Research with prairie voles has examined the roles of sex steroid hormones, adrenal glucocorticoids, oxytocin family peptides, and dopamine in the formation of monogamous pairs. Corticosterone facilitates pairing by males but inhibits it in females, vasopressin (acting via the V1a receptor) and oxytocin facilitate pairing, and dopamine in the nucleus accumbens also facilitates pairing. Research with zebra finches is testing the limits of generality of these mechanisms, and has shown how sex steroid effects early in life along with social experience lead to an adult's sex preference in a pairing partner. Estrogen manipulations during the embryonic or nestling periods result in females that prefer to pair with other females. An all-female social environment can reinforce such effects, and can also produce males and females that will pair with either sex. Research with multiple species of estrildid finches is revealing the contributions of peptidergic and dopaminergic mechanisms to the evolution of species differences in whether animals are gregarious or territorial. Mechanisms for and responses to vasotocin (avian vasopressin) in the septal region of the brain are predicted by sociality in this group of birds.
Research on sensitive issues such as abuse and violence in vulnerable populations poses several ethical dilemmas. An important aspect is the impact of such enquiries on one's mental health. This paper discusses specific ethical issues related to mental health based on violence research conducted and reviewed by the authors. Research on violence among women includes the possibility that some revelations are occurring for the first time and are likely to be emotionally charged. Further, the very act of disclosure may involve emotional risks for the respondent. Psychological distress may be present prior to, during, or following the study. Hence assessing mental health parameters becomes essential and integral to research of this nature. Several issues in methodology are also important in mitigating the level of distress. Research on sensitive issues should either use measures developed in the same culture or those with adequate adaptation. The order of questions, language and method of termination of the interview may often make a difference to its psychological impact. While focus group discussions and semi structured interview schedules are most suited, questionnaires with a less structured and rigid approach may also be used. Preludes may be introduced to facilitate transition between different sections of an interview schedule and to provide a rationale for further enquiry. Obtaining informed consent in violence research should be a process rather than a one-time formality. Reports of adverse events are likely in violence research and hence such studies must include mental health intervention, ongoing follow up, documentation and appropriate referral services. Finally, since the researcher and the subject of the research are both affected in a study of this nature, adequate sensitisation, ongoing training and supervision of research staff are essential. Based on findings from ongoing research on violence and from review of other studies done in India, the paper will focus on best practices in addressing mental health issues in domestic violence research.
Handling collusion among patients and family members is one of the biggest challenges that palliative care professionals face across cultures. Communication with patients and relatives can be complex particularly in filial cultures where families play an important role in illness management and treatment decision-making. Collusion comes in different forms and intensity and is often not absolute. Some illness-related issues may be discussed with the patient, whereas others are left unspoken. Particularly in palliative care, the transition from curative to palliative treatment and discussion of death and dying are often topics involving collusion. Communication patterns may also be influenced by age, gender, age, and family role. This paper outlines different types of collusion and how collusion manifests in Indian and Western cultures. In addition, promising avenues for future research are presented.

The prevention and treatment of cognitive impairment in the elderly has assumed increasing importance in an aging population. This article presents a qualitative review of recent research on experimental interventions for the prevention and treatment of mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease in elderly subjects. Interventions addressed range from lifestyle measures to pharmacological treatments. Epidemiological studies suggest that dietary measures, physical exercise, and mental activity may reduce the risk of cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease in elderly subjects. Statins may protect against incident dementia, and lithium may convey similar benefits to bipolar patients. Ginkgo appears ineffective as a primary preventive measure. Donepezil but not Vitamin E may benefit persons with mild cognitive impairment. Experimental treatments potentially useful for Alzheimer's disease include dimebon, PBT2 and etanercept; the safety and efficacy of the Alzheimer's vaccine remains to be proven, and growth hormone secretagogue and tarenflurbil are likely ineffective. Herbal treatments merit study in elderly subjects with cognitive syndromes.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by progressive dementia and brain deposits of the amyloid  protein (A) as senile plaques and the microtubule-associated protein, Tau, as neurofibrillary tangles (NFT). The current treatment of AD is limited to drugs that attempt to correct deficits in the cholinergic pathway or glutamate toxicity. These drugs show some improvement over a short period of time but the disease ultimately requires treatment to prevent and stop the neurodegeneration that affects multiple pathways. The currently favored hypothesis is that A aggregates to toxic forms that induce neurodegeneration. Drugs that reduce A successfully treat transgenic mouse models of AD, but the most promising anti-A vaccination approach did not successfully treat AD in a clinical trial. These studies suggest that AD pathogenesis is a complex phenomenon and requires a more broad-based approach to identify mechanisms of neurodegeneration. Multiple hypotheses have been proposed and the field is ready for a new generation of ideas to develop early diagnostic approaches and develop successful treatment plans.
The objective of this study was to examine the coping patterns followed by the junior college students. Further, an extensive effort was done to study the gender differences in coping patterns used by the students. This study was conducted in Christ College, Bangalore and on the first and second-year students of pre-university studying in either of the branches (Bachelor of Arts, Science, or Commerce). A total of 120 samples were collected from study population of junior college students using the random sampling method. The sample comprised, 40 students from each group of Arts, Science, and Commerce, including both of the sexes. The tools such as, socio-demographic data sheet and coping checklist, were used. The study findings revealed that majority of the students adopted emotion- and problem-focused coping strategies. Most of the female students adopted emotion-focused coping strategies, whereas the male students mostly used problem-focused coping strategies.
The prevalence of the obsessive-compulsive symptoms in schizophrenia (OCSS) appears to be higher than that expected on the basis of comorbidity rates. Review of brain abnormalities in schizophrenia and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) reveals involvement of similar regions namely the frontal lobe, the basal ganglia, the thalamus, and the cerebellum, in both the disorders. Neurodevelopmental etiopathogenesis has been proposed to explain schizophrenia as well as OCD. Significant overlap in neurotransmitter dysfunction (serotonin, glutamate, and dopamine) has been documented between schizophrenia and OCD. The New-onset obsessive-compulsive (OC) symptoms have been reported with the use of atypical antipsychotics in the schizophrenia patients In this background, OCSS is an emerging area of recent interests. This article attempts to review the literature on the neurobiology of OCSS. Neuroimaging, neuropsychological, and neuromotor abnormalities in OCSS discussed in the context of neurodevelopmental etiopathogenesis suggest glutamate abnormalities in OCSS. Atypical antipsychotic induced OCSS points towards the possible roles of glutamate and serotonin. Dopamine may be responsible for the beneficial role of antipsychotics in the treatment of OCD. In summary, we propose that glutamate, serotonin, and dopamine abnormalities may be the probable basis for OCSS.
Models of object appearance based on principal components analysis provide powerful and versatile tools in computer vision and medical image analysis. A major shortcoming is that they rely entirely on the training data to extract principal modes of appearance variation and ignore underlying variables (e.g., subject age, gender). This paper introduces an appearance modeling framework based instead on generalized multi-linear regression. The training of regression appearance models is controlled by independent variables. This makes it straightforward to create model instances for specific values of these variables, which is akin to model interpolation. We demonstrate the new framework by creating an appearance model of the human brain from MR images of 36 subjects. Instances of the model created for different ages are compared with average shape atlases created from age-matched sub-populations. Relative tissue volumes vs. age in models are also compared with tissue volumes vs. subject age in the original images. In both experiments, we found excellent agreement between the regression models and the comparison data. We conclude that regression appearance models are a promising new technique for image analysis, with one potential application being the representation of a continuum of mutually consistent, age-specific atlases of the human brain.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has become increasingly used for studying functional integration of the brain. However, the large inter-subject variability in functional connectivity renders detection of representative group networks very difficult. In this paper, we propose a new iterative method that we refer to as &quot;group replicator dynamics,&quot; for detecting sparse functional networks that are common across subjects within a group. The proposed method uses replicator dynamics, which we show to be equivalent to non-negative sparse PCA, and incorporates group information for identifying common networks across subjects with subject-specific weightings of the identified brain regions reflecting individual differences. Finding a separate network for each subject, as opposed to employing traditional averaging approaches, permits statistical testing of group significance. We validated our method on synthetic data, and applying it to real fMRI data detected task-specific group networks that conform well with prior neuroscience knowledge.


Alzheimer disease (AD) is characterized by numerous senile plaques (SP) in addition to widespread neocortical neurofibrillary tangles (NFT). Some elderly have pathologic aging (PA), which is characterized by numerous SP composed of diffuse amyloid deposits with few or no NFT confined to the limbic lobe. Both AD and PA represent a range of Alzheimer type pathology (ATP). Some cases of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) have concurrent ATP, but the relationship between ATP and PSP has not been addressed. In this study, a consecutive series of PSP cases were divided into three groups according to the degree of concurrent ATP - pure PSP, PSP/PA and PSP/AD. Braak NFT stage was significantly greater in PSP/AD compared with both PSP/PA and PSP. Among the pathologic variables studied in middle frontal, superior temporal and motor cortices, there were no differences between PSP and PSP/PA except for SP. In PSP/AD, there was greater neuronal tau pathology (pretangles, NFT and neuropil threads) in middle frontal and superior temporal cortices, probably a reflection of ATP since there was no comparable increase in PSP-related glial tau pathology in these regions. The APOEvarepsilon4 allele frequency was significantly higher in PSP/PA and PSP/AD than in PSP. These results strongly argue that ATP in PSP represents independent disease processes even when present in the same brain.
The contributions of Cajal to Neuroembryology are glossed with the help of a selection of images extracted from Cajals (1929) own synthesis of his neuroembryological output, laying emphasis on the persisting relevance and unsurpassed quality of many individual achievements and milestones he delivered on neurohistogenesis, practically throughout his career. Cajals theoretical background as regards embryology, morphology, comparative neuroanatomy and evolution is sketched at the beginning. The body of the review is divided into sections covering spinal cord, cerebellum, cortex, retina, sensory organs and muscular terminals, and astroglia. The deep and common-sensical conceptual analysis of neural histological variation during development performed by Cajal is highlighted at several points, as well as the places where he advanced genial conjectures that reached far forward in time, placing him still at the front of present day neuroembryological thinking. Some errors committed by Cajal are also commented upon. At one point (the retina), some of the present authors own observations with a Golgi method variant are presented, as they complement observations that Cajal left incomplete because of technical problems. The major neuroembryological works of Cajals pupil Jorge F.Tello are mentioned at the end.


Previous published studies have identified a class of women, Normal Weight Obese women (NWO) with normal BMI and high fat content. An important role of Interleukin-15 (IL-15) has been documented in facilitating muscle proliferation and promoting fat depletion. Indeed the presence of three types of IL-15 receptor subunits in fat tissue suggests a direct effect on adipose tissue. We studied three single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) of IL-15R-alpha receptor gene and investigated their relationship with NWO phenotype. We considered two classes of women according to their BMI and percent fat mass (percent FAT), class 1: including 72 overweight-obese women (high BMI-high fat mass) and class 2: including 36 NWO (normal BMI, high fat mass). Three sites of Interleukin-15 receptor subunit  gene were examined, located respectively in exon4, exon5 intron-exon border and exon7. Genotyping of the identified polymorphisms was performed by restriction fragment length polymorphism. Haplotype frequency estimation was performed by using the Mendel-University of Chicago program. Odds ratio analyses were calculated by EPISTAT program. Highly significant differences were observed for exon 7- exon5 intron-exon border and exon 4-exon 7 haplotype distribution between class 1 and class 2 women. These results strongly support the hypothesis that genetic variability of the IL-15 receptor has an important role in body fat composition. Our data underscore previous findings that suggest a potential role of IL-15 cytokine in NWO syndrome.
New developments in molecular neuropathology have evoked increased demands for postmortem human brain tissue. The New South Wales Tissue Resource Centre (TRC) at The University of Sydney has grown from a small tissue collection into one of the leading international brain banking facilities, which operates with best practice and quality control protocols. The focus of this tissue collection is on schizophrenia and allied disorders, alcohol use disorders and controls. This review highlights changes in TRC operational procedures dictated by modern neuroscience, and provides examples of applications of modern molecular techniques to study the neuropathogenesis of many different brain disorders.


This study tested theoretical accounts of the Nc component of the event-related brain potentials in six-month-old infants by replicating and extending a previous study [Ackles, P. K., &amp; Cook, K. G. (2007). Attention or memory? Effects of familiarity and novelty on the Nc component in event-related brain potentials in six-month-old infants. The International Journal of Neuroscience, 117, 837-867]. Stimulus familiarity and novelty of visual stimuli were manipulated within and across four groups of infants to test predictions from attentional, memory, and expectancy accounts of Nc. Nc amplitudes were the larger to oddball stimuli in the. 80/.20 oddball group and One Face group than to frequent stimuli in oddball group and to novel stimuli in the Novel Faces and Novel Pictures groups. The results supported an attention-based interpretation of Nc.
Dynorphin (DYN) fragments are the members of the endogenous opioid system and postulated ligands for the opioid receptors. Infusion of DYN(1-17) fragment into the rat dorsal striatum caused a significant increase in acetylcholine and decrease in dopamine overflow. Contrary to this, infusions of DYN(2-17) fragment into the rat dorsal striatum caused a significant increase in dopamine and decrease in acetylcholine overflow. Intrastriatal infusions of different doses of the acetylcholinesterase blocker, neostigmine, augmented acetylcholine and inhibited dopamine overflow in a dose-dependent manner. The opposing responses of the DYN fragments suggest that the N-terminal residue plays a key role in presynaptic neuromodulation.
The purpose of the current study is to develop a magnetic resonance (MR)-compatible galvanic skin response (GSR) measurement system that can measure the GSR signal during MR image acquisition. If GSR signals are measured simultaneously with the acquisition of MR images, there can be a mutual interference effect. The present system was designed to block noises caused by the main magnetic field, the gradient magnetic field, and the radio frequency (RF) pulse when MR images are acquired. To minimize the distortion of MR images, the GSR measurement system was shielded. Especially, this system used analog, not digital, elements in order to remove any possible effects on MR images. An RF-interference-free optical data link using the pulse-width modulation technique was adopted in order to transmit GSR signals measured inside the MR room. The experiment verified that a reliable GSR signal can be obtained without deteriorating the MR image. It is expected that this system can be used for diverse medical and neuroscience studies.
Visually-scored, non-Rapid Eye Movement (REM) sleep electroencephalographic (EEG) waveform activity for each 30-s sleep scored epoch-including the number of sleep spindles, the number of K-complexes, and the percentage of delta waves occupying the epoch-was correlated with H(2)(15)O positron emission tomography. Sleep spindle correlations included positive correlations in the thalamus and right hippocampus. K-complex correlations included positive correlations in the frontomedian prefrontal cortex and cerebellum. Delta wave correlations included negative correlations in the thalamus, frontomedian prefrontal cortex, dorsal pons, and primary visual cortex. Each pattern of correlations may suggest a functional significance for these waveforms that relates to a waking outcome.
We conducted a pilot study to examine the relations among the patterns of resting regional electroencephalogram (EEG) alpha activity, trait shyness and sociability, and positive and negative symptoms scores in 20 adults with schizophrenia, attending a community-based treatment and rehabilitation center. As predicted, patients' positive symptoms were related to greater relative resting left frontal EEG activity, replicating earlier work. When only adults with low to no positive symptoms were considered, trait shyness was related to greater relative resting right frontal EEG activity, whereas trait sociability was related to greater relative resting left frontal EEG activity. This finding is similar to what is consistently noted in healthy adults. These pilot data suggest that positive symptoms in patients with schizophrenia may obscure the relations between personality and frontal EEG asymmetry measures observed in healthy adults.
Loading neurons with membrane permeable Ca2+ indicators is a core experimental procedure in functional multineuron Ca2+ imaging (fMCI), an optical technique for monitoring multiple neuronal activities. Although fMCI has been applied to several brain networks, including cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum, no studies have systematically addressed the dye-loading efficiency in different brain regions. Here, we describe the stainability of Oregon Green 488 BAPTA-1AM in mouse acute brain slice preparations. The data are suggestive of the potential usability of fMCI in many brain regions, including olfactory bulb, thalamus, dentate gyrus, habenular nucleus, and pons.
To discern if specific structures of the rat brain contained more foci of lymphocytes following induction of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis and exposures to weak, amplitude-modulated magnetic fields for 6 min once per hour during the scotophase, the residuals between the observed and predicted values for the numbers of foci for 320 structures were obtained. Compared to the brains of sham-field exposed rats, the brains of rats exposed to 7-Hz 50 nT (0.5 mG) amplitude-modulated fields showed more foci within hippocampal structures and the dorsal central grey of the midbrain while those exposed to 7-Hz 500 nT (5 mG) fields showed greater densities within the hypothalamus and optic chiasm. The brains of rats exposed to either the 50 nT or 500 nT amplitude-modulated 40-Hz fields displayed greater densities of foci within the midbrain structures related to rapid eye movement. Most of the enhancements of infiltrations within the magnetic field-exposed rats occurred in structures within periventricular or periaqueductal regions and were both frequency- and intensity-dependent. The specificity and complexity of the configurations of the residuals of the numbers of infiltrated foci following exposures to the different fields suggest that the brain itself may be a &quot;sensory organ&quot; for the detection of these stimuli.
To test the hypothesis that the wavelength (color) of ambient lightning should modulate experiences of a sensed presence when the right hemisphere was stimulated by weak, burst-firing magnetic fields, volunteers were exposed for 30 min to this condition or to a sham field while they sat (eyes opened) in either dim red, green, or white light. Subjects exposed to the magnetic field reported significantly more visual sensations along the left side in red light and along the right side in green light. The significant interaction between ambient color and the field treatment was due to the marked increase in experiences of dizziness, sensed presence, &quot;ego-alien&quot; thoughts, and detachment from the body and &quot;being somewhere else&quot; for subjects exposed to the magnetic field while sitting in red light. The concurrence of entoptic images experienced within the upper left peripheral visual field and the sensed presence supported the hypothesis that both are associated with the intrusion of right hemispheric processes into left hemispheric awareness.
Weak (&lt;1 microT) complex magnetic fields (CMFs) may exert their behavioral influences through the hippocampus by resonating by accident or design with intrinsic electrical patterns. Rats were exposed prenatally to one of four intensities of a CMF (either &lt;5 nanoTesla [nT], 10-50 nT, 50-500 nT, or 500-1000 nT) designed to interact with the process of Long-Term Potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus. Rats then underwent testing in the forced swim, open field, and fear-conditioning procedures. The cell densities of all amygdaloid nuclei, specific hypothalamic structures, and the major regions of the hippocampus were quantified. Results showed that acquisition of conditioned fear was strongly inhibited in animals exposed to LTP-CMFs. Rats exposed to intensities above 10 nT showed decreased cell density in the CA2 fields of the hippocampus; more neurons were present in the CA1 fields of rats exposed to the 10-50 nT intensities compared to all other groups. A decrease in cell density in the medial preoptic nucleus was linearly dependent on field intensity. In the forced-swim test, swimming was decreased in rats that had been exposed to low (10-50 nT) and medium intensity (50-500 nT) LTP-CMFs in a manner consistent with monoamine modulation. In the open field, exposed rats were indistinguishable from controls. These findings support the hypothesis that continuous exposure during prenatal development to CMFs designed to simulate intrinsic LTP within the hippocampus can affect adult behaviors specific to this structure and produce quantitative alterations in neuronal density.


Background. Current advances in genetic technology continue to expand the list of medical conditions associated with autism. Clinicians have to identify specific autistic-related syndromes, and to provide tailored counseling. The aim of this study is to elucidate recent advances in autism research that offer important clues into pathogenetic mechanisms of syndromic autism and relevant implications for clinical practice. Data Sources. The PubMed database was searched with the keywords &quot;autism&quot; and &quot;chromosomal abnormalities,&quot; &quot;metabolic diseases,&quot; &quot;susceptibility loci.&quot; Results. Defined mutations, genetic syndromes, and metabolic diseases account for up to 20% of autistic patients. Metabolic and mitochondrial defects may have toxic effects on the brain cells, causing neuronal loss and altered modulation of neurotransmission systems. Alterations of the neocortical excitatory/inhibitory balance and perturbations of interneurons' development represent the most probable pathogenetic mechanisms underlying the autistic phenotype in Fragile X-Syndrome and Tuberous Sclerosis Complex. Chromosomal abnormalities and potential candidate genes are strongly implicated in the disruption of neural connections, brain growth, and synaptic/dendritic morphology. Conclusion. Metabolic testing may be appropriate if specific symptoms are present. High-resolution chromosome analysis may be recommended if a specific diagnosis is suspected because of obvious dysmorphisms. Identifying cryptic chromosomal abnormalities by whole genome microarray analysis can increase the understanding of the neurobiological pathways to autism.

This paper focussed on how electrophysiological autonomic data may contribute to better understand neural substrates of emotional processing. The utility of autonomic electrophysiological markers for assessing emotional and cognitive processes is presented in the context of an important bodily arousal interface. Components of general autonomic control are reviewed and relevant neural modulations of specific autonomic variables were discussed. The role of autonomic feedback on central processes is emphasized and neural influences on autonomic activities as an index of arousal dimension, the electrodermal activity (EDA), are outlined. An overview of brain mechanisms governing generation and control of EDA is presented, and the contribution of electrodermal parameters as indices of emotional activation illustrated by data related to diurnal emotional reactivity and to non consciously subjective emotionality. Conclusions highlight the role of electrical autonomic expressions as tools to explore emotional components of mind-body-mind relationships.
The hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis undergoes a number of changes throughout the reproductive life cycle that are responsible for the development, puberty, adulthood, and senescence of reproductive systems. This natural progression is dictated by the neural network controlling the hypothalamus including the cells that synthesize and release gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) and their regulatory neurotransmitters. Glutamate and GABA are the primary excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters in the central nervous system, and as such contribute a great deal to modulating this axis throughout the lifetime via their actions on receptors in the hypothalamus, both directly on GnRH neurons as well as indirectly through other hypothalamic neural networks. Interactions among GnRH neurons, glutamate, and GABA, including the regulation of GnRH gene and protein expression, hormone release, and modulation by estrogen, are critical to age-appropriate changes in reproductive function. Here, we present evidence for the modulation of GnRH neurosecretory cells by the balance of glutamate and GABA in the hypothalamus, and the functional consequences of these interactions on reproductive physiology across the life cycle.
Many membrane proteins localize to restricted domains in neurons, such as axons, dendrites, synapses, or axon initial segments. The exquisite subcellular compartmentalization of adhesion molecules, growth factor receptors, signaling receptors, voltage-gated and ligand-gated channels, and others underlies the complex functioning of neurons and ultimately vectorial propagation of signaling in neuronal circuits. This chapter discusses the cellular mechanisms for compartmentalizing the neuronal plasma membrane. Among the mechanisms contributing to protein segregation in the membrane are sorting and targeting in the Golgi/TGN, endocytosis, recycling, and degradation, and control of membrane protein diffusion. The molecular underpinnings of these cellular mechanisms are reviewed in the first part. The second part discusses the contribution of each cellular mechanism to targeting proteins to axons and dendrites, to synapses, to axon initial segments, and to Nodes of Ranvier. For most, if not all proteins and locations, all four mechanisms are in effect and additively contribute to the precise localization of membrane proteins in neurons. Since disruption of proper protein distribution results in defects in neuronal function and can lead to neurodegenerative diseases, a full understanding of the cellular mechanisms of plasma membrane compartmentalization is an important goal for the future.
Basal ganglia neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson's disease (PD) and Huntington's disease (HD), are characterized by not only spectrum of motor deficits, ranging form hypokinesia to hyperkinesia, but also emotional, cognitive, and psychiatric manifestations. The symptoms and pathogenic mechanism of these disorders should be viewed as dysfunctions of specific cortico-subcortical neurocircuits. Transgenic approaches using large genomic inserts, such as bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC)-mediated transgenesis, due to its capacity to propagate large-size genomic DNA and faithful production of endogenous-like gene expression pattern/lever, have provided an ideal basis for the generation of transgenic mice as model for basal ganglia neurodegenerative disorders, as well as the functional and structural analysis of neurocircuits. In this chapter, the basic concepts and practical approaches about application of BAC transgenic system are introduced. Existent major BAC transgenic mouse models for PD and HD are evaluated according to their construct, face, and predicative validity. Finally, considerations, possible solutions, and future perspectives of using BAC transgenic approach to study basal ganglia neurodegenerative disorders are discussed.
Defining distinct molecular properties of the two striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs) has been a challenging task for basal ganglia (BG) neuroscientists. Identifying differential molecular components in each MSN subtype is crucial for BG researchers to understand functional properties of these two neurons. The two MSN populations are morphologically identical except in their projections through the direct verses indirect BG pathways and they are heterogeneously dispersed throughout the dorsal striatum (dStr) and nucleus accumbens (NAc). These characteristics have made it difficult for researchers to distinguish and isolate these two neuronal populations thereby hindering progress toward a more comprehensive understanding of their differential molecular properties. Researchers began to investigate molecular differences in the striatonigral and striatopallidal neurons using in situ hybridization (ISH) techniques and single cell reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (scRT-PCR). Currently the field is utilizing more advanced techniques for large-scale gene expression studies including fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS) of MSNs, from which RNA is purified, from fluorescent reporter transgenic mice or use of transgenic mice in which ribosomes from each MSN are tagged and can be immunoprecipitated followed by RNA isolation, a technique termed translating ribosomal affinity purification (TRAP). Additionally, the availability of fluorescent reporter mice for each MSN subtype is allowing, scientists to perform more accurate histology studies evaluating differential protein expression and signaling changes in each cell subtype. Finally, researchers are able to evaluate the role of specific genes in vivo by utilizing cell type-specific mouse models including Cre driver lines that can be crossed with conditional overexpression or knockout systems. This is a very exciting time in the BG field because researchers are well equipped with the most progressive tools to comprehensively evaluate molecular components in the two MSNs and their consequence on BG functional output in the normal, diseased, and developing brain.
Methamphetamine (METH) is a powerful and often abused stimulant with potent addictive and neurotoxic properties. While it is generally assumed that multiple chemical substances released in the brain following METH-induced metabolic activation (or oxidative stress) are primary factors underlying damage of neural cells, in this work we present data suggesting a role of brain hyperthermia and associated leakage of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) in acute METH-induced toxicity. First, we show that METH induces a dose-dependent brain and body hyperthermia, which is strongly potentiated by associated physiological activation and in warm environments that prevent proper heat dissipation to the external environment. Second, we demonstrate that acute METH intoxication induces robust, widespread but structure-specific leakage of the BBB, acute glial activation, and increased water content (edema), which are related to drug-induced brain hyperthermia. Third, we document widespread morphological abnormalities of brain cells, including neurons, glia, epithelial, and endothelial cells developing rapidly during acute METH intoxication. These structural abnormalities are tightly related to the extent of brain hyperthermia, leakage of the BBB, and brain edema. While it is unclear whether these rapidly developed morphological abnormalities are reversible, this study demonstrates that METH induces multiple functional and structural perturbations in the brain, determining its acute toxicity and possibly contributing to neurotoxicity.
Injuries to the peripheral nerves result in partial or total loss of motor, sensory, and autonomic functions in the denervated segments of the body due to the interruption of axons, degeneration of distal nerve fibers, and eventual death of axotomized neurons. Functional deficits caused by nerve injuries can be compensated by reinnervation of denervated targets by regenerating injured axons or by collateral branching of undamaged axons, and remodeling of nervous system circuitry related to the lost functions. Plasticity of central connections may compensate functionally for the lack of adequate target reinnervation; however, plasticity has limited effects on disturbed sensory localization or fine motor control after injuries, and may even result in maladaptive changes, such as neuropathic pain and hyperreflexia. After axotomy, neurons shift from a transmitter to a regenerative phenotype, activating molecular pathways that promote neuronal survival and axonal regeneration. Peripheral nerve injuries also induce a cascade of events, at the molecular, cellular, and system levels, initiated by the injury and progressing throughout plastic changes at the spinal cord, brainstem nuclei, thalamus, and brain cortex. Mechanisms involved in these changes include neurochemical changes, functional alterations of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic connections, sprouting of new connections, and reorganization of sensory and motor central maps. An important direction for research is the development of therapeutic strategies that enhance axonal regeneration, promote selective target reinnervation, and are also able to modulate central nervous system reorganization, amplifying positive adaptive changes that improve functional recovery and also reducing undesirable effects.
While injured neurons regenerate their axons in the peripheral nervous system, it is well recognized that functional recovery is frequently poor. Animal experiments in which injured motoneurons remain without peripheral targets (chronic axotomy) and Schwann cells in distal nerve stumps remain without innervation (chronic denervation) revealed that it is the duration of chronic axotomy and Schwann cell denervation that accounts for this poor functional recovery and not irreversible muscle atrophy that has been so commonly thought to be the reason. More recently, we demonstrated that axon outgrowth across lesion sites is a major contributing factor to the long delays incurred between the injury and the reinnervation of denervated targets. In the rat, a period of 1 month transpires before all motoneurons regenerate their axons across a lesion site. We have developed a technique of 1 h low-frequency electrical stimulation (ES) of the proximal nerve stump just after surgical repair of a transected peripheral nerve that greatly accelerates axon outgrowth. This technique has been applied in patients after carpal tunnel release surgery where the ES promoted the regeneration of all median nerves to reinnervate thenar muscles within 6-8 months, which contrasted with failure of any injured nerves to reinnervate muscles in the same time frame without ES. These findings are very promising such that the ES method could become a clinically viable tool for accelerating axon regeneration and muscle reinnervation.
Peripheral nerve injuries usually lead to devastating loss of motor, sensory, and autonomic functions in the patients. Due to the complex requirements for adequate axonal regeneration, functional recovery is often poorly achieved. Experimental models are a useful tool to investigate the mechanisms related to axonal regeneration and reinnervation and to test new strategies to improve functional recovery. Therefore, objective and reliable evaluation methods should be applied for the assessment of regeneration and function restitution after nerve injury in animal models. Electrophysiological tests are commonly used in clinical practice and can be also performed in animal models to determine the nature of peripheral nerve disorders, their severity, and their evolution. These tests provide an integrated approach using sensory and motor nerve conduction studies and electromyography, spinal reflex tests, and motor and sensory evoked potentials if appropriate. The low-invasiveness of several electrophysiological methods allows serial evaluation of sensory and motor reinnervation distal to the injury site at desired intervals without killing the animals or disturbing the regeneration process. This chapter gives a brief review of the most useful electrophysiological methods, their values, and limitations.
Astrocytes have traditionally been considered ancillary, satellite cells of the nervous system. However, it is a very recent acquisition that glial cells generate signaling loops which are integral to the brain circuitry and participate, interactively with neuronal networks, in the processing of information. Such a conceptual breakthrough makes this field of investigation one of the hottest in neuroscience, as it calls for a revision of past theories of brain function as well as for new strategies of experimental exploration of brain function. Glial cells are electrically not excitable, and it was only the use of optical recording techniques together with calcium sensitive dyes, that allowed the chemical excitability of glial cells to become apparent. Studies using these new techniques have shown for the first time that glial cells are activated by surrounding synaptic activity and translate neuronal signals into their own calcium code. Intracellular calcium concentration([Ca2+]i) elevations in glial cells have then shown to underlie spatial transfer of information in the glial network, accompanied by release of chemical transmitters (gliotransmitters) such as glutamate and back-signaling to neurons. As a consequence, optical imaging techniques applied to cell cultures or intact tissue have become a state-of-the-art technology for studying glial cell signaling. The molecular mechanisms leading to release of &quot;gliotransmitters,&quot; especially glutamate, from glia are under debate. Accumulating evidence clearly indicates that astrocytes secrete numerous transmitters by Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis. This review will discuss the mechanisms underlying the release of chemical transmitters from astrocytes with a particular emphasis to the regulated exocytosis processes.

Existing studies revealed that bipolar patients show an altered identification of emotional stimuli (e.g. facial expressions), however, so far modifications in early emotional processes and the regulation of emotions are less clear. In response to emotional stimuli bipolar patients show a dysfunction in a ventral-limbic brain network including the amygdala, insula, striatum, subgenual cingulate cortex, ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and orbitofrontal cortex. In most studies, a relative hypoactivity of dorsal brain structures, including the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, the dorsal anterior cingulate and the posterior cingulate cortex, has been reported in bipolar patients. This imbalance between the two networks has been proposed to underlie deficient emotion regulation in bipolar disorder.
A final common pathway (FCP) for tinnitus has been hypothesized since 1989 for all clinical types of tinnitus, particularly subjective idiopathic tinnitus (SIT) of the severe disabling type. This was intended to explain the transformation-transition of the sensation of an aberrant auditory sensation-tinnitus (i.e., the sensory component)-to one of affect (i.e., the emotional-behavioral component) or, conversely, that an emotional-behavioral stimulus (affect) can result in the clinical manifestation of a sensation (a sensory stimulus). Understanding the pathophysiology of this transformation is fundamental for the diagnosis of tinnitus and the treatment of the patient, and it presents a dilemma to basic science, neuroscience, and clinical medicine. Clinically, tinnitus is not a unitary symptom; it constitutes many clinical types; can have its origin in the auditory or nonauditory systems and in the peripheral or central nervous system; and may be clinically manifest or subclinical. Accumulating evidence is presented to support the original hypothesis of an FCP. The resolution of this dilemma involves sensory processing (i.e., the integration, identification, and understanding of the ongoing, underlying, simultaneous, multiple associated brain function processes not only from one sensory modality but from multiple sensory modalities accompanying and associated with an FCP). In the FCP, the predominant brain function process is that of the sensory-affect transformation of a sensation and its conscious awareness by the affected patient. The neuroanatomical substrates identified in 1989 in tinnitus patients (reported originally in 1991 and published in 1995) are presented as a common framework for the hypothesis of an FCP. They further the understanding of the clinical heterogeneity of the tinnitus symptom, clinically manifest as multiple brain functions associated with the clinical course of tinnitus patients, particularly those with SIT. The FCP provides a model for tinnitus theory, diagnosis, and treatment. The FCP is not a tinnitus theory. Specifically, it is a hypothesis that attempts to explain how an aberrant auditory sensory stimulus becomes transformed into one of affect and somatomotor response. The neuroanatomical substrates of the FCP provide a basis for the identification of the involved neurocircuitries and neurochemistries. The physiology and biochemistry underlying the neuroanatomical substrates of the FCP provide a basis for translation for tinnitus diagnosis and treatment. The neuroanatomical substrates of the FCP are presented as algorithms of (1) components of a sensation (i.e., sensory, affect, and psychomotor), a translation from basic sensory physiology for tinnitus; (2) clinically manifest biophysiological brain functions and underlying processes associated with the tinnitus; (3) a model for investigation of metabolic-electrophysiological correlates for tinnitus; (4) the basis for an integrated theory of tinnitus and brain function (i.e., tinnitus dyssynchrony-synchrony theory; (5) a model for the identification of underlying neurocircuitries and neurochemistries involved in brain for the sensory-affect transformation of an aberrant auditory stimulus (tinnitus); (6) a model for the selection-introduction of innovative therapies attempting tinnitus relief; and (7) its clinical translation for objective monitoring systems for the determination of the efficacy of modalities of therapy attempting tinnitus relief. The hypothesis of the FCP for tinnitus and the identified neuroanatomical substrates, when viewed in terms of the physiology of sensory processing, is considered to be expanded and broader in its application for all sensations, normal or aberrant.
Quantitative electroencephalography (QEEG) is the technique whereby brain electrical activity in individuals is recorded as they sit quietly with their eyes closed. The electrical activity is quantified with a variety of statistical measures to characterize the huge variation in combinations of emissions from the brain. Neuroscience research has demonstrated that such resting brain activity measures may be consistently altered in conditions such as depression or dementia. A wide variety of ongoing efforts are attempting to find characterizations that reliably denote other neurological conditions. In research on tinnitus, a variety of groups have been working to characterize QEEG changes related to the presence of the abnormal sensation of sound and to the emotional distress associated with it. QEEG changes related to the tinnitus percept are in the gamma electroencephalography (EEG) band recorded from temporal lobes. Clinical depression has a reliable marker in the depression of posterior cerebral alpha EEG frequency band activity, and this same activity is found in patients with tinnitus of the severe disabling type. In the past, QEEG has suffered from inconsistent recording methods, closed data sets, and noncompatible analytical techniques. Now in the modern era, when reliable data sets are shared and hardware and software are less expensive, regular use of QEEG will be clinically important. Those prepared to make the minor investment in equipment and training will reap the benefit of objective measures of brain activity. Knowing patterns of QEEG activity related to tinnitus and its associated depression will help clinicians better manage these patients.
A 52-year-old man noted distal dominant slowly progressive muscle weakness at age 36 years. On muscle CT, the red muscles of the soleus, anterior tibial and paraspinal muscles, where type 1 fiber is known to predominate, were almost totally replaced by fat tissue while quadriceps femoris, gastrocnemius and upper extremity muscles were relatively spared. Quadriceps muscle biopsy revealed multi-minicores in addition to occasional larger cores, in about 70% of the type 1 fibers. A novel heterozygous nucleotide change c.5869T &gt; A (p.S1957T) was identified in RYR1. Although pathogenicity was not confirmed, this nucleotide change was absent in 100 control DNA. We did not find a mutation in either multi-minicore disease-associated gene, SEPN1, or major distal myopathy-related genes, including GNE, ZASP, MYOT, exons 32-36 of MYH7, and the last exon of TTN. This is probably a unique form of distal myopathy characterized by the presence of multi-minicores with preferential involvement of type 1 fibers.
Acute variant of human T lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1)-associated myelopathy (HAM) has been postulated as termed &quot;acute HAM&quot; or &quot;rapidly progressive HAM&quot;. However, it remains controversial whether HAM itself could cause such rapid progression. We report a patient with HTLV-1 infection, in whom the diagnosis of neuromyelitis optica (NMO) could be made based on relapsing-remitting course of opticospinal disturbance and positive anti-aquaporin-4 (AQP4) antibody. Careful testing of anti-AQP4 antibody is necessary to establish whether or not acute HAM is a clinical variant of HAM.



Since the emergence of social phobia into the diagnostic nomenclature, we have seen an exponential expansion in our knowledge regarding effective treatment of this disorder. The literature clearly supports the use of SSRIs and the SNRI venlafaxine ER as first line pharmacological agents in the treatment of GSAD. In this article, treatment studies of pharmacotherapy of social phobia are summarized. Additional issues such as comparative efficacy, treatment resistance and relapse-prevention are reviewed.




This study examined students' attitudes toward computer-aided instruction (CAI), specifically neuroanatomy learning modules, to assess which components were primary in establishing these attitudes and to discuss the implications of these attitudes for successfully incorporating CAI in the preparation of health care providers. Seventy-seven masters degree, entry-level, health care professional students matriculated in an introductory neuroanatomy course volunteered as subjects for this study. Students independently reviewed the modules as supplements to lecture and completed a survey to evaluate teaching effectiveness. Responses to survey statements were compared across the learning modules to determine if students viewed the modules differently. Responses to individual survey statements were averaged to measure the strength of agreement or disagreement with the statement. Responses to open-ended questions were theme coded, and frequencies and percentages were calculated for each. Students saw no differences between the learning modules. Students perceived the learning modules as valuable; they enjoyed using the modules but did not prefer CAI over traditional lecture format. The modules were useful in learning or reinforcing neuroanatomical concepts and improving clinical problem-solving skills. Students reported that the visual representation of the neuroanatomical systems, computer animation, ability to control the use of the modules, and navigational fidelity were key factors in determining attitudes. The computer-based learning modules examined in this study were effective as adjuncts to lecture in helping entry-level health care students learn and make clinical applications of neuroanatomy information.
The occurrence of neuropsychiatric symptoms in patients with Alzheimer's disease hampers the clinical management and exacerbates the burden for caregivers. To what extent psychotic symptoms are genetically determined and which are the genes involved has to be established. We tested the hypothesis that the occurrence of delusions and hallucinations in AD is associated with variations in the G72/DAOA gene, which is supposed to play a key role in the glutamate pathway regulated through the NMDA receptors. A panel of single nucleotide polymorphisms were genotyped in a cohort of 185 Alzheimer's disease patients. The analysis demonstrated a nominally significant association (p&lt; 0.05) with one single nucleotide polymorphism (rs2153674). In addition, multivariate regression showed that the rs2153674 genotype accounts for up to 15% of the variance in delusions severity, as assessed by using the Neuropsychiatric Inventory. If the results from the present study will be replicated, the glutamate hypothesis could be invoked to explain the occurrence of psychosis in neurodegenerative disorders.
Immunotherapy holds great promise for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other conformational disorders but certain adverse reactions need to be overcome. Prior to the side effects in the first Elan/Wyeth AD vaccine trial, we proposed using amyloid-beta (Abeta) derivatives as a safer approach. The route of administration may also affect vaccine safety. To assess the feasibility of oral immunization that promotes mucosal immunity, Tg2576 AD model mice were treated prophylactically three times over 6 weeks starting at 3-5 months of age with a Salmonella vaccine expressing K6Abeta(1-30). At 22-24 months of age, cortical Abeta plaque burden and total Abeta(40/42) levels were reduced by 48-75% in the immunized mice compared to controls, which received unmodified Salmonella. Plaque clearance was not associated with increased microglial activation, which may be explained by the long treatment period. Furthermore, cerebral microhemorrhages were not increased in the treated mice in contrast to several passive Abeta antibody studies. These results further support our findings with this immunogen delivered subcutaneously and demonstrate its efficacy when given orally, which may provide added benefits for human use.
In this review, we propose that the neurodegenerative changes in the neurochemistry of amyloid-beta (Abeta) aggregation, tau phosphorylation, cytoskeleton rearrangement, oxidative stress, and lipid peroxidation in Alzheimer's disease (AD), and a number of other neurodegenerative diseases, are secondary pathological features. In fact, we believe that these phenomena represent natural compensatory mechanisms for impaired primary neurodegeneration, membrane dynamic deterioration, and/or associated failures of neurotransmission, synaptic function, and neuroplasticity. Physiologically, Abeta, lipid peroxidation, and tau protein may function to sense changes in activity-dependent membrane properties and therefore biochemically modulate membrane lipid homeostasis for more efficient synaptic action. As such, the previously proposed therapeutic tackling of amyloid, tau, oxidative stress, and other brain disease markers may have no ability to cure AD or other devastating central nervous system pathologies and peripheral nervous system diseases. This unfortunate realization provides a wake-up call to the neuroscience community, demanding open-minded approach.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by memory loss and often accompanied during its progression by behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD). We decided to evaluate the association between AD-related behavioral disturbances and the short/long (S/L) polymorphism of the promoter region of the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) transporter gene (SLC6A4). This functional polymorphism modulates SLC6A4 transcription rate, with the S-allele having a 2-fold reduced efficiency, leading to a diminished availability of 5-HT that might in turn trigger behavioral and cognitive alterations. The SLC6A4 promoter functional single nucleotide polymorphism rs25531 (A--&gt;G) was genotyped as well. We collected 235 sporadic AD subjects that were classified as AD with (n = 122) or without (n = 113) behavioral alterations, assessed with the Spontaneous Behavior Interview scale, section Behavioral Problems (SBI-BP). Comparing the genotypic and allelic frequencies of AD without and with BPSD, we did not find a difference for the 5-HTTLPR or the rs25531, even after stratification according to single SBI-BP item. We conclude that 5-HTTLPR and rs25531 are not major genetic modulators of BPSD development in AD.
Neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by 'hot spots' of degeneration. The regions of primary vulnerability vary between different neurodegenerative diseases. Within these regions, some neurons are lost whereas others that are morphologically indiscriminate survive. The enigma of this selective vulnerability is tightly linked to two fundamental problems in the neurosciences. First, it is not understood how many neuronal cell types make up the mammalian brain; estimates are in the order of more than a thousand. Second, the mechanisms by which some nerve cells undergo functional impairment followed by degeneration while others do not, remain elusive. Understanding the basis for this selective vulnerability has significant implications for understanding the pathogenesis of disease and for developing treatments. Here, we review what is known about selective vulnerability in Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal dementia, and Parkinson's disease. We suggest, since transgenic animal models of disease reproduce aspects of selective vulnerability, that these models offer a valuable system for future investigations into the physiological basis of selective vulnerability.
Abnormally phosphorylated tau protein is a key component of the pathology seen in neurodegenerative tauopathies, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Despite its association with disease, tau phosphorylation (tau-P) also plays an important role in neuroplasticity, such as dendritic/synaptic remodeling seen in the hippocampus in response to environmental challenges, such as stress. To define the boundaries between neuroplasticity and neuropathology, studies have attempted to characterize the paradigms, stimuli, and signaling intermediates involved in stress-induced tau-P. Supporting an involvement of stress in AD are data demonstrating alterations in stress pathways and peptides in the AD brain and epidemiological data implicating stress exposure as a risk factor for AD. In this review, the question of whether stress-induced tau-P can be used as a model for examining the relationship between functional neuroplasticity and neuronal vulnerability will be discussed.
Insulin, long known as an important regulator of blood glucose levels, plays important and multifaceted roles in the brain. It has been reported that insulin is an important neuromodulator, contributing to several neurobiological processes in particular energy homeostasis and cognition. Dysregulation of insulin signaling has been linked to aging and metabolic and neurodegenerative disorders. The first part of this review is devoted to discussion of the critical role of insulin signaling in normal brain function. Then the involvement of impaired insulin signaling in the pathophysiology of diabetes, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis will be discussed. Finally, the potential therapeutic effect of insulin and insulin sensitizers will be examined.
Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a clinical concept proposed as an intermediate state between normal aging and dementia. This condition has multiple heterogeneous sources, including clinical presentation, etiology, and prognosis. Recently, the prevalence and associated features of neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) in MCI have been described. We systematically searched the PubMed database (last accessed on August 31, 2008) for articles on NPS in MCI. Included articles used strict selection criteria, and outcome variables were extracted in duplicate; of the 27 articles included, 14 (52%) used prospective cohorts. The global prevalence of NPS in MCI ranged from 35% to 85%. The most common behavioral symptoms were depression, anxiety, and irritability. Hospital-based samples reported a higher global prevalence of NPS than population-based studies; this discrepancy probably reflected differences in demographics, study setting, MCI diagnostic criteria, and behavioral instruments used. Prospective studies showed that NPS, particularly depression, may represent risk factors for MCI or predictors for the conversion of MCI to Alzheimer's disease (AD). NPS are very prevalent in subjects with MCI, displaying a similar pattern of symptoms compared to dementia and AD. Large cohort studies using standardized MCI criteria and behavioral instruments are required to evaluate the prognostic role of NPS in MCI.
Synapse loss occurs early in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and is considered the best pathological correlate of cognitive decline. Ephrins and Eph receptors are involved in regulation of excitatory neurotransmission and play a role in cytoskeleton remodeling. We asked whether alterations in Eph receptors could underlie cognitive impairment in an AD mouse model overexpressing human amyloid-beta protein precursor (hA beta PP) with familial mutations (hA beta PP swe-ind mice). We found that EphA4 and EphB2 receptors were reduced in the hippocampus before the development of impaired object recognition and spatial memory. Similar results were obtained in another line of transgenic A beta PP mice, Tg2576. A reduction in Eph receptor levels was also found in postmortem hippocampal tissue from patients with incipient AD. At the time of onset of memory decline inhA beta PP swe-ind mice, no change in surface expression of AMPA or NMDA receptor subunits was apparent, but we found changes in Eph-receptor downstream signaling, in particular a decrease in membrane-associated phosho-cofilin levels that may cause cytoskeletal changes and disrupted synaptic activity. Consistent with this finding, Eph receptor activation in cell culture increased phosho-cofilin levels. The results suggest that alterations in Eph receptors may play a role in synaptic dysfunction in the hippocampus leading to cognitive impairment in a model of AD.
This study investigated the neuropsychological hallmarks of posterior cortical atrophy (PCA). Seventeen patients with PCA, 17 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (PAD), and 17 healthy age-matched subjects underwent neuropsychological testing for abstract reasoning, visuospatial abilities, memory, language, executive functions, praxes, and attention. The PCA patients were significantly more impaired in visual perception, spatial memory, visual attention, and visuospatial reasoning compared to the PAD patients who were relatively more impaired in episodic memory. In the PCA group, no test score correlated with disease duration or age of clinical onset, whereas, in the PAD group, several scores correlated with disease duration. Compared to the healthy subjects, both patient groups showed multiple cognitive deficits. Thus, PCA is characterised by distinctive visuospatial deficits that reflect the distribution of brain damage and contrast with the memory impairment of PAD patients. Specific neuropsychological tests may contribute to early identification of cortical dementia for diagnostic and research purposes.
Olfactory dysfunction has been reported in clinical and preclinical phases of Alzheimer's disease. Subjective memory complaints have been proposed as a potential early indicator for increased risk of Alzheimer's disease, but have also been associated with depression, personality characteristics, and health problems. In this study, we aimed to determine which of these putative markers can predict memory complaints in community-dwelling elderly individuals, focusing on olfactory symptoms. A cohort of 144 elderly volunteers (42 males and 102 females), aged 50 to 86, was recruited from an ongoing longitudinal study. Participants were assessed for olfactory capacities (threshold, discrimination, and identification), subjective memory complaints, depression, and cognitive functions. Subjective memory complaints were significantly associated with olfactory discrimination and identification but not with threshold. Olfactory functions and depressive symptoms were both significantly associated with subjective memory complaints. In addition, memory complainers were significantly worse than non-complainers with respect to olfactory discrimination, identification, and overall olfactory functioning. The findings suggest that olfactory capacity may be a potentially significant biomarker for identifying community-dwelling elderly with memory complaints who are at increased risk for age-related cognitive decline and Alzheimer's disease.
Apolipoprotein E epsilon4 (APOE-epsilon4) is a major genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we addressed the question of whether possession of the APOE-epsilon4 allele results in adverse effects on perceived health-related quality of life (HRQL) and on symptoms of depression and anxiety in people with subjective memory complaints (SMC). 138 healthy, community-dwelling elderly volunteers, aged 52 to 85, were assessed for HRQL, depression, and anxiety. The participants were classified as i) APOE-epsilon4 carriers or ii) non-carriers with a) SMC or b) without memory complaints. The possible interactions of APOE genotype, gender, and SMC on HRQL, depression, and anxiety were investigated statistically. SMC was significantly associated with poorer outcomes on measures of depression, trait anxiety, and mental health. APOE-epsilon4 carriers did not significantly differ from non-carriers on HRQL, depression, and anxiety. However, significant interaction was found between APOE-epsilon4 genotype and SMC on depression. These findings are important from a health perspective and suggest that memory complaints are associated with markers of mental health and quality of life that are independent of possession of the APOE-epsilon4 allele, despite the importance of this polymorphism in the risk of AD and other health problems.

The processes underlying the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease involve several factors including impaired glucose/energy metabolism, mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress and altered insulin-signaling pathways. This review is mainly devoted to discuss evidence supporting the notion that mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress are interconnected and intimately associated with the development and progression of Alzheimer's disease. Furthermore, the review explores the role of insulin signaling in the pathophysiology of the disease. Indeed, several studies have begun to find links between insulin and mechanisms with clear pathogenic implications for this disorder. Understanding the key mechanisms involved in the etiopathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease may provide opportunities for the design of efficacious preventive and therapeutic strategies.
Besides a beneficial cardiovascular effect, it was recently suggested that statins can also exert neuroprotective actions. In a previous study, we provided in vitro evidence that lovastatin treatment abates excitotoxic cell death in primary cortical neurons. Here, we investigated the neuroprotective effect of lovastatin in an in vivo mouse model. We found that administration of lovastatin (20 mg/kg) significantly protects cholinergic neurons and their cortical projections against N-methyl-D-aspartate (60 nmol)-induced cell death in the magnocellular nucleus basalis, a neuronal cell group that is characteristically affected in Alzheimer's disease. Furthermore, lovastatin-mediated neuroprotection was shown to be dependent on protein kinase B (PKB)/Akt signaling since treatment with the PKB/Akt inhibitor LY294002 blocked the lovastatin-induced neuroprotective effect. The loss of cholinergic neurons after the lesion in the magnocellular nucleus basalis resulted in memory impairment as tested in a passive avoidance paradigm. This was reverted by pre-lesion lovastatin treatment. From these studies we conclude that treatment with lovastatin may provide protection against neuronal injury in excitotoxic conditions associated with neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease.
Statins, used as cholesterol-lowering drugs, were reported to reduce the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the molecular mechanisms underlying these findings remain to be clarified and it is not well understood whether this beneficial effect is due to simply lowering cholesterol levels. This study was aimed to investigate the neuroprotective effect of simvastatin and lovastatin, lipophilic statins that can transverse the blood brain barrier, against the toxicity triggered by the AD-associated amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides and to analyze if such protection is cholesterol-independent. Using primary cultures of cortical neurons treated with Abeta1-40 peptide, we have demonstrated that pre-incubation with statins prevents the rise in cytosolic Ca2+ concentration and the accumulation of reactive oxygen species induced by Abeta through mechanisms independent of cholesterol reduction. The neuroprotective actions of statins were rather attributable to their ability to reduce isoprenyl intermediates levels in the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway since their effect was reversed by geranyl pyrophosphate while cholesterol addition was ineffective. Consequently, statins were shown to rescue cortical neurons from Abeta-40-induced caspase-3-dependent apoptosis. Moreover, our results revealed that simvastatin, at neuroprotective concentrations against Abeta-induced toxicity, is not able to activate Akt or ERK2, two signaling kinases with neuroprotective roles against apoptosis.
Parkinson's disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) frequently overlap with Alzheimer's disease, which is linked to brain impairments in insulin, insulin-like growth factor (IGF), and neurotrophin signaling. We explored whether similar abnormalities occur in PD or DLB, and examined the role of manganese toxicity in PD/DLB pathogenesis. Quantitative RT-PCR demonstrated reduced expression of insulin, IGF-II, and insulin, IGF-I, and IGF-II receptors (R) in PD and/or DLB frontal white matter and amygdala, and reduced IGF-IR and IGF-IIR mRNA in DLB frontal cortex. IGF-I and IGF-II resistance was present in DLB but not PD frontal cortex, and associated with reduced expression of Hu, nerve growth factor, and Trk neurotrophin receptors, and increased levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein, alpha-synuclein, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase, 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE), and ubiquitin immunoreactivity. MnCl2 treatment reduced survival, ATP, and insulin, IGF-I and IGF-II receptor expression, and increased alpha-synuclein, HNE, and ubiquitin immunoreactivity in cultured neurons. The results suggest that: 1) IGF-I, IGF-II, and neurotrophin signaling are more impaired in DLB than PD, corresponding with DLB's more pronounced neurodegeneration, oxidative stress, and alpha-synuclein accumulation; 2) MnCl2 exposure causes PD/DLB associated abnormalities in central nervous system neurons, and therefore may contribute to their molecular pathogenesis; and 3) molecular abnormalities in PD/DLB overlap with but are distinguishable from Alzheimer's disease.
Cell cycle proteins are elevated in the brain of patients and in transgenic models of Alzheimer's disease (AD), suggesting that aberrant cell cycle re-entry plays a key role in this disorder. However, the precise relationship between cell cycle reactivation and the hallmarks of AD, amyloid-beta (Abeta) plaques and tau-laden neurofibrillary tangles, remains unclear. We sought to determine whether cell cycle reactivation initiates in direct response to Abeta and tau accumulation or whether it occurs as a downstream consequence of neuronal death pathways. Therefore, we used a triple transgenic mouse model of AD (3xTg-AD) that develops plaques and tangles, but does not exhibit extensive neuronal loss, whereas to model hippocampal neuronal death a tetracycline-regulatable transgenic model of neuronal ablation (CaM/Tet-DT(A) mice) was used. Cell-cycle protein activation was determined in these two models of neurodegeneration, using biochemical and histological approaches. Our findings indicate that Cdk4, PCNA and phospho-Rb are significantly elevated in CaM/Tet-DT(A) mice following neuronal death. In contrast, no significant activation of cell-cycle proteins occurs in 3xTg-AD mice versus non-transgenic controls. Taken together, our data indicate that neuronal cell cycle reactivation is not a prominent feature induced by Abeta or tau pathology, but rather appears to be triggered by acute neuronal loss.
Amyloid-beta(Abeta) aggregation is a major hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Previous studies have suggested that only unbound Abeta can take part in the aggregation process. Therefore, endogenous Abeta-binding proteins may have an important role in preventing AD. Here, we analyzed cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples from 35 subjects with AD, 18 subjects with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and 29 non-demented controls to test if reduced Abeta-binding capacity in CSF is a specific feature of AD. A panel of known Abeta-binding CSF proteins, including beta-trace/prostaglandin D2 synthase (beta-trace), transthyretin (TTR), cystatin C (CysC) and alpha(1)-antitrypsin (AAT), were quantified and related to diagnosis and CSF levels of Abeta(1-38), Abeta(1-40) and Abeta(1-42). AD patients displayed a mild reduction in the CSF levels of beta-trace (p=0.020), CysC (p=0.017), AAT (p=0.019) and TTR (p=0.012) compared with controls. While the reductions in AAT and TTR were AD-specific, the levels of beta-trace and CysC were also reduced in FTD. As expected, CSF Abeta(1-42) was reduced in AD compared with controls (p=0.00005) and with FTD patients (p=0.015). Positive correlations between Abeta(1-42) and beta-trace, CysC and TTR, respectively, were seen only in the AD group, suggesting that deficient Abeta-binding capacity in CSF may contribute to the amyloidogenic process in AD.
Alpha-synuclein is the major constituent of Lewy bodies found in neurons in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and might be of diagnostic value as a biomarker for DLB. We hypothesized that, as a consequence of increased accumulation of alpha-synuclein intraneuronally in DLB, the levels of alpha-synuclein in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of DLB patients would be lower than in other dementias. Our objective was to investigate the CSF levels of alpha-synuclein in several dementia disorders compared to control levels and to investigate the diagnostic value of CSF alpha-synuclein as a marker to discriminate between DLB and other types of dementia. We analyzed the levels of alpha-synuclein in CSF of 40 DLB patients, 131 patients with Alzheimer's disease, 28 patients with vascular dementia, and 39 patients with frontotemporal dementia. We did not find any significant differences in CSF alpha-synuclein levels between DLB patients and patients with Alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia or frontotemporal dementia. We conclude that in clinically diagnosed patients, alpha-synuclein does not appear to be a useful biomarker for the differentiation between DLB and other types of dementia.
Little is known about how amyloid-beta (Abeta) is deposited in relation to the complex ultrastructure of the brain. Here we combined serial section immunoelectron microscopy with 3D reconstruction to elucidate the spatial relationship between Abeta deposits and ultrastructurally identified cellular compartments. The analysis was performed in a transgenic mouse model with mutant presenilin-1, and mutant amyloid-beta protein precursor (AbetaPP) and tau transgenes (3xTg-AD mice) and in aged dogs that develop Abeta plaques spontaneously. Reconstructions based on serial ultrathin sections of hippocampus (mice) or neocortex (dogs) that had been immunolabeled with Abeta (Abeta(1-42)) antibodies showed that the organization of extracellular Abeta deposits is more complex than anticipated from light microscopic analyses. In both species, deposits were tightly associated with plasma membranes of pyramidal cell bodies and major dendrites. The deposits typically consisted of thin sheets as well as slender tendrils that climbed along the large caliber dendritic stems of pyramidal neurons. No preferential association was observed between Abeta deposits and thin dendritic branches or spines, nor was there any evidence of preferential accumulation of Abeta around synaptic contacts or glial processes. Our data suggest that plaque formation is a precisely orchestrated process that involves specialized domains of dendrosomatic plasma membranes.
Oligomeric amyloid-beta (Abeta) interferes with long-term potentiation (LTP) and cognitive processes, suggesting that Abeta peptides may play a role in the neuronal dysfunction which characterizes the early stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Multiple lines of evidence have highlighted RAGE (receptor for advanced glycation end-products) as a receptor involved in Abeta-induced neuronal and synaptic dysfunction. In the present study, we investigated the effect of oligomeric soluble Abeta1-42 on LTP elicited by the stimulation of different intracortical pathways in the mouse visual cortex. A variety of nanomolar concentrations (20-200 nM) of Abeta1-42 were able to inhibit LTP in cortical layer II-III induced by either white matter (WM-Layer II/III) or the layer II/III (horizontal pathway) stimulation, whereas the inhibition of LTP was more susceptible to Abeta1-42, which occurred at 20 nM of Abeta, when stimulating layer II-III horizontal pathway. Remarkably, cortical slices were resistant to nanomolar Abeta1-42 in the absence of RAGE (genetic deletion of RAGE) or blocking RAGE by RAGE antibody. These results indicate that nanomolar Abeta inhibits LTP expression in different neocortical circuits. Crucially, it is demonstrated that Abeta-induced reduction of LTP in different cortical pathways is mediated by RAGE.
The online availability of scientific-literature databases and natural-language-processing (NLP) algorithms has enabled large-scale bibliometric studies within the field of scientometrics. Using NLP techniques and Thomson ISI reports, an initial analysis of the role of Alzheimer's disease (AD) within the neurosciences as well as a summary of the various research foci within the AD scientific community are presented. Citation analyses and productivity filters are applied to post-1984, AD-specific subsets of the PubMed and Thomson ISI Web-of-Science literature bases to algorithmically identify a pool of the top AD researchers. From the initial pool of AD investigators, top-100 rankings are compiled to assess productivity and impact. One of the impact and productivity metrics employed is an AD-specific H-index. Within the AD-specific H-index ranking, there are many cases of multiple AD investigators with similar or identical H-indices. In order to facilitate differentiation among investigators with equal or near-equal H indices, two derivatives of the H-index are proposed: the Second-Tier H-index and the Scientific Following H-index. Winners of two prestigious AD-research awards are highlighted, membership to the Institute of Medicine of the US National Academy of Sciences is acknowledged, and an analysis of highly-productive, high-impact, AD-research collaborations is presented.
A diverse sampling of articles was considered as a landscape against which evidence-based practice has been and should be a part of forensic psychiatry. Caveats were identified, limitations suggested, and recommendations made as to how such a marriage might work.
The rise of modern neuroscience is transforming psychiatry and other behavioral sciences. Neuroscientific progress also has had major impact in forensic neuropsychiatric practice, resulting in the increased use of neuroscientific technologies in cases of a psychiatric-legal nature. This article is focused on the impact of neuroscientific progress in forensic psychiatry in relation to criminal law. Also addressed are some emerging questions involving the practice of forensic neuropsychiatry. These questions will be reframed by providing alternative perspectives consistent with the objectives of forensic neuropsychiatric practice. The last part of the article is a discussion of potential developments that may facilitate the integration of neuroscientific knowledge in forensic neuropsychiatric practice.

Contemporary neuropsychology reveals that the parietal lobe contains neurons that are specifically attuned to the act of grasping and this act may be fundamental to the establishment of the phenomenal boundaries between subject and object. Furthermore, alterations to this process, such as the hypoactivation of this region during meditation or the hyperactivation associated with schizophrenia, may eliminate or confuse, respectively, the phenomenal boundaries between subject and object. Traversing disciplines, the Advaita Vednta school of Hinduism traces some of its key terms for subject and object to the verbal root grah, to grasp. The subject is literally the grasper. Furthermore, the practice of aspara yoga, the yoga of no-touch, is aimed at stopping, hypoactivating, the grasping process in order to transcend all subject-object boundaries. This paper will argue that while we have not uncovered an identity of thought, we have uncovered a confluence of ideas between these two disciplines. We will see that this confluence of ideas has not pitted the believer against the critic-not forced us into the great reductionism debate that has dominated so much of the interchange between religious studies and the sciences. This case study will illuminate some of the methodological ways around this reductionism battle and also the boundaries of both disciplines for the intellectual benefit of each.

Recently, bispectral index (BIS) values were demonstrated to be different for various anesthetics as a result of differential effects on electroencephalographic (EEG) signals. Entropy is similar to the BIS monitor, as both process raw EEG to derive a number. We hypothesized that entropy may also be anesthetic agent-specific. Thirty adult patients undergoing spinal surgery were randomized to receive halothane, isoflurane, or sevoflurane. Entropy indices were recorded at various minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) values-0.5, 0.75, 1.0 and 1.5-both during wash-in and wash-out of the agent. Heart rate (HR), mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), response entropy (RE), and state entropy (SE) were noted. Statistical analysis was done using a one-way analysis-ofvariance test. P values less than 0.05 were considered significant. Ten patients in each group completed the study. The demographics and baseline values of HR, MAP, RE, and SE were comparable in all three groups. During the study period, for a given MAC value, both RE and SE remained low in the isoflurane and sevoflurane groups compared to the halothane group. For a given MAC, the RE and SE were comparable during wash-in and wash-out phases. Halothane produced higher entropy values as compared to isoflurane and sevoflurane at equivalent MAC levels.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) permits in vivo quantification of brain compartment volume, and has many applications in cognitive, clinical and comparative neuroscience. There dre numerous approaches for obtaining a brain volume estimate from MRI, and the primary focus of this paper is to provide an overview of the methods available to estimate the volume of three brain structures that are of particular interest in the neurosciences: the cerebral hemispheres, hippocampus and Brocas area. We provide information on choice of computer software, hardware compatibility, required user expertise, the application of manual and automated MR image analysis techniques, and anatomical guidelines, providing the reader with enough information to decide on their approach at the outset of a quantitative MRI study. We advocate the use ofstereology in conjunction with point counting for an unbiased and time efficient estimate of brain compartment volume.
The research aimed at examining attentional selectivity in a visual search paradigm using pictures of animals that have provided a recurrent threat in an evolutionary perspective (i.e., snakes and spiders) and pictures of animals that have supposedly posed no such threat (i.e., cats and fish). Experiment 1 showed no advantage of fear-relevant stimuli over non-fear-relevant animal stimuli. However, an attentional capture seemed to emerge as a delay in the disengagement of attention, specifically when there was a massive presentation of fear-relevant stimuli in the array. The results from Experiment 2, where participants were selected based specifically on their fear of either snakes or spiders (but not both), showed a preferential processing of the congruent feared stimulus, when compared with non-fearful participants, which strengthens the notion that fear significance may be an important factor drawing attention to a particular spatial location.
Members of captive colonies of common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a small New World primate, can occasionally be victims of repeated, and potentially fatal, attacks by a family-mate. This study examined the records of a colony, looking for past instances of such aggressions. The aim was to better understand the possible causes underlying this phenomenon and to identify variables that could minimize their occurrence. The results showed that both males and females behaved as aggressors at the same rate, but females attacked just females, whereas males attacked both males and females. Most aggressions involved siblings and occurred at a higher rate when the cages were occupied by more than 5 nonhuman animals. The influence of group size was significant only when females behaved as aggressors. This study suggests that several factors can determine the occurrence of these aggressions and that their relative importance depends on the sex of the aggressor. The results of this study highlight the importance of collecting further data to verify whether crowding in a confined space, rather than group size per se, affects the incidence of these aggressions.
Nonhuman primates are frequently housed in double-tier arrangements with significant differences between the environments of the upper and lower-row cages. Although several studies have investigated whether this arrangement alters monkeys' behavior, no studies have addressed the two most notable differences, light and height, individually to determine their relative importance. This experiment examined how rhesus and long-tailed macaques allocated their time between the upper and lower-row cages of a 1-over-1 apartment module under different lighting conditions. In Condition A, monkeys' baseline degree of preference for the upper- and lower-row was tested. In Condition B, the lighting environment was reversed by limiting illumination in the upper-row cage and increasing illumination in the lower-row cage. In both conditions, monkeys spent more time in the upper-row cage, thus indicating a strong preference for elevation regardless of illumination. The amount of time that monkeys spent in the lower-row cage increased by 7% under reversed lighting, but this trend was not significant. These results corroborate the importance of providing captive primates with access to elevated areas.
Although a number of studies have considered the neural circuitry that regulates diaphragm activity, these pathways have not been adequately discerned, particularly in animals such as cats that utilize the respiratory muscles during a variety of different behaviors and movements. The present study employed the retrograde transneuronal transport of rabies virus to identify the extended neural pathways that control diaphragm function in felines. In all animals deemed to have successful rabies virus injections into the diaphragm, large, presumed motoneurons were infected in the C(4)-C(6) spinal segments. In addition, smaller presumed interneurons were labeled bilaterally throughout the cervical and upper thoracic spinal cord. While in short and intermediate survival cases, infected interneurons were concentrated in the vicinity of phrenic motoneurons, in late survival cases, the distribution of labeling was more expansive. Within the brain stem, the earliest infected neurons included those located in the classically defined pontine and medullary respiratory groups, the medial and lateral medullary reticular formation, the region immediately ventral to the spinal trigeminal nucleus, raphe pallidus and obscurus, and the vestibular nuclei. At longer survival times, infection appeared in the midbrain, which was concentrated in the lateral portion of the periaqueductal gray, the region of the tegmentum that contains the locomotion center, and the red nucleus. Considerable labeling was also present in the fastigial nucleus of the cerebellum, portions of the posterior and lateral hypothalamus and the adjacent fields of Forel known to contain hypocretin-containing neurons and the precruciate gyrus of cerebral cortex. These data raise the possibility that several parallel pathways participate in regulating the activity of the feline diaphragm, which underscores the multifunctional nature of the respiratory muscles in this species.
Parents (N = 19) of children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) and adult controls (N = 17) underwent positron emission tomography (PET) using [(18)F]setoperone to image cortical serotonin type-2 (5-HT2) receptors. The 5-HT2 binding potentials (BPs) were calculated by ratioing [(18)F]setoperone intensity in regions of interest (ROI) to cerebellar intensity. Cortical 5-HT2 BPs were significantly lower in parents compared to controls and platelet 5-HT levels were significantly negatively correlated with cortical 5-HT2 BP in parents. Lower cortical 5-HT2 receptor density in parents of children with ASD is consistent with reports of diminished 5-HT2 expression and functioning in individuals with ASD. Further research should examine the relationship of reduced 5-HT2 receptor expression to underlying causation and to clinical and neurochemical correlates of autistic behavior.
Taste cells regularly generate action potentials, but their functional significance in taste signaling is unclear. A paper in BMC Neuroscience reveals the identity of the voltage-gated Na+ channels underlying action potentials, providing the foundation for insights into their function.

Mental sweating is human sweating that is accelerated via the sympathetic nerve by application of mental or physical stress. In the neurosciences, there is keen interest in this type of sweating, because the amount of sweat in response to a stress applied to a volunteer directly reflects activity of the sympathetic nerve. It is therefore of particular value that optical coherence tomography (OCT) can provide clear in vivo imaging of the spiral lumen of an eccrin sweat gland in the epidermis with a spatial resolution around 10 mum. We demonstrate dynamic OCT of mental sweating of an eccrin sweat gland on a human fingertip, where the sweating dynamics can be tracked by time-sequential OCT images with a frame spacing of one second. An instantaneous amount of sweat stored in the spiral lumen is evaluated quantitatively in each OCT image, resulting in time variation measurements of excess sweat in response to mental or physical stress. In the dynamic OCT of mental sweating, as demonstrated here, we note for the first time internal sweating without ejection of excess sweat from the spiral lumen to the skin surface. Internal sweating has not been previously detected without the availability of our dynamic OCT technique. Until now, it has been commonly accepted that sweating is always accompanied with ejection of excess sweat to the skin surface. On the basis of our findings reported here, this type of sweating should now be referred to as external sweating. In this study, we demonstrate that internal sweating occurs more often in the case where mental stress is applied to a volunteer, and that it is more useful for evaluation of activity of the sympathetic nerve. The dynamic OCT for both external and internal sweating is demonstrated.
In neuroscience clinical research, patients are frequently treated with different doses of the same drug to determine a dose level that is efficacious with tolerable adverse effects. Efficacy is usually evaluated using multiple psychometric instruments. Most often the instruments are either binary or ordinal scaled. Conventional assessment of treatment efficacy is conducted per each instrument individually. However, it is important to combine these to provide an overall evaluation of the treatment efficacy. In this paper, we consider a statistical test of dose-response based on the simultaneous assessment of efficacy measured via the various instruments using a multivariate method. We derive the asymptotic distribution of the proposed test. Data from a neuroscience clinical trial is used to demonstrate the proposed method.


The neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a key survival factor for neural cells. In particular, in neuroblastoma tumour cells, expression of the BDNF/TrkB autocrine signalling system promotes a more malignant phenotype and resistance to chemotherapy. The human BDNF gene contains two clusters of upstream exons encoding the 5'UTR (exon 1 to exon 3 and exon 4 to exon 9a), these are alternatively spliced to a common exon 9, which contains the coding region and the 3'UTR. At least 34 different BDNF mRNA transcripts can be generated, although their physiological role is still unknown. The purpose of this study is to determine which BDNF transcript is involved in cell survival of the human neuroblastoma cell lines SH-SY-5Y (single-copy MYCN) and SK-N-BE (amplified MYCN). Expression of human BDNF mRNAs encoding all possible isoforms was characterised in the two neuroblastoma cell lines. We then investigated whether selective silencing of the different BDNF mRNAs using specific siRNAs could reduce cell survival in response to serum deprivation or the anticancer drugs cisplatin, doxorubicin and etoposide. We found that three isoforms located in the second exon cluster are essential for neuroblastoma cell survival under cytotoxic stress. Notably, promoters of the second exon cluster, but not the first, are controlled by Ca(2+)-sensitive elements.
We investigated the preclinical characteristics of the neuroprotective effect of the prostaglandin E2 type 1 receptor (EP1) antagonist SC51089 in models of focal cerebral ischemia produced by occlusion of the mouse middle cerebral artery (MCA). We found that systemic administration of SC51089 (5 to 20 microg/kg; i.p.) reduces the brain injury produced by transient (-50%+/-8%; n=12; P&lt;0.05) or permanent (-39%+/-7%; n=12; P&lt;0.05) MCA occlusion. SC51089 was effective even when administered up to 12 h after ischemia. The protective effect was observed both in male and female mice and was sustained for at least 2 weeks after induction of ischemia. The reduction in injury volume was associated with an improvement in neurological function assessed by the Bederson deficit score, the hanging wire test and the corner test. The data provide proof of principle that EP1 receptor inhibition is a potentially valuable strategy for neuroprotection that deserves further preclinical investigation for therapeutic application in human stroke.

This review includes 1) an explanation of what neuropsychology is, 2) a brief history of how developmental cognitive neuroscience emerged from earlier neuropsychological approaches to understanding atypical development, 3) three recent examples that illustrate the benefits of this approach, 4) issues and challenges this approach must face, and 5) a forecast for the future of this approach.
Digital X-ray radiogrammetry (DXR) calculates peripheral bone mineral density (BMD) from hand radiographs. The aim of this study was to examine in vitro and in vivo precision for the new direct digital version of DXR, a development of the conventional DXR. The in vitro precision for direct DXR was tested on 4 different X-ray equipment, based on 31 radiographs of the same phantom. The in vivo precision was based on duplicate hand radiographs from both hands in 39 individuals. For the 4 X-ray equipment, in vitro precision ranged from 0.14% to 0.30%, expressed as coefficient of variations (CV%) and from 0.0012 to 0.0028 g/cm2, expressed as smallest detectable difference (SDD). The precision was correlated to the resolution of the radiographic equipment (r=0.95, p=0.05). The corresponding values for the in vivo precision for mean values of both hands were: CV%=0.46%; SDD=0.0046 g/cm2, and least significant change (LSC%)=1.28%. The DXR-BMD for 1 of the X-ray equipment differed 1.1% from the overall mean. The precision for direct DXR was highly satisfactory both in vitro and in vivo. DXR-BMD values may differ between the radiographic equipment, and follow-up measurements should be performed with the same X-ray equipment.
Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have great potential as therapeutic agents in stroke management, since they are easily accessible and can be rapidly expanded ex vivo for autologous transplantation. Increasing evidence suggests that bone marrow cells migrate throughout the brain and differentiate into neurons and glial cells. Both non-human and human MSCs have been used to treat stroke in murine models with satisfactory results. Several factors, such as transdifferentiation, induction of neurogenesis and angiogenesis, neuroprotection, and activation of endogenous neurorestorative processes, contribute to the benefits of MSCs in the ischemic brain. Many variables, including types of MSCs, cell dose, timing of treatment, route of cell delivery, and characteristics of stroke patients, influence the efficacy of MSC treatment of stroke. Although the first trials of autologous MSC therapy in stroke patients showed promising results, the optimal approach for different clinical settings has yet to be determined. The fundamental properties of MSCs and their potential short-term and long-term toxicities also need to be determined before moving forward to use of these cells in clinical practice.
We report on two patients with rare major intratumoral hemorrhage following ventriculoperitoneal shunt in posterior fossa tumors. A 28-year-old woman with a midline posterior fossa lesion, whose imaging features suggested a fourth ventricular ependymoma with obstructive hydrocephalus, was subjected to a right ventriculoperitoneal shunt. Her consciousness deteriorated, and she experienced massive intratumoral hemorrhage and later died. An eight-year-old girl presented with raised intracranial pressure and ataxia caused by vermian astrocytoma with obstructive hydrocephalus. She also developed a massive tumor bleed following a ventriculoperitoneal shunt and was subjected to emergency decompression of the tumor with the bleeding. She remained vegetative at discharge and died 18 months later. Intratumoral hemorrhage is a rare but important cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with posterior fossa tumors who undergo ventriculoperitoneal shunt.
True mycotic aneurysms are extremely rare cerebrovascular lesions with a dismal prognosis. They mostly follow fungal meningitis or septicaemia and herald their presence with the development of subarachnoid haemorrhage. The authors report an extremely rare occurrence of bilateral anterior cerebral artery aneurysms caused by mucormycosis. The infection was diagnosed after investigation of prolonged fever following transsphenoidal surgery. The aneurysm was diagnosed after a subarachnoid haemorrhage and the patient finally died. The present case highlights an atypical presentation of fungal infection that can perplex the best of clinicians and thus delay diagnosis. As subarachnoid haemorrhage due to true mycotic aneurysmal rupture is uniformly associated with a fatal outcome, the authors speculate that a high index of suspicion should be maintained when a neurosurgical patient is predisposed to fungal infection. This approach, combined with the empirical institution of antifungal drugs, provides the only chance of survival.
Severe mental disorders such as bipolar disorder and schizophrenia often co-occur with chronic medical illnesses, especially cardiovascular disease and diabetes. These comorbidities are associated with a more severe course of mental illness, reduced quality of life, and premature mortality. Although the association between mental disorders and physical health complications has long been recognized, medical conditions remain undertreated in clinical psychiatric practice, and the life expectancy for individuals with serious psychiatric disorders is approximately 30% shorter than that of the general US population. Factors that are related to the mental illness (eg, cognitive impairment, reduced ability to function, and a lack of communication skills) as well as factors such as the high cost of medical care may make accessing general health care a difficult task for patients. Even when medical care is received by patients, the quality is often poor, and dangerous illnesses may be undiagnosed and untreated. In addition, harmful side effects of medications used to treat psychiatric disorders, unhealthy habits and lifestyles, and a possible genetic susceptibility to medical conditions increase the likelihood of comorbid physical conditions in patients with severe mental illness. Implementing behavioral interventions into clinical practice may help patients improve their overall health and prevent chronic medical conditions.
Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) has a lifetime prevalence in the US population of about 5.7%. Typically, GAD begins in early adulthood and tends to have a chronic and persistent course. The disorder frequently presents comorbidly with other conditions, and about 90% of patients with GAD have at least 1 comorbid lifetime psychiatric disorder. Patients with GAD tend to be high users of medical services; the disorder is associated with significant physical as well as psychological symptomatology and impacts health, family relationships, and employment. Pharmacologic and psychosocial treatments are available for GAD. Different side effect profiles, speed of onset of action, and discontinuation requirements of individual drugs need to be taken into account when selecting treatment. Treatment selection should include consideration of comorbidity, psychological function, social impairment, and refractoriness, as well as the need for ongoing intervention for many individuals. Innovative treatments, including anticonvulsants, atypical antipsychotics, and others, as well as treatment targeting concomitant insomnia, may help improve outcomes for affected individuals.
Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is a common illness with diagnostic criteria that have changed substantially over time. Symptoms of GAD overlap with those of major depressive disorder to such an extent that studying one disorder without studying the other may be impossible. Such an overlap, combined with potentially inappropriate diagnostic criteria for GAD, makes diagnosing and researching GAD challenging. Recent research into the genetics and neural circuitry of GAD may suggest solutions for the disorder's diagnostic controversies and point the way to productive future studies of etiology and pathophysiology.


Dysthymic disorder is a mild but chronic depression that can be difficult for physicians to treat because patients with dysthymic disorder have a high risk of relapse. Guidelines for treating dysthymic disorder suggest treatment with antidepressants, especially selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, and psychotherapy. A variety of antidepressants and psychotherapies have shown efficacy in trials, and treatment must be tailored to the individual patient.
Disentangling the component processes that contribute to human executive control is a key challenge for cognitive neuroscience. Here, we employ event-related potentials to provide electrophysiological evidence that action errors during a go/no-go task can result either from sustained attention failures or from failures of response inhibition, and that these two processes are temporally and physiologically dissociable, although the behavioral error--a nonintended response--is the same. Thirteen right-handed participants performed a version of a go/no-go task in which stimuli were presented in a fixed and predictable order, thus encouraging attentional drift, and a second version in which an identical set of stimuli was presented in a random order, thus placing greater emphasis on response inhibition. Electrocortical markers associated with goal maintenance (late positivity, alpha synchronization) distinguished correct and incorrect performance in the fixed condition, whereas errors in the random condition were linked to a diminished N2-P3 inhibitory complex. In addition, the amplitude of the error-related negativity did not differ between correct and incorrect responses in the fixed condition, consistent with the view that errors in this condition do not arise from a failure to resolve response competition. Our data provide an electrophysiological dissociation of sustained attention and response inhibition.
The role of visual feedback during the production of American Sign Language was investigated by comparing the size of signing space during conversations and narrative monologues for normally sighted signers, signers with tunnel vision due to Usher syndrome, and functionally blind signers. The interlocutor for all groups was a normally sighted deaf person. Signers with tunnel vision produced a greater proportion of signs near the face than blind and normally sighted signers, who did not differ from each other. Both groups of visually impaired signers produced signs within a smaller signing space for conversations than for monologues, but we hypothesize that they did so for different reasons. Signers with tunnel vision may align their signing space with that of their interlocutor. In contrast, blind signers may enhance proprioceptive feedback by producing signs within an enlarged signing space for monologues, which do not require switching between tactile and visual signing. Overall, we hypothesize that signers use visual feedback to phonetically calibrate the dimensions of signing space, rather than to monitor language output.

Osteoporosis and cardiovascular disease (CVD) are major public health problems, leading to increased morbidity and mortality. Although historically considered as independent conditions, clinical and epidemiological studies indicate that there are common pathophysiological mechanisms underlying these diseases. In addition to menopause and advanced age, risk factors for CVD, such as obesity and diabetes, have also been associated with osteoporosis. Dyslipidemia, oxidative stress, inflammation, hyperhomocystinemia are associated to bone remodeling impairment and to the atherosclerotic process and might explain, in part, the co-existence of osteoporosis and CVD.
This experiment examined the relationship between reinforcer magnitude and quantitative measures of performance on progressive-ratio schedules. Fifteen rats were trained under a progressive-ratio schedule in seven phases of the experiment in which the volume of a 0.6-M sucrose solution reinforcer was varied within the range 6-300 microl. Overall response rates in successive ratios conformed to a bitonic equation derived from Killeen's (1994) Mathematical Principles of Reinforcement. The &quot;specific activation&quot; parameter, a, which is presumed to reflect the incentive value of the reinforcer, was a monotonically increasing function of reinforcer volume; the &quot;response time&quot; parameter, delta, which defines the minimum response time, increased as a function of reinforcer volume; the &quot;currency&quot; parameter, beta, which is presumed to reflect the coupling of responses to the reinforcer, declined as a function of volume. Running response rate (response rate calculated after exclusion of the postreinforcement pause) decayed monotonically as a function of ratio size; the index of curvature of this function increased as a function of reinforcer volume. Postreinforcement pause increased as a function of ratio size. Estimates of a derived from overall response rates and postreinforcement pauses showed a modest positive correlation across conditions and between animals. Implications of the results for the quantification of reinforcer value and for the use of progressive-ratio schedules in behavioral neuroscience are discussed.
Semantic short-term memory (STM) patients have a reduced ability to retain semantic information over brief delays but perform well on other semantic tasks; this pattern suggests damage to a dedicated buffer for semantic information. Alternatively, these difficulties may arise from mild disruption to domain-general semantic processes that have their greatest impact on demanding STM tasks. In this study, mild semantic processing impairments were demonstrated in 2 semantic STM patients. They performed well on untimed semantic tasks but were deficient in accuracy and reaction times on speeded tasks. Demanding semantic production tasks were also affected. These patients were compared with a case series of individuals with semantic aphasia whose multimodal semantic difficulties stemmed from poor cognitive control. STM and semantic performance were more impaired in this group, but there were qualitative similarities to the semantic STM patients. The difference between the 2 patient types may be a matter of degree. In semantic aphasia, severe disruption to semantic control leads to global semantic impairments, whereas in semantic STM milder disruption might impact mainly on STM tests because of the high control demands of these tasks.
Impairments caused by stroke remain the main cause for adult disability. Despite a vigorous research effort, only 1 thrombolytic treatment has been approved in acute stroke (&lt;3h). The limitations of preclinical studies and how these can be overcome have been the subject of various guidelines. However, often these guidelines focus on the acute stroke setting and omit long-term outcome measures, such as behaviour and neuroimaging. The considerations and practicalities of including the serial assessment of these approaches and their significance to establish therapeutic efficacy are discussed here.
Intracellularly applied amphiphilic molecules, such as p-chlorophenoxy acetate (CPA) and octanoate, block various pore-open mutants of CLC-0. The voltage-dependent block of a particular pore-open mutant, E166G, was found to be multiphasic. In symmetrical 140 mM Cl(-), the apparent affinity of the blocker in this mutant increased with a negative membrane potential but, paradoxically, decreased when the negative membrane potential was greater than -80 mV, a phenomenon similar to the blocker &quot;punch-through&quot; shown in many blocker studies of cation channels. To provide further evidence of the punch-through of CPA and octanoate, we studied the dissociation rate of the blocker from the pore by measuring the time constant of relief from the block under various voltage and ionic conditions. Consistent with the voltage dependence of the effect on the steady-state current, the rate of CPA dissociation from the E166G pore reached a minimum at -80 mV in symmetrical 140 mM Cl(-), and the direction of current recovery suggested that the bound CPA in the pore can dissociate into both intracellular and extracellular solutions. Moreover, the CPA dissociation depends upon the Cl(-) reversal potential with a minimal dissociation rate at a voltage 80 mV more negative than the Cl(-) reversal potential. That the shift of the CPA-dissociation rate follows the Cl(-) gradient across the membrane argues that these blockers can indeed punch through the channel pore. Furthermore, a minimal CPA-dissociation rate at a voltage 80 mV more negative than the Cl(-) reversal potential suggests that the outward blocker movement through the CLC-0 pore is more difficult than the inward movement.
The blockade of CLC-0 chloride channels by p-chlorophenoxy acetate (CPA) has been thought to be state dependent; the conformational change of the channel pore during the &quot;fast gating&quot; alters the CPA binding affinity. Here, we examine the mechanism of CPA blocking in pore-open mutants of CLC-0 in which the residue E166 was replaced by various amino acids. We find that the CPA-blocking affinities depend upon the volume and the hydrophobicity of the side chain of the introduced residue; CPA affinity can vary by three orders of magnitude in these mutants. On the other hand, mutations at the intracellular pore entrance, although affecting the association and dissociation rates of the CPA block, generate only a modest effect on the steady-state blocking affinity. In addition, various amphiphilic compounds, including fatty acids and alkyl sulfonates, can also block the pore-open mutants of CLC-0 through a similar mechanism. The blocking affinity of fatty acids and alkyl sulfonates increases with the length of these amphiphilic blockers, a phenomenon similar to the block of the Shaker K(+) channel by long-chain quaternary ammonium (QA) ions. These observations lead us to propose that the CPA block of the open pore of CLC-0 is similar to the blockade of voltage-gated K(+) channels by long-chain QAs or by the inactivation ball peptide: the blocker first uses the hydrophilic end to &quot;dock&quot; at the pore entrance, and the hydrophobic part of the blocker then enters the pore to interact with a more hydrophobic region of the pore. This blocking mechanism appears to be very general because the block does not require a precise structural fit between the blocker and the pore, and the blocking mechanism applies to the cation and anion channels with unrelated pore architectures.
During the development of the nervous system, each neuron must contact its appropriate target cell in order to establish its specific connections. More than a century ago, Ramon y Cajal discovered an amoeboid-like structure at the end of the axon of developing nerve cells. He called this structure the growth cone [cono de crecimiento] and he proposed that this structure was guided towards its target tissue by chemical substances secreted by the different cells that line its course. We have reviewed the discovery of the growth cone by Cajal using his original publications, his original scientific drawings, and by studying his histological preparations conserved at the &quot;Instituto Cajal&quot; (Madrid, Spain).(1) We found a very good correlation between the structure of the growth cone in the Golgi-impregnated and reduced silver-nitrate-stained material used by Cajal, and that which is revealed with present-day methods. Finally, Cajal's view of the function of the growth cone and his chemotactic hypothesis will also be considered in the light of present-day knowledge.
At the end of the nineteenth and the beginning of the twentieth century three Australians made notable contributions to founding the neurosciences: Alfred Walter Campbell (1868-1937) conducted the first extensive histological studies of the human brain; Grafton Elliot Smith (1871-1937) studied the monotreme brain and established the basis for understanding the mammalian brain; and Stanley David Porteus (1883-1972) extended his studies of intellectual disability to encompass the relation between brain size and intelligence. The work of each was decisively influenced by important members of the Edinburgh medical school or by Edinburgh medical graduates: William Turner (1832-1916) and William Rutherford (1839-1899) Professors of Anatomy and Physiology respectively at Edinburgh; James Thomas Wilson (1861-1945) Professor of Anatomy at the University of Sydney; and Richard James Arthur Berry (1867-1962) Professor of Anatomy at the University of Melbourne. An important aspect of the influence on the Australians was a materialist view of brain function but the work of all was most important for a theory even more central held by the Scots who had influenced them: Darwin's theory of evolution. The importance of the work of Campbell and especially that of Smith for Darwinism is contrasted with Darwin's own indifference to the peculiarities of the Australian fauna he observed when he visited Australia during HMS Beagle's voyage of discovery in 1836.
In this article we present and comment on three letters written, respectively, by Fernando de Castro, Santiago Ramon y Cajal, and Justo Gomez Ocerin, concerning the imprisonment and liberation of the Italian scientist Giuseppe Levi in 1934. These documents reveal the great interest that Ramon y Cajal took in the problem and his intervention in the liberation of his colleague. In addition, they show that the controversy about collaterals between Golgi and Cajal was still alive and demonstrate that Cajal did not possess Golgi's original publication.
This paper is concerned with some of the events in physiology that followed Otto Loewi's description of a substance that he named &quot;Vagusstoff&quot;; events that led eventually to the establishment of acetylcholine as a transmitter substance in the nervous system. Much of the work achieving this recognition of acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter took place in the middle third of the twentieth century; a period that witnessed the dislocation of many people as a result of National Socialist policies in Germany, that country's expansionist conquests, and the Second World War. A few of the people who were obliged to emigrate from Europe played prominent roles in these discoveries. This paper describes some of their achievements and, in a way, pays tribute to them.
N(epsilon)-(carboxymethyl)lysine (CML) and N(epsilon)-(carboxyethyl)lysine (CEL) termed advanced glycation end products (AGEs) are known to be produced by nonenzymatic glycation between bovine serum albumin (BSA) and D-glucose. This study is to characterize the immunoreactivity of anti-AGE antibodies including anti-CML and anti-CEL antibodies. Using AGE-modified BSA (AGE-BSA) as an immunogen, a polyclonal anti-AGE immunoglobulin G (IgG) was produced. The anti-AGE IgG could strongly detect AGEs formed on BSA, at least in part, AGEs produced on both residues Lys and Arg due to its immunoreaction with Lys-derived and Arg-derived AGEs produced by NaCNBH(3), a reducing agent, in amino acid glycation analysis, but the pre-immune serum could not. As the anti-CML antibody could also strongly react with AGE-BSA, this suggests that CML is a major nonenzymatically glycated product cross-linked to BSA. Furthermore, CEL is associated with distinguishable polymerization of BSA from CML polymerization of BSA, though weaker than CML and was not produced by Lys glycation analysis. These results indicate that the anti-AGE antibody is effective for detecting both Lys-derived and Arg-derived AGEs, and CML and CEL distinctively polymerize albumin as major AGEs present on AGE-BSA.
The transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) is a cytokine involved in many biological events inlcuding immunosuppression, angiogenesis, cell growth, and apoptosis. Expression of TGF-beta1 at the transcriptional level is controlled by a series of ubiquitous and specialized factors whose activities can be modulated by a variety of signaling events. Here we demonstrate that activity of the TGF-beta1 promoter is increased by C/EBPbeta, a DNA-binding transcription factor whose activity can be influenced by several immunomodulators, in astrocytes and microglial cells. Interestingly, expression of Smad3 and Smad4, the downstream regulators of the TGF-beta1-signaling pathway, impairs the activity of C/EBPbeta on the TGF-beta1 promoter. Further, we demonstrate that MH2, a common domain among Smads that has protein-binding activities, interacts with C/EBPbeta and decreases its association with a region of the TGF-beta1 promoter that is responsive to C/EBPbeta activation. Interestingly, the p65 subunit of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), which also interacts with C/EBPbeta, cooperates with MH2 and decreased DNA-binding and transcriptional activities of C/EBPbeta on the TGF-beta1 promoter. These observations indicate that an autoregulatory mechanism, involving the MH2 domain of Smads, modulates activation of the TGF-beta1 promoter by C/EBPbeta. Further, our results show that the interplay between NF-kappaB and C/EBPbeta has an impact on the ability of C/EBPbeta to stimulate TGF-beta1 transcription, hence, suggesting that the cross-communication of signaling pathways that modulate NF-kappaB and C/EBPbeta may dictate the level of TGF-beta1 promoter activity.
From well-established results with cochlear implants to the advent of implantable microelectrode arrays, implantable neuroprosthetic devices have gained increasing attention from health care professionals, scientists, engineers, and the general population. With recent depictions of neuroprostheses in the news media and in movies, confusion about their current state and concern for their future use has increased tremendously among members of the public. Many government agencies and nongovernment organizations are also concerned with the safety and efficacy of these devices. We discuss the present state of development of some of these implantable neuroprostheses, the possible future use of this technology, and the associated ethical issues that can be of concern, including manufacturing, animal experimentation, human trials, scope of use, and individual and societal concerns.
Over the past decades, there has been considerable progress in the capability and application(s) of technology in the neurosciences. The tools of neurotechnology conjoin advances made in other disciplines, including nanoscience, to offer somewhat unique properties and capabilities that affect multiple dimensions of neural systems via implantable devices that afford articulation and manipulation at the subcellular scale. However, while striving for good, it is equally important to regard potential to generate major ethical, legal, and social issues (ELSI) that arise in, and from the study and applications of implantable nano-neurotechnologies. This paper discusses specific properties and uses of various nano-neurotechnologies, and addresses proximate and distal ELSI. We argue that the fusion of nano- and neuroscience and technologies give rise to unique risks and burdens, but posit that a frank precautionary principle might be unrealistic given the demiurge of progress. Rather, we call for a dialectical approach that balances technological incentives with responsibility for inquiry, application, and consequences, and advocate that potential ELSI must be appreciated early and throughout the research and development process.


Hypoxia-ischemia (H-I) constitutes the main phenomenon responsible for brain-blood barrier permeability modifications leading to cerebral vascular auto-regulation loss in newborns. Hypotension, cerebral ischemia, and reperfusion are the main events involved in vascular auto-regulation loss leading to cell death and tissue damage. Reperfusion could be critical since organ damage, particularly of the brain, may be amplified during this period. An exaggerated activation of vasoactive agents, of calcium mediated effects could be responsible for reperfusion injury (R-I), which, in turns, leads to cerebral hemorrhage and damage. These phenomena represent a common repertoire in newborns complicated by perinatal acute or chronic hypoxia treated by risky procedures such as mechanical ventilation, nitric oxide supplementation, brain cooling, and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). Despite accurate monitoring, the post-insult period is crucial, as clinical symptoms and standard monitoring parameters may be silent at a time when brain damage is already occurring and the therapeutic window for pharmacological intervention is limited. Therefore, the measurement of circulating biochemical markers of brain damage, such as vasoactive agents and nervous tissue peptides is eagerly awaited in clinical practice to detect high risk newborns. The present review is aimed at investigating the role of biochemical markers such as adrenomedullin, a vasoactive peptide; S100B, a calcium binding protein, activin A, a glycoprotein, in the cascade of events leading to I-R injury in newborns complicated by perinatal asphyxia.
Many hormones are released in a pulsatile or burst-like pattern resulting in fluctuating blood levels that can undergo rapid modulation by physiological and pathological signals. To accurately measure these changes in hormone concentration requires frequent blood sampling, often over extended periods as the overall rhythmicity may vary over 24 hours. The aim of this study was to develop a computerized, automated blood sampling system which allows repeated stress-free blood sample collection from humans over an extended period under basal or test conditions. The system incorporates a peristaltic pump, fraction collector and standard infusion pump together with a custom built electronic control unit linked to a personal computer. Disposable tubing prevents cross-contamination between study participants. The computer programme is modifiable to adjust for the number of specimen tubes and volume of blood collected per sampling cycle. Patency of the collecting line is maintained with 0.9% saline, without the need for heparinization. To validate the system, 10-minute samples for cortisol were collected over 24 hours from five healthy volunteers, of whom two had additional concomitant ACTH sampling. Deconvolution analysis revealed an expected number of hormone secretory episodes and a non-pathological degree of orderliness within the data. There was high concordance between ACTH and cortisol secretory events. The ability of the system to allow multiple measurements and of the software program to link with other physiological monitoring equipment provides a powerful tool to study physiologic/pathophysiologic change in relation to blood hormone and other biomarker levels.
Many organs such as the salivary glands, kidney and lung form multiple epithelial clefts during the process of branching morphogenesis in embryonic development. The salivary gland provides an excellent model for clarifying the mechanism of this phenomenon. Extracellular matrix molecules regulate the dynamics of this complex process of organ formation. Nevertheless, the mechanism of cleft formation is poorly understood. Here we describe that a combination of laser microdissection with T7-SAGE has been established as a method for gene discovery of candidate molecules that may be essential for early organ morphogenesis. We show a current approach that promises to improve our understanding of the early morphological changes. We are attempting to find novel regulators of branching morphogenesis. Fibronectin, laminin gamma 2, and TIMP-3 are differentially expressed in developing clefts or buds of submandibular glands. Fibronectin-mediated crosstalks between integrin cell-to-matrix and cadherin cell-to-cell adhesion systems promote the formation of clefts. We have started studies to identify and characterize new molecules that may be important for cleft formation and fibronectin expression. We will introduce recent findings and future plans to identify new functional regulators. Progress in understanding the mechanisms of branching morphogenesis will provide novel approaches to future tissue engineering or regeneration of damaged organs.
Many kinds of neuroscience data are being acquired regarding the dynamic behaviour and phenotypic diversity of nerve cells. But as the size, complexity and numbers of 3D neuroanatomical datasets grow ever larger, the need for automated detection and analysis of individual neurons takes on greater importance. We describe here a method that detects and identifies neurons within confocal image stacks acquired from the zebrafish brainstem. The first step is to create a template that incorporates the location of all known neurons within a population - in this case the population of reticulospinal cells. Once created, the template is used in conjunction with a sequence of algorithms to determine the 3D location and identity of all fluorescent neurons in each confocal dataset. After an image registration step, neurons are segmented within the confocal image stack and subsequently localized to specific locations within the brainstem template - in many instances identifying neurons as specific, individual reticulospinal cells. This image-processing sequence is fully automated except for the initial selection of three registration points on a maximum projection image. In analysing confocal image stacks that ranged considerably in image quality, we found that this method correctly identified on average approximately 80% of the neurons (if we assume that manual detection by experts constitutes 'ground truth'). Because this identification can be generated approximately 100 times faster than manual identification, it offers a considerable time savings for the investigation of zebrafish reticulospinal neurons. In addition to its cell identification function, this protocol might also be integrated with stereological techniques to enhance quantification of neurons in larger databases. Our focus has been on zebrafish brainstem systems, but the methods described should be applicable to diverse neural architectures including retina, hippocampus and cerebral cortex.
Bayesian decision theory suggests that the statistics of an individual's actions (prior experience) play an important role in motor control and execution. To elucidate this relation, we recorded 7 million mouse movements made by a group of 20 computer users across a 50-day work period, allowing us to estimate the prior distribution of spontaneous hand movements. We found that the most frequent movements were in cardinal directions. The shape of this distribution was participant-specific but constant over time and independent of the computer that the participant used. This nonuniform directional distribution allowed us to predict systematic errors in initial movement directions, which matched well with the actual data. This shows how movement statistics can influence hand kinematics.
To study the prevalence of early adversities in schizophrenia and unipolar depression, 2 groups of consecutive adult-onset inpatients with DSM-IV diagnoses of schizophrenia (n = 173) and unipolar depression (n = 305) were compared with an unscreened control group of volunteers from the general population (n = 310), with respect to their association with 4 types of childhood abuse and with early parental adversities (discord, separation, death, psychiatric caseness). Compared with general population, most types of early adversities (except sexual abuse and parental death) were significantly associated with both clinical groups. Compared with depression, all early adversities with the same 2 exceptions were significantly associated with schizophrenia; both frequency of abuse and number of types of abuse increased the risk of schizophrenia in a dose-response pattern, suggesting causality. These findings stress the role of social developmental factors in the etiology of schizophrenia.
Paul D. MacLean, a leading brain scientist of the 20th century, died on December 26, 2007. We review his life as a scientist and highlight some of his most important research contributions.
Nigral dopaminergic areas from Parkinsonian patients show an increase of reactive astrocytes and active microglia. The reaction of these two cell types is a clear evidence of inflammatory response associated with dopaminergic cell loss. However, the function of this glial reaction remains unclear. This histological hallmark is also reproduced in induced Parkinsonian animals such as MPTP-treated monkeys. In this work, we analyze with confocal microscopy the number of processes of microglial cells and astrocytes in the SNpc of MPTP-treated monkeys and compare with control animals. We observe that secondary branches from microglia and astrocytes increase in MPTP-treated animals, while the scaffold of primary branches does not change. These results demonstrate that glial reaction in MPTP-treated monkeys is characterized by the emission of new filaments after the dopaminergic degeneration, suggesting that glial cells may increase their scanning progress and modify their microanatomy after dopaminergic injury.
Inflammatory responses have been proposed as important factors in dopaminergic neuro-degeneration in Parkinsonism. Increasing evidence suggests that the alteration of the glial microenvironment induced by neuronal degeneration could be deleterious to the remaining neurons. The activation of microglia/macrophages and reactive astrocytes may have a negative effect on the surrounding parenchyma, perpetuating the neurodegenerative process. However, this alteration may also go beyond the brain parenchyma and stimulate other inflammatory changes in other systems, inducing the release of proinflammatory cytokines and probably Acute Phase Proteins (APP) and Glucocorticoids (GC). In this work we review the latest advances in the field to provide a picture of the state of the art of studies of inflammatory responses and Parkinsonism, hopefully opening up new therapeutic perspectives for patients with Parkinson's disease.
During aging, decline in memory and cognitive abilities as well as motor weakening is of great concern. The dopaminergic system mediates some aspects of manual dexterity, in addition to cognition and emotion, and may be especially vulnerable to aging. A common neurodegenerative disorder of this system, Parkinson's disease, is characterized by a selective, progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. This review includes studies quantifying age and Parkinson's-related changes of the substantia nigra, with emphasis on stereological studies performed in the substantia nigra pars compacta.
Clinical characteristics of Parkinson's disease (PD) are the result of the degeneration of the neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). Several mechanisms are implicated in the degeneration of nigrostriatal neurons such as oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, protein misfolding, disturbances of dopamine (DA) metabolism and transport, neuroinflammation, and necrosis/apoptosis. The literature widely explores the neurotoxic models elicited by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) and 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). Because of the models, it is known that basal ganglia, particularly substantia nigra, have been related to a diversity of functions, from motor to sleep regulation. Nevertheless, a current debate concerning the role of DA on the sleep-wake cycle is in progress. In summary, it is suggested that the dopaminergic system is implicated in the physiology of sleep, with particular regard to the influence of the SNpc neurons. The understanding of the functioning and connectivity of the SNpc neurons has become fundamental to discovering the neurobiology of these neurons.
The firing pattern of midbrain dopamine neurons is thought to have important behavioral consequences. Although these neurons fire regularly in vitro when deprived of their afferent inputs, they usually fire irregularly in vivo. It is not known whether the irregularity is functionally important and whether it derives from the intrinsic properties of dopamine neurons or network interactions. It is also not known whether the irregular firing pattern is fundamentally stochastic or deterministic in nature. Distinguishing between the deterministic nonlinear structure associated with chaos and other sources of structure including correlated noise is an inherently nontrivial problem. Here we explain the geometric tools provided by the field of nonlinear dynamics and their application to the analysis of interspike interval (ISI) data from midbrain dopamine neurons. One study failed to find strong evidence of nonlinear determinism, but others have identified such a structure and correlated it with network interactions.
The specific loss of substantia nigra compacta (SNc) neurons in Parkinson's disease (PD) has been the main driving force in initiating research efforts to unravel the apparent SNc-specific vulnerability. Initially, metabolic constraints due to high dopamine turnover have been the main focus in the attempts to solve this issue. Recently, it has become clear that fundamental differences in the molecular signature are adding to the neuronal vulnerability and provide specific molecular dependencies. Here, the different processes that define the molecular background of SNc vulnerability are summarized.
The hormone leptin has widespread actions in the CNS. Indeed, leptin markedly influences hippocampal excitatory synaptic transmission and synaptic plasticity. However, the effects of leptin on fast inhibitory synaptic transmission in the hippocampus have not been evaluated. Here, we show that leptin modulates GABA(A) receptor-mediated synaptic transmission onto hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells. Leptin promotes a rapid and reversible increase in the amplitude of evoked GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory synaptic currents (IPSCs); an effect that was paralleled by increases in the frequency and amplitude of miniature IPSCs, but with no change in paired pulse ratio or coefficient of variation, suggesting a post-synaptic expression mechanism. Following washout of leptin, a persistent depression (inhibitory long-lasting depression) of evoked IPSCs was observed. Whole-cell dialysis or bath application of inhibitors of phosphoinositide 3 (PI 3)-kinase or Akt prevented leptin-induced enhancement of IPSCs indicating involvement of a post-synaptic PI 3-kinase/Akt-dependent pathway. In contrast, blockade of PI 3-kinase or Akt activity failed to alter the ability of leptin to induce inhibitory long-lasting depression, suggesting that this process is independent of PI 3-kinase/Akt. In conclusion these data indicate that the hormone leptin bi-directionally modulates GABA(A) receptor-mediated synaptic transmission in the hippocampus. These findings have important implications for the role of this hormone in regulating hippocampal pyramidal neuron excitability.
Vitamin C is transported in the brain by sodium vitamin C co-transporter 2 (SVCT-2) for ascorbate and glucose transporters for dehydroascorbate. Here we have studied the expression of SVCT-2 and the uptake and release of [(14)C] ascorbate in chick retinal cells. SVCT-2 immunoreactivity was detected in rat and chick retina, specially in amacrine cells and in cells in the ganglion cell layer. Accordingly, SVCT-2 was expressed in cultured retinal neurons, but not in glial cells. [(14)C] ascorbate uptake was saturable and inhibited by sulfinpyrazone or sodium-free medium, but not by treatments that inhibit dehydroascorbate transport. Glutamate-stimulated vitamin C release was not inhibited by the glutamate transport inhibitor l-beta-threo-benzylaspartate, indicating that vitamin C release was not mediated by glutamate uptake. Also, ascorbate had no effect on [(3)H] D-aspartate release, ruling out a glutamate/ascorbate exchange mechanism. 2-Carboxy-3-carboxymethyl-4-isopropenylpyrrolidine (Kainate) or NMDA stimulated the release, effects blocked by their respective antagonists 6,7-initroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX) or (5R,2S)-(1)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine hydrogen maleate (MK-801). However, DNQX, but not MK-801 or 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (APV), blocked the stimulation by glutamate. Interestingly, DNQX prevented the stimulation by NMDA, suggesting that the effect of NMDA was mediated by glutamate release and stimulation of non-NMDA receptors. The effect of glutamate was neither dependent on external calcium nor inhibited by 1,2-bis (2-aminophenoxy) ethane-N',N',N',N',-tetraacetic acid tetrakis (acetoxy-methyl ester) (BAPTA-AM), an internal calcium chelator, but was inhibited by sulfinpyrazone or by the absence of sodium. In conclusion, retinal cells take up and release vitamin C, probably through SVCT-2, and the release can be stimulated by NMDA or non-NMDA glutamate receptors.
Blockade of NMDA receptors by intracortical infusion of 3-(R)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP) increases glutamate (GLU) and serotonin (5-HT) release in the medial prefrontal cortex and impairs attentional performance in the 5-choice serial reaction time task. These effects are prevented by the 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist, (R)-(+)-(2,3-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-[2-(4-fluorophenyl)ethyl]-4-piperidine methanol (M100907). We explored the roles of endogenous 5-HT and 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2C) receptors in the mechanisms by which M100907 suppresses CPP-induced release of cortical GLU and 5-HT using in vivo microdialysis. CPP raised extracellular GLU and 5-HT by about 250% and 170% respectively. The 5-HT synthesis inhibitor, p-chlorophenylalanine (300 mg/kg), prevented M100907 suppressing CPP-induced GLU release. The effect of M100907 on these rises of GLU and 5-HT and attentional performance deficit was mimicked by the 5-HT(2C) receptor agonist, (S)-2-(6-chloro-5-fluoroindol-1-yl)-1-methylethylamine fumarate, (Ro60-0175, 30 microg/kg) while intra-mPFC (SB242084, 6-chloro-5-methyl-1-[[2-[(2-methyl-3-pyridyl)oxy]-5-pyridyl]carbamoyl]-indoline, 0.1 microM), a 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonist, prevented the effect of M100907 on extracellular GLU. The 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist, N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl)cyclohexane carboxenide trihydrochloride (100 microM) abolished the effect of M100907 on the CPP-induced 5-HT release. The data show that blockade of 5-HT(2A) receptors is not sufficient to suppress the CPP-induced rise of extracellular GLU and 5-HT and suggest that M100907 suppresses GLU release induced by CPP by enhancing the action of endogenous 5-HT on 5-HT(2C) receptors.
Pax4 is a homeobox gene encoding Pax4, a transcription factor that is essential for embryonic development of the endocrine pancreas. In the pancreas, Pax4 counters the effects of the related transcription factor, Pax6, which is known to be essential for eye morphogenesis. In this study, we have discovered that Pax4 is strongly expressed in retinal photoreceptors of the rat. Pax4 expression is not detectable in the foetal eye; however, postnatal Pax4 transcript levels rapidly increase. In contrast, Pax6 exhibits an inverse developmental pattern of expression being more strongly expressed in the foetal eye. Histological analysis revealed that Pax4 mRNA is exclusively expressed in the retinal photoreceptors, whereas Pax6 mRNA and protein are present in the inner nuclear layer and in the ganglion cell layer of the mature retina. In the adult retina, Pax4 transcripts exhibit a diurnal rhythm with maximal levels occurring during the light period, whereas retinal Pax6 transcript levels do not change throughout the day. The daily changes in Pax4 expression may contribute to daily changes in function in the differentiated retinal photoreceptor.
Our laboratory demonstrated previously that PGE2-induced modulation of hippocampal synaptic transmission is via a pre-synaptic PGE2 EP2 receptor. However, little is known about whether the EP2 receptor is involved in hippocampal long-term synaptic plasticity and cognitive function. Here we show that long-term potentiation at the hippocampal perforant path synapses was impaired in mice deficient in the EP2 (KO), while membrane excitability and passive properties in granule neurons were normal. Importantly, escape latency in the water maze in EP2 KO was longer than that in age-matched EP2 wild-type littermates (WT). We also observed that long-term potentiation was potentiated in EP2 WT animals that received lipopolysaccharide (LPS, i.p.), but not in EP2 KO. Bath application of PGE2 or butaprost, an EP2 receptor agonist, increased synaptic transmission and decreased paired-pulses ratio in EP2 WT mice, but failed to induce the changes in EP2 KO mice. Meanwhile, synaptic transmission was elevated by application of forskolin, an adenylyl cyclase activator, both in EP2 KO and WT animals. In addition, the PGE2-enhanced synaptic transmission was significantly attenuated by application of PKA, IP3 or MAPK inhibitors in EP2 WT animals. Our results show that hippocampal long-term synaptic plasticity is impaired in mice deficient in the EP2, suggesting that PGE2-EP2 signaling is important for hippocampal long-term synaptic plasticity and cognitive function.
Glutamate signaling in the mature retinal tissue is very important for accurate sensory decoding by retinal neurons and orchestrates the fine-tuned output from the retina to higher-order centers at the cerebral cortex. In this study, we show that glutamate induces a rapid extracellular-regulated kinase and cAMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation in cultured developing retinal neurons. This process is reliant on alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate receptors and nitric oxide (NO) signaling and independent of NMDA receptors activation, as it is blocked by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate/kainate antagonists as well as inhibiting NO synthase with NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester but not by the NMDA channel blocker dizocilpine maleate. The effect of NO on extracellular-regulated kinase and CREB is mediated by the classical NO/soluble guanylyl cyclase/protein kinase G pathways as it is inhibited by the soluble guanylyl cyclase blocker 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazole[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one and the protein kinase G inhibitor KT5823, respectively. Immunocytochemical data suggest that increased CREB phosphorylation in response to glutamate occurs in glial cell nuclei. We also have supporting evidence suggesting that neuronally produced NO directly reaches the glial cells and stimulates CREB phosphorylation. Hence, the results indicate the importance of neuronal-glial communication and glutamate/NO/CREB linkage during retinal development.
Recent findings indicate that progesterone can attenuate the beneficial neural effects of oestrogen. In the present study, we investigated the hypothesis that progesterone can modulate oestrogen actions by regulating the expression and activity of oestrogen receptors, ERalpha and ERbeta. Our studies in cultured neurones demonstrate that progesterone decreases the expression of both ERalpha and ERbeta and, as a consequence, also reduces both ER-dependent transcriptional activity and neuroprotection. These results identify a potential mechanism by which progesterone antagonises neural oestrogen actions, a finding that may have important implications for hormone therapy in postmenopausal women.
Thyroid hormone (TH) deficiency leads to molecular changes resulting in behavioural deficits. TH action is mediated by two types of nuclear receptors (TRs), TRalpha and TRbeta, which control target gene transcription. The relative contributions of the two TR products in mediating adult TH responses are poorly understood. As TRalpha1 transcripts are widely distributed in the brain, they presumably mediate most of the TH effects. This report examines the role and specific functions of T3 receptor isoforms on regulation of striatal synaptic plasticity indicators using adult hypothyroid mutant mice that fail to express single or multiple TR gene products. We then evaluated the effect of this hypothyroidism, with or without subsequent administration of T3, on T3 nuclear receptor (TRalpha1, TRbeta) and synaptic plasticity gene expression in TRalpha(0/0), TRbeta(-/-) and wild-type 129/SV mice. Hypothyroid wild-type mice exhibited reduced TRbeta, RC3, CaMKII and Rhes expression. The mRNA levels of Rhes and CaMKII were the same in all three hypothyroid substrains. By contrast, hypothyroid TRbeta(-/-) mice had higher RC3 mRNA levels than wild-type. T3 administration restored TRbeta, RC3 and CaMKII levels in hypothyroid wild-type mice, without significant Rhes upregulation. T3 administration normalised expression of all genes studied in hypothyroid TRbeta(-/-) but not TRalpha(0/0) mice. Thus, TRalpha apparently plays an essential role in restoring the expression of the TH-regulated genes potentially involved in striatal synaptic plasticity.
Maternal perinatal undernutrition (MPU) modifies the activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and sensitises to the development of metabolic and cognitive adult diseases. Because the hypothalamus and hippocampus are involved in the regulation of neuroendocrine activity, energy metabolism and cognition, we hypothesised that a maternal 50% food restriction (FR50) from day 14 of pregnancy (E14) until postnatal day 21 (P21) would affect the development of these structures in male rat offspring. Protein and mRNA levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and cell proliferation [analysed by 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation] were compared in both control and FR50 rats from E21 to P22. Although the pattern of the evolution of BDNF concentration and cell proliferation throughout development was not strikingly different between groups, several disturbances at specific developmental stages were observed. FR50 rats exhibited a delayed increase of hippocampal BDNF content whereas, in the hypothalamus, BDNF level was augmented from E21 to P14 and associated, at this latter stage, with an increased mRNA expression of TRkB-T2. In both groups, a correlation between BDNF content and the number of BrdU positive cells was noted in the dentate gyrus, whereas opposite variations were observed in CA1, CA2 and CA3 layers, and in the arcuate and ventromedial nuclei. In the hippocampus, P15-FR50 rats showed an increased number of BrdU positive cells in all regions, whereas, at P22, a decrease was observed in the CA2. In the hypothalamus, between E21 and P8, MPU increases the number of BrdU positive cells in all regions analysed and, until P15, marked differences were noticed in the median eminence, the paraventricular nucleus and the arcuate nucleus. Taken together, the results obtained in the present study show that MPU changes the time course of production of BDNF and cell proliferation in specific hippocampal and hypothalamic areas during sensitive developmental windows, suggesting that these early perinatal modifications may have long-lasting consequences.



One of the most challenging problems in developmental neurosciences is to understand the establishment and maintenance of specific membrane contacts between axonal, dendritic, and glial processes in the neuropils, which eventually secure neuronal connectivity. However, underlying cell recognition events are pivotal in other tissues as well. This brief review focuses on the pleiotropic functions of a small, evolutionarily conserved group of proteins of the immunoglobulin superfamily involved in cell recognition. In Drosophila, this protein family comprises Irregular chiasm C/Roughest (IrreC/Rst), Kin of irre (Kirre), and their interacting protein partners, Sticks and stones (SNS) and Hibris (Hbs). For simplicity, we propose to name this ensemble of proteins the irre cell recognition module (IRM) after the first identified member of this family. Here, we summarize evidence that the IRM proteins function together in various cellular interactions, including myoblast fusion, cell sorting, axonal pathfinding, and target recognition in the optic neuropils of Drosophila. Understanding IRM protein function will help to unravel the epigenetic rules by which the intricate neurite networks in sensory neuropils are formed.
The successful stimulus-response approach to the organization of behavior has been the dominating paradigm for much of the psychology and neuroscience of the 20th century. Martin Heisenberg is a pioneer in championing the idea that all brains, even comparatively simple ones such as those of insects, instead operate according to output-input principles. Since the 1970s, his research produces evidence that the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, is capable of spontaneous behavioral activity, and that the flies use it to control sensory input (i.e., operant behavior). Today, more and more evidence is accumulating also from fields outside of neuroscience that, indeed, one of the common, defining principles of all brains is this concept of operant behavior. Drawing from this evidence, it becomes clear that the conceptually simple process of generating activity and evaluating its consequences forms one of the fundamental cornerstones not only for all of our human nature, but also for our social coherence. This review recapitulates Heisenberg's most critical experiments and provides an overview over the current literature on the role of spontaneous activity in the ecology and evolution of brains. I conclude that spontaneous activity is both a necessary prerequisite and an inevitable consequence of evolution.
Professor Martin Heisenberg is one of the pioneers in the exploration of neuroethology. With his inspiration and earnest help, we employed the fruitfly as a model system to investigate the underlying neural mechanism of cognitive behaviors. Here, we recalled the help from Martin in the early years and introduced some findings from our lab about visual cognition behaviors in Drosophila, such as decision making, selective attention, and experience-dependent visual pattern recognition. From the results so far, the circuit composed of mushroom bodies, central complex, and dopaminergic neurons may play an essential role in these behaviors.





Recent studies have suggested that there may be functional and structural changes in the cerebellum of patients with adult onset primary focal dystonia. The aim of this study was to establish whether there is any neurophysiological indicator of abnormal cerebellar function, using the classic eyeblink conditioning paradigm. This paradigm at short intervals is dependent on the olivo-cerebellar circuit and does not require cerebral and basal ganglia structures. Eyeblink conditioning was performed by pairing an auditory tone with a supraorbital nerve stimulus with a delay interval of 400 ms in 12 patients with primary focal dystonia (seven cervical dystonias, five focal hand dystonias) and eight healthy controls. Healthy controls produced more conditioned eyeblink responses than patients with focal dystonia, indicating an abnormality of associative learning in this patient population. This study provides neurophysiological evidence for functional changes in the olivo-cerebellar pathway of patients with primary focal dystonia. Further work needs to be done to determine if these changes are primary, secondary or epiphenomenal to the disease.



Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) represents a class of malignant gliomas which rapidly proliferate, invade and destroy surrounding brain tissues. This study examined micro-RNA (miRNA) speciation and miRNA effects on gene expression in six ATCC glioma and GBM cell lines and in 14 glioma and GBM samples obtained from human brain biopsy. We observed selective up-regulation of miRNA-221 and down-regulation of a miRNA-221 messenger RNA target encoding the survivin-1 homolog BIRC1, a neuronal inhibitor of apoptosis protein (NIAP) and marker for neurodegeneration. The expression of BIRC5 (survivin-1) and caspase-3 were found to be significantly up-regulated, particularly in stage IV GBM. These studies suggest that the abundance and speciation of the BIRC family of neural cell fate regulators are differentially regulated in glioma and GBM, and may contribute to progressive changes in apoptotic signaling and altered neural cell cycling functions.

Despite aggressive antitumor treatment, the prognosis of brain tumor (BT) patients remains poor. In the last stage of disease, BT patients present severe symptoms due to the growing tumor or to treatment side-effects, which require adequate palliative management and supportive therapy. However, studies specifically addressing palliative care and end-of-life (EoL) issues in BT patients are lacking. This study explores symptoms experienced by BT patients in the last weeks of disease and EoL issues observed in a population of brain tumor patients followed at home until death by a neuro-oncological home care palliative unit set up in our Institution in 2000. From October 2000 to December 2005, 324 patients affected by brain tumor and discharged from our Institution were enrolled in a comprehensive program of neuro-oncological home care supported by the Regional Health System. Out of 324 patients enrolled in the home care program, 260 patients died of which 169 (65%) were assisted at home until the end of life and have been included in this study. Clinical symptoms, palliative treatments and EoL treatment decisions were collected from home clinical records. Among the 169 patients assisted at home until death, the most frequent symptoms observed in the last four weeks of life were: epilepsy 30%, headache 36%, drowsiness 85%, dysphagia 85%, death rattle 12%, agitation and delirium 15%. Palliative management of brain tumor patients requires a multidisciplinary approach performed by a well trained neuro-oncology team. Development of home care models of assistance may represent an alternative to in-hospital care for the management of patients dying of brain tumor and may improve the quality of end-of-life care.
To elucidate the role of the prostaglandin synthase cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox-2) and the mechanisms of dopaminergic (DA) neurodegeneration, monkeys were injected subacutely or chronically (n = 5/group) with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. Chronically treated animals developed parkinsonian signs and were killed 6 months after the last treatment; tyrosine hydroxylase-expressing neurons decreased in all substantia nigra (SN) cell groups in both treatment groups. In untreated controls (n = 3), there was low Cox-2 expression in ventral SN DA neurons and high expression in ventral tegmental area neurons. In subacutely treated monkeys, Cox-2 expression increased in surviving DA cells, particularly in the ventrolateral SN. In chronically treated monkeys, enhanced Cox-2 expression appeared only in surviving ventral tegmental area and ventral SN neurons. Thus increased Cox-2 did not persist in other SN neurons after discontinuing 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,36-tetrahydropyridine. Some DA neurons in treated but not control monkeys expressed the active nuclear form of phospho-c-Jun, but not the active form of nuclear factor-kappaB. We conclude that Cox-2 expression does not confer vulnerability to neurodegeneration in DA neurons and that it is unlikely that a subacute insult to DA neurons can perpetuate degeneration through Cox-2 activation. Other mechanisms, probably through the Jun N-terminal kinase cascade, lead to DA cell death in this model.
Recordings of motor cortical activity typically show oscillations around 10 and 20 Hz; only those at 20 Hz are coherent with electromyograms (EMGs) of contralateral muscles. Experimental measurements of the phase difference between approximately 20-Hz oscillations in cortex and muscle are often difficult to reconcile with the known corticomuscular conduction delays. We investigated the generation of corticomuscular coherence further using a biophysically based computational model, which included a pool of motoneurons connected to motor units that generated EMGs. Delays estimated from the coherence phase-frequency relationship were sensitive to the width of the motor unit action potentials. In addition, the nonlinear properties of the motoneurons could produce complex, oscillatory phase-frequency relationships. This was due to the interaction of cortical inputs to the motoneuron pool with the intrinsic rhythmicity of the motoneurons; the response appeared more linear if the firing rate of motoneurons varied widely across the pool, such as during a strong contraction. The model was able to reproduce the smaller than expected delays between cortex and muscles seen in experiments. However, the model could not reproduce the constant phase over a frequency band sometimes seen in experiments, nor the lack of around 10-Hz coherence. Simple propagation of oscillations from cortex to muscle thus cannot completely explain the observed corticomuscular coherence.
Single-neuron firing is often analyzed relative to an external event, such as successful task performance or the delivery of a stimulus. The perievent time histogram (PETH) examines how, on average, neural firing modulates before and after the alignment event. However, the PETH contains no information about the single-trial reliability of the neural response, which is important from the perspective of a target neuron. In this study, we propose the concept of using the neural activity to predict the timing of the occurrence of an event, as opposed to using the event to predict the neural response. We first estimate the likelihood of an observed spike train, under the assumption that it was generated by an inhomogeneous gamma process with rate profile similar to the PETH shifted by a small time. This is used to generate a probability distribution of the event occurrence, using Bayes' rule. By an information theoretic approach, this method yields a single value (in bits) that quantifies the reduction in uncertainty regarding the time of an external event following observation of the spike train. We show that the approach is sensitive to the amplitude of a response, to the level of baseline firing, and to the consistency of a response between trials, all of which are factors that will influence a neuron's ability to code for the time of the event. The technique can provide a useful means not only of determining which of several behavioral events a cell encodes best, but also of permitting objective comparison of different cell populations.
The present study examined whether neurons in primary motor cortex (M1) exhibit similar responses to transient and continuous loads applied during posture. Rapid responses to whole-limb perturbations were examined by transiently applying (300 ms) flexor and extensor torques to the shoulder and/or elbow during postural maintenance. Over half of M1 neurons responded to these transient loads within 80 ms and many responded within 20-40 ms. These rapid responses exhibited a broad continuum of modulation patterns across load directions. At one extreme, neurons exhibited reciprocal increases and decreases in activity for opposing loads. At the other extreme, neurons (particularly those with onset times of 20-40 ms) displayed relatively uniform increases in activity for all loads. Activity of proximal arm muscles displayed a narrower distribution of modulation patterns characterized by broadly tuned excitation combined with little or no reciprocal inhibition. Both neurons and muscles showed a directional preference for whole-limb flexor and whole-limb extensor torques (flexor at one joint and extensor at the other). Most neurons with rapid responses also showed steady-state responses to continuous loads, although these responses generally displayed reciprocal increases and decreases in activity for opposing loads. Importantly, the preferred-torque directions were quantitatively similar across tasks. For example, a neuron with a maximal rapid response to a transient elbow flexor torque tended to exhibit a maximal steady-state response to a continuous elbow flexor torque. Activity of proximal arm muscles also showed this preservation of directional tuning. These results illustrate that M1 neurons respond rapidly to transient multijoint loads and their patterns of activity share some, but not all, features related to continuous multijoint loads applied during posture.
During free behaviors animals often experience lateral forces, such as collisions with obstacles or interactions with other animals. We studied postural reactions to lateral pulses of force (pushes) in the cat during standing and walking. During standing, a push applied to the hip region caused a lateral deviation of the caudal trunk, followed by a return to the initial position. The corrective hindlimb electromyographic (EMG) pattern included an initial wave of excitation in most extensors of the hindlimb contralateral to push and inhibition of those in the ipsilateral limb. In cats walking on a treadmill with only hindlimbs, application of force also caused lateral deviation of the caudal trunk, with subsequent return to the initial position. The type of corrective movement depended on the pulse timing relative to the step cycle. If the force was applied at the end of the stance phase of one of the limbs or during its swing phase, a lateral component appeared in the swing trajectory of this limb. The corrective step was directed either inward (when the corrective limb was ipsilateral to force application) or outward (when it was contralateral). The EMG pattern in the corrective limb was characterized by considerable modification of the hip abductor and adductor activity in the perturbed step. Thus the basic mechanisms for balance control in these two forms of behavior are different. They perform a redistribution of muscle activity between symmetrical limbs (in standing) and a reconfiguration of the base of support during a corrective lateral step (in walking).
The extant developmental literature investigating age-related differences in the execution of aiming movements has predominantly focused on visuomotor coordination, despite the fact that additional sensory modalities, such as audition and somatosensation, may contribute to motor planning, execution, and learning. The current study investigated the execution of aiming movements toward both visual and acoustic stimuli. In addition, we examined the interaction between visuomotor and auditory-motor coordination as 5- to 10-yr-old participants executed aiming movements to visual and acoustic stimuli before and after exposure to a visuomotor rotation. Children in all age groups demonstrated significant improvement in performance under the visuomotor perturbation, as indicated by decreased initial directional and root mean squared errors. Moreover, children in all age groups demonstrated significant visual aftereffects during the postexposure phase, suggesting a successful update of their spatial-to-motor transformations. Interestingly, these updated spatial-to-motor transformations also influenced auditory-motor performance, as indicated by distorted movement trajectories during the auditory postexposure phase. The distorted trajectories were present during auditory postexposure even though the auditory-motor relationship was not manipulated. Results suggest that by the age of 5 yr, children have developed a multisensory spatial-to-motor transformation for the execution of aiming movements toward both visual and acoustic targets.
The tottering mouse is an autosomal recessive disorder involving a missense mutation in the gene encoding P/Q-type voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. The tottering mouse has a characteristic phenotype consisting of transient attacks of dystonia triggered by stress, caffeine, or ethanol. The neural events underlying these episodes of dystonia are unknown. Flavoprotein autofluorescence optical imaging revealed transient, low-frequency oscillations in the cerebellar cortex of anesthetized and awake tottering mice but not in wild-type mice. Analysis of the frequencies, spatial extent, and power were used to characterize the oscillations. In anesthetized mice, the dominant frequencies of the oscillations are between 0.039 and 0.078 Hz. The spontaneous oscillations in the tottering mouse organize into high power domains that propagate to neighboring cerebellar cortical regions. In the tottering mouse, the spontaneous firing of 83% (73/88) of cerebellar cortical neurons exhibit oscillations at the same low frequencies. The oscillations are reduced by removing extracellular Ca2+ and blocking L-type Ca2+ channels. The oscillations are likely generated intrinsically in the cerebellar cortex because they are not affected by blocking AMPA receptors or by electrical stimulation of the parallel fiber-Purkinje cell circuit. Furthermore, local application of an L-type Ca2+ agonist in the tottering mouse generates oscillations with similar properties. The beam-like response evoked by parallel fiber stimulation is reduced in the tottering mouse. In the awake tottering mouse, transcranial flavoprotein imaging revealed low-frequency oscillations that are accentuated during caffeine-induced attacks of dystonia. During dystonia, oscillations are also present in the face and hindlimb electromyographic (EMG) activity that become significantly coherent with the oscillations in the cerebellar cortex. These low-frequency oscillations and associated cerebellar cortical dysfunction demonstrate a novel abnormality in the tottering mouse. These oscillations are hypothesized to be involved in the episodic movement disorder in this mouse model of episodic ataxia type 2.
We show that fast bimanual coordinative feedback responses can be reversed with changes in task goals. Participants moved a flexible virtual object across a finish line with an upward movement of both hands. In one condition, the middle of the object had to be aligned with a spatial goal at the end of the movement. In the second condition, the object had to be kept at a specific length. During the movement, a velocity-dependent force field was applied randomly to one of the hands to the left or to the right. Depending on the task condition, the unperturbed hand showed fast feedback corrections, either in or against the direction of the force field on the other hand. In the object-length condition we found evidence for a mixture of task goals: early in the movement the correction of the unperturbed hand was aimed at stabilizing object length; later in the movement, the correction reversed direction to reach a symmetric body posture in the end of the movement. The observed differences in feedback responses between task conditions also influenced the covariance structure of unperturbed movements and the adaptation when a specific force field was applied repeatedly to one of the hands. The results are congruent with the notion that coordination is established flexibly through a representation of the task-relevant controlled variables, rather than through a direct interaction between motor commands.
Previous work has indicated that BDNF increases the differentiation of basal forebrain (BF) oligodendrocytes (OLGs) in culture through the mediation of trkB and the MAPK pathway (Du et al. [ 2006a, b] Mol. Cell. Neurosci. 31:366-375; J. Neurosci. Res. 84:1692-1702). In the present work, effects of BDNF on BF OLG progenitor cells (OPCs) were examined. BDNF increased DNA synthesis of OPCs, as assessed by thymidine and bromodeoxyuridine incorporation. Effects of BDNF on DNA synthesis were mediated through the trkB receptor and not the p75 receptor, as shown by inhibitors that block neurotrophin binding to the receptors and by the phosphorylation of trkB. TrkB can activate the mitogen- activated protein kinase (MAPK), phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3-K), and phospholipase C-gamma (PLC-gamma) pathways. BDNF elicited the phosphorylation of MAPK and Akt, a kinase downstream of PI3K, but not PLC-gamma in OPCs. Through the use of specific inhibitors to the MAPK and PI3-K pathways, it was found that the MAPK pathway was responsible for the effect of BDNF on DNA synthesis. These data indicate that BDNF affects OPC proliferation and development through the mediation of trkB and the MAPK pathway.
In Oriental medicine, roots of Polygala tenuifolia Willdenow have been known to be an important herb that exhibits sedative effects in insomnia, palpitation with anxiety, restlessness, and disorientation in humans. We previously reported that BT-11, extracted from those roots, improved scopolamine-induced amnesia in rats and inhibited acetylcholinesterase activities in vitro. Therefore, we proposed that BT-11 could remedy stress-induced memory deficits in rats. In this study, the stress-induced memory impairments in rats were significantly reversed almost to the control level by BT-11 treatment. To seek an active component of BT-11 that plays an important role in antipsychotic effects, we compared BT-11 with 3,4,5-trimethoxycinnamic acid (TMCA), which is a constituent of those root extracts. However, the effects of TMCA were less or were not consistent with those of BT-11 in some of tests. In particular, BT-11 reversed the stress-induced reduction of glucose utilization by [(18)fluorodeoxyglucose]FDG-PET and the levels of neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) in rat brains to the control levels, whereas TMCA did not. Therefore, BT-11 improved stress-induced memory impairments through increment of glucose utilization and total NCAM levels in rat brains. In conclusion, BT-11 may be strongly effective against stress-induced amnesia in rats, through the combined effects of TMCA and other active components of BT-11.
Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a recently discovered tissue globin with a high affinity for oxygen that is widely and specifically expressed in neurons of vertebrate central and peripheral nervous systems. Our laboratory and others have shown Ngb overexpression can protect neurons against hypoxic/ischemic insults, but the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. In this study, we examined the effects of Ngb overexpression on mitochondrial function, oxidative stress, and neurotoxicity in primary cortical neurons following hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R). Ngb-overexpressing transgenic neurons (Ngb-Tg) were significantly protected against H/R-induced cell death. Rates of decline in ATP levels, MTT reduction, and mitochondrial membrane potential were significantly ameliorated in Ngb-Tg neurons. Furthermore, Ngb overexpression reduced superoxide anion generation after H/R, whereas glutathione levels were significantly improved compared with WT controls. Taken together, these data suggest that Ngb is neuroprotective against hypoxia, in part by improving mitochondria function and decreasing oxidative stress.
In cultured hippocampal neurons and in adult brain, the splicing regulatory protein Sam68 is partially relocated to the somatodendritic domain and associates with dendritic polysomes. Transfer to the dendrites is activity-dependent. We have investigated the repertoire of neuronal mRNAs to which Sam68 binds in vivo. By using coimmunoprecipitation and microarray screening techniques, Sam68 was found to associate with a number of plasticity-related mRNA species, including Eef1a1, an activity-responsive mRNA coding for translation elongation factor eEF1A. In cortical neuronal cultures, translation of the Eef1a1 mRNA was strongly induced by neuronal depolarisation and correlated with enhanced association of Sam68 with polysomal mRNAs. The possible function of Sam68 in Eef1a1 mRNA utilization was studied by expressing a dominant-negative, cytoplasmic Sam68 mutant (GFP-Sam68DeltaC) in cultured hippocampal neurons. The level of eEF1A was lower in neurons expressing GFP-Sam68DeltaC than in control neurons, supporting the proposal that endogenous Sam68 may contribute to the translational efficiency of the Eef1a1 mRNA. These findings are discussed in the light of the complex, potentially crucial regulation of eEF1A biosynthesis during long-term synaptic change.
We have previously reported that polyinosinic-polycytidylic acids [poly(I:C)], a synthetic toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) agonist, induce Schwann cell activation, which exerts neurotoxic effects on sensory neurons. In this study, we investigated the effects of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), a neuropeptide implicated in nerve regeneration, on TLR3-induced Schwann cell activation. VIP receptors VPAC1 and VPAC2 were constitutively expressed in rat Schwann cells. VIP pretreatment inhibited TLR3-induced inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) gene expression and NO production in Schwann cells. Studies on the intracellular signal transduction pathways indicate that the VIP effect is mediated by protein kinase A activation. VIP also inhibited the poly(I:C)-induced p38 activation that is responsible for the iNOS gene expression in Schwann cells. Finally, VIP inhibited dorsal rooyt ganglion neuronal cell death caused by NO produced in activated Schwann cells. Taken together, our data suggest that VIP exerts a neuroprotective effect by inhibiting neurotoxic Schwann cell activation.
The main aims of anesthesia for pituitary surgery include maintenance of hemodynamic stability, provision of conditions that facilitate surgical exposure, and a smooth emergence to facilitate a prompt neurologic assessment. The primary aim of our study was to compare the effects of 3 anesthetic regimens on hemodynamics and recovery characteristics of the patients. Ninety patients undergoing transsphenoidal surgery were enrolled in the study. Standard anesthesia technique was followed for induction. Patients were randomly divided to receive propofol, isoflurane, or sevoflurane for maintenance of anesthesia. The bispectral index target range during maintenance was 40 to 60. The hemodynamic variables (heart rate and mean arterial pressure) and bispectral index were noted during the various stages of the surgery. The time to emergence and extubation was noted. We evaluated cognitive function at 5 and 10 minutes posttracheal extubation. The 3 study groups were comparable with respect to age, sex, weight, and duration of surgery. We observed an increase in heart rate and blood pressure during intubation, nasal packing, and insertion of self-retaining nasal speculum. After tracheal intubation, the rise in blood pressure was more in sevoflurane group than propofol. During emergence, hypertensive response was seen in all patients. Emergence and extubation times were significantly shorter with propofol and sevoflurane. Patients who received propofol had better cognition scores. Aldrete scores were better with propofol and sevoflurane than isoflurane. The pressor response after intubation and emergence hypertension was significantly less with propofol. Better recovery profile was seen in sevoflurane and propofol groups and a better cognition in patients receiving propofol. Propofol plus nitrous oxide anesthesia could be the technique of choice in patients undergoing transnasal transsphenoidal pituitary surgery.

The GTP-binding protein RhoA regulates microfilament dynamics in many cell types and mediates the inhibition of axonal regeneration by myelin and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans. Unlike most other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, ibuprofen suppresses basal RhoA activity (Zhou et al., 2003). A recent report suggested that ibuprofen promotes corticospinal axon regeneration after spinal cord injury (Fu et al., 2007). Here, we confirm that ibuprofen reduces ligand-induced Rho signaling and myelin-induced inhibition of neurite outgrowth in vitro. Following 4 weeks of subcutaneous administration of ibuprofen, beginning 3 days after spinal cord contusion, animals recovered walking function to a greater degree, with twice as many rats achieving a hind limb weight-bearing status. We examined the relative role of tissue sparing, axonal sprouting, and axonal regeneration in the action of ibuprofen. Histologically, ibuprofen-treated animals display an increase in spared tissue without an alteration in astrocytic or microglial reaction. Ibuprofen increases axonal sprouting from serotonergic raphespinal axons, and from rostral corticospinal fibers in the injured spinal cord, but does not permit caudal corticospinal regeneration after spinal contusion. Treatment of mice with complete spinal cord transection demonstrates long-distance raphespinal axon regeneration in the presence of ibuprofen. Thus, administration of ibuprofen improves the recovery of rats from a clinically relevant spinal cord trauma by protecting tissue, stimulating axonal sprouting, and allowing a minor degree of raphespinal regeneration.
Glycine-proline-glutamate (GPE) is an N-terminal tripeptide endogenously cleaved from insulin-like growth factor-1 in the brain and is neuroprotective against hypoxic-ischemic brain injury and neurodegeneration. NNZ-2566 is an analog of GPE designed to have improved bioavailability. In this study, we tested NNZ-2566 in a rat model of penetrating ballistic-type brain injury (PBBI) and assessed its effects on injury-induced histopathology, behavioral deficits, and molecular and cellular events associated with inflammation and apoptosis. In the initial dose-response experiments, NNZ-2566 (0.01-3 mg/kg/h x 12 h intravenous infusion) was given at 30 min post-injury and the therapeutic time window was established by delaying treatments 2-4 h post-injury, but with the addition of a 10- or 30-mg/kg bolus dose. All animals survived 72 h. Neuroprotection was evaluated by balance beam testing and histopathology. The effects of NNZ-2566 on injury-induced changes in Bax and Bcl-2 proteins, activated microgliosis, neutrophil infiltration, and astrocyte reactivity were also examined. Behavioral results demonstrated that NNZ-2566 dose-dependently reduced foot faults by 19-66% after acute treatments, and 35-55% after delayed treatments. Although gross lesion volume was not affected, NNZ-2566 treatment significantly attenuated neutrophil infiltration and reduced the number of activated microglial cells in the peri-lesion regions of the PBBI. PBBI induced a significant upregulation in Bax expression (36%) and a concomitant downregulation in Bcl-2 expression (33%), both of which were significantly reversed by NNZ-2566. Collectively, these results demonstrated that NNZ-2566 treatment promoted functional recovery following PBBI, an effect related to the modulation of injury-induced neural inflammatory and apoptotic mechanisms.
We have previously shown that a single dose of COG1410, a small molecule ApoE-mimetic peptide derived from the apolipoprotein E (ApoE) receptor binding region, improves sensorimotor and motor outcome following cortical contusion injury (CCI). The present study evaluated a regimen of COG1410 following frontal CCI in order to examine its preclinical efficacy on cognitive recovery. Animals were prepared with a bilateral CCI of the frontal cortex. A regimen of COG1410 (0.8mg/kg intravenously [IV]) was administered twice, at 30min and again at 24h post-CCI. Starting on day 11, the animals were tested for their acquisition of a reference memory task in the Morris water maze (MWM), followed by a working memory task in the MWM on day 15. Following CCI, the animals were also tested on the bilateral tactile adhesive removal test to measure sensorimotor dysfunction. On all of the behavioral tests the COG1410 group was no different from the uninjured sham group. Administration of the regimen of COG1410 significantly improved recovery on the reference and working memory tests, as well as on the sensorimotor test. Lesion analysis revealed that COG1410 significantly reduced the size of the injury cavity. Administration of COG1410 also reduced the number of degenerating neurons, as measured by Fluoro-Jade C staining, in the frontal cortex at 48h post-CCI. These results suggest that a regimen of COG1410 appeared to block the development of significant behavioral deficits and reduced tissue loss. These combined findings suggest that COG1410 appears to have strong preclinical efficacy when administered following traumatic brain injury (TBI).
The signature for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) neurovirulence remains a subject of intense debate. Macrophage viral tropism is one prerequisite but others, including virus-induced alterations in innate and adaptive immunity, remain under investigation. HIV-1-infected mononuclear phagocytes (MPs; perivascular macrophages and microglia) secrete toxins that affect neurons. The authors hypothesize that neurovirulent HIV-1 variants affect the MP proteome by inducing a signature of neurotoxic proteins and thus affect cognitive function. To test this hypothesis, HIV-1 isolates obtained from peripheral blood of women with normal cognition (NC) were compared to isolates obtained from women with cognitive impairment (CI) and to the laboratory adapted SF162, a spinal fluid R5 isolate from a patient with HIV-1-associated dementia. HIV-1 isolates were used to infect monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs) and infection monitored by secreted HIV-1 p24 by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Cell lysates of uninfected and HIV-1-infected MDMs at 14 days post infection were fractionated by cationic exchange chromatography and analyzed by surface enhanced laser desorption ionization time of flight (SELDI-TOF) using generalized estimating equations statistics. Proteins were separated by one-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (1D SDS-PAGE) and identified by tandem mass spectrometry. Levels of viral replication were similar amongst the HIV-1 isolates, although higher levels were obtained from one viral strain obtained from a patient with CI. Significant differences were found in protein profiles between virus-infected MDMs with NC, CI, and SF162 isolates (adjusted P value after multiple testing corrections, or q value &lt;.10). The authors identified 6 unique proteins in NC, 7 in SF162, and 20 in CI. Three proteins were common to SF162 and CI strains. The MDM proteins linked to infection with CI strains were related to apoptosis, chemotaxis, inflammation, and redox metabolism. These findings support the hypothesis that the macrophage proteome differ when infected with viral isolates of women with and without CI.
Bio-cultural adaptations to new foods played a key role in human evolution. The fossil record and sequence differences between human and chimpanzee genes point to a major dietary shift at the stem of human evolution. The earliest representatives of the human lineage diverged from the ancestors of chimpanzees because of their better adaptation to hard and abrasive foods. Bipedalism and modifications of the hand, which allowed tool manufacture and use, impacted on dietary flexibility, facilitating access to foods of animal origin. This promoted major anatomic, physiologic and metabolic adaptations. Encephalization, which requires high-quality diet, characterizes the evolutionary sequence that, through the Homo ergaster/erectus stages, led to our species, Homo sapiens, which originated in Africa about 200,000 years ago. At the end of the Ice Age, climatic changes and human impact determined a major food crisis, which triggered the agricultural revolution. This affected nutrition and health, with rapid evolutionary adaptations through the selection of genetic variants that allowed better utilization of new foods, different in relation to geography and culture. Today population growth, globalization and economic pressure powerfully affect diets worldwide. We must take into account our evolutionary past to meet the present nutritional challenges.

Holoprosencephaly is usually associated with microcephaly, although macrocephaly is not uncommonly seen. However, the cause of hydrocephalus in holoprosencephaly remains ill-defined. Here, the authors report a case of CSF ascites following ventriculoperitoneal shunt placement in a five month-old child with alobar holoprosencephaly, and hypothesize that the excessive CSF production which occurs in this condition may be responsible for the formation of CSF ascites. Further research is required to assess whether the gene responsible for holoprosencephaly is also responsible for upregulating CSF production in patients with concomitant hydrocephalus.
Cerebral larva migrans (CLM) is an uncommon and rarely diagnosed entity. We report here a histopathologically proven case of CLM in a 13 year-old girl, who presented with bilateral focal seizures, right hemiparesis, and lapsed into altered sensorium prior to admission. Her CT scan was suggestive of a granulomatous lesion which eventually turned out to be CLM (toxocariasis). Interestingly, the lesion recurred after excision, with a confusing clinical picture. Following the second surgery, the pathology was reconfirmed and cure was provided for the disease. There has been no further intracranial recurrence during the past ten years although she developed cutaneous lesions.


The endocannabinoid system plays an important role in the modulation of affect, motivation, and emotion. Social play behavior is a natural reinforcer in adolescent rats, and we have recently shown that interacting endocannabinoid, opioid, and dopamine systems modulate social play. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that, in contrast to administration of exogenous cannabinoid agonists, increasing local endocannabinoid signaling through anandamide transporter inhibition enhances social play. To this aim, we tested the effects of two anandamide transporter inhibitors with different target selectivity on social play behavior in adolescent rats. Interestingly, we found that the prototypical anandamide transporter inhibitor N-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-arachidonamide (AM404) reduced social play, whereas its more selective analog N-arachidonoyl-(2-methyl-4-hydroxyphenyl)amine (VDM11) enhanced it. The effects of AM404 were not mediated through its known pharmacological targets, since they were not blocked by the CB(1) cannabinoid receptor antagonist N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide hydrochloride (SR141716A), the CB(2) cannabinoid receptor antagonist N-(1,3,3-trimethylbicyclo(2.2.1)heptan-2-yl)-5-(4-chloro-3-methylphenyl)-1-(4-methylbenzyl)pyrazole-3-carboxamide (SR144528), or by the transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 receptor antagonist capsazepine. In contrast, the increase in social play induced by VDM11 was dependent on cannabinoid, opioid, and dopaminergic neurotransmission, since it was blocked by the CB(1) cannabinoid receptor antagonist SR141716A, the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone, and the dopamine receptor antagonist alpha-flupenthixol. These findings support the notion that anandamide plays an important role in the modulation of social interaction in adolescent rats, and they suggest that selective anandamide transporter inhibitors might be useful for the treatment of social dysfunctions. Furthermore, these results suggest that off-target effects may be responsible for some of the conflicting effects of anandamide transporter inhibitors on behavior.
Neuronal pentraxins (NPs) function in the extracellular matrix to bind alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors. Three NPs have been described, neuronal activity-regulated pentraxin (Narp), which is regulated as an immediate early gene, NP1, and neuronal pentraxin receptor (NPR). Narp and NP1 enhance synaptogenesis and glutamate signaling by clustering AMPA receptors, whereas NPR contributes to removing AMPA receptors during group I metabotropic glutamate receptor-dependent long-term depression. Here, we examine mice with genetic deletions [knockout (KO)] of each NP to assess their contributions to cocaine-induced neuroplasticity. Consistent with a shared AMPA receptor clustering function for Narp and NP1, deletion of either NP caused similar behavioral alterations. Thus, although both Narp and NP1 deletion promoted cocaine-induced place preference, NPR deletion was without effect. In addition, although Narp and NP1 KO showed reduced time in the center of a novel environment, NPR KO mice spent more time in the center. Finally, although Narp and NP1 KO mice showed blunted locomotion after AMPA microinjection into the accumbens 3 weeks after discontinuing repeated cocaine injections, the AMPA response was augmented in NPR KO. Likewise, endogenous glutamate release elicited less motor activity in Narp KO mice. Consistent with reduced AMPA responsiveness after chronic cocaine in Narp KO mice, glutamate receptor 1 was reduced in the PSD fraction of Narp KO mice withdrawn from cocaine. These data indicate that NPs differentially contribute to cocaine-induced plasticity in a manner that parallels their actions in synaptic plasticity.

Individuals vary their speaking rate, and listeners use the speaking rate of precursor sentences to adjust for these changes (Kidd, 1989). Most of the research on this adjustment process has focused on situations in which there was only a single stream of speech over which such perceptual adjustment could occur. Yet listeners are often faced with environments in which multiple people are speaking simultaneously. Each of these voices provides speaking rate information. The challenge for the listener is to determine which sources of information should apply in a speech perception situation. Three studies examined when listeners would use rate information from one voice to adjust their perception of another voice. Results suggested that if only one source of duration information was available, listeners used that information, regardless of the speaker or the speaker's spatial location. When multiple sources were available, listeners primarily used information from the same source as the target item. However, even information from a source that differed in both location and talker still influenced perception to a slight degree.
Cortical neurons behave similarly to stochastic processes, as a consequence of their irregularity and dense connectivity. Their firing pattern is close to a Poisson process, and their membrane potential (V(m)) is analogous to colored noise. One way to characterize this activity is to identify V(m) to a multidimensional stochastic process. We review here this approach and how it can be used to extract important statistical signatures of neuronal activity. The &quot;VmD method&quot; consists of fitting the V(m) distribution obtained intracellularly to analytic expressions derived from stochastic processes, and thereby deduce synaptic conductance parameters. However, this method requires at least two levels of V(m), which prevents applications to single-trial measurements. We also discuss methods that can be applied to single V(m) traces, such as power spectral analysis and the &quot;STA method&quot; to calculate spike-triggered average conductances based on a maximum likelihood procedure. A recently proposed method, the &quot;VmT method&quot;, is based on the fusion of these two concepts. This method is analogous to the VmD method and estimates the mean excitatory and inhibitory conductances and their variances. However, it does so by using a maximum-likelihood estimation, and can thus be applied to single V(m) traces. All methods were tested using controlled conductance injection in dynamic-clamp experiments.
The suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) distribute the circadian neural message to the pineal gland which transforms it into a humoral circadian message, the nocturnal melatonin synthesis, which in turn modulates tissues expressing melatonin receptors such as the SCN or the pars tuberalis (PT). Nuclear orphan receptors (NOR), including rorbeta and rev-erbalpha, have been presented as functional links between the positive and negative loops of the molecular clock. Recent findings suggest that these NOR could be the initial targets of melatonin's chronobiotic message within the SCN. We investigated the role of these NOR in the physiological effect of endogenous melatonin on these tissues. We monitored rorbeta and rev-erbalpha mRNA expression levels by quantitative in situ hybridization after pinealectomy. Pinealectomy had no effect on NOR circadian expression rhythms in the SCN in 8-day pinealectomized (PX) animals. However in animals PX for 3 months, significant desynchronization between per1 and per2 transcription patterns appeared. These results suggest that endogenous melatonin could sustain the circadian rhythmicity and the phase relationship between the molecular partners of the SCN circadian system on a long-term basis. On the other hand, pinealectomy decreased the level and abolished the rhythmicity of NOR mRNA expression in the PT. These effects were partially prevented by daily melatonin administration in the drinking water. These results show that NOR can be regulated by the melatonin circadian rhythm in the PT and could be the link between the physiological action of melatonin and the core of the molecular circadian clock in this tissue.
Mania has been frequently associated with impaired inhibitory control. The present study aimed to identify brain functional abnormalities specifically related to motor response inhibition in mania by using event-related fMRI in combination with a Go/NoGo task designed to control for extraneous cognitive processes involved in task performance. Sixteen manic patients and 16 healthy subjects, group-matched for age and sex, were imaged while performing a warned equiprobable Go/NoGo task during event-related fMRI. Between-group differences in brain activation associated with motor response inhibition were assessed using analyses of covariance. Although no significant between-group differences in task performance accuracy were observed, patients showed significantly longer response times on Go trials. After controlling for covariates, the only brain region that differentiated the two groups during motor response inhibition was the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC), where activation was significantly decreased in both the right and left hemispheres in manic patients. Our data suggest that response inhibition in mania is associated with a lack of engagement of the bilateral VLPFC, which is known to play a primary role in the suppression of irrelevant responses. This result might give clues to understanding the pathophysiology of disinhibition and impulsivity that characterize mania.
The objective was to examine whether cerebral volumes are reduced, and in what regions, in adolescents with anorexia nervosa and to study changes after nutritional recovery. Twelve anorexia nervosa (DSM-IV) patients aged 11-17 consecutively admitted to an Eating Disorders Unit were assessed by means of psychopathological scales, neuropsychological battery and voxel-based morphometric (VBM) magnetic resonance imaging at admission and after 7 months' follow-up. Nine control subjects of similar age, gender and estimated intelligence level were also studied. The two groups showed differences in gray matter (F=22.2; p&lt;0.001) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) (F=21.2; p&lt;0.001) but not in white matter volumes. In anorexic patients, gray matter volume correlated negatively with the copy time from the Rey Complex Figure Test. In the regional VBM study several temporal and parietal gray matter regions were reduced. During follow-up there was a greater global increase in gray matter (F=10.7; p=0.004) and decrease in CSF (F=22.1; p=0.001) in anorexic patients. The increase in gray matter correlated with a decrease in cortisol (Spearman correlation=-0.73; p=0.017). At follow-up there were no differences in global gray matter (F=2.1; p=0.165), white matter (F=0.02, p=0.965) or CSF (F=1.8; p=0.113) volumes between both groups. There were still some smaller areas, in the right temporal and both supplementary motor area, showing differences between them in the regional VBM study. In conclusion, in adolescent anorexic patients gray matter is more affected than white matter and mainly involves the posterior regions of the brain. Overall gray matter alterations are reversible after nutritional recovery.


Activation of the inflammatory immune system provokes numerous neuroendocrine and neurotransmitter changes, many of which are similar to those provoked by physical or psychological stressors. These findings, among others, have led to the suggestion that the brain translates immune activation much as if it were a stressor. In this review, I provide synopses of the effects of traditional stressors on the release of corticotropin-releasing hormones at hypothalamic and extrahypothalamic sites, variations of serotonin and its receptors and changes of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). These effects are similar to those elicited by activation of the inflammatory immune system, particularly the impact of the immune-signalling molecules interleukin-1 beta, interleukin-6, tumour necrosis factor-alpha and interferon-alpha on neuroendocrine, neurotransmitter and BDNF function. In addition, it is reported that stressors and cytokines may synergistically influence biological and behavioural processes and that these treatments may have long-term ramifications through the sensitization of processes associated with stress responses. Finally, I present an overview of the depressogenic actions of these cytokines in rodent models and in humans, and I provide provisional suggestions (and caveats) about the mechanisms by which cytokines and stressors might culminate in major depressive disorder.
In human subjects, the acute tryptophan (TRP) depletion (ATD) paradigm has been shown to have effects on mood and cognition. It is assumed that these effects are mediated through the serotonin system. In this study, we have examined the effects of ATD on the central concentrations of the monoamine transmitters, noradrenaline (NA) and dopamine (DA) as well as on serotonin (5-HT). Effects on NA and DA could also affect mood and cognition. Following oral administration of TRP-containing (TRP+) and TRP-free (TRP-) amino acid mixtures, neurotransmitter concentrations and free plasma TRP concentrations were determined by High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) with electrochemical detection. Free plasma TRP was significantly and substantially reduced (79%) in rats given a TRP- amino acid mixture when compared with those given a TRP+ mixture. ATD also significantly decreased 5-HT and 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid in the frontal cortex, remaining cortex and hippocampus, but did not significantly reduce these in the striatum. Furthermore, ATD did not significantly alter the concentration of NA and DA in any brain region examined. This study demonstrates that the administration of a TRP- amino acid mixture in rats can reduce free plasma TRP to levels comparable to those reported in human studies. These results indicate that behavioural and cognitive changes produced by ATD in preclinical or clinical studies are likely to be due to specific effects on the serotonergic system.
Evidence for serotonin involvement in impulsivity has generated interest in the measurement of impulsivity in regular ecstasy users, who are thought to display serotonergic dysfunction. However, current findings are inconsistent. Here, we used a recently developed Information Sampling Test to measure 'reflection' impulsivity in 46 current ecstasy users, 14 subjects who used ecstasy in the past, 15 current cannabis users and 19 drug-nave controls. Despite elevated scores on the Impulsivity subscale of the Eysenck Impulsiveness-Venturesomeness-Empathy questionnaire, the current and previous ecstasy users did not differ significantly from the drug-naive controls on the Information Sampling Test. In contrast, the cannabis users sampled significantly less information on the task, and tolerated a lower level of certainty in their decision-making, in comparison to the drug-naive controls. The effect in cannabis users extends our earlier observations in amphetamine- and opiate-dependent individuals (Clark, et al., 2006, Biological Psychiatry 60: 515-522), and suggests that reduced reflection may be a common cognitive style across regular users of a variety of substances. However, the lack of effects in the two ecstasy groups suggests that the relationship between serotonin function, ecstasy use and impulsivity is more complex.
Acute tryptophan depletion (ATD) can be used to decrease serotonin levels in the brain. Traditionally, ATD has been established by administering amino acid (AA) mixtures and studies using this method showed that serotonin is involved in learning and memory processes. This study used a recently developed gelatin-based protein drink to examine whether it 1) is superior to the traditional AA method in controlling the tryptophan levels in the placebo condition, 2) impairs long-term memory and 3) differentially affects episodic and spatial memory. Sixteen healthy subjects participated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Memory was assessed using a visual verbal learning test and an object relocation task (spatial memory). Tryptophan ratio significantly decreased after ATD and did not significantly increase in the placebo condition. Delayed recall in the verbal learning test and delayed relocation of objects to positions in the spatial task were impaired after ATD. Spatial short-term memory, however, improved. The current results indicate that the tryptophan levels were essentially neutral in the placebo condition compared with those in the traditional AA mixture. Our study provides further evidence that impairment in long-term episodic and elementary spatial memory after ATD is related to lowered tryptophan levels in plasma.
Rg1, as a ginsenoside extracted from Panax ginseng, could ameliorate spatial learning impairment. Previous studies have demonstrated that Rg1 might be a useful agent for the prevention and treatment of the adverse effects of morphine. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of Rg1 on learning impairment by chronic morphine administration and the mechanism responsible for this effect. Male rats were subcutaneously injected with morphine (10 mg/kg) twice a day at 12 hour intervals for 10 days, and Rg1 (30 mg/kg) was intraperitoneally injected 2 hours after the second injection of morphine once a day for 10 days. Spatial learning capacity was assessed in the Morris water maze. The results showed that rats treated with Morphine/Rg1 decreased escape latency and increased the time spent in platform quadrant and entering frequency. By implantation of electrodes and electrophysiological recording in vivo, the results showed that Rg1 restored the long-term potentiation (LTP) impaired by morphine in both freely moving and anaesthetised rats. The electrophysiological recording in vitro showed that Rg1 restored the LTP in slices from the rats treated with morphine, but not changed LTP in the slices from normal saline- or morphine/Rg1-treated rats; this restoration could be inhibited by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK801. We conclude that Rg1 may significantly improve the spatial learning capacity impaired by chonic morphine administration and restore the morphine-inhibited LTP. This effect is NMDA receptor dependent.
The article aims to understand the coping strategies of postsurgery head and neck cancer patients in Mumbai, India. A descriptive research design with a sample of 80 patients suffering from head and neck cancer was selected to analyze their coping strategies in relation to sociodemographic profile and illness characteristics. The findings of the study highlighted that the spiritual methods of coping (such as prayer and meditation, adopting a positive attitude) were the most frequently used mainstream coping strategy, apart from other traditional methods (such as taking medications, indulging in exercise and activities to divert one's attention, etc.) of coping. The findings of the study help to broaden the understanding of various psychosocial aspects faced by the patient in India and provide progressive recommendations to improve the quality of life of the patient suffering from cancer.
7TM receptors are easily fused to proteins such as G proteins and arrestin but because of the fact that their terminals are found on each side of the membrane they cannot be joined directly in covalent dimers. Here, we use an artificial connector comprising a transmembrane helix composed of Leu-Ala repeats flanked by flexible spacers and positively charged residues to ensure correct inside-out orientation plus an extracellular HA-tag to construct covalently coupled dimers of 7TM receptors. Such 15 TM concatameric homo- and heterodimers of the beta(2)-adrenergic and the NK(1) receptors, which normally do not dimerize with each other, were expressed surprisingly well at the cell surface, where they bound ligands and activated signal transduction in a manner rather similar to the corresponding wild-type receptors. The concatameric heterodimers internalized upon stimulation with agonists for either of the protomers, which was not observed upon simple coexpression of the two receptors. It is concluded that covalently joined 7TM receptor dimers with surprisingly normal receptor properties can be constructed with use of an artificial transmembrane connector, which perhaps can be used to fuse other membrane proteins.
The Epic system, a high-throughput label-free optical biosensor system, is applied for the biochemical interrogation of phosphor-specific interactions of the 14-3-3 protein and its substrates. It has shown the capability not only for high-throughput characterization of binding rank and affinity but also for the exploration of potential interacting kinases for the substrates. A perspective of biochemical applications for diagnostics and biomarker discovery, as well as cell-based applications for endogenous receptors and viral infection characterization, are also provided.
Blasts are responsible for about two-thirds of the combat injuries in Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom, which include at least 1,200 traumatic brain injuries. Blasts inflict damage to the brain directly and by causing injuries to other organs, resulting in air emboli, hypoxia, and shock. Direct injuries to the brain result from rapid shifts in air pressure (primary blast injury), from impacts with munitions fragments and other objects propelled by the explosion (secondary blast injury), and from collisions with objects and rapid acceleration of individuals propelled by the explosion (tertiary blast injury). Tertiary injury can occur from a building or other structure collapsing and from an individual being thrown by the blast wind. The pathological consequences of secondary and tertiary blast injuries are very likely to be similar to those of other types of mechanical trauma seen in civilian life. The damage attributable to the specific effects of a blast, however, has received little study, although it has been assumed to include the focal and diffuse lesions characteristic of closed head injuries. Available clinical studies of blast injuries show focal damage similar to that found in other types of closed head injuries but have not determined whether diffuse axonal injury also occurs. In this article, we will try to reach a better understanding of the specific pathology of blast-related brain injury by reviewing the available experimental studies and the autopsy reports of victims of terrorist attacks and military casualties dating back to World War I.

Avulsion or fracture of posterior ring apophysis of lumbar vertebra is an uncommon cause of radicular low back pain in pediatric age group, adolescents and athletes. This lesion is one of differential diagnosis of disc herniation. We reported two teenage boys with sever low back pain and sciatica during soccer play that ultimately treated with diagnosis of slipped vertebral apophysis.


Claude Bernard was one of the founder of the Socit de Biologie created in 1849. He actively took part to it from its very beginning by presenting various communications and several important memoirs. Epistemological thoughts found in these memoirs lead to the methodological chapters introducing the volumes of his edited lessons given at the Collge de France. In 1865, these texts formed the basis to his Introduction  l'tude de la Mdecine exprimentale, in which Bernard claims the experimental method should rely on the principle of determinism of the phenomena of Life. He was a dutiful President of the Socit from 1867 until his death. He nevertheless was not often involved in debates, but agreed on the defense of the scientific principles he had claimed. He remained influential until his death, as noted in 1899 by the report Engne Gley wrote on the Socit de Biologie during its fifty first years. Gley points regularly to Bernard's axioms which remained the true scientific credo of French biologists.
Long lasting polemics about the mechanisms of the action of curare took place at the Socit de Biologie over thirty years. After a period during which poisoning protocols were developed on various animal species, where Claude Bernard, Vulpian and their colleagues were involved, German electrophysiology combined its results with new histological data about motor end-plates, elaborating a theory in which young physiologists fought against Claude Bernard's views and finally managed to convince him. According to the new theory proposed by Vulpian, curare blocked transmission between end-plate and muscle. This first draft of the neurotransmission theory helps us to understand the rise of a novel physiology in the context of the school of Claude Bernard with a better integration of disciplines and a more prominent faith in reductionism and materialism.
Closing this symposium, Andr Calas remembers his teachers, his past and present collaborators, his students, his teaching and research itineraries and enlarges on the problems of public policy concerning these areas in France.
There is considerable evidence that the human brain maintains the ability to reorganize itself throughout life, an ability known as neuroplasticity. Initially demonstrated in physiological situations, neuroplasticity includes, and relies on, a number of adaptive mechanisms that include not only phenotypic modifications of neurons or synaptic reorganisation but also major modifications of brain circuitry after insults. Recently, the presence of neurogenic zones in the adult brain has unveiled a new aspect of brain plasticity that, together with emerging stem cell therapy, opens the possibility to take advantage of these natural reminders of the developmental period to repair lesioned tissues, a concept known as &quot;therapeutic plasticity&quot;.
This talk, given as an introduction to a symposium organised to honor Andr Calas, calls forth his personality, recalls the major events in his career and summarizes the evolution of his research.



Endothelin (ET) family comprises three isoforms, ET-1, ET-2 and ET-3 that bind to two receptors ET-A and ET-B. Upon hESC differentiation, ET-1 and ET-B are respectively up- and down-regulated, suggesting a potential role of ETs in hESC biology. Here we show expression of ET receptors in hESC and demonstrate that ET-1 and ET-2 inhibit gap junctional intercellular communication (GJIC), while ET-3 does not. Pre-incubation of the cell cultures with the two specific antagonists of ET-A and ET-B, BQ123 and BQ788 respectively, demonstrate that inhibition of GJIC by ETs is mediated by ET-A. Long-term treatment of hESC with ET-1 indicates no visible effect on hESC maintenance of pluripotency markers, as assessed by expression of the hESC markers Oct-4, GCTM-2 and TG-30. Altogether these data show that hESC are target cells of ETs.


Alexithymia, originally defined as a lack of words for feelings, has generally been conceived as a cognitive deficit in emotional information processing. Structural dissociation theory hypothesizes that the full range of trauma spectrum symptoms and disorders, including an alexithymic presentation, may be related to posttraumatic disruptions in operations that integrate personality. Review of multilevel descriptive research in the areas of traumatic stress, dissociation, alexithymia, and affective neuroscience suggests that posttraumatic alexithymia may be related to trauma-specific alterations in non-declarative representational and self-regulatory operations. Similar patterns of altered neural activity have been observed in studies of traumatic stress and of alexithymia and in research on neurovisceral integration. Neuroanatomical studies of affective information processing suggest that disruption of a key non-declarative integrative operation, interoception, may be related to the declarative deficit manifest in posttraumatic alexithymia. Refinement of the alexithymia construct in line with these empirical findings and with the theory of structural dissociation is accordingly proposed. A novel heuristic, apraxithymia, defined as a procedural discoordination of the hierarchical representation and regulation of affective experience, is introduced as a reformulation of posttraumatic alexithymia. In apraxithymia, altered action of the feeling of feelings is hypothesized to underlie a manifest lack of words for feelings. Clinical implications and suggestions for further research are briefly outlined.
Although dissociative identity disorder, a condition in which multiple individuals appear to inhabit a single body, is a recognized psychiatric disorder, patients may yet encounter health professionals who declare that they simply &quot;do not believe in multiple personalities.&quot; This article explores the proposal that resistance to the disorder represents a failure to apply an appropriate paradigm from which the disorder should be interpreted. Trauma and sociocognitive explanations of dissociative identity disorder are contrasted. The trauma hypothesis is further differentiated into paradigms in which trauma affects a defense mechanism, and one in which trauma serves to inhibit the normal integration sequence of parallel processes of the self in childhood. This latter paradigm is shown to be broadly consistent with current models of cortical processing in another system, the cortical visual system.
The objective of the present study was to assess in detail the whole spectrum of normal and pathological dissociative experiences and dissociative disorder (DD) diagnoses in borderline personality disorder (BPD) as diagnosed with the Revised Diagnostic Interview for Borderlines. Dissociation was measured comprehensively in 21 BPD outpatients using the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Dissociative Disorders-Revised, the Multidimensional Inventory of Dissociation (MID), the Dissociative Experiences Scale pathological taxon analysis, and the Somatoform Dissociation Questionnaire. The frequencies of DDs in this BPD sample were as follows: 24% no DD, 29% mild DD (dissociative amnesia and depersonalization disorder), 24% DD Not Otherwise Specified (DDNOS), and 24% dissociative identity disorder. With regard to the dissociative experiences endorsed, almost all patients reported identity confusion, unexplained mood changes, and depersonalization. Even those BPD patients with mild DD reported derealization, depersonalization, and dissociative amnesia. BPD patients with DDNOS reported frequent depersonalization, frequent amnesia, and notable experiences of identity alteration. BPD patients with dissociative identity disorder endorsed severe dissociative symptoms in all categories. Analysis of the MID pathological dissociation items revealed that 32% of the items were endorsed at a clinically significant level of frequency by more than 50% of our BPD patients. In conclusion, the frequencies of Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (4th ed.) DDs in these patients with BPD were surprisingly high. Likewise, the &quot;average&quot; BPD patient endorsed a wide variety of recurrent pathological dissociative symptoms.

In many studies using mice, investigators must determine pups' gender at a very early postnatal stage. The gender of mouse pups is typically assessed by measuring the anogenital distance, which is greater in males than in females. This method, however, has proven to be difficult and not completely reliable. The authors describe a quick, easy and reliable method to establish the gender of pigmented mice. In male mice, a pigment spot on the scrotum is visible to the naked eye from the first day of life onwards, whereas female pups lack visible pigmentation in the anogenital region. In lightly pigmented or albino mice, the pigmentation is not obvious or not at all visible. The authors show that identifying this pigment spot is a more accurate and efficient method of determining pup gender compared with measurement of the anogenital distance. This 'spot on' method would therefore be a useful adjunct to conventional methods for determining the gender of pigmented neonatal mice.

The aim of the study was to describe the subjective ratings of the course 'Training of the student's own voice and speech', from a student-centred perspective. A questionnaire was completed after each of the six individual sessions. Six speech and language pathology (SLP) students rated how they perceived the practical exercises in terms of doing and understanding. The results showed that five of the six participants rated the exercises as significantly easier to understand than to do. The exercises were also rated as easier to do over time. Results are interpreted within in a theoretical framework of approaches to learning. The findings support the importance of both the physical and reflective aspects of the voice training process.
Functional neuroimaging first allowed researchers to describe the functional segregation of regionally activated areas during a variety of experimental tasks. More recently, functional integration studies have described how these functionally specialized areas, interact within a highly distributed neural network. When applied to the field of neurosciences, structural equation modeling (SEM) uses theoretical and/or empirical hypotheses to estimate the effects of an experimental task within a putative network. SEM represents a linear technique for multivariate analysis of neuroimaging data and has been developed to simultaneously examine ratios of multiple causality in an experimental design; the method attempts to explain a covariance structure within an anatomical constrained model. This method, when combined with the concept of effective connectivity, can provide information on the strength and direction of the functional interactions that take place between identified brain regions of a putative network.
The purpose of this study was to analyze human lenticulostriate arteries (LSAs) obtained non-invasively by 7.0-T MRI. A three-dimensional time-of-flight (3D TOF) magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) technique was used with an investigational 7.0-T MRI scanner with a radio-frequency coil that was optimized and designed for angiographic purposes. We obtained images from 16 healthy volunteers (8 males and 8 females, mean age 21 +/- 2.7 years). For direct comparison of LSA images with digital subtraction angiography (DSA), we also obtained 7.0-T MRA and DSA images from one patient, a 27-year-old woman with a posterior fossa arteriovenous malformation (AVM). We then analyzed the characteristics of LSAs using a custom data analysis method with MatLab for quantitative analysis. Analysis of LSA images included shape and number of branches and origins, findings that are essential and useful for quantification of LSA abnormalities in both healthy controls and patients. Ultra-high-field MRA provided clear anatomic delineation of the LSAs, thereby suggesting that 7.0-T MRA may be a promising technique for microvascular imaging of the LSAs.
We present our preliminary experience in neuropsychological testing in epilepsy surgery patients to demonstrate how these tests contributed to decide the laterality of epileptic focus, and to assess the effect of surgery on patient's cognitive function and quality of life. Preoperative neuropsychological tests consisting of Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-III (WAIS) for IQ, Wechsler Memory Scale-III (WMS) for memory and patients' quality of life (QOLIE 31) were administered to refractory epilepsy patients under evaluation for surgical treatment. These tests were repeated one year after surgery and we studied any changes in trends. A total of seven patients were recruited in this study between July 2004 and July 2006. The aetiologies of refractory epilepsy were pure mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS) in five patients, dysembryogenic neuroepithelial tumour (DNET) in one and dual lesion of cavernous angioma with ipsilateral MTS in one. The preoperative neuropsychological tests were all in concordance to MRI finding, and showed good contralateral function; five lateralises to the right and two to the left. The post-operative Engel seizure count (median 8.00, IQR 7.00-8.75), general IQ (88 vs. 79), performance IQ (94 vs. 79), verbal memory (89 vs. 71), non-verbal memory (88 vs. 75) and QOLIE (53.14 vs. 44.71) were better compared to preoperative values. The verbal IQ (84 vs. 84) was unchanged. Neuropsychological tests are useful as ancillary investigations to determine the laterality of seizure focus and integrity of function in the contralateral temporal lobe. Following successful surgical treatment, there is a trend towards improvement in memory, IQ and quality of life scores in this small group of patients.
George Williams' antagonistic pleiotropy theory of aging proposes that cellular damage and organismal aging are caused by pleiotrophic genes, or genes with multiple phenotypic effects [Williams, G.C., 1957. Pleiotropy, natural selection, and the evolution of senescence. Evolution 11, 398-411]. According to this theory, genes that exhibit antagonistic pleiotropy increase the odds of successful reproduction early in life, but have deleterious effects later in life. The tumor suppressor p53 confers protection against cancer (and death) by interrupting the abnormal proliferation of cells. When control of proliferation is applied to normal stem cells, however, it can impair tissue homeostasis and accelerate aging. We use data from recently developed models of accelerated aging in mice to determine if the deleterious effects of p53 on aging reflect antagonistic pleiotropy of the p53 gene or are attributable to genes that can modify p53 activity but are evolving independently.

Spatial normalization of images from multiple subjects is a common problem in group comparison studies, such as voxel-based and deformation-based morphometric analyses. Use of a study-specific template for normalization may improve normalization accuracy over a study-independent standard template (Good et al., NeuroImage, 14(1):21-36, 2001). Here, we develop this approach further by introducing the concept of subject-matched templates. Rather than using a single template for the entire population, a different template is used for every subject, with the template matched to the subject in terms of age, sex, and potentially other parameters (e.g., disease). All subject-matched templates are created from a single generative regression model of atlas appearance, thus providing a priori template-to-template correspondence without registration. We demonstrate that such an approach is technically feasible and significantly improves spatial normalization accuracy over using a single template.
Brain imaging provides a wealth of information that computers can explore at a massive scale. Categorizing the patterns of the human cortex has been a challenging issue for neuroscience. In this paper, we propose a data mining approach leading to the construction of the first computerized dictionary of cortical folding patterns, from a database of 62 brains. The cortical folds are extracted using BrainVisa open software. The standard sulci are manually identified among the folds. 32 sets of sulci covering the cortex are selected. Clustering techniques are further applied to identify in each set the different patterns observed in the population. After affine global normalization, the geometric distance between sulci of two subjects is calculated using the Iterative Closest Point (ICP) algorithm. The dimension of the resulting distance matrix is reduced using Isomap algorithm. Finally, a dedicated hierarchical clustering algorithm is used to extract out the main patterns. This algorithm provides a score which evaluates the strengths of the patterns found. The score is used to rank the patterns for setting up a dictionary to characterize the variability of cortical anatomy.
The standard general linear model (GLM) for rapid event-related fMRI design protocols typically ignores reduction in hemodynamic responses in successive stimuli in a train due to incomplete recovery from the preceding stimuli. To capture this adaptation effect, we incorporate a region-specific adaptation model into GLM. The model quantifies the rate of adaptation across brain regions, which is of interest in neuroscience. Empirical evaluation of the proposed model demonstrates its potential to improve detection sensitivity. In the fMRI experiments using visual and auditory stimuli, we observed that the adaptation effect is significantly stronger in the visual area than in the auditory area, suggesting that we must account for this effect to avoid bias in fMRI detection.
Determining cortical functional areas is an important goal for neurosciences and clinical neurosurgery. This paper presents a method for connectivity-based parcellation of the entire human cortical surface, exploiting the idea that each cortex region has a specific connection profile. The connectivity matrix of the cortex is computed using analytical Q-ball-based tractography. The parcellation is achieved independently for each subject and applied to the subset of the cortical surface endowed with enough connections to estimate safely a connectivity profile, namely the top of the cortical gyri. The key point of the method lies in a twofold reduction of the connectivity matrix dimension. First, parcellation amounts to iterating the clustering of Vorono patches of the cortical surface into parcels endowed with homogeneous profiles. The parcels without intersection with the patch boundaries are selected for the final parcellation. Before clustering a patch, the complete profiles are collapsed into short profiles indicating connectivity with a set of putative cortical areas. These areas are supposed to correspond to the catchment basins of the watershed of the density of connection to the patch computed on the cortical surface. The results obtained for several brains are compared visually using a coordinate system.
The topic of drug addiction or misuse of drugs has numerous far-reaching ramifications into areas such as neuroscience, medicine and therapeutics, toxicology, epidemiology, national and international economics and politics, and the law. The general principles of drug addiction are first summarised. A recurring and intrinsic problem is lack of adequate characterisation of the independent variable, namely the drug taken. Secondly, it is not feasible to allocate subjects randomly to treatments. Thirdly, the heterogeneity of different forms of addiction precludes facile generalisations. &quot;A problem drug user is anyone who experiences social, psychological, physical, or legal problems related to intoxication, and/or regular excessive consumption, and/or dependence as a consequence of their use of drugs&quot; (UK Advisory Council on Misuse of Drugs, 1982). Cannabis is a genus of flowering plants whose products are used as recreational drugs. Claims have been made for a range of therapeutic properties. Its two main active principles are delta9 - tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD). These compounds have contrasting pharmacological properties. THC is suspected of causing psychotic phenomena, but CBD seems more sedative and may even be antipsychotic. The past use of cannabis, particularly the concentrations of THC and CBD, can be monitored with hair analysis. Recent studies involving the administration of THC and CBD to human subjects are reviewed. Suggestions are made for further research into the pharmacology and toxicology of CBD. Such data may also point to a more rational evidence-based approach to the legal control of cannabis preparations.
There is no doubt that the nervous system is involved in the etiopathogenesis of various pathological states and diseases. Interactions between the nervous, endocrine, and immune systems might represent the anatomical and functional basis for understanding the pathways and mechanisms that enable the brain to modulate the progression of disease. The aim of this article is to encourage us to shift our current opinion of the etiopathogenesis of disease to one of highly complex interactions between peripheral tissues and the brain and in this way introduce new diagnostic and therapeutic approaches.
&quot;Dreaming, in any case, remains a mental activity and not a physiological process, even though it springs from this process&quot;. This sentence of Mauro Mancia encapsulates the entire significance of his studies on sleeping/dreaming. A totality of observations and reflections grounded in neurophysiology and psychoanalysis which led him to study and to &quot;see&quot; the two faces of a problem that has engaged man's attention since the remotest antiquity. Mancia has thus given us the resources to see the dream-and not only the dream-with the marvelled eye of the artist who seeks and finds a sense in things and at the same time with the cold eye of the scientist who demands of things only their how and wherefore.

The human sarcomeric alpha-actinins (ACTN2 and ACTN3) are major structural components of the Z line in skeletal muscle; they play a role in the maintenance of sarcomeric integrity and also interact with a wide variety of structural, signaling and metabolic proteins. ACTN2 is expressed in all muscle fibers, and expression of ACTN3 is restricted to the type 2 (fast glycolytic) fibers that are responsible for forceful contraction at high velocity. There is a common stop codon polymorphism R577X in the ACTN3 gene. Homozygosity for the R577X null-allele results in the absence of alpha-actinin-3 in fast muscle fibers with frequencies that vary from &lt; 1% in Africans to approximately 18% in Caucasians. A number of association studies have demonstrated that the ACTN3 R577X genotype influences athletic performance in Caucasians; the frequency of the XX genotype is significantly lower than controls in sprint athletes, and it appears that alpha-actinin-3 deficiency is detrimental to sprint performance. In the general population, the ACTN3 genotype contributes to the normal variations in muscle strength and sprinting speed. In an Actn3 knockout mouse model, alpha-actinin-3 deficiency is associated with a shift in the characteristics of fast, glycolytic 2B muscle fibers towards a slow phenotype, with decreased muscle mass and fiber diameter, slower contractile properties, increased fatigue resistance, and an increase in oxidative enzyme activity. The shift towards a more efficient oxidative metabolism may underlie the selective advantage of the X-allele during evolution. In turn, the shift towards a 'slow' muscle phenotype in fast muscle fibers likely explains why loss of alpha-actinin-3 is detrimental to sprint performance.
Inflammation is associated with disease progression and, by largely unknown mechanisms, has been said to drive oncogenesis. At inflamed sites, neutrophils deploy a potent antimicrobial arsenal that includes proteinases, antimicrobial peptides, and ROS. Reactive oxygen species (ROSs) induce chemokines. In the present study, the concentrations of IL-8 in culture supernatants of HeLa cells treated with ROS were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. We used o-phenanthroline to deplete Fe(2+) in order to investigate the mechanisms through which ROSs induce IL-8 secretion in our system. The iron chelator o-phenanthroline effectively inhibited H(2)O(2)-induced ERK2 activation. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays showed that IL-8 protein secretion was elevated in ROS-treated HeLa cells. When Fe(2+) was removed from these cells, IL-8 secretion was inhibited. Collectively, these results indicate that Fe(2+)-mediated Erk pathway activation is an important signal transduction pathway in ROS-induced IL-8 secretion in epithelial cells.
Cuba is a small country with one of the highest physician-percapita ratios in the world (1:155 in 2007). Since the 1980s, all new MDs are required to complete a family medicine residency, and many go on to pursue a second medical specialty or an advanced degree in public health, medical education or medical sciences. The numbers of other university-level health professionals are impressive. Cuba is also home to globally-respected biotechnology and medical research institutions, such as the Finlay Institute and the Pedro Kour Institute of Tropical Medicine. Yet, the number and frequency of articles by Cuban authors published in national and international journals does not reflect the breadth and depth of Cuban medical research and practice. The most frequently cited articles in international journals of impact are in the fields of genetics, neurosciences, immunology, pharmacology and oncology, and almost 80% of these are co-authored by non-Cubans. While it is certain that many of these articles reflect public health applications, you will find scant citations of articles on other important topics at the forefront of Cuban public health-such as primary health care, infectious disease control, human resource development, sexual and reproductive health, and social determinants of health and wellness.
Introduction Early screening for hearing loss is currently recognized as an international healthcare standard. In Cuba, such a program was initiated in the capital, Havana, in 1983 and scaled up to national coverage in 1991. Objective Review the development of Cuba's national hearing screening program over the last 25 years (organizational structure, efficiency, coverage and impact on health), and the science and technology developed to sustain it. Intervention The program was organized in two steps: Step 1-clinical selection of children at different stages of development with multiple high-risk registers; Step 2-referral to territorial, hospitalbased centers for auditory brainstem evoked response (ABR) testing, diagnostic evaluation, and intervention. Prior to national scaling-up, the efficiency of this multiple targeted screening (MTS) protocol was evaluated in Havana. Technology and equipment were then developed, and personnel were trained to set up the national screening network. In 1996, the multiple auditory steady-state evoked response (MSSR) technique for objective audiogram estimation was introduced using AUDIX equipment, designed and produced in Cuba for this program. A semi-automated version for neonatal screening has been developed more recently. Several studies have been conducted to evaluate the program's efficiency, coverage, yield, and impact on health. Results During the first stage of implementation in Havana, the MTS protocol correctly identified 72.5% of children with congenital and preverbal hearing loss. Subsequent studies of different aspects of the program have shown that: 1) the mean age of hearing loss detection/intervention in one municipality was reduced from 4 years to 10 months; 2) hearing-impaired children who were screened showed improved language and cognitive development compared to those who were not screened; 3) the MSSR technique predicted type and severity of hearing loss more accurately than physiological techniques used previously and was also shown to be an effective screening method (92% to 96% sensitivity, 100% specificity); and 4) program coverage (25-86%), though reasonably high in some regions, is not complete and needs improvement, particularly in the country's remote and rural areas. Conclusions The MTS protocol can be considered a valid option for increasing the yield and effectiveness of a hearing screening program operating with limited resources. The MSSR technique provides valuable data for the diagnosis and treatment of children detected through a screening program and, with improvements, may also be useful as a screening method.
This paper will address the use of animal models as a vital constituent of 'life science in the making' by focussing on the 'sensibility trials' conducted by the Swiss physiologist Albrecht von Haller (1708-1777). Haller was a pioneering figure in the early days of neurophysiological research, being not only influential for establishing animal experimentation as a viable method to gain knowledge about (human) neurological functions. He also tackled the question of sensibility as the most fundamental property of living bodies, which came to influence our conception of bodily feeling. In analysing some of his experiments on the nervous system, this paper addresses the following questions: what does sensibility or sensation signify in eighteenth-century physiology? How was it assessed or measured during experimentation? How were nervous functions 'read', i.e., how was the observable behaviour of an experimental animal interpreted? And finally: how did Haller address the differences between humans and animals in the context of his investigations?
Life scripts are culturally shared expectations about the order and timing of life events in a prototypical life course. American and Danish undergraduates produced life story events and life scripts by listing the seven most important events in their own lives and in the lives of hypothetical people living ordinary lives. They also rated their events on several scales and completed measures of depression, PTSD symptoms, and centrality of a negative event to their lives. The Danish life script replicated earlier work; the American life script showed minor differences from the Danish life script, apparently reflecting genuine differences in shared events as well as less homogeneity in the American sample. Both consisted of mostly positive events that came disproportionately from ages 15 to 30. Valence of life story events correlated with life script valence, depression, PTSD symptoms, and identity. In the Danish undergraduates, measures of life story deviation from the life script correlated with measures of depression and PTSD symptoms.
Autobiographical memory (AM) specificity is impaired in depression and post-traumatic stress disorder. Previous studies emphasised the role of cognitive avoidance of intrusive memories in this impairment. This study aimed to examine the association of cognitive avoidance of intrusive memories with specificity, autonoetic consciousness, and self-perspective. A total of 38 healthy participants were given the revised Impact of Event Scale (IES-R) and an AM task designed to assess positive and negative memories regarding specificity, autonoetic consciousness (remember/know procedure), and self-perspective (field/observer procedure). Taking into account age, verbal IQ, mood, harm avoidance, and executive resources, the IES-R avoidance subscale was negatively correlated with specificity and remember responses for positive memories, and with remember and field responses for negative memories. These findings suggest that cognitive avoidance of intrusive memories is associated with a decrease of the episodic components of AM retrieval.
We describe in detail a simple technique to construct the size distribution of liposome formulations from single-object fluorescence measurements. Liposomes that are fluorescently labeled in their membrane are first immobilized on a surface at dilute densities and then imaged individually using epi-fluorescence microscopy. The integrated intensities of several thousand single liposomes are collected and evaluated within minutes by automated image processing, using the user-friendly freeware ImageJ. The mean intensity of the liposome population is then calculated and scaled in units of length (nm) by relating the intensity data to the mean diameter obtained from a reference measurement with dynamic light scattering. We explain the process of constructing the size distributions in a step-by-step manner, starting with the preparation of liposomes through the final acquisition of size histograms. Detailed advice is given concerning critical parameters of image acquisition and processing. Size histograms constructed from single-particle measurements provide detailed information on complex distributions that may be easily averaged out in ensemble measurements (e.g., light scattering). In addition, the technique allows accurate measurements of polydisperse samples (e.g., nonextruded liposome preparations).
We describe a new technique for comparing mathematical models to the biological systems that are described. This technique is appropriate for systems that produce relaxation oscillations or bursting oscillations, and takes advantage of noise that is inherent to all biological systems. Both types of oscillations are composed of active phases of activity followed by silent phases, repeating periodically. The presence of noise adds variability to the durations of the different phases. The central idea of the technique is that the active phase duration may be correlated with either/both the previous or next silent phase duration, and the resulting correlation pattern provides information about the dynamic structure of the system. Correlation patterns can easily be determined by making scatter plots and applying correlation analysis to the cluster of data points. This could be done both with experimental data and with model simulation data. If the model correlation pattern is in general agreement with the experimental data, then this adds support for the validity of the model. Otherwise, the model must be corrected. While this tool is only one test of many required to validate a mathematical model, it is easy to implement and is noninvasive.
Although traditionally assumed to be monomeric signaling units, G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) have been shown to exist as dimers/oligomers. Many chemokine receptors have been demonstrated to form homo-oligomers, and hetero-oligomerization between both pairs of chemokine receptors and chemokine receptors and other GPCRs has also been demonstrated. This chapter highlights some of the most common techniques used to investigate chemokine receptor oligomerization.
Chemokine receptors belong to the large family of 7-transmembrane (7TM) G-protein-coupled receptors. These receptors are targeted and activated by a variety of different ligands, indicating that activation is a result of similar molecular mechanisms but not necessarily similar modes of ligand binding. Attempts to unravel the activation mechanism of 7TM receptors have led to the conclusion that activation involves movements of the transmembrane segments VI and VII in particular, as recently gathered in the Global Toggle Switch Model. However, to understand the activation mechanism completely, more research has to be done in this field. Chemokine receptors are interesting tools in this matter. First, the chemokine system has a high degree of promiscuity that allows several chemokines to target one receptor in different ways, as well as a single chemokine ligand to target several receptors in different ways. Second, the endogenous ligands are large proteins that mainly activate their cognate receptors by interacting with various extracellular-located receptor regions. It is, however, also possible to introduce agonism of simple ligands like metal ions. Thus, the chemokine system offers the possibility to test and compare the activation profiles of several chemically diverse ligands. This also brings up the interesting discussion of allosterism, because small molecules in the chemokine field often interact with allosteric receptor sites.
Chemokines are a family of mainly-secreted proteins, traditionally associated with regulation of leukocyte trafficking during host defense and pathological immune/inflammatory reactions. All chemokines signal to G protein-coupled receptors. Recent studies show that chemokines and their receptors are also expressed by neuroepithelial cells, and govern developmental, physiological and pathological processes through actions towards these cells, as well as infiltrating and resident hematopoietic cells. Understanding chemokine action at the tissue level therefore requires defining which cells express chemokine receptors. At a first level of approximation (and lacking appropriate immunohistochemical reagents) this determination can be made by in situ hybridization (ISH), which localizes mRNA expression for chemokines and their receptors at the cellular level. Here we provide a protocol for ISH and demonstrate its application for localizing mRNA encoding two chemokine receptors, CXCR4 and CXCR7 in murine CNS tissues.
Viral infections frequently alter mitochondrial function with suppression or induction of apoptosis and enhanced generation of reactive oxygen species. The mechanisms of these effects are varied, and mitochondria are affected by both direct interactions with viral proteins and by secondary effects of viral-activated signaling cascades. This chapter describes methods used in our laboratory to assess the effects of the hepatitis C virus core protein on mitochondrial ROS production, electron transport, and Ca(2+) uptake. These include measurements of the effects of in vitro incubation of liver mitochondria with purified core protein and assessment of the function of mitochondria in cells and tissues expressing core and other viral proteins. These methods are generally applicable to the study of viral-mitochondrial interactions.
Phase response curves (PRCs) are widely used in circadian clocks, neuroscience, and heart physiology. They quantify the response of an oscillator to pulse-like perturbations. Phase response curves provide valuable information on the properties of oscillators and their synchronization. This chapter discusses biological self-sustained oscillators (circadian clock, physiological rhythms, etc.) in the context of nonlinear dynamics theory. Coupled oscillators can synchronize with different frequency ratios, can generate toroidal dynamics (superposition of independent frequencies), and may lead to deterministic chaos. These nonlinear phenomena can be analyzed with the aid of a phase transition curve, which is intimately related to the phase response curve. For illustration purposes, this chapter discusses a model of circadian oscillations based on a delayed negative feedback. In a second part, the chapter provides a step-by-step recipe to measure phase response curves. It discusses specifications of this recipe for circadian rhythms, heart rhythms, neuronal spikes, central pattern generators, and insect communication. Finally, it stresses the predictive power of measured phase response curves. PRCs can be used to quantify the coupling strength of oscillations, to classify oscillator types, and to predict the complex dynamics of periodically driven oscillations.
Autophagy is a tightly regulated pathway for the degradation and recycling of proteins delivered to lysosomes, and is an important process in maintaining cellular homeostasis. Whereas a basal level of autophagy can be detected in skeletal muscles, its perturbation can be seen in a variety of conditions affecting the muscle. In certain muscle diseases, moreover, autophagy seems to be a characteristic feature, although the exact role of autophagy in these disorders is just starting to be understood. As autophagy is not only an index of disease progression but also a potential target for treatment in certain disease conditions, its characterization is indeed of relevance. Thus, in this chapter, methods applicable to both human and murine skeletal muscle preparation for the analysis and monitoring of autophagy are presented.
Recent advances indicate that maintaining a balanced level of autophagy is critically important for neuronal health and function. Pathologic dysregulation of macroautophagy has been implicated in synaptic dysfunction, cellular stress, and neuronal cell death. Autophagosomes and autolysosomes are induced in acute and chronic neurological disorders including stroke, brain trauma, neurotoxin injury, Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, Huntington's, motor neuron, prion, lysosomal storage, and other neurodegenerative diseases. Compared to other cell types, neuronal autophagy research presents particular challenges that may be addressed through still evolving techniques. Neuronal function depends upon maintenance of axons and dendrites (collectively known as neurites) that extend for great distances from the cell body. Both autophagy and mitochondrial content have been implicated in regulation of neurite length and function in physiological (plasticity) and pathological remodeling. Here, we highlight several molecular cell biological and imaging methods to study autophagy and mitophagy in neuritic and somatic compartments of differentiated neuronal cell lines and primary neuron cultures, using protocols developed in toxic and genetic models of parkinsonian neurodegeneration. In addition, mature neurons can be studied using in vivo protocols for modeling ischemic and traumatic injuries. Future challenges include application of automated computer-assisted image analysis to the axodendritic tree of individual neurons and improving methods for measuring neuronal autophagic flux.
Neurons of the central nervous system (CNS) tissue are terminally differentiated cells and have large volumes, unlike cells of peripheral tissues. Such neurons possess abundant lysosomes in which damaged and unneeded intracellular constituents are degraded. A cellular process to bring the unneeded constituents to lysosomes is referred to as macroautophagy (autophagy), which is essential for the maintenance of cellular metabolism under physiological conditions. In fact, mice deficient in Atg7 or Atg5 specifically in CNS tissue have ubiquitin aggregates in neurons and massive loss of cerebral and cerebellar cortical neurons, resulting in neurodegeneration and short life span. In addition, acceleration of autophagy induced by the loss of lysosomal proteinases such as cathepsin D or cathepsins B and L, or by hypoxic/ischemic (H/I) brain injury, causes neurodegeneration. Moreover, lysosomes with undigested materials due to loss of proteinases are enwrapped by double membranes to produce autophagosomes, resulting in the further accumulation of autolysosomes. H/I brain injury at birth that is an important cause of cerebral palsy, mental retardation, and epilepsy causes energy failure, oxidative stress, and unbalanced ion fluxes, leading to a high induction of autophagy in brain neurons. Since mice that are unable to execute autophagy (due to brain-specific deletion of Atg7 or Atg5) die as a result of massive loss of cerebral and cerebellar neurons with accumulation of ubiquitin aggregates, induction of neuronal autophagy after H/I injury is generally considered neuroprotective, as it maintains cellular homeostasis. However, our data showing that H/I injury-induced pyramidal neuron death in the neonatal hippocampus is largely prevented by Atg7 deficiency indicate the presence of autophagic neuron death. In this section, we introduce various methods for the detection of autophagic neuron death in addition to other death modes of CNS neurons.
Allosteric regulation of protein function is often achieved by changes in protein conformation induced by changes in chemical or electrical potential. In multisubunit proteins, such conformational changes may give rise to cooperativity in ligand binding. Conformational changes between open and closed states are central to the function of voltage-activated potassium (Kv) channel proteins, homotetrameric pore-forming membrane proteins involved in generating and shaping action potentials in excitable cells. Accessible to extremely high signal-to-noise ratio in functional measurements, combined with the availability of high-resolution structural data for different conformations of the protein, the Kv channel represents an excellent allosteric model system to further understand the aspects of synergism and cooperative effects in protein function. In this chapter, we demonstrate how the use of the simple law of mass action combined with thermodynamic mutant cycle energetic coupling analysis of Kv channel gating can be used to provide valuable information regarding (1) how cooperativity in Kv channel pore opening can be assessed; (2) how one can directly discriminate whether conformational transitions during Kv channel pore opening occur in a concerted or sequential manner; and (3) how mechanistically, the coupling between distant activation gate and selectivity filter functional elements of the prototypical Shaker Kv channel protein might be achieved. In addition to providing valuable insight into the function of this important protein, the conclusions reached at using high-order thermodynamic energetic coupling analysis applied to the Kv channel allosteric model system reveal much about the function of allosteric proteins, in general.

A pathological hallmark of many neurodegenerative diseases is the presence of protein aggregates. Transgenic mice that recapitulate this pathology are a valuable resource to isolate these proteins for detailed study. One aspect of our research program is to characterize and quantify aggregates beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptides, superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), and huntingtin (htt) that comprise pathologic lesions found in Alzheimer's disease, familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and Huntington's disease, respectively. In this chapter, we describe methods, based on sequential detergent extraction and ultracentrifugation, to isolate and analyze these protein aggregates. These methods have been applied to human tissues to some extent, but have been highly useful in studies involving transgenic mouse models of these diseases.
The human central nervous system (CNS) is the most complex organ in nature, composed of ten trillion cells forming complex neural networks using a quadrillion synaptic connections. Proteins, their modifications, and their interactions are integral to CNS function. The emerging field of neuroproteomics provides us with a wide-scope view of posttranslation protein dynamics within the CNS to better our understanding of its function, and more often, its dysfunction consequent to neurodegenerative disorders. This chapter reviews methodology employed in the neurosciences to study the neuroproteome in health and disease. The chapter layout parallels this volume's four parts. Part I focuses on modeling human neuropathology in animals as surrogate, accessible, and controllable platforms in our research. Part II discusses methodology used to focus analysis onto a subneuroproteome. Part III reviews analytical and bioinformatic technologies applied in neuroproteomics. Part IV discusses clinical neuroproteomics, from processing of human biofluids to translation in biomarkers research. Neuroproteomics continues to mature as a discipline, confronting the extreme complexity of the CNS proteome and its dynamics, and providing insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying how our nervous system works and how it is compromised by injury and disease.
DNA topoisomerase II (Topo II), named Top2 in budding and fission yeast, is a conserved target of the SUMO modification pathway, with SUMO-conjugated forms of Topo II accumulating specifically during mitosis in both yeast and vertebrate cells (Bachant et al., Mol Cell 9, 1169-82, 2002; Azuma et al., J Cell Biol 163, 477-87, 2003; Dawlaty et al., Cell 133, 103-15, 2008). As with many SUMO substrates, the functional significance of this modification is still incompletely understood and, perhaps surprisingly, better characterized in vertebrates than yeasts. It seems likely, however, that continued analysis of yeast Top2 SUMO modification will reveal commonalities with vertebrate cells, leading to a deeper understanding of how sumoylation regulates Topo II function. Toward this end, we describe a protocol for analyzing yeast Top2 SUMO conjugates in vivo.
Although advancements in the preventive and therapeutic strategies of cardiac diseases have successfully improved the prognosis of many types of cardiac diseases, they are still challengeable targets because of their high mortality and large medical expenses. Moreover, because heart function is tightly associated with quality of life, it is important to elucidate the genetic and molecular basis of disease progression. One of the recent advances for assessing protein function is reverse chemical genetics, which has the advantages that complement classical reverse genetics and should advance efforts at drug discovery for many diseases. Toward that end an appropriate biological assay system is required to describe specific heart phenotypes. Recent studies have shown that many aspects of Drosophila heart development and function are similar to those observed in the human heart, making Drosophila a useful model system with the advantage of a simpler genetic organization and shorter life span. Here we describe several assay systems that can be used to characterize Drosophila heart function. The first method is an external electrical pacing assay that is used to assess the response to stress in the adult fly. The incidence of pacing-induced heart dysfunction measured by this method strongly correlates with natural aging and mutation in genes known to be involved in human cardiac dysfunction. Consequently, this method can be used to identify unapparent heart failure phenotypes. This procedure is applicable for both genetic and pharmacological screening. The second method is an image-based heart performance assay. This method provides details of the dynamics of heart contraction in real time similar to clinical echocardiography. This method may be used for secondary drug screening as well as for more detailed analysis of the genetic and pharmacological phenotypes of Drosophila hearts.
A main objective of analyzing peptide array-based binding experiments is to uncover the relationship between a peptide sequence and the binding outcome. Limited by the peptide array technologies available for applications, few attempts have been made to construct qualitative or quantitative models that depict the peptide sequence:binding strength relationships in peptide microarray-based binding studies. There has been a long history of similar modeling efforts based on low-throughput binding data in the areas of T-cell epitope screening and kinase substrate mapping, however. The keen needs in peptide array applications and the success of the modeling efforts in related fields have prompted us to develop SVM-PEPARRAY, a Web-based program capable of constructing qualitative and quantitative models based on peptide microarray binding datasets using support vector machine (SVM) modeling methods. We expect that such modeling analysis will allow researchers to quickly extract sequence-based biological information from improved peptide array binding results and provide more precise and accurate information about the biological systems investigated.
Peptide microarrays (peptide arrays) have increasingly become an important research tool for studying protein detection, profiling, and protein-protein interactions, and they have the potential to foster high-throughput protein analysis as DNA arrays did for genomics research a decade ago. Recently, technologies have emerged that allow flexible synthesis of high-density peptide arrays based on specific application needs (e.g., phosphopeptide microarrays). To fully unleash the power of this promising research tool, significant efforts are required to develop computational and informatics resources that facilitate the experimental design and data analysis for a wide range of peptide array-based applications. The design of peptide arrays is inherently more complex than that of DNA arrays. We herein introduce microPepArray Pro, a Web-based general-purpose peptide array design program. microPepArray Pro features strong content design capabilities and maximized user control. The program suits the needs of a diversity of design tasks, works with a variety of peptide array configurations, and is highly expandable: new functionalities can be developed and added to microPepArray Pro with relative ease.
To promote scientific discovery and education, the federated Biomedical Informatics Research Network (BIRN) Data Repository (BDR) supports data storage, sharing, querying, and downloading for the biomedical community, enabling the integration of multiple data resources from a single entry point. The BDR encourages data sharing both for investigators requesting assistance with databasing and informatics infrastructure, and for those wishing to extend the reach of existing data resources to be registered with the BDR. Both approaches rely heavily on data integration and knowledge management techniques, ensuring capabilities for intelligent exploration of diverse data resources that make up the BDR's shared environment. Although the development of the BDR has been driven by BIRN testbeds in the fields of neuroscience and neuroimaging, the infrastructure is flexible and extendable to serve a broad array of disciplines, fueling interdisciplinary studies. For a welcoming environment, the BDR provides simple, straightforward policies and procedures for contributing data and for using available data. Contributing investigators provide information through the BDR Gridsphere-based Portal environment to allow meaningful sharing of their data, and, when relevant, supply documentation for human subjects' protection. The BDR aims to provide a common resource to increase the availability of, and access to, rare data; complex, sizable data; and existing data sharing structures in support of research and education in the scientific and clinical communities.
Classical 2-D electrophoresis (IEF/SDS 2-DE) using isoelectric focusing (IEF) and SDS-PAGE for the second dimension offers very high resolution for the separation of complex protein mixtures, but hydrophobic proteins can aggregate and are considerably under-represented in these 2-D gels. Non-classical 2-DE, as described here, summarizes several heterogeneous techniques, some of which, like BAC/SDS 2-DE and doubled SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (dSDS-PAGE), intend to isolate the difficult hydrophobic proteins that are not accessible by classical 2-DE. Other types of non-classical 2-DE start with 1-D separation of native proteins and complexes, like blue-native electrophoresis (BNE), clear-native electrophoresis (CNE), and high-resolution clear-native electrophoresis (hrCNE). These electrophoretic techniques can substitute for chromatographic isolation of protein complexes, and can even isolate supramolecular physiological assemblies. Subsequent resolution in second dimension can be denaturing to resolve the subunits of complexes, as exemplified with BNE/SDS 2-DE, or native like in BNE/BNE 2-DE (the latter using different cathode buffers for 1-D BNE and 2-D BNE). After isolation of highly pure membrane protein complexes by two native electrophoretic separations, the separation protocol may be finished by denaturing 2-DE like BAC/SDS or doubled SDS-PAGE. Thus, a four-dimensional electrophoretic system with minimal loss of protein results that is useful as an efficient micro-scale protein separation protocol, e.g. for mass spectrometric analyses.

Oxidative base lesions, such as 8-oxoguanine, accumulate in nuclear and mitochondrial DNAs under oxidative stress, resulting in cell death. However, it is not known whether only oxidative lesion accumulated in mitochondrial DNA is involved in such cell death. By introducing human cDNA encoding a nuclear form of 8-oxoG DNA glycosylase (hOGG1-1a) into immortalized mouse embryo fibroblasts lacking Ogg1 gene, we established a cell line which selectively accumulates 8-oxoguanine in mitochondrial DNA under oxidative stress. Selective accumulation of 8-oxoguanine in mitochondrial DNA in this cell line causes degradation of mitochondrial DNA followed by ATP depletion, mitochondrial membrane permeability transition, and Ca(2+) efflux, which in turn activates calpains to execute cell death. Knockdown of MUTYH which excises adenine opposite 8-oxoG in DNA prevents degradation of mitochondrial DNA and activation of calpain, thus suppressing the cell death induced by menadione.
The mitochondrial genome represents a target for exogenous and endogenous damage. Its necessity for successful electron transport makes its repair valuable to the cell. Previous work from our lab has shown that mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) can be repaired in mammalian cells, and the use of mitochondrial-targeted repair proteins can augment repair to enhance viability following genotoxic stress. In addition, it has also been shown that other repair enzymes that are targeted to the mitochondria can sensitize the cell to DNA damaging agents, thereby aiding the effectiveness of certain chemotherapeutic agents. The methods herein describe the development of mitochondrial-targeted proteins using plasmids or protein transduction domains. It includes the utilization of these constructs to create stably transfected cell lines, transiently transfected cell lines, viral-mediated transduction, and protein transduction domain-mediated mitochondrial protein localization. The end result will be a mammalian cell that expresses the mitochondrial-targeted protein of interest.
8-Oxoguanine (8-oxoG), an oxidized form of guanine, is one of the major mutagenic lesions generated under oxidative stress. Oxidative damage in mitochondrial DNA has been implicated as a causative factor for a wide variety of degenerative diseases as well as for cancer during aging. We established a quantitative method for in situ detection of 8-oxoG in mitochondrial DNA in a single-cell level using a monoclonal antibody. Specific detection of 8-oxoG in mitochondrial DNA was confirmed by pre-treatment of samples with DNase I or MutM, the latter excising 8-oxoG opposite C in DNA. We then analyzed 8-oxoG dynamics in mitochondrial DNA of the wild-type and 8-oxoG DNA glycosylase (OGG1)-deficient mouse cells after exposure to hydrogen peroxide. Intensities for the 8-oxoG immunoreactivity in mitochondrial DNA were increased immediately after the exposure to hydrogen peroxide in both types of cells. The increased intensities returned to basal levels within a few hours only in wild-type cells, but not in OGG1-deficient cells which exhibited the increased intensities even 24 h after the exposure. These results indicate that OGG1 is a major enzyme for excision repair of 8-oxoG in mitochondrial DNA in mouse cells, and that our method described here is appropriate to study 8-oxoG dynamics in mitochondrial DNA.
There is incontrovertible evidence that neural progenitor cells (NPC) are found in the adult brain. The ability to identify and track NPC in the adult brain is of considerable importance if the properties of these cells are to be harnessed as potential therapies for degenerative brain disorders. The most commonly used approach of identifying these NPC in experimental studies, bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labelling, is outlined in this chapter. Immunohistochemical protocols for detecting endogenous and exogenous (introduced via transplantation) NPC in fresh-frozen and paraffin wax embedded brain tissue are described. Advice on how to label these NPC is also offered and multi-label fluorescence immunochemical staining approaches to determine the differentiation fate of NPC are described.
A useful experimental model to study the pathophysiology of cerebral ischemia without craniectomy is the middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) model. In this model, an intraluminal suture is advanced from the internal carotid artery to occlude the base of the MCA. Standardized procedures in terms of suture size, animal weight, and the details of intraluminal suture insertion are well established. This procedure can produce reversible occlusion after insertion of the intraluminal suture for a specified period of time, or a permanent occlusion by leaving the suture in place. This model has been useful in the study of both the normal pathophysiology of cerebral ischemia and in assessing interventional therapeutic approaches for stroke therapy. One approach has been the intravenous delivery of bone marrow-derived mescenchymal stem cells at various times after MCAO. Histological and magnetic resonance imaging have been used to quantify infarction volume in this model system.
Since its first description, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, originally designated experimental allergic encephalitis (EAE), has been proposed as animal model to investigate pathogenetic hypotheses and test new treatments in the field of central nervous system inflammation and demyelination, which has become, in the last 30 years, the most popular animal model of multiple sclerosis (MS). This experimental disease can be obtained in all mammals tested so far, including nonhuman primates, allowing very advanced preclinical studies. Its appropriate use has led to the development of the most recent treatments approved for MS, also demonstrating its predictive value when properly handled. Some of the most exciting experiments validating the use of neural precursor cells (NPCs) as a potential therapeutic option in CNS inflammation have been performed in this model. We review here the most relevant immunological features of EAE in the different animal species and strains, and describe detailed protocols to obtain the three most common clinical courses of EAE in mice, with the hope to provide both cultural and practical basis for the use of this fascinating animal model.
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have the potential to play a role in autologous repair of central nervous system injury or disease, circumventing both the complications associated with immune rejection of allogenic cells, and many of the ethical concerns associated with embryonic stem cell use. Human bone marrow-derived MSCs can be extracted relatively simply from the marrow of adult patients and maintained and expanded in culture. More importantly, it has been previously demonstrated that MSCs have the capacity to differentiate into neurons and glia in vitro when grown under appropriate conditions. Multipotent MSCs have also been successfully used in transplantation studies in animal models of disease as diverse as demyelination, stroke, trauma and Parkinson's disease. MSCs therefore provide an attractive and practical source of stem cells for reparative therapy in patients, and in this paper we describe methods for the reproducible culture and neural differentiation of human MSCs generated from patient marrow.
The characteristic CNS responses to injury including increased cell production and attempts at regenerative repair - implicitly predicted where not directly demonstrated by Cajal, but only now more fully confirmed - have important implications for regenerative therapies. Spontaneous CNS cell replacement compares poorly with the regenerative functional repair seen elsewhere, but harnessing, stimulating or supplementing this process represents a new and attractive therapeutic concept.Stem cells, traditionally defined as clone-forming, self-renewing, pluripotent progenitor cells, have already proved themselves to be an invaluable source of transplantation material in several clinical settings, most notably haematological malignancy, and attention is now turning to a wider variety of diseases in which there may be potential for therapeutic intervention with stem cell transplantation. Neurological diseases, with their reputation for relentless progression and incurability are particularly tantalising targets. The optimal source of stem cells remains to be determined but bone marrow stem cells may themselves be included amongst the contenders.Any development of therapies using stem cells must depend on an underlying knowledge of their basic biology. The haemopoietic system has long been known to maintain circulating populations of cells with short life spans, and this system has greatly informed our knowledge of stem cell biology. In particular, it has helped yield the traditional stem cell model - a hierarchical paradigm of progressive lineage restriction. As cells differentiate, their fate choices become progressively more limited, and their capacity for proliferation reduced, until fully differentiated, mitotically quiescent cells are generated. Even this, however, is now under challenge.
Reporter gene assays are versatile and sensitive methods of assaying numerous targets in high-throughput drug-screening programs. A variety of reporter genes allow users a choice of signal that can be tailored to the required sensitivity, the available detection apparatus, the cellular system employed, and the required compatibility with multiplexed assays. Promoters used to drive reporter gene expression can be activated either by a broad range of biochemical pathways or by the selective activation of individual targets. In this chapter, we will introduce some of the considerations behind the choice of reporter gene assays and describe the methods that we have used to establish 96-well format luciferase and aequorin assays for the screening of ligands for G protein-coupled receptors.
Scintillation proximity assay (SPA) is a homogenous and versatile technology for the simple and sensitive detection of the interaction of protein targets with their ligands. Herein, we described a SPA assay developed to identify compounds that bind to human fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH). This SPA assay utilizes the specific binding of [(3)H]-R(+)-methanandamide ((3)H-MAEA), a competitive nonhydrolyzed FAAH inhibitor, to FAAH expressing microsomes and evaluates its displacement by FAAH inhibitors. In contrast to the classical SPA radioligand binding assay which detects bound ligand, in our assay the released radiolabel is detected through its interaction with the SPA beads. This novel SPA assay has been validated and demonstrated to be simple, sensitive, and amenable to high-throughput screening.
Neural transplantation has been a long-standing goal for the treatment of neurological injury and disease. The recent discovery of persistent pools of neural stem cells within the adult mammalian brain has re-ignited interest in transplant therapeutics. Since neural stem cells are self-renewing, it may be possible to culture and expand neural stem cells and their progenitor cell progeny to sufficient numbers for use in autologous, self-repair strategies. Such approaches will require optimized cultivation protocols, as well as extensive testing of candidate donor cells to assess their capacity for engraftment, survival, and integration. In this chapter, we describe the transplantation of neural stem/progenitor cells-cultivated as either neurospheres or neurogenic astrocyte monolayers-into the persistently neurogenic olfactory bulb system of the adult mouse forebrain, and into the cerebellum of neonatal mutant mice.
Modern biologists have at their disposal a large array of techniques used to assess the existence and relative or absolute quantity of any molecule of interest in a sample. However, implementing most of these procedures can be a daunting task for the first time, even in a lab with experienced researchers. Just choosing a protocol to follow can take weeks while all of the nuances are examined and it is determined whether a protocol will (a) give the desired results, (b) result in interpretable and unbiased data, and (c) be amenable to the sample of interest. We detail here a robust procedure for labeling proteins in a complex lysate for the ultimate differential quantification of protein abundance following experimental manipulations. Following a successful outcome of the labeling procedure, the sample is submitted for mass spectrometric analysis, resulting in peptide quantification and protein identification. While we will concentrate on cells in culture, we will point out procedures that can be used for labeling lysates generated from other tissues, along with any minor modifications required for such samples. We will also outline, but not fully document, other strategies used in our lab to label proteins prior to mass spectrometric analysis, and describe under which conditions each procedure may be desirable. What is not covered in this chapter is anything but the most brief introduction to mass spectrometry (instrumentation, theory, etc.), nor do we attempt to cover much in the way of software used for post hoc analysis. These two topics are dependant upon one's resources, and where applicable, one's collaborators. We strongly encourage the reader to seek out expert advice on topics not covered here.
Expression of almost every gene is regulated at the transcription level. Therefore, transcriptional factor Transcription factors, consequently, have marked effects on the fate of a cell by establishing the gene expression patterns that determine biological processes. In the auditory and vestibular systems, transcription factors have been found to be responsible for development, cell growth, and apoptosis. It is vital to identify the transcription factor target genes and the mechanisms by which transcription factors control and guide gene expression and regulation pathways. Compared with earlier methods devised to study transcription factor-DNA interactions, the advantage of the chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay is that the interaction of a transcription factor with its target genes is captured in the native context of chromatin in living cells. Therefore, ChIP base assays are powerful tools to identify the direct interaction of transcription factors and their target genes in vivo. More importantly, ChIP assays have been used in combination with molecular biology techniques, such as PCR and real time PCR, gene cloning, and DNA microarrays, to determine the interaction of transcription factor-DNA from a few potential individual targets to genome-wide surveys.
Using gene arrays, it is currently possible to simultaneously measure mRNA levels of many genes in any tissue of interest. Undoubtedly, comprehensive measurements of gene expression as part of carefully designed experiments will continue to further our understanding of audition and have the potential to open up new avenues of research. This chapter describes a reliable protocol to prepare high-quality biotin-labeled RNA target, specifically for oligonucleotide array experiments. The procedure includes isolation of high-quality total RNA, synthesis of double-stranded cDNA engineered for in vitro transcription with T7 RNA polymerase, subsequent in vitro transcription in the presence of biotin-labeled ribonucleotides, and fractionation of the RNA to approximately 500 bp fragments, suitable for oligonucleotide array experiments. Because the membranous labyrinth is composed of functionally interdependent cellular structures, which themselves contain numerous, highly differentiated cell types, comprehensive analysis of gene expression in the cochlea is best complemented by immunohistochemical studies or, if no suitable antibodies are available, by in situ hybridization studies. Either one of these techniques will identify the specific cell types that express the genes of interests.
Neuroscience methods entailing in vivo measurements of brain activity have greatly contributed to our understanding of brain function for the past decades, from the invasive early studies in animals using single-cell electrical recordings, to the noninvasive techniques in humans of scalp-recorded electroencephalography (EEG) and magnetoencephalography (MEG), positron emission tomography (PET), and, most recently, blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). A central objective of these techniques is to measure neuronal activities with high spatial and temporal resolution. Each of these methods, however, has substantial limitations in this regard. Single-cell recording is invasive and only typically records cellular activity in a single location; EEG/MEG cannot generally provide accurate and unambiguous delineations of neuronal activation spatially; and the most sophisticated BOLD-based fMRI methods are still fundamentally limited by their dependence on the very slow hemodynamic responses upon which they are based. Even the latest neuroimaging methodology (e.g., multimodal EEG/fMRI) does not yet unambiguously provide accurate localization of neuronal activation spatially and temporally. There is hence a need to further develop noninvasive imaging methods that can directly image neuroelectric activity and thus truly achieve a high temporal resolution and spatial specificity in humans. Here, we discuss the theory, implementation, and potential utility of an MRI technique termed Lorentz effect imaging (LEI) that can detect spatially incoherent yet temporally synchronized, minute electrical activities in the neural amplitude range (microamperes) when they occur in a strong magnetic field. Moreover, we demonstrate with our preliminary results in phantoms and in vivo, the feasibility of imaging such activities with a temporal resolution on the order of milliseconds.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has become a popular functional imaging tool for human studies. Future diagnostic use of fMRI depends, however, on a suitable neurophysiologic interpretation of the blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) signal change. This particular goal is best achieved in animal models primarily due to the invasive nature of other methods used and/or pharmacological agents applied to probe different nuances of neuronal (and glial) activity coupled to the BOLD signal change. In the last decade, we have directed our efforts towards the development of stimulation protocols for a variety of modalities in rodents with fMRI. Cortical perception of the natural world relies on the formation of multi-dimensional representation of stimuli impinging on the different sensory systems, leading to the hypothesis that a sensory stimulus may have very different neurophysiologic outcome(s) when paired with a near simultaneous event in another modality. Before approaching this level of complexity, reliable measures must be obtained of the relatively small changes in the BOLD signal and other neurophysiologic markers (electrical activity, blood flow) induced by different peripheral stimuli. Here we describe different tactile (i.e., forepaw, whisker) and non-tactile (i.e., olfactory, visual) sensory paradigms applied to the anesthetized rat. The main focus is on development and validation of methods for reproducible stimulation of each sensory modality applied independently or in conjunction with one another, both inside and outside the magnet. We discuss similarities and/or differences across the sensory systems as well as advantages they may have for studying essential neuroscientific questions. We envisage that the different sensory paradigms described here may be applied directly to studies of multi-sensory interactions in anesthetized rats, en route to a rudimentary understanding of the awake functioning brain where various sensory cues presumably interrelate.
We introduce the concept of spatial and temporal complexity with emphasis on how its fractal characterization for 1D, 2D or 3D hemodynamic brain signals can be carried out. Using high-resolution experimental data sets acquired in animal and human brain by noninvasive methods - such as laser Doppler flowmetry, laser speckle, near infrared, or functional magnetic resonance imaging - the spatiotemporal complexity of cerebral hemodynamics is demonstrated. It is characterized by spontaneous, seemingly random (that is disorderly) fluctuation of the hemodynamic signals. Fractal analysis, however, proved that these fluctuations are correlated according to the special order of self-similarity. The degree of correlation can be assessed quantitatively either in the temporal or the frequency domain respectively by the Hurst exponent (H) and the spectral index (beta). The values of H for parenchymal regions of white and gray matter of the rat brain cortex are distinctly different. In human studies, the values of beta were instrumental in identifying age-related stiffening of cerebral vasculature and their potential vulnerability in watershed areas of the brain cortex such as in borderline regions between frontal and temporal lobes. Biological complexity seems to be present within a restricted range of H or beta values which may have medical significance because outlying values can indicate a state of pathology.
In recent years, there have been unprecedented methodological advances in the dynamic imaging of brain activities. Electrophysiological, optical, and magnetic resonance methods now allow mapping of functional activation (or deactivation) by measurement of neural activity (e.g., membrane potential, ion flux, neurotransmitter flux), energy metabolism (e.g., glucose consumption, oxygen consumption, creatine kinase flux), and functional hyperemia (e.g., blood oxygenation, blood flow, blood volume). Properties of the glutamatergic synapse are used to model activities at the nerve terminal and their associated changes in energy demand and blood flow. This approach reveals that each method measures different tissue- and/or cell-specific components with characteristic spatiotemporal resolution. While advantages and disadvantages of different methods are apparent and often used to supersede one another in terms of specificity and/or sensitivity, no particular technique is the optimal dynamic brain imaging method because each method is unique in some respect. Since the demand for energy substrates is a fundamental requirement for function, energy-based methods may allow quantitative dynamic imaging in vivo. However, there are exclusive neurobiological insights gained by combining some of these different dynamic imaging techniques.
The Adhesion G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are the most complex gene family among GPCRs with large genomic size, multiple introns, and a fascinating flora of functional domains, though the evolutionary origin of this family has been obscure. Here we studied the evolution of all class B (7tm2)-related genes, including the Adhesion, Secretin, and Methuselah families of GPCRs with a focus on nine genomes. We found that the cnidarian genome of Nematostella vectensis has a remarkably rich set of Adhesion GPCRs with a broad repertoire of N-terminal domains although this genome did not have any Secretin GPCRs. Moreover, the single-celled and colony-forming eukaryotes Monosiga brevicollis and Dictyostelium discoideum contain Adhesion-like GPCRs although these genomes do not have any Secretin GPCRs suggesting that the Adhesion types of GPCRs are the most ancient among class B GPCRs. Phylogenetic analysis found Adhesion group V (that contains GPR133 and GPR144) to be the closest relative to the Secretin family in the Adhesion family. Moreover, Adhesion group V sequences in N. vectensis share the same splice site setup as the Secretin GPCRs. Additionally, one of the most conserved motifs in the entire Secretin family is only found in group V of the Adhesion family. We suggest therefore that the Secretin family of GPCRs could have descended from group V Adhesion GPCRs. We found a set of unique Adhesion-like GPCRs in N. vectensis that have long N-termini containing one Somatomedin B domain each, which is a domain configuration similar to that of a set of Adhesion-like GPCRs found in Branchiostoma floridae. These sequences show slight similarities to Methuselah sequences found in insects. The extended class B GPCRs have a very complex evolutionary history with several species-specific expansions, and we identified at least 31 unique N-terminal domains originating from other protein classes. The overall N-terminal domain structure, however, concurs with the phylogenetic analysis of the transmembrane domains, thus enabling us to track the origin of most of the subgroups.
Cochlear hair cells use SK2 currents to shape responses to cholinergic efferent feedback from the brain. Using SK2(-/-) mice, we demonstrate that, in addition to their previously defined role in modulating hair cell membrane potentials, SK2 channels are necessary for long-term survival of olivocochlear fibers and synapses. Loss of the SK2 gene also results in loss of electrically driven olivocochlear effects in vivo, and down regulation of ryanodine receptors involved in calcium-induced calcium release, the main inducer of nAChR evoked SK2 activity. Generation of double-null mice lacking both the alpha10 nAChR gene, loss of which results in hypertrophied olivocochlear terminals, and the SK2 gene, recapitulates the SK2(-/-) synaptic phenotype and gene expression, and also leads to down regulation of alpha9 nAChR gene expression. The data suggest a hierarchy of activity necessary to maintain early olivocochlear synapses at their targets, with SK2 serving an epistatic, upstream, role to the nAChRs.
Soma() (carisoprodol) is an increasingly abused, centrally-acting muscle relaxant. Despite the prevalence of carisoprodol abuse, its mechanism of action remains unclear. Its sedative effects, which contribute to its therapeutic and recreational use, are generally attributed to the actions of its primary metabolite, meprobamate, at GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)R). Meprobamate is a controlled substance at the federal level; ironically, carisoprodol is not currently classified as such. Using behavioral and molecular pharmacological approaches, we recently demonstrated carisoprodol, itself, is capable of modulating GABA(A)R function in a manner similar to central nervous system depressants. Its functional similarities with this highly addictive class of drugs may contribute to the abuse potential of carisoprodol. The site of action of carisoprodol has not been identified; based on our studies, interaction with benzodiazepine or barbiturate sites is unlikely. These recent findings, when coupled with numerous reports in the literature, support the contention that the non-controlled status of carisoprodol should be reevaluated.
The processing of clinical specimens in the mycobacterial diagnostic laboratory has undergone remarkable improvements during the last decade. While microscopy and culture are still the major backbone for laboratory diagnosis of tuberculosis on a worldwide basis, new methods including molecular diagnostic tests have evolved over the last two decades. The majority of molecular tests have been focused on (i) detection of nucleic acids, both DNA and RNA, that are specific to Mycobacterium tuberculosis, by amplification techniques such as polymerase chain reaction (PCR); and (ii) detection of mutations in the genes that are associated with resistance to antituberculosis drugs by sequencing or nucleic acid hybridization. Recent developments in direct and rapid detection of mycobacteria, with emphasis on M. tuberculosis species identification by 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis or oligohybridization and strain typing, as well as detection of drug susceptibility patterns, all contribute to these advances. Generally, the balance between genome instability and genome maintenance as the basis for evolutionary development, strain diversification and resistance development is important, because it cradles the resulting M. tuberculosis phenotype. At the same time, semi-automated culture systems have contributed greatly to the increased sensitivity and reduced turnaround time in the mycobacterial analysis of clinical specimens. Collectively, these advances are particularly important for establishing the diagnosis of tuberculosis in children. More basic and operational research to appraise the impact and cost effectiveness of new diagnostic technologies must, however, be carried out. Furthermore, the design and quality of clinical trials evaluating new diagnostics must be improved to allow clinical and laboratory services that would provide rapid response to test results. Thus, important work remains before the new diagnostic tools can be meaningfully integrated into national tuberculosis control programs of high-burden countries.

Here we propose a simple statistical algorithm for rapidly scoring loci associated with disease or traits due to recessive mutations or deletions using genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphism genotyping case-control data in unrelated individuals. This algorithm identifies loci by defining homozygous segments of the genome present at significantly different frequencies between cases and controls. We found that false positive loci could be effectively removed from the output of this procedure by applying different physical size thresholds for the homozygous segments. This procedure is then conducted iteratively using random sub-datasets until the number of selected loci converges. We demonstrate this method in a publicly available data set for Alzheimer's disease and identify 26 candidate risk loci in the 22 autosomes. In this data set, these loci can explain 75% of the genetic risk variability of the disease.
Genome-wide expression profiling has aided the understanding of the molecular basis of neuronal diversity, but achieving broad functional insight remains a considerable challenge. Here, we perform the first systems-level analysis of microarray data from single neuronal populations using weighted gene co-expression network analysis to examine how neuronal transcriptome organization relates to neuronal function and diversity. We systematically validate network predictions using published proteomic and genomic data. Several network modules of co-expressed genes correspond to interneuron development programs, in which the hub genes are known to be critical for interneuron specification. Other co-expression modules relate to fundamental cellular functions, such as energy production, firing rate, trafficking, and synapses, suggesting that fundamental aspects of neuronal diversity are produced by quantitative variation in basic metabolic processes. We identify two transcriptionally distinct mitochondrial modules and demonstrate that one corresponds to mitochondria enriched in neuronal processes and synapses, whereas the other represents a population restricted to the soma. Finally, we show that galectin-1 is a new interneuron marker, and we validate network predictions in vivo using Rgs4 and Dlx1/2 knockout mice. These analyses provide a basis for understanding how specific aspects of neuronal phenotypic diversity are organized at the transcriptional level.
Recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV)-mediated gene transfer is an attractive approach to the treatment of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). We investigated the muscle transduction profiles and immune responses associated with the administration of rAAV2 and rAAV8 in normal and canine X-linked muscular dystrophy in Japan (CXMD(J)) dogs. rAAV2 or rAAV8 encoding the lacZ gene was injected into the skeletal muscles of normal dogs. Two weeks after the injection, we detected a larger number of beta-galactosidase-positive fibers in rAAV8-transduced canine skeletal muscle than in rAAV2-transduced muscle. Although immunohistochemical analysis using anti-CD4 and anti-CD8 antibodies revealed less T-cell response to rAAV8 than to rAAV2, beta-galactosidase expression in rAAV8-injected muscle lasted for &lt;4 weeks with intramuscular transduction. Canine bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (DCs) were activated by both rAAV2 and rAAV8, implying that innate immunity might be involved in both cases. Intravenous administration of rAAV8-lacZ into the hind limb in normal dogs and rAAV8-microdystrophin into the hind limb in CXMD(J) dogs resulted in improved transgene expression in the skeletal muscles lasting over a period of 8 weeks, but with a declining trend. The limb perfusion transduction protocol with adequate immune modulation would further enhance the rAAV8-mediated transduction strategy and lead to therapeutic benefits in DMD gene therapy.


In overt reading and singing tasks, actual vocalization of words in a rhythmic fashion is performed. During execution of these tasks, the role of underlying vascular processes in relation to cortical excitability changes in a spatial manner is uncertain. Our objective was to investigate cortical excitability changes during reading and singing with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), as well as vascular changes with nearinfrared spectroscopy (NIRS). Findings with TMS and NIRS were correlated. TMS and NIRS recordings were performed in 5 normal subjects while they performed reading and singing tasks separately. TMS was applied over the left motor cortex at 9 positions 2.5 cm apart. NIRS recordings were made over these identical positions. Although both TMS and NIRS showed significant mean cortical excitability and hemodynamic changes from baseline during vocalization tasks, there was no significant spatial correlation of these changes evaluated with the 2 techniques over the left motor cortex. Our findings suggest that increased left-sided cortical excitability from overt vocalization tasks in the corresponding &quot;hand area&quot; were the result of &quot;functional connectivity,&quot; rather than an underlying &quot;vascular overflow mechanism&quot; from the adjacent speech processing or face/mouth areas. Our findings also imply that functional neurophysiological and vascular methods may evaluate separate underlying processes, although subjects performed identical vocalization tasks. Future research combining similar methodologies should embrace this aspect and harness their separate capabilities.
In the current study, we adopted the hypothesis that the body scheme disturbances occurring during adolescence might lead subjects to transiently neglect proprioceptive information and that adolescents might rely more strongly on vision to control their orientation and stabilize their body. To check this point, we asked adolescents 14-15 years to maintain vertical stance while very slow sinusoidal oscillations in the frontal plane were applied to the supporting platform at 0.01 Hz (below the detection threshold of the semicircular canal system) and at 0.06 Hz (above) with the eyes open and closed. Two postural components, orientation and segmental stabilization, were analyzed at the head, shoulder, trunk, and pelvis levels. At the lowest frequency without vision, the performances of adolescents were much less efficient than those of adults. Moreover, this study showed that vision plays a predominant role in adolescents' control of orientation and body stabilization. At 0.06 Hz without vision, a clearcut difference was observed between the strategies used by girls and boys; specifically, the maturation of the segmental stabilization processes was found to be more advanced in girls than in boys. However, no such difference was observed at 0.01 Hz. Lastly, comparisons between the data obtained in adolescents and those previously obtained in young adults (Vaugoyeau, Viel, Amblard, Azulay, &amp; Assaiante, 2008) clearly show that adolescents use different postural strategies and that they are not yet capable of reaching comparable postural performance levels to those observed in adults. Because adolescents were not able to use the proprioceptive information available to improve their postural control, we concluded that they showed a maturational lag in comparison with adults. This suggests that the mechanisms underlying postural control are still maturing during adolescence, which might constitute a transient period of proprioceptive neglect in sensory integration of postural control.
Neuroimaging and modern computational techniques like spatial covariance analysis have contributed greatly to the understanding of neural system abnormalities in neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD). The application of network analysis to metabolic PET data obtained from patients with PD has led to the identification and validation of two distinct spatial covariance patterns associated with the motor and cognitive manifestations of the disease. Quantifying the activity of these patterns in individual subjects has provided an objective tool for the assessment of treatment efficacy and differential diagnosis. We have found that activity of the PD motor-related network is modulated by antiparkinsonian treatments such as dopaminergic therapy, deep brain stimulation (DBS), and subthalamic nucleus (STN) gene therapy. By contrast, the cognitive-related network is not altered by these interventions for PD motor symptoms. This pattern may however change in response to therapies targeting the cognitive symptoms of this disorder. Recent work has focused on the identification of specific network biomarkers for atypical parkinsonian conditions such as multiple system atrophy (MSA) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). These disease-related patterns can potentially be used in an automated imaging-based algorithm to classify patients with these disorders.
Although Parkinson's disease with later dementia (PDD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) are pathologically characterized by the presence of intraneuronal Lewy inclusion bodies, amyloid deposition is also associated to varying degrees with both these disorders. Fibrillar amyloid load can now be quantitated in vivo with positron emission tomography (PET) using imaging biomarkers. Here the reported findings of 11C-PIB PET studies concerning the amyloid load associated with PD and its influence on dementia are reviewed. It is concluded that the presence of amyloid acts to accelerate the dementia process in Lewy body disorders, though has little influence on its nature. Anti-amyloid strategies could be a relevant approach for slowing dementia in a number of DLB and PDD cases.



We describe the follow-up of a patient with Waldenstrm's macroglobulinemia who developed mild predominantly sensory peripheral neuropathy, Bing-Neel syndrome, and, after 17 years, acute mononeuropathy multiplex associated with increasing paraprotein levels. Nerve biopsy demonstrated deposition of IgM in the endoneurium and perineurium. Magnetic resonance imaging showed extension of the cerebral white-matter abnormality. We suggest that the pathogenetic mechanism of the mononeuropathy multiplex may include direct IgM deposition. Late peripheral nerve complications appeared to be related to the paraprotein level.
Delivery of genes to the brain and spinal cord across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) has not yet been achieved. Here we show that adeno-associated virus (AAV) 9 injected intravenously bypasses the BBB and efficiently targets cells of the central nervous system (CNS). Injection of AAV9-GFP into neonatal mice through the facial vein results in extensive transduction of dorsal root ganglia and motor neurons throughout the spinal cord and widespread transduction of neurons throughout the brain, including the neocortex, hippocampus and cerebellum. In adult mice, tail vein injection of AAV9-GFP leads to robust transduction of astrocytes throughout the entire CNS, with limited neuronal transduction. This approach may enable the development of gene therapies for a range of neurodegenerative diseases, such as spinal muscular atrophy, through targeting of motor neurons, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, through targeting of astrocytes. It may also be useful for rapid postnatal genetic manipulations in basic neuroscience studies.
Infant pain is a clinical reality. Effective pain management in infants requires a specialist approach--analgesic protocols that have been designed for older children cannot simply be scaled down for CNS pain pathways and analgesic targets that are in a state of developmental transition. Here, we discuss the particular challenges that are presented by an immature CNS for the detection and treatment of pain. We show how the application of neurophysiological and neuropharmacological approaches can help to overcome the problems inherent in measuring and treating pain in infants, and how research data in these areas can be used to devise age-appropriate methods of assessing pain as well as strategies for pain relief. The evidence that untreated pain in infancy results in long-term adverse consequences is presented, thereby emphasizing the need for a longer term view of infant pain management.
One of the most exciting events in neurosciences over the past few years has been the discovery of a mechanism that unifies action perception and action execution. The essence of this 'mirror' mechanism is as follows: whenever individuals observe an action being done by someone else, a set of neurons that code for that action is activated in the observers' motor system. Since the observers are aware of the outcome of their motor acts, they also understand what the other individual is doing without the need for intermediate cognitive mediation. In this Review, after discussing the most pertinent data concerning the mirror mechanism, we examine the clinical relevance of this mechanism. We first discuss the relationship between mirror mechanism impairment and some core symptoms of autism. We then outline the theoretical principles of neurorehabilitation strategies based on the mirror mechanism. We conclude by examining the relationship between the mirror mechanism and some features of the environmental dependency syndromes.
Our voluntary behaviors are thought to be controlled by top-down signals from the prefrontal cortex that modulate neural processing in the posterior cortices according to the behavioral goal. However, we have insufficient evidence for the causal effect of the top-down signals. We applied a single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation over the human prefrontal cortex and measured the strength of the top-down signals as an increase in the efficiency of neural impulse transmission. The impulse induced by the stimulation transmitted to different posterior visual areas depending on the domain of visual features to which subjects attended. We also found that the amount of impulse transmission was associated with the level of attentional preparation and the performance of visual selective-attention tasks, consistent with the causal role of prefrontal top-down signals.
Many neurocognitive models of anxiety emphasize the importance of a hyper-responsive threat-detection system centered on the amygdala, with recent accounts incorporating a role for prefrontal mechanisms in regulating attention to threat. Here we investigated whether trait anxiety is associated with a much broader dysregulation of attentional control. Volunteers performed a response-conflict task under conditions that posed high or low demands on attention. High trait-anxious individuals showed reduced prefrontal activity and slower target identification in response to processing competition when the task did not fully occupy attentional resources. The relationship between trait anxiety and prefrontal recruitment remained after controlling for state anxiety. These findings indicate that trait anxiety is linked to impoverished recruitment of prefrontal attentional control mechanisms to inhibit distractor processing even when threat-related stimuli are absent. Notably, this deficit was observed when ongoing task-related demands on attention were low, potentially explaining the day-to-day difficulties in concentration that are associated with clinical anxiety.
Cell-replacement therapy and tissue regeneration using stem cells are of great interest to recover histological damage caused by neuro-degenerative disease or traumatic insults to the brain. To date, the main intra-cerebral delivery for these cells has been as a suspension in media through a thin needle. However, this does not provide cells with a support system that would allow tissue regeneration. Scaffold particles are needed to provide structural support to cells to form de novo tissue. In this 16-d protocol, we describe the generation and functionalization of poly (D,L-lactic-co-glycolic) acid (PLGA) particles to enhance cell attachment, the attachment procedure to avoid clumping and aggregation of cells and particles, and their preparation for intra-cerebral injection through a thin needle. Although the stem cell-scaffold transplantation is more complicated and labor-intensive than cell suspensions, it affords de novo tissue generation inside the brain and hence provides a significant step forward in traumatic brain repair.
We provide here detailed electrophysiological protocols to study voltage-gated sodium channels and to investigate how wild-type and mutant channels influence firing properties of transfected mammalian dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings permit us to analyze kinetic and voltage-dependence properties of ion channels and to determine the effect and mode of action of pharmaceuticals on specific channel isoforms. They also permit us to analyze the role of individual sodium channels and their mutant derivatives in regulating firing of DRG neurons. Five to ten cells can be recorded daily, depending on the extent of analysis that is required. Because of different internal solutions that are used in voltage-clamp and current-clamp recordings, only limited information can be obtained from recording the same neuron in both modes. These electrophysiological studies help to elucidate the role of specific channels in setting threshold and suprathreshold responses of neurons, under normal and pathological conditions.
In order to link our knowledge of single neurons with theories of network function, it has been a long-standing goal to manipulate the activity and gene expression of identified subsets of mammalian neurons within the intact brain in vivo. This protocol describes a method for delivering plasmid DNA into single identified mammalian neurons in vivo, by combining two-photon imaging with single-cell electroporation. Surgery, mounting of a chronic recording chamber and targeted electroporation of identified neurons can be performed within 1-2 h. Stable transgene expression can reliably be induced with high success rates both in single neurons as well as in small, spatially defined networks of neurons in the cerebral cortex of rodents.
Over the past decade, lentiviral vectors have emerged as powerful tools for transgene delivery. The use of lentiviral vectors has become commonplace and applications in the fields of neuroscience, hematology, developmental biology, stem cell biology and transgenesis are rapidly emerging. Also, lentiviral vectors are at present being explored in the context of human clinical trials. Here we describe improved protocols to generate highly concentrated lentiviral vector pseudotypes involving different envelope glycoproteins. In this protocol, vector stocks are prepared by transient transfection using standard cell culture media or serum-free media. Such stocks are then concentrated by ultracentrifugation and/or ion exchange chromatography, or by precipitation using polyethylene glycol 6000, resulting in vector titers of up to 10(10) transducing units per milliliter and above. We also provide reliable real-time PCR protocols to titrate lentiviral vectors based on proviral DNA copies present in genomic DNA extracted from transduced cells or on vector RNA. These production/concentration methods result in high-titer vector preparations that show reduced toxicity compared with lentiviral vectors produced using standard protocols involving ultracentrifugation-based methods. The vector production and titration protocol described here can be completed within 8 d.
Intracellular recordings are routinely used to study the synaptic and intrinsic properties of neurons in vitro. A key requirement for these recordings is a mechanically very stable preparation; thus their use in vivo had been limited previously to head-restrained animals. We have recently demonstrated that anchoring the electrode rigidly in place with respect to the skull provides sufficient stabilization for long-lasting, high-quality whole-cell recordings in awake, freely moving rats. This protocol describes our procedure in detail, adds specific instructions for targeting hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons and updates it with changes that facilitate patching and improve the success rate. The changes involve combining a standard, nonhead-mounted micromanipulator with a gripper to firmly hold the recording pipette during the anchoring process then gently release it afterwards. The procedure from the beginning of surgery to the end of a recording takes approximately 5 h. This technique allows new studies of the mechanisms underlying neuronal integration and cellular/synaptic plasticity in identified cells during natural behaviors.
Glia have emerged as key contributors to pathological and chronic pain mechanisms. On activation, both astrocytes and microglia respond to and release a number of signalling molecules, which have protective and/or pathological functions. Here we review the current understanding of the contribution of glia to pathological pain and neuroprotection, and how the protective, anti-inflammatory actions of glia are being harnessed to develop new drug targets for neuropathic pain control. Given the prevalence of chronic pain and the partial efficacy of current drugs, which exclusively target neuronal mechanisms, new strategies to manipulate neuron-glia interactions in pain processing hold considerable promise.
Brain banks collect post-mortem human brains to foster research into human CNS function and disease. They have been indispensable for uncovering the secrets of many diseases, including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. At a time when there are so many open questions in neuroscience and the incidence of brain diseases continues to increase in parallel with the aging of the population, brain banking remains at the heart of brain research. However, the major source of brain banks, the clinical autopsy, is rapidly falling into limbo. New strategies, including donor programmes, medico-legal autopsies and banking in networks, as well as fresh considerations of the ethics and public relations, are required.
Advances in cognitive neuroscience offer us new ways to understand the symptoms of mental illness by uniting basic neurochemical and neurophysiological observations with the conscious experiences that characterize these symptoms. Cognitive theories about the positive symptoms of schizophrenia--hallucinations and delusions--have tended to treat perception and belief formation as distinct processes. However, recent advances in computational neuroscience have led us to consider the unusual perceptual experiences of patients and their sometimes bizarre beliefs as part of the same core abnormality--a disturbance in error-dependent updating of inferences and beliefs about the world. We suggest that it is possible to understand these symptoms in terms of a disturbed hierarchical Bayesian framework, without recourse to separate considerations of experience and belief.
Voltage-activated (Kv) and leak (K(2P)) K(+) channels have key, yet distinct, roles in electrical signaling in the nervous system. Here we examine how differences in the operation of the activation and slow inactivation pore gates of Kv and K(2P) channels underlie their unique roles in electrical signaling. We report that (i) leak K(+) channels possess a lower activation gate, (ii) the activation gate is an important determinant controlling the conformational stability of the K(+) channel pore, (iii) the lower activation and upper slow inactivation gates of leak channels cross-talk and (iv) unlike Kv channels, where the two gates are negatively coupled, these two gates are positively coupled in K(2P) channels. Our results demonstrate how basic thermodynamic properties of the K(+) channel pore, particularly conformational stability and coupling between gates, underlie the specialized roles of Kv and K(2P) channel families in electrical signaling.


This article outlines the role of systemic neuroscience in research of the pathogenesis and pathophysiology of schizophrenic and other psychotic disorders and in the development of diagnostic and prognostic tools to permit individualized and optimized pharmacotherapy for these disorders. Based on preclinical and clinical studies of the physiology and pathophysiology of human working memory, it is possible to establish intermediate neurofunctional phenotypes that, given the current lack of identified pathological substrates, may serve as biological markers for diagnosing factual disease entities. In this way the use of functional neuroimaging techniques may allow the identification of subtypes of the psychotic disorders that so far are uniformly diagnosed according to current psychiatric classification systems. This may permit more precise diagnosis and a specification and optimization of pharmacotherapy.
More than thirty years ago, Amari and colleagues proposed a statistical framework for identifying structurally stable macrostates of neural networks from observations of their microstates. We compare their stochastic stability criterion with a deterministic stability criterion based on the ergodic theory of dynamical systems, recently proposed for the scheme of contextual emergence and applied to particular inter-level relations in neuroscience. Stochastic and deterministic stability criteria for macrostates rely on macro-level contexts, which make them sensitive to differences between different macro-levels.

A striking recent finding is that monkeys behave maladaptively in a class of tasks in which they know that reward is going to be systematically delayed. This may be explained by a malign Pavlovian influence arising from states with low predicted values. However, by very carefully analyzing behavioral data from such tasks, La Camera and Richmond (2008) observed the additional important characteristic that subjects perform differently on states in the task that are at equal distances from the future reward, depending on what has happened in the recent past. The authors pointed out that this violates the definition of state value in the standard reinforcement learning models that are ubiquitous as accounts of operant and classical conditioned behavior; they suggested and analyzed an alternative temporal difference (TD) model in which past and future are melded. Here, we show that, in fact, a standard TD model can actually exhibit the same behavior, and that this avoids deleterious consequences for choice. At the heart of the model is the average reward per step, which acts as a baseline for measuring immediate rewards. Relatively subtle changes to this baseline occasioned by the past can markedly influence predictions and thus behavior.
A decision-theoretic formulation of visual saliency, first proposed for top-down processing (object recognition) (Gao &amp; Vasconcelos, 2005a), is extended to the problem of bottom-up saliency. Under this formulation, optimality is defined in the minimum probability of error sense, under a constraint of computational parsimony. The saliency of the visual features at a given location of the visual field is defined as the power of those features to discriminate between the stimulus at the location and a null hypothesis. For bottom-up saliency, this is the set of visual features that surround the location under consideration. Discrimination is defined in an information-theoretic sense and the optimal saliency detector derived for a class of stimuli that complies with known statistical properties of natural images. It is shown that under the assumption that saliency is driven by linear filtering, the optimal detector consists of what is usually referred to as the standard architecture of V1: a cascade of linear filtering, divisive normalization, rectification, and spatial pooling. The optimal detector is also shown to replicate the fundamental properties of the psychophysics of saliency: stimulus pop-out, saliency asymmetries for stimulus presence versus absence, disregard of feature conjunctions, and Weber's law. Finally, it is shown that the optimal saliency architecture can be applied to the solution of generic inference problems. In particular, for the class of stimuli studied, it performs the three fundamental operations of statistical inference: assessment of probabilities, implementation of Bayes decision rule, and feature selection.
Many efforts have been devoted to modeling asynchronous irregular (AI) activity states, which resemble the complex activity states seen in the cerebral cortex of awake animals. Most of models have considered balanced networks of excitatory and inhibitory spiking neurons in which AI states are sustained through recurrent sparse connectivity, with or without external input. In this letter we propose a mesoscopic description of such AI states. Using master equation formalism, we derive a second-order mean-field set of ordinary differential equations describing the temporal evolution of randomly connected balanced networks. This formalism takes into account finite size effects and is applicable to any neuron model as long as its transfer function can be characterized. We compare the predictions of this approach with numerical simulations for different network configurations and parameter spaces. Considering the randomly connected network as a unit, this approach could be used to build large-scale networks of such connected units, with an aim to model activity states constrained by macroscopic measurements, such as voltage-sensitive dye imaging.
Previous studies have shown that a particular site in the periaqueductal gray (PAG), the rostrolateral PAG, influences the motivation drive to forage or hunt. To have a deeper understanding on the putative paths involved in the decision-making process between foraging, hunting, and other behavioral responses, in the present investigation, we carried out a systematic analysis of the neural inputs to the rostrolateral PAG (rlPAG), using Fluorogold as a retrograde tracer. According to the present findings, the rlPAG appears to be importantly driven by medial prefrontal cortical areas involved in controlling attention-related and decision-making processes. Moreover, the rlPAG also receives a wealth of information from different amygdalar, hypothalamic, and brainstem sites related to feeding, drinking, or hunting behavioral responses. Therefore, this unique combination of afferent connections puts the rlPAG in a privileged position to influence the motivation drive to choose whether hunting and foraging would be the most appropriate adaptive responses.
Anatomical and physiological studies conducted in the 1960s identified the periaqueductal gray (PAG) and its descending projections to the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) and spinal cord dorsal horn, as a primary anatomical pathway mediating opioid-based analgesia. Since these initial studies, the PAG-RVM-spinal cord pathway has been characterized anatomically and physiologically in a wide range of vertebrate species. Remarkably, the majority of these studies were conducted exclusively in males with the implicit assumption that the anatomy and physiology of this circuit were the same in females; however, this is not the case. It is well established that morphine administration produces greater antinociception in males compared to females. Recent studies indicate that the PAG-RVM pathway contributes to the sexually dimorphic actions of morphine. This manuscript will review our anatomical, physiological, and behavioral data identifying sex differences in the PAG-RVM pathway, focusing on its role in pain modulation and morphine analgesia.

According to theories of cultural neuroscience, Westerners and Easterners may have distinct styles of cognition (e.g., different allocation of attention). Previous research has shown that Westerners and Easterners tend to utilize analytical and holistic cognitive styles, respectively. On the other hand, little is known regarding the cultural differences in neuroeconomic behavior. For instance, economic decisions may be affected by cultural differences in neurocomputational processing underlying attention; however, this area of neuroeconomics has been largely understudied. In the present paper, we attempt to bridge this gap by considering the links between the theory of cultural neuroscience and neuroeconomic theory of the role of attention in intertemporal choice. We predict that (i) Westerners are more impulsive and inconsistent in intertemporal choice in comparison to Easterners, and (ii) Westerners more steeply discount delayed monetary losses than Easterners. We examine these predictions by utilizing a novel temporal discounting model based on Tsallis' statistics (i.e. a q-exponential model). Our preliminary analysis of temporal discounting of gains and losses by Americans and Japanese confirmed the predictions from the cultural neuroeconomic theory. Future study directions, employing computational modeling via neural networks, are outlined and discussed.
The reconsolidation hypothesis posits that memories that have been reactivated can be either enhanced or disrupted by pharmacological manipulation. Synaptic plasticity is presumed to underlie the reconsolidation process. Matrix metalloproteinases are proteins that regulate the extracellular matrix involved in plasticity events, and these proteins have recently been shown to influence learning and memory. However, all studies on the role of matrix metalloproteinases in learning and memory have employed tasks that rely on contextual cues. The goal of this study was to determine the extent to which FN-439 would disrupt the consolidation and/or reconsolidation of a fear memory associated with a conditioned stimulus that signaled tone-shock pairings and that was independent of contextual cues. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were given infusions of FN-439 (35 microg intracerebroventricular) 30 min prior to conditioning (tone-shock paired association) or 30 min prior to a single reactivation session given 24h after conditioning. Administration of FN-439 did not disrupt consolidation of the freezing response when the tone (conditioned stimulus) was presented. In contrast, FN-439 infusion disrupted reconsolidation of the fear memory in a reactivation-dependent manner. The reduced freezing behavior was not due to a decrease in general anxiety levels, since FN-439 had no effect on the percent of open-arm time or open-arm entries in an elevated-plus maze task. Thus, we demonstrated for the first time that matrix metalloproteinase inhibition in the brain is capable of disrupting the reconsolidation of a tone-shock association memory that does not depend on contextual cues. The finding that a fear response to a previously paired conditioned stimulus can be disrupted by treatment with an MMP inhibitor during a single reactivation session suggests that this class of compounds may have therapeutic potential for posttraumatic stress disorder and/or simple phobias.
The binding of two radiolabelled analogues (N-(5-[125I]Iodo-2-phenoxyphenyl)-N-(2,5-dimethoxybenzyl)acetamide ([125I]desfluoro-DAA1106) and N-(5-[125I]Fluoro-2-phenoxyphenyl)-N-(2-[125I]Iodo-5-methoxybenzyl)acetamide ([125I]desmethoxy-DAA1106) of the peripheral benzodiazepine receptor (PBR) (or TSPO, 18kDa translocator protein) ligand DAA1106 was examined by in vitro autoradiography on human post mortem whole hemisphere brain slices obtained from Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and age-matched controls. Both [(125)I]desfluoro-IDAA1106 and [(125)I]desmethoxy-IDAA1106 were effectively binding to various brain structures. The binding could be blocked by the unlabelled ligand as well as by other PBR specific ligands. With both radiolabelled compounds, the binding showed regional inhomogeneity and the specific binding values proved to be the highest in the hippocampus, temporal and parietal cortex, the basal ganglia and thalamus in the AD brains. Compared with age-matched control brains, specific binding in several brain structures (temporal and parietal lobes, thalamus and white matter) in Alzheimer brains was significantly higher, indicating that the radioligands can effectively label-activated microglia and the up-regulated PBR/TSPO system in AD. Complementary immunohistochemical studies demonstrated reactive microglia activation in the AD brain tissue and indicated that increased ligand binding coincides with increased regional microglia activation due to neuroinflammation. These investigations yield further support to the PBR/TSPO binding capacity of DAA1106 in human brain tissue, demonstrate the effective usefulness of its radio-iodinated analogues as imaging biomarkers in post mortem human studies, and indicate that its radiolabelled analogues, labelled with short half-time bioisotopes, can serve as prospective in vivo imaging biomarkers of activated microglia and the up-regulated PBR/TSPO system in the human brain.


The high concentration of N-acetylaspartate (NAA) in neurons of the central nervous system and its growing clinical use as an indicator of neuronal viability has intensified interest in the biological function of this amino acid derivative. The biomedical relevance of such inquiries is highlighted by the myelin-associated pathology of Canavan disease, an inherited childhood disorder resulting from mutation of aspartoacylase (ASPA), the NAA-hydrolyzing enzyme. This enzyme is known to be localized in oligodendrocytes with bimodal distribution in cytosol and the myelin sheath, and to produce acetyl groups utilized in myelin lipid synthesis. Loss of this acetyl source in Canavan disease and rodent models such as the tremor rat are thought to account for the observed myelin deficit. This study was undertaken to further define and quantify the specific lipid abnormalities that occur as a result of ASPA deficit in the tremor rat. Employing mass spectrometry together with high performance thin-layer chromatography, we found that myelin from 28-day-old animals showed major reduction in cerebrosides (CB) and sulfatides (Sulf) with unsubstituted fatty acids, and equal if not greater changes in myelin from 7-month-old tremors. Cerebrosides with 2-hydroxyfatty acids showed little if any change at either age; Sulf with 2-hydroxyfatty acids showed no significant change at 28 days, but surprisingly a major increase at 7 months. Two species of phosphatidylcholine, 32:0 and 34:1, also showed significant increase, but only at 28 days. One form of phosphatidylethanolamine, PE36:1, was reduced a modest amount at both ages, whereas the plasmalogen form did not change. The dysmyelination that results from inactivation of ASPA is thus characterized by selective decreases as well as some increases in specific lipids.
Glioblastoma is the deadliest brain tumor that remains incurable. We examined efficacy of combination of retinoid and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) in human glioblastoma T98G and U87MG cells. We conjectured that retinoid could induce differentiation with down regulation of telomerase activity to increase sensitivity to IFN-gamma for apoptosis in glioblastoma cells. Indeed, treatment of cells with 1 muM all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) or 1 muM 13-cis retinoic acid (13-CRA) for 7 days induced astrocytic differentiation with upregulation of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and down regulation of telomerase activity. Wright staining and ApopTag assay showed, respectively, morphological and biochemical features of apoptosis in glioblastoma cells following exposure to 200 units/ml IFN-gamma for 48 h. Induction of differentiation was associated with decreases in levels of nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and production of nitric oxide (NO) so as to increase sensitivity to IFN-gamma for apoptosis. Notably, IFN-gamma induced signal transducer and activator of transcription-1 (STAT-1) to bind to gamma-activated sequence (GAS) of the target gene. Also, IFN-gamma activated caspase-8 and cleaved Bid to truncated Bid (tBid) for translocation to mitochondria. Fura-2 assay showed increases in intracellular free [Ca2+] and activation of calpain in apoptotic cells. Besides, increases in Bax:Bcl-2 ratio and mitochondrial release of cytochrome c and Smac into the cytosol activated caspase-9 and caspase-3 for apoptosis. Taken together, our results showed that retinoid induced astrocytic differentiation with down regulation of telomerase activity and enhanced sensitivity to IFN-gamma for increasing apoptosis in human glioblastoma cells.
The anti-neoplastic drug taxol binds to beta-tubulin to prevent tumor cell division, promoting cell death. However, high dose taxol treatment may induce cell death in normal cells too. The anti-apoptotic molecule Bcl-2 is upregulated in many cancer cells to protect them from apoptosis. In the current study, we knocked down Bcl-2 expression using cognate siRNA during low-dose taxol treatment to induce apoptosis in two human glioblastoma U138MG and U251MG cell lines. The cells were treated with either 100 nM taxol or 100 nM Bcl-2 siRNA or both for 72 h. Immunofluorescent stainings for calpain and active caspase-3 showed increases in expression and co-localization of these proteases in apoptotic cells. Fluorometric assays demonstrated increases in intracellular free [Ca(2+)], calpain, and caspase-3 indicating augmentation of apoptosis. Western blotting demonstrated dramatic increases in the levels of Bax, Bak, tBid, active caspases, DNA fragmentation factor-40 (DFF40), cleaved fragments of lamin, fodrin, and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) during apoptosis. The events related to apoptosis were prominent more in combination therapy than in either treatment alone. Our current study demonstrated that Bcl-2 siRNA significantly augmented taxol mediated apoptosis in different human glioblastoma cells through induction of calpain and caspase proteolytic activities. Thus, combination of taxol and Bcl-2 siRNA offers a novel therapeutic strategy for controlling the malignant growth of human glioblastoma cells.




















Numerous data suggest that the development of the sympathoadrenal system is highly sensitive to the perinatal environment. We previously reported that maternal perinatal food restriction by 50% (FR50) altered chromaffin cell (CC) organization and activity in offspring at weaning. This study investigated the effects of FR50 on the postnatal time course of CC functional and structural adaptations. FR50 pups exhibited smaller and more abundant scattered clusters of noradrenergic CCs as early as postnatal day 7 (P7), indicating that morphological changes took place earlier during development. At birth, the adrenaline release was defective in FR50 pups, suggesting that maternal FR50 impaired the non-neurogenic control of catecholamine release. At P4, the catecholamine release in response to insulin-induced hypoglycaemia was also absent in FR50 pups. This was associated with the reduction of adrenal catecholamine contents, indicating that the failure to synthesize catecholamine might lead to impaired secretion. We hypothesized that maternal FR50 accelerated the functional connections between CCs and splanchnic nerve endings, leading to the premature loss of the non-neurogenic response. Acetylcholine-containing synaptic endings seemed more precociously functional in FR50 pups, as suggested by increased levels of acetylcholine esterase activity at P14. At P7, insulin-induced hypoglycaemia caused preferential adrenaline release associated with increased catecholamine contents in both groups. However, the response was accentuated in FR50 pups. At P14, the insulin challenge increased plasma levels of adrenaline in control rats, whereas it markedly enhanced the circulating level of both catecholamines in FR50 pups. We demonstrated that maternal FR50 leads to developmentally impaired noradrenergic CC aggregation and advanced splanchnic neurotransmission maturation associated with altered medulla activity in response to metabolic stress. This might contribute to the long-lasting malprogramming of the adrenal medulla and to the development of chronic adult diseases.

Circadian rhythms in behavior and physiology are orchestrated by a master biological clock located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Circadian oscillations are a cellular property, with 'clock' genes and their protein products forming transcription-translation feedback loops that maintain 24-hour rhythmicity. Although the expression of clock genes is thought to be ubiquitous, the function of local, extra-SCN timing mechanisms remains elusive. We hypothesized that extra-SCN clock genes control local temporal sensitivity to upstream modulatory signals, allowing system-specific processes to be carried out during individual, optimal times of day. To test this possibility, we examined changes in the sensitivity of immortalized GnRH neurons, GT1-7 cells, to timed stimulation by two key neuropeptides thought to trigger ovulation on the afternoon of proestrus, kisspeptin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP). We noted a prominent daily rhythm of clock gene expression in this cell line. GT1-7 cells also exhibited daily changes in cellular peptide expression and GnRH secretion in response to kisspeptin and VIP stimulation. These responses occurred without changes in GnRH transcription. These findings are consistent with the notion that GnRH cells are capable of intrinsic circadian cycles that may be fundamental for coordinating daily changes in sensitivity to signals impacting the reproductive axis.

By the end of the 19th century, the subject of internal secretion and the consequences of its perturbations had been explored in considerable depth but with little clear understanding. Despite the anatomic delineation of the majority of the glands and tissues that comprised the gross endocrine system, the cellular basis and the interactions between the 'internal glands' and the nervous system had not been clearly delineated. Prominent early investigators in the field included Rudolf Peter Heidenhain (1834-1897), who described a novel class of clear cells (1868), Paul Langerhans (1847-1888), who identified pancreatic islets in 1869, and M.C. Ciacco (1877-1956), who coined the term 'enterochromaffin' (1906). Their contributions facilitated the description of the diffuse neuroendocrine system (DNES) by F. Feyrter (1938) which allowed for the understanding of a syncytial regulatory system that consisted of both endocrine and neural components. This rich developmental history often reveals the name of Kulchitsky, but little recognition has been given to his seminal contributions. Indeed the Russian, Nikolai Konstantinovich Kulchitsky (1856-1925), both due to his modest and unassuming nature and the tragic events of his life, was little recognized and has been relegated to a mere eponymous attribution. In reality, his life bears legacy to rich scientific contributions spanning a great teaching and scientific career at Kharkov University, to responsibilities as the Imperial Minister of Education for all of Russia. He identified the Kulchitsky cell, trained and mentored numerous professors of histopathology, was incarcerated by the Bolsheviks and worked in a soap factory to save his life. He and his family finally fled on a British battleship with the remnants of the Russian Royal family to England where he secured a position with Bayliss and Starling at University College, London (UCL). His mysterious demise in a lift-shaft accident on his 69th birthday tragically terminated a life of great service to science and teaching. He excelled as a histopathologist and was responsible for the early description of tonsillar and gut epithelial leucocytes as well as defining components of the Ascaris life cycle. At UCL, his contributions to the anatomic delineation of muscle nerve endings were highly regarded and widely admired. It is, however, his identification of the enterochromaffin cell in 1897 for which he is most remembered since this observation formed the basis for the subsequent delineation of the DNES and provided the cellular framework on which the discipline of gut neuroendocrinology would be established.
Interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) are specialized mesenchyme-derived cells that regulate contractility and excitability of many smooth muscles with loss of ICC seen in a variety of gut motility disorders. Maintenance of ICC numbers is tightly regulated, with several factors known to regulate proliferation. In contrast, the fate of ICC is not established. The aim of this study was to investigate whether apoptosis plays a role in the regulation of ICC numbers in the normal colon. ICC were identified by immunolabelling for the c-Kit receptor tyrosine kinase and by electron microscopy. Apoptosis was detected in colon tissue by immunolabelling for activated caspase-3, terminal dUTP nucleotide end labelling and by ultrastructural changes in the cells. Apoptotic ICC were identified and counted in double-labelled tissue sections. They were identified in all layers of the colonic muscle. In the muscularis propria 1.5 +/- 0.2% of ICC were positive for activated caspase-3 and in the circular muscle layer 2.1 +/- 0.9% of ICC were positive for TUNEL. Apoptotic ICC were identified by electron microscopy. Apoptotic cell death is a continuing process in ICC. The level of apoptosis in ICC in healthy colon indicates that these cells must be continually regenerated to maintain intact networks.
To assess the influence of white matter pathology on cortical reorganization, we probed the fronto-parietal attention network in Multiple Sclerosis (MS) patients by combining the Paced Visual Serial Addition Test (PVSAT) with fMRI-guided fiber tractography (FT). During the PVSAT, the control subjects activated the left inferior parietal lobule, superior temporal gyrus, precuneus, precentral gyrus, and medial and middle frontal gyri; while the precuneus and the inferior parietal lobule gyrus bilaterally, the left precentral and angular gyri and the right superior parietal lobule were activated in the MS group. At fMRI-guided FT, the superior longitudinal fasciculus (SLF) was the main white matter tract connecting areas active during the PVSAT. We then identified two subgroups of MS patients according to the SLF mean Fractional Anisotropy, used as indicator of integrity. The activations of the MS patients with a less damaged tract were in the left hemisphere, similarly to controls; while the patients with a more damaged SLF showed bilateral cortical activations. The MS subgroups, however, did not differ in PVSAT performance. This approach could be useful to investigate the relationship between brain structural and functional plastic changes and to identify different MRI endophenotypes related to the same level of cognitive impairment.
The study of inter-individual differences at behavioural and neural levels represents a new avenue for neuroscience. The response to socio-emotional stimuli varies greatly across individuals. For example, identification with the feelings of a movie character may be total for some people or virtually absent for others. Inter-individual differences may reflect both the on-line effect (state) of the observed stimuli and more stable personal characteristics (trait). Here we show that somatomotor mirror responses when viewing others' pain are modulated by both state- and trait-differences in empathy. We recorded motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) induced by Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) in healthy individuals observing needles penetrating a model's hand. We found a reduction of corticospinal excitability that was specific for the muscle that subjects observed being penetrated. This inhibition correlated with sensory qualities of the pain ascribed to the model. Moreover, it was greater in subjects with high trait-cognitive empathy and lower in subjects with high trait-personal distress and in those with high aversion for the observed movies. Results indicate that somatomotor responses to others' pain are influenced by specific onlookers' personality traits and self-oriented emotional reactions. Our findings suggest that multiple distinct mechanisms shape mirror mapping of others' pain.
Recent psychophysics studies suggest that the behavioral impact of a visual stimulus and its conscious visual recognition underlie two functionally dissociated neuronal processes. Previous TMS studies have demonstrated that certain features of a visual stimulus can still be processed despite TMS-induced disruption of perception. Here, we tested whether symbolic action priming also remains intact despite TMS-induced masking of the prime. We applied single-pulse TMS over primary visual cortex at various temporal intervals from 20 ms to 120 ms during a supraliminal action priming paradigm. This TMS protocol enabled us to identify at what exact time point a TMS-induced activity disruption of primary visual cortex interferes with conscious visual perception of the prime versus (un)conscious behavioral priming of the visual target stimulus. We also introduced spatial uncertainty by presenting visual stimuli either above or below the fixation cross, while the TMS pulse was always targeting the prime presented below fixation. We revealed that TMS over primary visual cortex interferes with both conscious visual perception and symbolic behavioral priming in a temporarily and spatially specific manner, i.e., only when disrupting primary visual cortex at approximately the same temporal stage between 60 and 100 ms after prime onset, and only for those prime stimuli presented below fixation. These findings are in disagreement with the idea of subliminal action priming being mediated by neural pathways bypassing striate cortex, and rather suggest that symbolic action priming relies on an intact neural transmission along the retino-geniculo-striate pathway. The implications of our findings for previous reports of residual visual processing during striate TMS are discussed.
Statistical inference from MEG-based distributed activation maps is well suited to the general linear modeling framework, a standard approach to the analysis of fMRI and PET neuroimaging studies. However, there are important differences from the other neuroimaging modalities related to how observations are created and fitted in GLM models, as well as how subsequent statistical inference is performed. In this paper, we demonstrate how MEG oscillatory components can be analyzed in this framework based on a custom ANCOVA model that takes into account baseline and inter-hemispheric effects, rather than a simpler ANOVA design. We present the methodology using as an example an MEG study of visual spatial attention, since the model design depends on the specific experiment and neuroscience hypotheses being tested. However, the techniques presented here can be readily adapted to accommodate other experimental paradigms. We create statistics that estimate the temporal evolution of attention effects on alpha power in several cortical regions. We present evidence for direction-specific attention effects on alpha activity in occipital and parietal regions and demonstrate the sub-second timing of these effects in each region. The results support a mechanism for anticipatory attentional deployment that dynamically modulates the local alpha synchrony in a network of parietal control and occipital sensory regions.





MicroRNAS (miRNAs) have been suggested to play important roles in the central nervous system during development as well as disease. miRNAs appear to be dysregulated in a number of neurodegenerative diseases, developmental disorders, and as a result of stroke. Each miRNA has the ability to regulate hundreds of messenger RNA transcripts, both by causing degradation of the mRNA and by inhibition of protein translation. Recent findings suggest that it may eventually be possible to treat some neurological disorders by restoring or inhibiting miRNAs altered by disease pathology. Both viral delivery and administration of modified oligonucleotides mimicking or inhibiting specific miRNAs have been effective in model systems. Artificial miRNAs have also been generated for the repression of specific transcripts. Alteration of miRNA expression by disease and insult also holds the potential for improved diagnostic tools. Finally, miRNAs have been shown to control cellular proliferation and specification, suggesting that manipulation of miRNAs in cultured cells could result in more convenient generation of pure cell populations for transplantation.
Neurogenesis is defined as a process that includes the proliferation of neural stem/progenitor cells (NPCs) and the differentiation of these cells into new neurons that integrate into the existing neuronal circuitry. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a recently discovered class of small non-protein coding RNA molecules implicated in a wide range of diverse gene regulatory mechanisms. More and more data demonstrate that numerous miRNAs are expressed in a spatially and temporally controlled manners in the nervous system, which suggests that miRNAs have important roles in the gene regulatory networks involved in both brain development and adult neural plasticity. This review summarizes the roles of miRNAs-mediated gene regulation in the nervous system with focus on neurogenesis in both embryonic and adult brains.
In recent years, there has been a shift in the conventional paradigms for transcriptional and translational regulation as extensive sequencing efforts have yielded new insights into the landscape of the human genome and transcriptome. Hundreds of non-coding regulatory RNA molecules called microRNAs (miRNAs) have been identified in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS) and are reported to mediate pivotal roles in many aspects of neuronal functions. Disruption of miRNA-based post-transcriptional regulation has been implicated in a range of CNS disorders as one miRNA is predicted to impact the expression of numerous downstream mRNA targets. The intricate molecular networks mediated by an miRNA form a robust mechanism for rapid and potent responses to cellular events throughout the development of the human brain. Recent studies have identified a molecular and ultimately pathogenic role for a subset of miRNAs in Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia, including the characterization of their downstream CNS mRNA targets, such as beta-secretase (BACE1) and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII). Here, we present an overview of the current progress in miRNA research related to CNS disorders and also highlight the utility of LNA (locked nucleic acid)-modified oligonucleotides in the detection and modulation of miRNA activity.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is characterized by progressive degeneration of lower motor neurons resulting in paralysis and death. Epidemiological and clinical findings suggest that a decline in athletic performance may presage the clinical onset of ALS, but this possibility has not been tested in an animal model. By placing running wheels in each mouse's cage to measure their exercise activity, we show that presymptomatic G93A SOD1 ALS mice are more active runners (15-20 km/day) than control mice (7-9 km/day). The ALS mice then exhibit a sharp decline in daily running distance 10-20 days prior to the onset of clinical disease. Within the group of ALS mice, there were no significant correlations between cumulative lifetime running distance and age at clinical disease onset or age at death, suggesting that amount of exercise did not affect the course of the disease process. Our data show that presymptomatic ALS mice have a propensity for running long distances, and then dramatically reduce the amount they run prior to the appearance of clinical symptoms. The monitoring of voluntary running distance may provide a valuable biomarker to evaluate the efficacy of potential therapeutic interventions for ALS in preclinical studies.
Neurons require large amounts of energy to support their survival and function, and are therefore susceptible to excitotoxicity, a form of cell death involving bioenergetic stress that may occur in several neurological disorders including stroke and Alzheimer's disease. Here we studied the roles of NAD(+) bioenergetic state, and the NAD(+)-dependent enzymes SIRT1 and PARP-1, in excitotoxic neuronal death in cultured neurons and in a mouse model of focal ischemic stroke. Excitotoxic activation of NMDA receptors induced a rapid decrease of cellular NAD(P)H levels and mitochondrial membrane potential. Decreased NAD(+) levels and poly (ADP-ribose) polymer (PAR) accumulation in nuclei were relatively early events (&lt;4 h) that preceded the appearance of propidium iodide- and TUNEL-positive cells (markers of necrotic cell death and DNA strand breakage, respectively) which became evident by 6 h. Nicotinamide, an NAD(+) precursor and an inhibitor of SIRT1 and PARP1, inhibited SIRT1 deacetylase activity without affecting SIRT1 protein levels. NAD(+) levels were preserved and PAR accumulation and neuronal death induced by excitotoxic insults were attenuated in nicotinamide-treated cells. Treatment of neurons with the SIRT1 activator resveratrol did not protect them from glutamate/NMDA-induced NAD(+) depletion and death. In a mouse model of focal cerebral ischemic stroke, NAD(+) levels were decreased in both the contralateral and ipsilateral cortex 6 h after the onset of ischemia. Stroke resulted in dynamic changes of SIRT1 protein and activity levels which varied among brain regions. Administration of nicotinamide (200 mg/kg, i.p.) up to 1 h after the onset of ischemia elevated brain NAD(+) levels and reduced ischemic infarct size. Our findings demonstrate that the NAD(+) bioenergetic state is critical in determining whether neurons live or die in excitotoxic and ischemic conditions, and suggest a potential therapeutic benefit in stroke of agents that preserve cellular NAD(+) levels. Our data further suggest that, SIRT1 is linked to bioenergetic state and stress responses in neurons, and that under conditions of reduced cellular energy levels SIRT1 enzyme activity may consume sufficient NAD(+) to nullify any cell survival-promoting effects of its deacetylase action on protein substrates.
Presymptomatic genetic testing of an untreatable disease raises clinical, ethical, legal and psychosocial questions. Investigations in specific disorders are needed to help in understanding the motivation for and the impact of genetic testing in the lives of persons at risk for these diseases. Here, we performed a longitudinal study to investigate the psychological consequences of presymptomatic genetic testing on people at risk for transthyretin-related familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy (TTR-FAP). The aim of the present study was to provide possible guidelines for genetic counselling and psychosocial support. Impact of Event Scale Revised (IES-R), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) and SF-36 questionnaires were administered to 18 asymptomatic subjects before, immediately after communication of the genetic test result and after 3, 6 and 26 months. Our findings showed evidence of anxiety, depression, avoidance of the disease, and psychological distress, especially for women, including those with a negative genetic test result (&quot;survivor guilt&quot;). A psychological support has to be provided before and continued at long term after presymptomatic genetic testing for TTR-FAP in people with positive result as well as in those with negative result.
Autosomal forms of Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (AD-/AR-EDMD) and limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 1B (LGMD1B) are caused by mutations in the gene encoding A-type lamins (LMNA). A-type lamins are major components of nuclear lamina and known to have important roles in maintaining nuclear integrity. LMNA mutations are also suggested to cause reduced myogenic differentiation potentials, implying that satellite cell nuclei in AD-EDMD/LGMD1B are likewise affected. We examined nuclear changes of skeletal muscles including satellite cells from four patients with AD-EDMD/LGMD1B by light and electron microscopy. We found that 92.5+/-5.0% of myonuclei had structural abnormalities, including shape irregularity and/or chromatin disorganization, and the presence of peri-/intranuclear vacuoles. Chromatin changes were also observed in 50% of the satellite cell nuclei. Increased number of Pax7-positive nuclei, but fewer number of MyoD-positive nuclei were seen on immunohistochemical analyses, suggesting functional alteration of satellite cells in addition to the nuclear morphological changes in AD-EDMD/LGMD1B.
The cAMP/protein kinase A (PKA) signaling cascade is crucial for synaptic plasticity in a wide variety of species. PKA regulates Ca2+ permeation through NMDA receptors (NMDARs) and induction of NMDAR-dependent synaptic plasticity at the Schaffer collateral to CA1 pyramidal cell synapse. Whereas the role of PKA in induction of NMDAR-dependent LTP at CA1 synapses is established, the identity of PKA isoforms involved in this phenomenon is less clear. Here we report that protein synthesis-independent NMDAR-dependent LTP at the Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapse in the hippocampus is deficient, but NMDAR-dependent LTD is normal, in young (postnatal day 10 (P10)-P14) mice lacking PKA RIIbeta, the PKA regulatory protein that links PKA to NMDARs at synaptic sites. In contrast, in young adult (P21-P28) mice lacking PKA RIIbeta, LTP is normal and LTD is abolished. These findings indicate that distinct PKA isoforms may subserve distinct forms of synaptic plasticity and are consistent with a developmental switch in the signaling cascades required for LTP induction.
This study addresses whether the potentiation site for neurosteroids on GABA(A) receptors is conserved amongst different GABA(A) receptor isoforms. The neurosteroid potentiation site was previously identified in the alpha1beta2gamma2S receptor by mutation of Q241 to methionine or leucine, which reduced the potentiation of GABA currents by the naturally occurring neurosteroids, allopregnanolone or tetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone (THDOC). By using heterologous expression of GABA(A) receptors in HEK cells, in combination with whole-cell patch clamp recording methods, a relatively consistent potentiation by allopregnanolone of GABA-activated currents was evident for receptors composed of one alpha subunit isoform (alpha2-5) assembled with beta3 and gamma2S subunits. Using mutant alphabetagamma receptors, the neurosteroid potentiation was universally dependent on the conserved glutamine residue in M1 of the respective alpha subunit. Studying wild-type and mutant receptors composed of alpha4beta3delta subunits revealed that the delta subunit is unlikely to contribute to the neurosteroid potentiation binding site and probably affects the efficacy of potentiation. Thus, in keeping with the ability of neurosteroids to potentiate GABA currents via a broad variety of GABA(A) receptor isoforms in neurons, the potentiation site is structurally highly conserved on this important neurotransmitter receptor family.
Inhibition in the brain is dominated by the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA); operating through GABA(A) receptors. This form of neural inhibition was presumed to be mediated by synaptic receptors, however recent evidence has highlighted a previously unappreciated role for extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors in controlling neuronal activity. Synaptic and extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors exhibit distinct pharmacological and biophysical properties that differentially influence brain physiology and behavior. Here we used a fluorescence-based assay and cell lines expressing recombinant GABA(A) receptors to identify a novel series of benzamide compounds that selectively enhance, or activate alpha4beta3delta GABA(A) receptors (cf. alpha4beta3gamma2 and alpha1beta3gamma2). Utilising electrophysiological methods, we illustrate that one of these compounds, 4-chloro-N-[6,8-dibromo-2-(2-thienyl)imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine-3-yl benzamide (DS1) potently (low nM) enhances GABA-evoked currents mediated by alpha4beta3delta receptors. At similar concentrations DS1 directly activates this receptor and is the most potent known agonist of alpha4beta3delta receptors. 4-chloro-N-[2-(2-thienyl)imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine-3-yl benzamide (DS2) selectively potentiated GABA responses mediated by alpha4beta3delta receptors, but was not an agonist. Recent studies have revealed a tonic form of inhibition in thalamus mediated by the alpha4beta2delta extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors that may contribute to the regulation of thalamocortical rhythmic activity associated with sleep, wakefulness, vigilance and seizure disorders. In mouse thalamic relay cells DS2 enhanced the tonic current mediated by alpha4beta2delta receptors with no effect on their synaptic GABA(A) receptors. Similarly, in mouse cerebellar granule cells DS2 potentiated the tonic current mediated by alpha6betadelta receptors. DS2 is the first selective positive allosteric modulator of delta-GABA(A) receptors and such compounds potentially offer novel therapeutic opportunities as analgesics and in the treatment of sleep disorders. Furthermore, these drugs may be valuable in elucidating the physiological and pathophysiological roles played by these extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors.
A number of kainate receptor antagonists have shown selectivity for receptors containing the GluK1 subunit. Here, we analyze the effects of these GluK1 antagonists on currents mediated by recombinant homomeric GluK3 and heteromeric GluK2/3 receptors expressed in HEK 293 cells and activated by fast application of glutamate. We show that, amongst these compounds, UBP302, UBP310 and UBP316 effectively block recombinant homomeric GluK3 receptors. However, these antagonists are ineffective in blocking homomeric GluK2 or heteromeric GluK2/3 receptors. In addition, these antagonists do not affect presynaptic kainate receptors at mouse hippocampal mossy fibre synapses, which are thought to be composed of GluK2 and GluK3 subunits. Moreover, the AMPA receptor-selective non-competitive antagonist GYKI 53655 blocks, at high concentrations, GluK3-containing receptors and decreases short-term plasticity at mossy fibre synapses. These results expand the range of targets of kainate receptor antagonists and provide pharmacological tools to study the elusive mechanisms of neurotransmitter control by presynaptic kainate receptors.
The 5-hydroxytryptamine type-3 (5-HT3) receptor is a cation-selective ion channel of the Cys-loop superfamily. 5-HT3 receptor activation in the central and peripheral nervous systems evokes neuronal excitation and neurotransmitter release. Here, we review the relationship between the structure and the function of the 5-HT3 receptor. 5-HT3A and 5-HT3B subunits are well established components of 5-HT3 receptors but additional HTR3C, HTR3D and HTR3E genes expand the potential for molecular diversity within the family. Studies upon the relationship between subunit structure and the ionic selectivity and single channel conductances of 5-HT3 receptors have identified a novel domain (the intracellular MA-stretch) that contributes to ion permeation and selectivity. Conventional and unnatural amino acid mutagenesis of the extracellular domain of the receptor has revealed residues, within the principle (A-C) and complementary (D-F) loops, which are crucial to ligand binding. An area requiring much further investigation is the subunit composition of 5-HT3 receptors that are endogenous to neurones, and their regional expression within the central nervous system. We conclude by describing recent studies that have identified numerous HTR3A and HTR3B gene polymorphisms that impact upon 5-HT3 receptor function, or expression, and consider their relevance to (patho)physiology.
Drug addiction can be defined by a compulsion to seek and take drug, loss of control in limiting intake, and the emergence of a negative emotional state when access to the drug is prevented. Drug addiction impacts multiple motivational mechanisms and can be conceptualized as a disorder that progresses from impulsivity (positive reinforcement) to compulsivity (negative reinforcement). The construct of negative reinforcement is defined as drug taking that alleviates a negative emotional state. The negative emotional state that drives such negative reinforcement is hypothesized to derive from dysregulation of key neurochemical elements involved in reward and stress within the basal forebrain structures involving the ventral striatum and extended amygdala. Specific neurochemical elements in these structures include not only decreases in reward neurotransmission, such as decreases in dopamine and opioid peptide function in the ventral striatum, but also recruitment of brain stress systems, such as corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), in the extended amygdala. Acute withdrawal from all major drugs of abuse produces increases in reward thresholds, increases in anxiety-like responses, and increases in extracellular levels of CRF in the central nucleus of the amygdala. CRF receptor antagonists also block excessive drug intake produced by dependence. A brain stress response system is hypothesized to be activated by acute excessive drug intake, to be sensitized during repeated withdrawal, to persist into protracted abstinence, and to contribute to the compulsivity of addiction. Other components of brain stress systems in the extended amygdala that interact with CRF and may contribute to the negative motivational state of withdrawal include norepinephrine, dynorphin, and neuropeptide Y. The combination of loss of reward function and recruitment of brain stress systems provides a powerful neurochemical basis for a negative emotional state that is responsible for the negative reinforcement driving, at least in part, the compulsivity of addiction.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are pentameric neurotransmitter receptors. They are members of the Cys-loop family of ligand-gated ion channels which also include ionotropic receptors for 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glycine. Nicotinic receptors are expressed in both the nervous system and at the neuromuscular junction and have been implicated in several neurological and neuromuscular disorders. In vertebrates, seventeen nAChR subunits have been identified (alpha1-alpha10, beta1-beta4, gamma, delta and epsilon) which can co-assemble to generate a diverse family of nAChR subtypes. This review will focus on vertebrate nAChRs and will provide an overview of the extent of nAChR diversity based on studies of both native and recombinant nAChRs.
Similar to patients with ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPC) lesions, substance abusers show altered decision-making, characterized by a tendency to choose the immediate reward, at the expense of negative future consequences. The somatic marker model proposes that decision-making depends on neural substrates that regulate homeostasis, emotion and feeling. According to this model, there should be a link between alterations in processing emotions in substance abusers, and their impairments in decision-making. Growing evidence from neuroscientific studies indicate that core aspects of addiction may be explained in terms of abnormal emotional/homeostatic guidance of decision-making. Behavioral studies have revealed emotional processing and decision-making deficits in substance abusers. Neuroimaging studies have shown that altered decision-making in addiction is associated with abnormal functioning of a distributed neural network critical for the processing of emotional information, and the experience of &quot;craving&quot;, including the VMPC, the amygdala, the striatum, the anterior cingulate cortex, and the insular/somato-sensory cortices, as well as non-specific neurotransmitter systems that modulate activities of neural processes involved in decision-making. The aim of this paper is to review this growing evidence, and to examine the extent to which these studies support a somatic marker theory of addiction. We conclude that there are at least two underlying types of dysfunction where emotional signals (somatic markers) turn in favor of immediate outcomes in addiction: (1) a hyperactivity in the amygdala or impulsive system, which exaggerates the rewarding impact of available incentives, and (2) hypoactivity in the prefrontal cortex or reflective system, which forecasts the long-term consequences of a given action.
The actin cytoskeleton is critically involved in the regulation of the dendritic spine and synaptic properties, but the molecular mechanisms underlying actin dynamics in neurons are poorly defined. We took genetic approaches to create and analyze knockout mice specifically lacking ROCK2, a protein kinase that directly interacts with and is activated by the Rho GTPases, the central mediator of actin reorganization. We demonstrated that while these knockout mice were normal in gross brain anatomy, they were impaired in both basal synaptic transmission and hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP). Consistent with the electrophysiological deficits, the ROCK2 knockout neurons showed deficits in spine properties, synapse density, the actin cytoskeleton, and the actin-binding protein cofilin. These results indicate that ROCK2/cofilin signaling is critical in the regulation of neuronal actin, spine morphology and synaptic function.
In the last decade, the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, highly accessible to genetic, behavioral and molecular analyses, has been introduced as a novel model organism to help decipher the complex genetic, neurochemical, and neuroanatomical underpinnings of behaviors induced by drugs of abuse. Here we review these data, focusing specifically on cocaine-related behaviors. Several of cocaine's most characteristic properties have been recapitulated in Drosophila. First, cocaine induces motor behaviors in flies that are remarkably similar to those observed in mammals. Second, repeated cocaine administration induces behavioral sensitization a form of behavioral plasticity believed to underlie certain aspects of addiction. Third, a key role for dopaminergic systems in mediating cocaine's effects has been demonstrated through both pharmacological and genetic methods. Finally, and most importantly, unbiased genetic screens, feasible because of the simplicity and scale with which flies can be manipulated in the laboratory, have identified several novel genes and pathways whose role in cocaine behaviors had not been anticipated. Many of these genes and pathways have been validated in mammalian models of drug addiction. We focus in this review on the role of LIM-only proteins in cocaine-induced behaviors.
Despite a great deal of progress, more than 10% of pregnant women in the USA smoke. Epidemiological studies have demonstrated correlations between developmental tobacco smoke exposure and sensory processing deficits, as well as a number of neuropsychiatric conditions, including attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Significantly, data from animal models of developmental nicotine exposure have suggested that the nicotine in tobacco contributes significantly to the effects of developmental smoke exposure. Consequently, we hypothesize that nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are important for setting and refining the strength of corticothalamic-thalamocortical loops during critical periods of development and that disruption of this process by developmental nicotine exposure can result in long-lasting dysregulation of sensory processing. The ability of nAChR activation to modulate synaptic plasticity is likely to underlie the effects of both endogenous cholinergic signaling and pharmacologically administered nicotine to alter cellular, physiological and behavioral processes during critical periods of development.
Kainate receptors are allosterically regulated by sodium ions. Removal of Na+ from the extracellular solution, or replacement of Na+ by larger monovalent cations, inhibits kainate receptor activity. Sodium binds at a negatively charged cavity in the extracellular neurotransmitter binding domain that is capped by a small hydrophobic residue. Prior work revealed that introduction of aspartic acid at this site strongly reduces GluK2 sensitivity to monovalent cations of different size. We found that the GluK2 M739D mutant is also insensitive to substitution of Na+ by the large organic cations Tris and NMDG. Because these are excluded from the Na+ binding site by steric hindrance, we investigated the possibility that divalent cations can substitute for Na+. We show that in Na+ free solutions with low concentrations of Ca2+ and Mg2+ the GluK2 M739D mutant is inhibited by EDTA; that divalent ions in the micromolar concentration range act as positive allosteric modulators; and that the chemistry of the mutant cation binding site is typical of Ca2+ and Mg2+ binding sites found in protein crystal structures. Hence, the apparent insensitivity of the M739D mutant to monovalent cations is due to the adventitious allosteric effects of divalent ions at physiological concentrations and below.
Cortico-striatal glutamate transmission has been implicated in both the initiation and expression of addiction related behaviors, such as locomotor sensitization and drug-seeking. While glutamate transmission onto dopamine cells in the ventral tegmental area undergoes transient plasticity important for establishing addiction-related behaviors, glutamatergic plasticity in the nucleus accumbens is critical for the expression of these behaviors. This information points to the value of exploring pharmacotherapeutic manipulation of glutamate plasticity in treating drug addiction.
Orexins (also known as hypocretins) are recently discovered neuropeptides made exclusively in hypothalamic neurons that have been shown to be important in narcolepsy/cataplexy and arousal. Here, we conducted behavioral, anatomical and neurophysiological studies that show that a subset of these cells, located specifically in lateral hypothalamus (LH), are involved in reward processing and addictive behaviors. We found that Fos expression in LH orexin neurons varied in proportion to preference for morphine, cocaine or food. This relationship obtained both in drug nave rats and in animals during protracted morphine withdrawal, when drug preference was elevated but food preference was decreased. Recent studies showed that LH orexin neurons that project to ventral tegmental area (VTA) have greater Fos induction in association with elevated morphine preference during protracted withdrawal than non-VTA-projecting orexin neurons, indicating that the VTA is an important site of action for orexin's role in reward processing. In addition, we found that stimulation of LH orexin neurons, or microinjection of orexin into VTA, reinstated an extinguished morphine preference. Most recently, using a self-administration paradigm we discovered that the Ox1 receptor antagonist SB-334867 (SB) blocks cocaine-seeking induced by discrete or contextual cues, but not by a priming injection of cocaine. Neurophysiological studies revealed that locally applied orexin often augmented responses of VTA dopamine (DA) neurons to activation of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), consistent with the view that orexin facilitates activation of VTA DA neurons by stimulus-reward associations. We also recently showed that orexin in VTA is necessary for learning a morphine place preference. These findings are consistent with results from others showing that orexin facilitates glutamate-mediated responses, and is necessary for glutamate-dependent long-term potentiation, in VTA DA neurons. We surmise from these studies that LH orexin neurons play an important role in reward processing and addiction, and that LH orexin cells are an important input to VTA for behavioral effects associated with reward-paired stimuli.
Drugs of abuse produce widespread effects on the structure and function of neurons throughout the brain's reward circuitry, and these changes are believed to underlie the long-lasting behavioral phenotypes that characterize addiction. Although the intracellular mechanisms regulating the structural plasticity of neurons are not fully understood, accumulating evidence suggests an essential role for neurotrophic factor signaling in the neuronal remodeling which occurs after chronic drug administration. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a growth factor enriched in brain and highly regulated by several drugs of abuse, regulates the phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase (PI3K), mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), phospholipase Cgamma (PLCgamma), and nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB) signaling pathways, which influence a range of cellular functions including neuronal survival, growth, differentiation, and structure. This review discusses recent advances in our understanding of how BDNF and its signaling pathways regulate structural and behavioral plasticity in the context of drug addiction.
It is well recognized that drugs of abuse lead to plastic changes in synapses and that these long-term modifications have the potential to underlie adaptive changes of the brain that lead to substance abuse. However the variety of molecular mechanisms involved in these responses are not completely defined. We are just beginning to understand some of the roles of glial cells that are associated with synapses. At many synapses an astrocyte process is associated with pre- and postsynaptic neuron processes leading to the naming of this synaptic structure as the Tripartite Synapse. Therefore, these glial cells are positioned so that they influence synaptic transmission and thus could potentially regulate the actions of some drugs of abuse. In mammalian systems there are correlations between long-term structural changes in astrocytes and responses to drugs of abuse. However, whether such changes in glia impact brain function and subsequent behaviors associated with addiction is poorly understood. Studies using Drosophila show important roles of fly glia in mediating responses to cocaine pointing to the potential for the involvement of mammalian glia in the brain's responses to this as well as other drugs. In agreement with this possibility three receptor systems known to be important in substance abuse, mGluR5, GABA(B) and CB-1 receptors, are all expressed by astrocytes and the activation of these glial receptors is now known to impact neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission. Given our new knowledge about the presence of reciprocal signaling between astrocytes and synapses we are now at a time when it becomes appropriate to determine how glial cells respond to drugs of abuse and whether they contribute to the changes in brain function underlying substance abuse.
The Rho family small GTPases are critically involved in the regulation of spine and synaptic properties, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly defined. We took genetic approaches to create and analyze knockout mice deficient in the expression of the protein kinase PAK1 that is directly associated with and activated by the Rho GTPases. We demonstrated that while these knockout mice were normal in both basal and presynaptic function, they were selectively impaired in long-term potentiation (LTP) at hippocampal CA1 synapses. Consistent with the electrophysiological deficits, the PAK1 knockout mice showed changes in the actin cytoskeleton and the actin binding protein cofilin. These results indicate that PAK1 is critical in hippocampal synaptic plasticity via regulating cofilin activity and the actin cytoskeleton.
Drugs of abuse acquire different degrees of control over thoughts and actions based not only on the effects of drugs themselves, but also on predispositions of the individual. Those individuals who become addicted are unable to shift their thoughts and actions away from drugs and drug-associated stimuli. Thus in addicts, exposure to places or things (cues) that has been previously associated with drug-taking often instigates renewed drug-taking. We and others have postulated that drug-associated cues acquire the ability to maintain and instigate drug-taking behavior in part because they acquire incentive motivational properties through Pavlovian (stimulus-stimulus) learning. In the case of compulsive behavioral disorders, including addiction, such cues may be attributed with pathological incentive value (&quot;incentive salience&quot;). For this reason, we have recently begun to explore individual differences in the tendency to attribute incentive salience to cues that predict rewards. When discrete cues are associated with the non-contingent delivery of food or drug rewards some animals come to quickly approach and engage the cue even if it is located at a distance from where the reward will be delivered. In these animals the reward-predictive cue itself becomes attractive, eliciting approach towards it, presumably because it is attributed with incentive salience. Animals that develop this type of conditional response are called &quot;sign-trackers&quot;. Other animals, &quot;goal-trackers&quot;, do not approach the reward-predictive cue, but upon cue presentation they immediately go to the location where food will be delivered (the &quot;goal&quot;). For goal-trackers the reward-predictive cue is not attractive, presumably because it is not attributed with incentive salience. We review here preliminary data suggesting that these individual differences in the tendency to attribute incentive salience to cues predictive of reward may confer vulnerability or resistance to compulsive behavioral disorders, including addiction. It will be important, therefore, to study how environmental, neurobiological and genetic interactions determine the extent to which individuals attribute incentive value to reward-predictive stimuli.
Drug addiction is a chronically relapsing brain disorder, which causes substantial harm to the addicted individual and society as a whole. Despite considerable research we still do not understand why some people appear particularly disposed to drug abuse and addiction, nor do we understand how frequently co-morbid brain disorders such as depression and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) contribute causally to the emergence of addiction-like behaviour. In recent years positron emission tomography (PET) has come of age as a translational neuroimaging technique in the study of drug addiction, ADHD and other psychopathological states in humans. PET provides unparalleled quantitative assessment of the spatial distribution of radiolabelled molecules in the brain and because it is non-invasive permits longitudinal assessment of physiological parameters such as binding potential in the same subject over extended periods of time. However, whilst there are a burgeoning number of human PET experiments in ADHD and drug addiction there is presently a paucity of PET imaging studies in animals despite enormous advances in our understanding of the neurobiology of these disorders based on sophisticated animal models. This article highlights recent examples of successful cross-species convergence of findings from PET studies in the context of drug addiction and ADHD and identifies how small animal PET can more effectively be used to model complex psychiatric disorders involving at their core impaired behavioural self-control.
ATP-sensitive P2X7 receptors are localized on cells of immunological origin including peripheral macrophages and glial cells in the CNS. Activation of P2X7 receptors leads to rapid changes in intracellular calcium concentrations, release of the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1beta, and following prolonged agonist exposure, the formation of cytolytic pores in plasma membranes. Data from gene knockout studies and recently described selective antagonists indicate a role for P2X7 receptor activation in inflammation and pain. While several species selective P2X7 antagonists exist, A-804598 represents a structurally novel, competitive, and selective antagonist that has equivalent high affinity at rat (IC50 = 10 nM), mouse (IC50 = 9 nM) and human (IC50 = 11 nM) P2X7 receptors. A-804598 also potently blocked agonist stimulated release of IL-1beta and Yo-Pro uptake from differentiated THP-1 cells that natively express human P2X7 receptors. A-804598 was tritiated ([3H]A-804598; 8.1Ci/mmol) and utilized to study recombinant rat P2X7 receptors expressed in 1321N1 cells. [3H]A-804598 labeled a single class of high affinity binding sites (Kd=2.4 nM and apparent Bmax=0.56 pmol/mg). No specific binding was observed in untransfected 1321N1 cells. The pharmacological profile for P2X antagonists to inhibit [3H]A-804598 binding correlated with their ability to block functional activation of P2X7 receptors (r=0.95, P&lt;0.05). These data demonstrate that A-804598 is one of the most potent and selective antagonists for mammalian P2X7 receptors described to date and [3H]A-804598 is a high affinity antagonist radioligand that specifically labels rat P2X7 receptors.
Stiripentol (STP) has been used as co-therapy for treatment of epilepsy for many years. Its mechanism of action has long been considered to be indirect, as it inhibits the enzymes responsible for metabolism of other anti-convulsant agents. However, a recent report suggested that STP might also act at the neuronal level, increasing inhibitory GABAergic neurotransmission. We examined the effect of STP on the functional properties of recombinant GABA(A) receptors (GABARs) and found that it was a positive allosteric modulator of these ion channels. Its activity showed some dependence on subunit composition, with greater potentiation of alpha3-containing receptors and reduced potentiation when the beta1 or epsilon subunits were present. STP caused a leftward shift in the GABA concentration-response relationship, but did not increase the peak response of the receptors to a maximal GABA concentration. Although STP shares some functional characteristics with the neurosteroids, its activity was not inhibited by a neurosteroid site antagonist and was unaffected by a mutation in the alpha3 subunit that reduced positive modulation by neurosteroids. The differential effect of STP on beta1- and beta2/beta3-containing receptors was not altered by mutations within the second transmembrane domain that affect modulation by loreclezole. These findings suggest that STP acts as a direct allosteric modulator of the GABAR at a site distinct from many commonly used anti-convulsant, sedative and anxiolytic drugs. Its higher activity at alpha3-containing receptors as well as its activity at delta-containing receptors may provide a unique opportunity to target selected populations of GABARs.
Cue-induced drug-seeking in rodents progressively increases after withdrawal from cocaine, suggesting that cue-induced cocaine craving incubates over time. Here, we explored the role of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC, a brain area previously implicated in cue-induced cocaine seeking) in this incubation. We trained rats to self-administer cocaine for 10days (6h/day, infusions were paired with a tone-light cue), and then assessed after 1 or 30 withdrawal days the effect of exposure to cocaine cues on lever presses in extinction tests. We found that cue-induced cocaine-seeking in the extinction tests was higher after 30 withdrawal days than after 1day. The time-dependent increases in extinction responding were associated with large (ventral mPFC) or modest (dorsal mPFC) increases in ERK phosphorylation (a measure of ERK activity and an index of neuronal activation). After 30 withdrawal days, ventral but not dorsal injections of muscimol+baclofen (GABAa+GABAb receptor agonists that inhibit neuronal activity) decreased extinction responding. After 1 withdrawal day, ventral but not dorsal mPFC injections of bicuculline+saclofen (GABAa+GABAb receptor antagonists that increase neuronal activity) strongly increased extinction responding. Finally, muscimol+baclofen had minimal effect on extinction responding after 1day, and in cocaine-experienced rats, ventral mPFC injections of muscimol+baclofen or bicuculline+saclofen had no effect on lever presses for an oral sucrose solution. The present results indicate that ventral mPFC neuronal activity plays an important role in the incubation of cocaine craving.
Demographic change, limited financial resources and increasing social exclusion of individuals suffering chronic illness are major challenges for health and social systems in general and for psychiatry in particular. The paper analyses to what extent social psychiatric research currently addresses this challenges. Future perspectives are discussed, exploring the relationship of clinical neuroscience and social psychiatry.
Consciousness (Latin conscientia &quot;moral conscience&quot;), according to the English philosopher John Locke (1632-1704) [103], is the awareness of all that occurs in the mind of a person, whereas the American philosopher John Searle (2000) defined it as &quot;inner qualitative, subjective states and processes of awareness&quot;. In modern science it is defined as a continuous state of full awareness of the Self and one's relationship to the external and internal environment, describing the degree of wakefulness in which an organism recognizes stimuli. This widely discussed biological term for complex neuronal processes that allow an individuum to recognize itself and its environment and to act accordingly, has been and still is the subject of much research in philosophy and natural/neuroscience. Its definition is often used for awareness and recognition, too. While the Egyptians in the papyrus Edwin Smith already recognized the brain as the seat of consciousness, Ren Descartes (1644 [36]) believed its special structure should be &quot;a small gland in the middle&quot;, but the anatomical structures and physiological processes involved in consciousness were elucidated only in the middle of the 20th century. Neuronal substrates include several functional networks that are hierarchically organized and cooperate functionally. The lowest level is the mesencephalic formatio reticularis and its projections to the thalamus that were identified als ascending reticular system (ARAS) by the classical experiments of Moruzzi and Magoun, whereas later analyses of patients with impaired consciousness provided further insights. The mesencephalic ARAS as motor of the function of higher structures projects 1. via the reticular thalamus diffusely to the cortex, 2. via hypothalamus to the basal forebrain and limbic system, and 3. to the medial raphe of the brainstem and locus coeruleus and their diffuse cortical projections. The reticular system is stimulated directly and indirectly via numerous collaterals from important somatic and sensory pathways and acts as a control system of neuronal activities of the cerebral cortex. The principal function of the ARAS is to focus our alertness on specific stimuli or internal processes, which run via complex neuronal cell groups and numerous neurotransmitters that influence various aspects of consciousness and wakefulness. Stimulation of the ARAS produces an arousal reaction as the electric correlate of consciousness; its destruction causes coma and related states. The highest level are cortical (prefrontal and association) networks for recognition, motor activity, longterm memory and attention, the left hemisphere being considered as the dominant one. Different levels of consciousness are distinguished: 1. hyperalertness, 2. alertness (normal state of wakefulness), 3. somnolence or lethargy, 4. obtundation with tendency to fall asleep, 5. stupor, 6. coma and its subtypes, like akinetic mutism, apallic syndrome or persistent vegative state, locked-in syndrome, delirium, and catatonia. They are caused by damages in various functional levels of the brain, by psychogenic factors or experimentally, and are accompanied by characteristic neurological and psychiatric disorders. The relevant morphological lesions can be detected by electrophysiological and imaging studies. The bases of functional anatomy and pathophysiology of consciousness, its cognitive aspects and its major disorders, their causes and functional substrates with reference to sleep and both spontaneous and iatrogenic disorders of consciousness are critically summarized.
The preoccupation of philosophy with madness can be traced back till the Greek antiquity. For many philosophers like Descartes psychotic phenomena were symbols for the fragility of human mental powers, while others like Plato or Nietzsche saw madness as a way to escape the constraints of rationality. After 1960 three direction of contemporary philosophy dealt with the topics madness--schizophrenia--psychosis: Following Nietzsche and Bataille, Foucault as well as Deleuze and Guattari considered schizophrenia as the societal oppressed reverse of modern rationality, a notion which had a strong influence on the anti-psychiatric movement. Philosophical phenomenology primarily focussed on ontological problems of the psychotic existence. Finally Philosophy of Mind, the modern Anglo-American version of analytical philosophy, analyzed the logical coherence of psychotic inferences and experiences. Especially the insights of analytical philosophy may be important for a more sophisticated interpretation of psychopathological research as well as of the new findings of neuroscience.
Levetiracetam is a second-generation antiepileptic drug (AED) with a unique chemical structure and mechanism of action. The extended release formulation of levetiracetam (Keppra XR(); UCB Pharma) was recently approved by the Food and Drug Administration for adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures in patients 16 years of age and older with epilepsy. This approval is based on a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, multicenter, multinational trial. Levetiracetam XR allows for once-daily dosing, which may increase compliance and, given the relatively constant plasma concentrations, may minimize concentration-related adverse effects. Levetiracetam's mode of action is not fully elucidated, but it has been found to target high-voltage, N-type calcium channels as well as the synaptic vesicle protein 2A (SV2A). Levetiracetam has nearly ideal pharmacokinetics. It is rapidly and almost completely absorbed after oral ingestion, is &lt;10% protein-bound, demonstrates linear kinetics, is minimally metabolized through a pathway independent of the cytochrome P450 system, has no significant drug-drug interactions, and has a wide therapeutic index. The most common reported adverse events with levetiracetam XR were somnolence, irritability, dizziness, nausea, influenza, and nasopharyngitis. Levetiracetam XR provides an efficacious and well-tolerated treatment option for adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures.
Topiramate is an anticonvulsant drug used for the treatment of epilepsy and prophylaxis of migraine. Some authors have proposed its use as a mood stabilizer and have reported its efficacy in reducing impulsiveness and improving mood regulation, possibly via its antagonism to glutamatergic transmission in the lateral hypothalamus, although this indication is still controversial. Weight loss is a side effect consistently reported in the medical literature in patients treated with topiramate. Given its potential role in stabilizing mood and reducing impulse control problems and weight, topiramate has been proposed as a treatment for obese patients with binge eating disorder (BED). The aim of this paper is to review published data on the efficacy and safety of topiramate for the treatment of obese subjects with BED. Although the evidence is preliminary, topiramate appears to be a relatively safe and effective treatment for obese subjects with BED. Limitations of the studies and future directions for research are discussed.
Disturbances of hippocampal plasticity, including impaired dendritic branching and reductions of neurogenesis, are provoked by stressful insults and may occur in depression. Although corticoids likely contribute to stressor-induced reductions of neurogenesis, other signaling messengers, including pro-inflammatory cytokines might also be involved. Accordingly, the present investigation assessed whether three proinflammatory cytokines, namely interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) (associated with depression) influenced cellular proliferation within the hippocampus. In this regard, systemic administration of TNF-alpha reduced 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling within the hippocampus, whereas IL-1beta and IL-6 had no such effect. However, repeated but not a single intra-hippocampal infusion of IL-6 and IL-1beta actually increased cellular proliferation and IL-6 infusion also enhanced microglial staining within the hippocampus. Yet, no changes in doublecortin expression were apparent, suggesting that the cytokine did not influence the birth of cells destined to become neurons. Essentially, the route of administration and chronicity of cytokine administration had a marked influence upon the nature of hippocampal alterations provoked, suggesting that cytokines may differentially regulate hippocampal plasticity in neuropsychiatric conditions.

Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, ecstasy) is a widely used recreational drug, often associated with dance parties. Users self-report euphoria, a sense of well-being and increased feelings of affiliation. In experimental animals, MDMA produces an acute, rapid release of serotonin and, to a lesser extent, dopamine and norepinephrine in the brain. It can also produce a dose-dependent, life-threatening hyperthermia in rodents, primates and humans. Moreover, there is evidence of long-term neurological and psychological effects in heavy users. In rats, MDMA increases the locomotor activity. When used recreationally, MDMA is often taken with other drugs including amphetamine, cannabis, cocaine or ethanol (EtOH). Epidemiological data suggest that MDMA-EtOH is one of the most common combinations. In rats, EtOH potentiates MDMA-induced hyperactivity but may attenuate its hyperthermic effect, depending on the ambient temperature. The possibility that EtOH may modify the pharmacokinetics and pharmadynamics of MDMA is of concern in terms of liability for misuse abuse. In this short review, we focus on the known interactions between MDMA and EtOH in humans and rodents.


Sustained attention is modulated by the neurotransmitter noradrenaline. The balance of dopamine and noradrenaline in the cortex is controlled by the DBH gene. The principal variant in this gene is a C/T change at position -1021, and the T allele at this locus is hypothesised to result in a slower rate of dopamine to noradrenaline conversion than the C allele. Two hundred participants who were genotyped for the DBH C-1021T marker performed the Sustained Attention to Response Task (SART). DBH genotype was found to significantly predict performance; participants with more copies of the T allele made more errors of commission, indicative of lapses in sustained attention. A significant negative correlation was also observed for all participants between errors of commission and mean reaction time. The decrease in noradrenaline occasioned by the T allele may impair sustained attention by reducing participants' ability to remain alert throughout the task and by increasing their susceptibility to distractors.
Previous research suggests that the right hemisphere (RH) may contribute uniquely to discourse and text processing by activating and maintaining a wide range of meanings, including more distantly related meanings. The present study used the word-lists false memory paradigm [Roediger, H. L., III, &amp; McDermott, K. B. (1995). Creating false memories: Remembering words not presented in lists. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 21, 803-814.] to examine the hypothesis that difference between the two cerebral hemispheres in discourse processing may be due, at least partly, to memory representations for implicit text-related semantic information. Specifically, we tested the susceptibility of the left hemisphere (LH) and RH to unpresented target words following the presentation of semantically related words appearing in either word lists or short texts. Findings showed that the RH produced more false alarms than the LH for unpresented target words following either word lists or texts. These findings reveal hemispheric differences in memory for semantically related information and suggest that RH advantage in long-term maintenance of a wide range of text-related word meanings may be one aspect of its unique contribution to the construction of a discourse model. The results support the RH coarse semantic coding theory [Beeman, M. (1998). Coarse semantic coding and discourse comprehension. In M. Beeman &amp; C. Chiarello (Eds.), Right hemisphere language comprehension: Perspectives from cognitive neuroscience (pp. 255-284). Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.] and suggest that hemispheric differences in semantic processing during language comprehension extend also to verbal memory.
Exogenous orienting has been widely studied by using peripheral cues whereas endogenous orienting has been studied with directional central cues. However, recent evidence has shown that centrally presented eye-gaze and arrows may produce an automatic rather than voluntary orienting of attention. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to investigate the behavioural and electrophysiological (event-related potentials-ERP) correlates of the attentional shift induced by arrows and eye-gaze. In order to have a control condition, we compared arrows and eye-gaze with a purely endogenous cue, i.e., a texture arbitrarily coding one direction. We analyzed the ERP components (P1, N1, P2a, P2p, P3) elicited by the cue stimuli and the early lateralised attentional effect (early directing attention negativity-EDAN). In addition, in order to investigate the topography of the neural mechanisms underlying the cortical activity in each cueing condition, we applied a temporal segmentation procedure. The results showed that the three cueing conditions induced a different strength of activation within the same cortical network. Occipito-parietal regions were involved in the early processing of visual information, followed by an involvement of frontal areas, likely implicated in learning associations. These data confirm the assumption that, in contrast to purely endogenous cues, arrows and eye-gaze induce a very fast attentional shift. However, the similarity of the ERP components and of the topographical cortical maps among conditions suggest that this early orienting of attention is more likely related to an overlearned association mechanism rather than to a real exogenous attentional process.
Motion processing involves multiple hierarchical steps, from the magnocellular pathway, sensitive to high temporal frequency modulations, to subsequent motion integration within the visual cortical dorsal stream. We have tested whether motion integration deficits in mild Parkinson disease (PD) can be explained by visual deficits in earlier processing nodes. Contrast sensitivity deficits in the magnocellular pathway, were compared with speed discrimination of local dots moving in random directions, speed and direction discrimination of moving surfaces and motion integration as measured by 2D coherence thresholds (n=27). We have found that low-level magnocellular impairment in PD does not explain deficits in subsequent steps in motion processing. High-level performance was abnormal in particular for tasks requiring perception of coherently moving surfaces. Motion coherence deficits were predictive of visuomotor impairment, corroborating a previous magnetic stimulation study in normal subjects. We conclude that dorsal stream deficits in PD have a high-level visual cortical basis independent of low-level magnocellular damage.
Unilateral neglect involves deficits of spatial exploration and awareness that do not always affect a fixed portion of extrapersonal space, but may vary with current stimulation and possibly with task demands. Here, we assessed any 'top-down', task-related influences on visual neglect, with novel experimental variants of the cancellation test. Many different versions of the cancellation test are used clinically, and can differ in the extent of neglect revealed, though the exact factors determining this are not fully understood. Few cancellation studies have isolated the influence of top-down factors, as typically the stimuli are changed also when comparing different tests. Within each of three cancellation studies here, we manipulated task factors, while keeping visual displays identical across conditions to equate purely bottom-up factors. Our results show that top-down task demands can significantly modulate neglect as revealed by cancellation on the same displays. Varying the target/non-target discrimination required for identical displays has a significant impact. Varying the judgement required can also have an impact on neglect even when all items are targets, so that non-targets no longer need filtering out. Requiring local versus global aspects of shape to be judged for the same displays also has a substantial impact, but the nature of discrimination required by the task still matters even when local/global level is held constant (e.g. for different colour discriminations on the same stimuli). Finally, an exploratory analysis of lesions among our neglect patients suggested that top-down task-related influences on neglect, as revealed by the new cancellation experiments here, might potentially depend on right superior temporal gyrus surviving the lesion.
Rightward shifts in attention are a common consequence of brain injury. A growing body of evidence appears to suggest that increases in attentional load, and decreases in alertness can lead to rightward shifts in attention in healthy and patient populations. It is unclear however whether these factors affect spatial biases in attention at the level of preparatory control processes or at the level of stimulus driven expression mechanisms. Whilst such effects cannot easily be dissociated behaviourally, the robust association between changes in alpha-band activity and shifts in visual attention provides a neural marker by which the temporal dynamics of effects of attentional load on spatial processing might be examined. Here we use electroencephalography to examine the relationship between modulations in alpha-band activity and behavioural outcome on a dual task paradigm comprising a detection task (t1), closely followed by a temporal order judgment task (t2). We examine the effects of high (respond to t1 and t2) and low (t2 only) attentional load conditions on spatial bias and changes in lateralization of alpha-band activity over the course of the trial. As anticipated a rightward bias in detecting target onsets was observed in the temporal order judgment task (t2) under conditions of high attentional load. This rightward shift in attention was associated with changes in the lateralization of alpha-band activity that occurred only after the presentation of t2, suggesting that attentional load may primarily influence expression mechanisms.
Mnemonic deficits in patients with medial temporal lobe (MTL) damage arising from temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) are traditionally constrained to long-term episodic memory, sparing short-term and working memory (WM). This view of WM as being independent of MTL structures has recently been challenged by a small number of patient and neuroimaging studies, which have focused primarily on visual and visuospatial WM. In the present study we investigated material-specific lateralization of WM in 96 patients with unilateral damage to MTL stemming from TLE (56 left) and 30 control subjects using a pair of matched verbal and visuospatial supraspan tasks. Patients with unilateral TLE were impaired on both verbal and visuospatial WM tasks irrespective of the affected hemisphere. Patients with unilateral right TLE showed an additional deficit for visuospatial WM capacity when contrasted with patients with left TLE, whereas patients with unilateral left TLE showed increased intrusion errors on the verbal task when compared to patients with right TLE. These findings suggest a material-specific lateralization of WM in the MTL.
Phonagnosia, the inability to recognize familiar voices, has been studied in brain-damaged patients but no cases due to developmental problems have been reported. Here we describe the case of KH, a 60-year-old active professional woman who reports that she has always experienced severe voice recognition difficulties. Her hearing abilities are normal, and an MRI scan showed no evidence of brain damage in regions associated with voice or auditory perception. To better understand her condition and to assess models of voice and high-level auditory processing, we tested KH on behavioural tasks measuring voice recognition, recognition of vocal emotions, face recognition, speech perception, and processing of environmental sounds and music. KH was impaired on tasks requiring the recognition of famous voices and the learning and recognition of new voices. In contrast, she performed well on nearly all other tasks. Her case is the first report of developmental phonagnosia, and the results suggest that the recognition of a speaker's vocal identity depends on separable mechanisms from those used to recognize other information from the voice or non-vocal auditory stimuli.
Line bisection is widely used to diagnose and quantify hemispatial neglect, yet there is little consensus as to the cognitive mechanisms used to perform this simple task. Current cognitive accounts have been deduced solely from behavioural measures. The aim of this study was to discover if subject's own knowledge of the mental strategies used to perform the task actually informs behavioural performance. One hundred and forty healthy volunteers bisected a set of lines and were asked to describe the mental strategies used. Three distinct strategies were identified. These were (1) comparing two segments, (2) computing the centre of mass, and (3) externally centred strategies. Strategies 1 and 2 have previously been described but externally centred strategies have not been reported as a distinct strategy in bisection. Although none of the three strategies predicted performance this may have been due to the fact that 44% of subjects failed to describe any strategy. Men and women bisected lines equally well, however more men than women reported use of externally centred strategies.




A growing problem of major proportions had been confronting biomedical scientists for many decades. Until solved, this long-neglected problem, the abject failure of the American health care system, presents a gigantic obstacle to the application of the discoveries flowing from neuropsychopharmacological research into deliverable medications utilized by medical practitioners. Although it is recognized that such advances could benefit all of society, both in the United States and globally, progress toward this important goal has not happened. As I noted 5 years ago, 'Unless steps are taken soon to undertake a comprehensive restoration of our system, the profound advances in bio-medical research so rapidly accruing today may never be effectively transformed into meaningful advances in health care for society.' I remain perplexed and frustrated by the reluctance of scientific research societies such as our ACNP to engage their energies and intellect into this most serious issue.
Despite great advances in basic neuroscience knowledge, the improved understanding of brain functioning has not yet led to the introduction of truly novel pharmacological approaches to the treatment of central nervous system (CNS) disorders. This situation has been partly attributed to the difficulty of predicting efficacy in patients based on results from preclinical studies. To address these issues, this review critically discusses the traditional role of animal models in drug discovery, the difficulties encountered, and the reasons why this approach has led to suboptimal utilization of the information animal models provide. The discussion focuses on how animal models can contribute most effectively to translational medicine and drug discovery and the changes needed to increase the probability of achieving clinical benefit. Emphasis is placed on the need to improve the flow of information from the clinical/human domain to the preclinical domain and the benefits of using truly translational measures in both preclinical and clinical testing. Few would dispute the need to move away from the concept of modeling CNS diseases in their entirety using animals. However, the current emphasis on specific dimensions of psychopathology that can be objectively assessed in both clinical populations and animal models has not yet provided concrete examples of successful preclinical-clinical translation in CNS drug discovery. The purpose of this review is to strongly encourage ever more intensive clinical and preclinical interactions to ensure that basic science knowledge gained from improved animal models with good predictive and construct validity readily becomes available to the pharmaceutical industry and clinical researchers to benefit patients as quickly as possible.
Translational research is urgently needed to turn basic scientific discoveries into widespread health gains and nowhere are these needs greater than in conditions such as schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders. In this article, we discuss one type of translational research--called T1--which is needed to take advantage of developments in the basic neurosciences and translate them into more efficacious diagnostic, preventive, and therapeutic interventions. However, ensuring that interventions from T1 research actually benefit patients will require a second form of translational research--called T2--to turn innovations into everyday clinical practice and health decision-making. Recent examples of T1 and T2 research in schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders as well as strategies for better linking T1 and T2 research agendas are covered.
There is an urgent need to transform basic research discoveries into tools for treatment and prevention of mental illnesses. This article presents an overview of the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) programs and resources to address the challenges and opportunities in psychiatric drug development starting at the point of discovery through the early phases of translational research. We summarize NIMH and selected National Institutes of Health (NIH) efforts to stimulate translation of basic and clinical neuroscience findings into novel targets, models, compounds, and strategies for the development of innovative therapeutics for psychiatric disorders. Examples of collaborations and partnerships among NIMH/NIH, academia, and industry are highlighted.
Alterations in brain development may contribute to chronic mental disorders. Novel treatments targeted toward the early-childhood manifestations of such chronic disorders may provide unique therapeutic opportunities. However, attempts to develop and deliver novel treatments face many challenges. Work on pediatric anxiety disorders illustrates both the inherent challenges as well as the unusual opportunities for therapeutic advances. The present review summarizes three aspects of translational research on pediatric anxiety disorders as the work informs efforts to develop novel interventions. First, the review summarizes data on developmental conceptualizations of anxiety from both basic neuroscience and clinical perspectives. This summary is integrated with a discussion of the two best-established treatments, cognitive behavioral therapy and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. Second, the review summarizes work on attention bias to threat, considering implications for both novel treatments and translational research on neural circuitry functional development. This illustrates the manner in which clinical findings inform basic systems neuroscience research. Finally, the review summarizes work in basic science on fear learning, as studied in fear conditioning, consolidation, and extinction paradigms. This summary ends by describing potential novel treatments, illustrating the manner in which basic neuroscience informs therapeutics.
Corticolimbic circuitry has been implicated in generalized social anxiety disorder (gSAD) by several neuroimaging symptom provocation studies. However, there are limited data regarding resting state or treatment effects on regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose uptake (rCMRglu). Given evidence for anxiolytic effects conferred by tiagabine, a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) reuptake inhibitor, the present [(18)F] fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography ((18)FDG-PET) study sought to (1) compare resting rCMRglu between healthy control (HC) and pretreatment gSAD cohorts, (2) examine pre- to post-tiagabine treatment rCMRglu changes in gSAD, and (3) determine rCMRglu predictors of tiagabine treatment response. Fifteen unmedicated individuals with gSAD and ten HCs underwent a baseline (pretreatment) resting-state (18)FDG-PET scan. Twelve of the gSAD individuals completed an open, 6-week, flexible dose trial of tiagabine, and underwent a second (posttreatment) resting-state (18)FDG-PET scan. Compared to the HC subjects, individuals with gSAD demonstrated less pretreatment rCMRglu within the anterior cingulate cortex and ventral medial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) at baseline. Following tiagabine treatment, vmPFC rCMRglu increased significantly in the gSAD group. Further, the magnitude of treatment response was inversely correlated with pretreatment rCMRglu within vmPFC. Taken together the present findings converge with neuroimaging findings from studies of social cognition in healthy individuals and symptom provocation in gSAD to support a role for the vmPFC in the pathophysiology of gSAD. Given the pharmacological profile of tiagabine, these findings suggest that its therapeutic effects in gSAD may be mediated by GABAergic modulation within the vmPFC.
The effects of combined treatment with a glucocorticoid receptor (GR) antagonist, Org 34850, and a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), fluoxetine, were investigated on pre- and postsynaptic aspects of 5-HT neurotransmission. Rats were treated for 14 days with Org 34850 (15 mg per kg per day subcutaneously), fluoxetine (10 mg per kg per day intraperitoneally), or a combination of both drugs. [(3)H]-citalopram binding (an index of 5-HT transporter (5-HTT) expression) was only slightly affected by Org 34850 alone: decreased in cortex and midbrain and increased in hippocampus. In contrast, chronic fluoxetine markedly decreased 5-HTT levels in all regions. Importantly, this decrease was significantly enhanced by combined Org 34850/fluoxetine treatment. There were no changes in the expression of 5-HTT mRNA, suggesting these effects were not due to changes in gene transcription. Expression of tryptophan hydroxylase mRNA and both 5-HT(1A) autoreceptor mRNA and protein (assessed using [(3)H]-8-OH-DPAT binding) were unchanged by any treatment. The expression of postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptor protein in the forebrain was unaltered by fluoxetine, Org 34850 or the combined Org 34850/fluoxetine treatment. This downregulation of 5-HTT by fluoxetine and its enhancement by Org 34850 can explain our recent observation that GR antagonists augment the SSRI-induced increase in extracellular 5-HT. In addition, these data suggest that the augmentation of forebrain 5-HT does not result in downregulation of forebrain 5-HT(1A) receptor expression. Given the importance of 5-HT(1A) receptor-mediated transmission in the forebrain to the antidepressant response, these data indicate that co-administration of GR antagonists may be effective in augmenting the antidepressant response to SSRI treatment.
Several disorders that involve motor and sensory disturbances such as chronic pain, tinnitus, stroke or dystonia are also characterized by changes in the sensory and motor maps in the sensorimotor cortices. This article reviews training procedures that target these maladaptive changes and the behavioral and cortical changes that accompany them. In addition, we will discuss factors that influence these training procedures and discuss new developments. These procedures include training of perceptual abilities, motor function, direct cortical stimulation as well as behavioral approaches and have been shown to reorganize the altered sensory and motor maps. Treatments that combine several modalities such as imagery or mirror treatment as well as use of prostheses also have beneficial effects. Further research must elucidate the mechanisms of these plastic changes and relate them to disorders and treatments.

Adaptive, goal-directed behavior requires that organisms evaluate their actions in terms of their outcomes. Neuroimaging studies show that unfavorable outcomes or situations with high level of conflict engage the posterior medial frontal cortex (pMFC). Recording of event-related potentials revealed that these situations are accompanied by a negative deflection, the so-called error-related negativity (ERN), which appears after an erroneous response or after negative feedback. Both activation of the pMFC and the ERN are thought to represent a signal that indicates the need for behavioral adjustment, and to recruit other brain regions that implement these adjustments. While many fMRI and EEG studies have shed light on the anatomical structures and the cognitive processes involved in performance monitoring, only very recently have researchers begun to investigate the underlying neurochemical mechanisms. Drawing on the putative involvement of dopamine (DA) neurons in coding a reward prediction error, an influential theory has ascribed a pivotal role to DA in performance monitoring. However, although important, DA is certainly not the only neuromodulator involved. Recent studies point to a role for serotonin, norepinephrine and GABA, but also for adenosine in performance monitoring. Here, we review the evidence for neurotransmitter effects on this function in humans. In this light, we critically discuss currently debated models of performance monitoring and potential alternatives.
The aim of this paper is to offer an ethical perspective on the use of non-human primates in neurobiological studies, using the Parkinson's disease (PD) as an important case study. We refer, as theoretical framework, to the 3R principle, originally proposed by Russell and Burch [Russell, W.M.S., Burch, R.L., 1959. The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique. Universities Federation for Animal Welfare Wheathampstead, England (reprinted in 1992)]. Then, the use of non-human primates in the study of PD will be discussed in relation to the concepts of Replacement, Reduction, and Refinement. Replacement and Reduction result to be the more problematic concept to be applied, whereas Refinement offers relatively more opportunities of improvement. However, although in some cases the 3R principle shows its applicative limits, its value, as conceptual and inspirational tool remains extremely valuable. It suggests to the researchers a series of questions, both theoretical and methodological, which can have the results of improving the quality of life on the experimental models, the quality of the scientific data, and the public perception from the non-scientist community.
Currently, the accepted ethical standards for the regulation of animal experimentation are provided by the 3R principle (Replacement, Reduction and Refinement). The development of alternative methods to the use of animals (Replacement), the design of adequate experimental protocols to reduce the number of animals (Reduction), the application of refinement practices (Refinement) are all aspects to be considered to ensure ethical and scientific validity to animal experimentation. This review intends to address these issues, using experimental research on Parkinson's disease (PD) as a paradigmatic example of the use of animal models to improve knowledge on a devastating human pathology. In particular, current rodent models of PD and their validity are reviewed and discussed, and methodologies that may ultimately reduce animal's suffering emphasized. Although procedures referring to with 3R principle can be traced in the literature reviewed, they are not considered yet an important part of the methodological information. The formal inclusion in scientific papers of a section devoted to 3Rs may increase knowledge and eventually adherence to this principle by scientists.
Protein synthesis is believed to be involved in stabilizing synaptic plasticity. Effects lasting longer than about 2-3h are considered to require synthesis of new proteins, implying a functional separation between early (E) and late (L) components. However, the issue of constitutive vs. new protein synthesis is still unclear, especially in young animals. Here, we examined the effects of two protein synthesis inhibitors, anisomycin and emetine, on long-term-potentiation (LTP) in CA1 area of hippocampal slices from 12- to 20-day-old rats. Either drug was applied from -30 min to +30 min with respect to LTP induction, a time window previously reported to be critical. However, the LTP remained stable under the entire recording period of 4h (anisomycin), or 8h (emetine). Proper preparation of emetine solution was evidenced by the fact that, in separate experiments, prolonged treatment with emetine gradually blocked baseline responses. Although no corresponding effect was observed with anisomycin, the drug was judged to be potent by its ability to inhibit yeast growth. The ability of anisomycin to inhibit protein synthesis was further confirmed by radiolabeling experiments assessing the degree of leucine incorporation. Our data suggest that LTP up to at least 8h is not dependent on triggered protein synthesis but can be attained by utilizing proteins already available at induction time.
The chemical properties of probes that improve amyloid detection by non-invasive (19)F magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are of interest. We synthesized benzoxazole compounds with trifluoromethoxy groups, and found that these compounds displayed sharp (19)F nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) signals in an assay buffer. However, the intensities of the (19)F NMR signals were dramatically reduced in mouse brain lysates. Our results indicate that the inhibitory effect of brain tissue on the (19)F NMR signals from these probes can be attributed to the hydrophobicity of the tissue. These results highlight the importance of using hydrophilic (19)F-MRI agents to avoid the inhibitory effects of brain tissues on (19)F NMR signals.
Cadherin-6 (Cdh6) is a type II classic cadherin cell adhesion molecule whose expression delineates specific sets of rhombomeres during early mouse development. Here we establish a stable BAC transgenic mouse line in which enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) recapitulates Cdh6 expression within the embryonic hindbrain. When the transgenic posterior hindbrain region at the embryonic (E) day 8.75-E9.75 that contains EGFP-positive rhombomere (r) 6-7 and EGFP-negative r4-5 cells was dissociated to single cells and incubated in suspensions, they were found to make aggregates only in the presence of calcium ion with the EGFP-Cdh6-positive/negative populations segregating each other in an aggregate. We further demonstrated that EGFP-Cdh6 expression boundary in the transgenic hindbrain at E9.5 shifted rostrally by the treatment that allows Hox gene expression anteriorize in the whole embryo culture system. These results suggest the role of Cdh6 in coordinating mouse hindbrain compartments possibly under the control of Hox gene regulatory network.










Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is a highly malignant glial tumor seen commonly in the cerebral hemispheres, but rarely encountered in the cerebellum. It may occur at any age, but is seen more often in adult age groups. Despite its rarity, GBM should be considered in patients with a ring-enhancing lesion in the cerebellum. No consensus regarding the best management has yet been established. However, multimodal treatment is currently available to deal with these lesions: wide excision with radiochemotherapy may improve and prolong the patients life. Although the outcome remains dismal, we emphasize that timely multi modal treatment may provide the patient a better outcome and longer life. Herein, we report 2 new cases of cerebellar GBM and discuss their outcome and present a review of the relevant literature.
Spinal epidural localization of hydatid cyst is quite rare. We report a case of a 33-year-old patient who experienced paraparesis over 2 years, with an umbilical sensitive level. A CT scan and MRI showed an intrathoracic multilobar lesion, probably of intra-spinal origin. An anterolateral transpleural surgical approach confirmed the hydatic character of the observed lesion and enabled total spinal cord decompression. No osseous involvement was noted. We report a case of spinal epidural hydatid cyst successfully managed by an anterior approach, and we discuss epidemiological, diagnosis, and therapeutical features of this rare localization of hydatid cyst.
We report a Kuwaiti girl with ethylmalonic encephalopathy. She presented at the age of 4 months with chronic mucoid diarrhea and delayed psychomotor development, and at 6 months she developed myoclonic epilepsy. She was found to have central hypotonia with pyramidal tract signs, acrocyanosis, and petechiae. Plasma lactate level was elevated. Blood spot and urine for organic acids results were consistent with the diagnosis of ethylmalonic encephalopathy. Cerebral MRI showed basal ganglia and white matter changes. Gene mutation study revealed homozygous deletion of exon 4 of the ETHE1 gene. The patient died at 14 months after extensive bronchopneumonia. Our objective is to alert physicians to the existence of such a devastating disease in our community and their role in the early diagnosis in the index patient for proper genetic counseling.
We present a patient with hydrocephalus after tuberculous meningitis successfully treated with urokinase. She presented with multiple episodes of headache, fever, and vomiting. She underwent external ventricular drainage and was treated with urokinase in addition to dexamethasone, acetazolamide, and 4 antituberculous drugs. She was evaluated clinically, radiologically, and by laboratory work-up. On short-term clinical follow-up (3 months), she was asymptomatic after the treatment with urokinase. She was radiologically evaluated 3 weeks after the treatment. An MRI of the brain showed a decrease in ventricular size. Urokinase can be considered as a safe and promising adjunctive treatment for tuberculous meningitis hydrocephalus.
Here, we present the first instance of Guillain-Barre syndrome variant in a patient with beta thalassemia and iron overload who had a history of transfusion before the onset of symptoms. Our patient was a 50- year-old Persian woman with history of intermediate thalassemia who had been treated with pack cells because of low hemoglobin level. Ten days after transfusion, she developed numbness of arms, left sided ptosis, and afterwards dysarthria, dysphagia, and bilateral ptosis. Electrodiagnosis on day 12 revealed reduced repetition of f-waves in the upper limbs and reduced recruitment with 1+ fibrillation in facial muscles. Electromyography and nerve conduction velocities in the limbs were normal. After excluding other causes and according to electrodiagnosis, the pharyngeal-cervical-brachial variant of Guillain- Barre syndrome was considered and plasma exchange began. Following exchanges, significant clinical improvement was attained. Iron overload and possible transmission of infections from blood products might have contributed in the development of syndrome.












Unsteady gait is a relatively common presentation to the pediatric emergency and neurology services. Unsteadiness can be due to a wide variety of causes, however, the primary concern on initial assessment is to exclude serious disorders such as meningitis, encephalitis, or brain tumors. Recognizing benign and non-neurological causes of unsteady gait is essential to avoid unnecessary investigations and hospital admission. In this review, a clinical approach to the unsteady child is presented with discussion of diagnostic considerations, approach to investigation, treatment, and prognosis. Ataxia can be cerebellar or sensory. Cerebellar ataxia can be acute, chronic, progressive, or episodic. It may result from trauma, infections, metabolic, degenerative disease, space occupying lesions, or congenital anomalies. Sensory ataxia is due to peripheral neuropathy involving large myelinated fibers that carry vibration and position sense, or due to posterior spinal column dysfunction. Accurate assessment depends on detailed history, examination, and then formulation of a differential diagnosis list to guide laboratory investigations.
Neurosciences continues to be the leading journal for Neurosciences in Saudi Arabia and the Middle East. In January 2007, Neurosciences was indexed by Thomson ISI in Science Citation Index Expanded online at ISI Web of KnowledgeSM and Neurosciences Citation Index. Since then a significantly increased volume of scientific articles continues to be submitted to the journal by enthusiastic authors, a fact that enriches the scientific contents of the journal. In 2008, we had a total number of website hits of 495,625 with a monthly average of 41,000. We received a total of 155 manuscripts, with a monthly average of 13 and an average rejection rate of 29%. From these, we published a total of 100 articles, totaling 523 pages for the entire volume. Forty-nine percent of these were original articles. Fifty-eight percent of published articles were from the Eastern Mediterranean Region (EMR), with 30% from KSA, 5% from the Gulf, and 23% from other Arab and EMR countries. The remaining 42% of published articles we received from Canada, India, Japan, Malaysia, and Turkey. The average time from received to acceptance of original articles was 4 months and 4.9 months for acceptance to publication. Reasons for rejection included unrelated topics, poor contents, or duplicate publication. In addition to our 4 regular issues in 2008, we published a supplement of abstracts presented at the 16th Saudi Neuroscience Symposium. We would like to thank the Editorial and Advisory Board Members for their significant contribution to maintain the standards of Neuroscience and looking forward to their important continued role in achieving our goals for 2009. In 2009, we aim to increase the number of issues to meet the increased load of manuscripts. Our objective is to enrich the scientific Neuroscience material presented by the journal with important topic reviews and regular neuroscience quizzes to achieve PubMed indexing. We will continue to promote our new web-based manuscript submission interface; strive to reduce the time from received to acceptance and acceptance to publication to no more than 3 to 4 months each; attend regional conferences, and participate in academic activities to encourage submission of high quality articles; encourage editorial board members to solicit potential authors from conferences; and commission our best reviewers to write good articles and encourage editorial board members to contribute material for a regular editorial feature on topical issues. We would also like to introduce a number of new features, such as highlights from international neuroscience meetings, regular basic neuroscience review articles, and 5 MCQs on basic/clinical neuroscience in each issue. These features will greatly enhance the journal and make it more attractive to trainees and board residents. However, their success will rely heavily on the contributions that we receive. The strict check for duplicate publication and plagiarism will continue, and if detected appropriate action will be taken in accordance with international guidelines. A small number of articles were rejected last year due to extensive plagiarism and duplicate publication. We hope all our readers benefitted from the introduction of the Arabic abstracts, and enjoyed the new look and the feel of the journal. We extend our sincerest thanks to our authors, readers, reviewers, and board members, and wish all a successful year.
The central nervous system (CNS) displays heterogeneity at regional, cellular and subcellular levels, making analysis of transcriptomic events accompanying neural injury particularly challenging. Microarray technology provides methods for elucidating global changes in neural gene expression and discovery of signalling pathways within this complex biological network. The lack of suitable and sufficient human CNS tissue along with its inherent variability means that diverse animal models of both multiple sclerosis and neurotrauma are vital for examining the pathophysiological changes accompanying neural injury resulting from disease or trauma. Gene expression profiling of these models is providing valuable information about mechanisms of damage, repair and regeneration and candidate treatments. In vitro models of neural injury are also proving useful, and transcriptomics is enhancing our understanding of the properties of neural stem cells with a view to their therapeutic application in neural repair. Thoughtful experimental design and analysis of microarray experiments is crucial for extracting biological meaning from the vast amount of data produced. In this review we discuss the current and emerging application of transcriptomics for the study of neural function in health, disease and injury.
The concept that acetylcholine is involved in the pathophysiologies of psychiatric disorders has existed since the 1950s. There is very strong evidence implicating a dysfunctional muscarinic system in schizophrenia, +with less information available for bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder. The translation of this evidence into clinically viable treatments has been disappointing; hampered by problems associated with developing drugs that target the requisite members of the muscarinic family, rather than all of the receptors, which results in unacceptable side-effect profiles. The discovery of additional binding sites, other than the one occupied by acetylcholine, has revitalised research into this aspect of psychopharmacology. New compounds are now being developed that have the potential to selectively target individual muscarinic receptors in the central nervous system. The question that remains to be answered is whether stimulating central muscarinic receptors will result in the reestablishment of normal central muscarinic activity? The purpose of this review is to (i) summarise the data supporting a role of the muscarinic system in schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder, and (ii) give an overview of some of the new selective muscarinic ligands that are currently in development and try to address the issue of re-establishing appropriate central muscarinic function.
PCTAIRE kinases (PCTKs) are highly conserved serine/threonine kinases that are closely related to cyclin-dependent kinases. They are enriched in post-mitotic neurons of adult brains, suggesting they might perform important neuron-specific functions independent of the cell cycle. So far, the biological functions of PCTKs in the brain have been largely neglected and remain to be discovered. This review summarises preliminary investigations into the expression and characterisation of PCTK kinase activity, providing a basis for further investigations. In particular, it identifies three key areas of priority for further research: (1) do PCTKs require activating phosphorylation by an upstream kinase or binding to an essential co-factor for maximal kinase activity; (2) what are the physiological substrates of PCTKs, and (3) what is the functional effect of PCTK kinase activity in primary neurons?
The TAM family (Tyro3, Axl and Mer) of receptor protein tyrosine kinases play pivotal roles in a number of major cellular processes: cell survival and proliferation, immunomodulation and phagocytosis. These processes are central to both the initial development and pathological course of human multiple sclerosis. All three receptors and their ligands, Gas6 (growth arrest-specific gene 6) and protein S, are expressed in the central nervous system (CNS), including in oligodendrocytes, the myelin-producing cell of the CNS. Recent studies have shown that Gas6-dependent TAM receptor signalling is an important modulator of oligodendrocyte survival and microglial phenotype both in vitro and in vivo. Multiple lines of evidence allow us to hypothesise that, during a demyelinating challenge, dysfunctional TAM receptor signalling could lead to a 'vicious cycle' of cell death, reduced phagocytosis and deleterious immune hyper-activation. A current challenge in this field is to expand our understanding of TAM receptor signalling from rodent models of central demyelination to human disease.
Neurotrophins comprise a family of growth factors that are expressed in a variety of cell types, and which exert influences on a large range of cellular activities that are important for development and the maintenance of the nervous system, as well as in neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders. More recently, neurotrophins have been implicated in influencing the dynamic and complex signals that occur between neurons and glial cells, including Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system and oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system that regulate myelination. Here we review the recent studies that identify neurotrophins as important regulators of both peripheral and central myelination, highlight some of the many questions that remain to be answered, and identify possibilities for further research.
Bone morphogenic proteins (BMPs) are well known for their influence on cell fate determination, proliferation and differentiation during early embryogenesis. Here, we review evidence for BMPs playing an additional, ongoing role in the proliferation and differentiation of neural precursor and progenitor cells in postnatal and adult central nervous system (CNS) and in CNS injury. The effects of BMPs on CNS cells have been studied using primary cultures of neural precursor and oligodendrocyte lineage cells. In addition, transgenic mice have been used to investigate in vivo effects of altering BMP pathway activation, and rodent models of CNS injury have been used to examine endogenous regulation of BMPs. These results have shown that BMPs promote production of astrocytes and inhibit production and maturation of oligodendroglia. The effects of BMPs on neurogenesis could be dependent on the origin of precursor cells or on the specifics of the microenvironment of the cell niche, as there are reports of inhibition and promotion of neurogenesis by BMPs. There is emerging evidence that BMPs are upregulated in several models of CNS injury; however, the effects of this regulation have not been well characterised. Understanding of the function of endogenous BMP regulation is important for determining how modulation of BMP signalling could improve repair following CNS injury.
Neural differentiation from embryonic stem cells involves progressive stages of neural induction, expansion and maintenance of neural stem/progenitor cells, and differentiation to neurons and glia. Our understanding of the signals involved in each of these processes is primarily based on our knowledge of neural development during embryogenesis. This review will focus on the signalling pathways that have been identified to play a role in neural differentiation of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs), including their induction to neuroectoderm, maintenance and expansion of hESC-derived neurospheres, differentiation to neurons and specification to specific neuronal lineages. Understanding the signals involved in each of these stages is important for optimising methods to derive specific cell types for transplantation therapies, as well as for providing insight into the mechanisms of human neurogenesis.

Akt has been implicated in pro-survival and anti-apoptotic activities in many cell types, including dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and spinal motor neurons. In this immunohistochemical study we have monitored phosphorylated Akt (p-Akt) levels in adult mouse DRGs and spinal cord following unilateral peripheral sciatic nerve transection (axotomy) or carrageenan-induced inflammation. In control animals around half of the lumbar DRG neuron profiles (NPs), mainly small and medium-sized ones, were p-Akt immunoreactive (IR), and of these around 50% expressed calcitonin gene-related peptide and/or isolectin IB4. Two weeks after axotomy, the number of p-Akt-positive NPs was only slightly reduced, but p-Akt immunofluorescence intensity was strongly increased. One third of the ipsilateral p-Akt-IR NPs was galanin positive, but virtually without colocalization with neuropeptide Y. Furthermore, p-Akt-like immunoreactivity significantly increased in intensity in the ipsilateral spinal dorsal horn after axotomy and expanded into deeper layers. Carrageenan-induced peripheral inflammation increased the number of p-Akt-IR NPs after 1 h. Both axotomy and inflammation caused a clear increase in nuclear p-Akt-like immunoreactivity in DRG neurons. Our findings support a role for Akt as a key signaling molecule in sensory neurons and spinal cord after peripheral injury.
Galpha(16), a member of G(q) subfamily, is expressed exclusively in hematopoietic cells, and its expression is highly modulated during lineage differentiation. Although functional redundancy within G(q) subclass members has been observed in many established models, Galpha(16)possesses unique structural and biochemical properties not shared by other family members. Its broad receptor-coupling capacity and unique downstream binding partners and effectors allow the occurrence of both inositol lipid-dependent and -independent signals. Apart from its recognized biological functions in hematopoietic cell responses, the enlistment of complicated signaling pathways further signifies the importance of Galpha(16)in signal integration. This review aims to provide an updated appreciation and rational discussion of Galpha(16) signaling with regard to its promiscuity and specificity.
Neurotrophin (NT)-driven differentiation is a process involving activation of multiple signalling events. Treatment of PC12 cells with the prototypic NT nerve growth factor (NGF) induces PC12 cell differentiation characterized by neurite outgrowth and expression of differentiation genes. Cyclic AMP (cAMP), one of the second messengers of NGF stimulation, has also been observed to induce neuronal differentiation in PC12 cells. Interestingly, co-treatment of NGF and dibutyryl cAMP (DBcAMP) exhibits a synergistic effect on neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells, but the mechanisms underlying this synergism remain unknown. In the current study, we compared the gene expression profiles of PC12 cells treated with NGF, DBcAMP or both for 12 h to identify differentially regulated genes during the early stage of differentiation. We found that the genes that were differentially regulated by NGF, DBcAMP or both include genes for acquiring neuronal phenotypes, cytoskeleton-binding proteins and cell cycle proteins. Importantly, we identified a subset of genes that was specifically regulated during co-treatment of NGF and cAMP, suggesting that the synergistic effect of NGF and DBcAMP on neurite outgrowth is possibly mediated through transcription regulation. Our observations provide novel insights on the signalling mechanisms underlying the regulation of neuronal differentiation by NGF and cAMP.
Warfare historically causes a large number of peripheral nerve injuries. During the current global war on terror, an increased use of advanced regional anesthesia techniques appears to have significantly reduced pain syndromes that have been previously reported with missile-induced nerve injuries. Additionally, a new program has been established to develop advanced prosthetic devises that can interface with neural tissue to obtain direct neural control. As this technology matures, the functional restoration gained from these new generation prosthetic devices may exceed that which can be obtained by standard nerve repair techniques.
Skull base chondrosarcomas are rare tumors and individual experience with their management is limited. We present a series of such tumors treated at our institution. Particular attention was paid to their extension pattern, choice of surgical approach, and outcome. Twenty-five patients were operated consecutively over a period of 19 years. Their clinical presentation, radiological features, surgical treatment, early and late treatment outcome, as well as survival rate were analyzed. The most frequent initial symptom was abducent palsy. The typical bone destruction of the petrous apex was found in 83%. Chondrosarcomas extended in 92% to the posterior cranial fossa. Total number of surgeries was 39. The operative approach was tailored to each case. The retrosigmoid approach was used in 30.8%, the pterional in 23%, and the transethmoid in 15.4%. Total tumor removal was achieved in 19 of the surgeries. New neurological deficits immediately after surgery appeared in 33.3%. The perioperative mortality was 0%. The average Karnofsky performance score at last follow-up was 91%, and 5- and 10-year survival rates were 95%. Individually tailored approach in skull base chondrosarcomas allows radical removal with low morbidity rates and without mortality. Given the good long-term prognosis, surgical treatment should not deteriorate significantly patients' quality of life.
Skin erosion is a hardware-related complication commonly described after deep brain stimulation (DBS). Despite the considerable incidence reported in literature, little is written about the management of this complication. In this report, we describe a case of noninfected device extrusion through the skin; in order to prevent infection and system removal, we performed a scalp reconstruction over the area of system exposure. During the follow-up, no signs of infection or fistula occurred and DBS efficacy was preserved. The paper shows the possibility to treat, in noninfectious cases, this frequent complication avoiding the psychological and clinical consequences related to implant removal.


Glutamate is a major excitatory neurotransmitter in the CNS that is involved in numerous cellular functions, including cell death and survival. Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR) are G-protein coupled receptors that have been classified into three groups on the basis of signal transduction pathways and pharmacological profiles. Group I, II, and III mGluRs are found on cell types within and peripheral to the CNS, including neurons, microglia, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, T- and B-cell lymphocytes, osteoblasts, hepatocytes, and endothelial cells, among others. These receptors have a number of effects on cells that can influence outcome after trauma, including reducing neuronal and oligodendroglial cell death, inflammation, and endothelial permeability. Thus, mGluRs are a promising multipotential therapeutic approach. Because the pathology of CNS trauma and neurodegeneration is multifactorial (including, for example, oxidative stress, mitochondrial breakdown, and inflammation), therapies that serve to modulate multiple pathophysiological pathways may prove more effective than those directed at a single target. This review examines the multipotential therapeutic utility of mGluR modulation in acute and chronic injury and neurodegeneration.
Although the concepts of secondary injury and neuroprotection after neurotrauma are experimentally well supported, clinical trials of neuroprotective agents in traumatic brain injury or spinal cord injury have been disappointing. Most strategies to date have used drugs directed toward a single pathophysiological mechanism that contributes to early necrotic cell death. Given these failures, recent research has increasingly focused on multifunctional (i.e., multipotential, pluripotential) agents that target multiple injury mechanisms, particularly those that occur later after the insult. Here we review two such approaches that show particular promise in experimental neurotrauma: cell cycle inhibitors and small cyclized peptides. Both show extended therapeutic windows for treatment and appear to share at least one important target.
Polyphenols extracted from grape seeds are able to inhibit amyloid-beta (Abeta) aggregation, reduce Abeta production and protect against Abeta neurotoxicity in vitro. We aimed to investigate the therapeutic effects of a polyphenol-rich grape seed extract (GSE) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) mice. APP(Swe)/PS1dE9 transgenic mice were fed with normal AIN-93G diet (control diet), AIN-93G diet with 0.07% curcumin or diet with 2% GSE beginning at 3 months of age for 9 months. Total phenolic content of GSE was 592.5 mg/g dry weight, including gallic acid (49 mg/g), catechin (41 mg/g), epicatechin (66 mg/g) and proanthocyanidins (436.6 mg catechin equivalents/g). Long-term feeding of GSE diet was well tolerated without fatality, behavioural abnormality, changes in food consumption, body weight or liver function. The Abeta levels in the brain and serum of the mice fed with GSE were reduced by 33% and 44%, respectively, compared with the Alzheimer's mice fed with the control diet. Amyloid plaques and microgliosis in the brain of Alzheimer's mice fed with GSE were also reduced by 49% and 70%, respectively. Curcumin also significantly reduced brain Abeta burden and microglia activation. Conclusively, polyphenol-rich GSE prevents the Abeta deposition and attenuates the inflammation in the brain of a transgenic mouse model, and this thus is promising in delaying development of AD.
Due to their specific position in the nasal cavity, the cells of olfactory neuroepithelium can be damaged by exposure to environmental airborne chemicals. However, few studies have been focused on selective damage, i.e. olfactory sensory neurons, basal cells, supporting and duct cells. As solvents are known to induce critical effects on olfactory neuroepithelium (OE), this study was designed to characterize histological and immunohistological effects induced by acetone exposure on OE in mice. Behavioral tests were conducted to evaluate olfactory sensitivity. Moreover, olfactory neuroepithelium was examined to evaluate the thickness and the total number of cells. Finally, different markers, olfactory marker protein (OMP) and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), were used to characterize respectively olfactory sensory neurons and basal cells, and secondly to evaluate the dynamic of the tissue turnover. Results showed structural modifications, since the thickness and the number of cells in the OE were modified according to the time course of the exposure. Additionally, no changes for OMP-positive cells were observed whereas significant differences appeared for the density of PCNA-positive cells in relation to their location (main-body or basal layer of OE). These findings indicate that acetone exposure induces selective damage in olfactory neuroepithelium.
Human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y is a dopaminergic neuronal cell line which has been used as an in vitro model for neurotoxicity experiments. Although the neuroblastoma is usually differentiated by all-trans-retinoic acid (RA), both RA-differentiated and undifferentiated SH-SY5Y cells have been used in neuroscience research. However, the changes in neuronal properties triggered by RA as well as the subsequent responsiveness to neurotoxins have not been comprehensively studied. Therefore, we aim to re-evaluate the differentiation property of RA on this cell line. We hypothesize that modulation of signaling pathways and neuronal properties during RA-mediated differentiation in SH-SY5Y cells can affect their susceptibility to neurotoxins. The differentiation property of RA was confirmed by showing an extensive outgrowth of neurites, increased expressions of neuronal nuclei, neuron specific enolase, synaptophysin and synaptic associated protein-97, and decreased expression of inhibitor of differentiation-1. While undifferentiated SH-SY5Y cells were susceptible to 6-OHDA and MPP+, RA-differentiation conferred SH-SY5Y cells higher tolerance, potentially by up-regulating survival signaling, including Akt pathway as inhibition of Akt removed RA-induced neuroprotection against 6-OHDA. As a result, the real toxicity cannot be revealed in RA-differentiated cells. Therefore, undifferentiated SH-SY5Y is more appropriate for studying neurotoxicity or neuroprotection in experimental Parkinson's disease research.
Glutamate activation of the NMDA receptor is essential for neuronal differentiation, migration, and survival. Treatment with NMDA receptor antagonists, such as ketamine (KET) or phencyclidine (PCP), can trigger apoptosis in neonatal rats. However, L-carnitine (LC) treatment appears to prevent glutamate-induced toxicity in the developing CNS. Previously, we described altered preweaning behaviors (i.e., abnormal home cage, slant board and forelimb hang behaviors) resulting from neonatal PCP and KET treatment. Those adverse effects of KET were somewhat ameliorated by LC [Boctor SY, Wang C, Ferguson SA. Neonatal PCP is more potent than ketamine at modifying preweaning behaviors of Sprague-Dawley rats. Toxicol Sci 2008;106:172-9]. Here, a portion of those subjects were evaluated for prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle response at postnatal day (PND) 25 since previous reports described PCP-induced effects on this response. Rats were subcutaneously treated with: saline; 10 mg/kg PCP (1x/day) on PNDs 7, 9 and 11; 20 mg/kg KET (6 injections every 2h on PND 7); or a similar regimen of ketamine and 250 mg/kg LC on PND 7, with a single injection of 250 mg/kg LC on PNDs 8-11 (KLC). Male and female rats were assessed using a standard PPI paradigm with prepulses of 68, 78 and 82 dB. Body weight was decreased 17-21% and whole brain weight was decreased 10% in PCP-treated rats. Specifically, cerebellar weight was significantly less in PCP-treated rats relative to control. Despite the magnitude of those PCP-induced changes, startle response in normal pulse only trials and percent of PPI in PCP-, KET-, and KLC-treated groups were comparable to controls. Average latency to maximum startle was 2.6 ms less in females than males (p&lt;0.007); there were no other significant sex effects. The lack of neonatal PCP treatment on later PPI is similar to that reported by Rasmussen et al. [Rasmussen BA, O'Neil J, Manaye KF, Perry DC, Tizabi Y. Long-term effects of developmental PCP administration on sensorimotor gating in male and female rats. Psychopharmacology (Berl) 2007; 190: 43-9.], and indicates that neonatal PCP-induced effects on PPI [Wang C, McInnis J, Ross-Sanchez M, Shinnick-Gallagher P, Wiley JL, Johnson KM. Long-term behavioral and neurodegenerative effects of perinatal phencyclidine administration: implications for schizophrenia. Neuroscience 2001; 107: 535-50.] appear difficult to replicate.

Although previous work in nonlinear dynamics on neurobiological coordination and control has provided valuable insights from studies of single joint movements in humans, researchers have shown increasing interest in coordination of multi-articular actions. Multi-articular movement models have provided valuable insights on neurobiological systems conceptualised as degenerate, adaptive complex systems satisfying the constraints of dynamic environments. In this paper, we overview empirical evidence illustrating the dynamics of adaptive movement behavior in a range of multi-articular actions including kicking, throwing, hitting and balancing. We model the emergence of creativity and the diversity of neurobiological action in the meta-stable region of self organising criticality. We examine the influence on multi-articular actions of decaying and emerging constraints in the context of skill acquisition. We demonstrate how, in this context, transitions between preferred movement patterns exemplify the search for and adaptation of attractor states within the perceptual motor workspace as a function of practice. We conclude by showing how empirical analyses of neurobiological coordination and control have been used to establish a nonlinear pedagogical framework for enhancing acquisition of multi-articular actions.
The objective of the study was to validate a self-administrated symptom rating scale for use in patients with schizophrenia spectrum disorders by item analysis, exploration of factor structure, and analyses of reliability and validity. Data on 151 patients, initially treated by risperidone, obtained within the framework of a naturalistic Phase IV longitudinal study, were analysed by comparing patient and clinician ratings of symptoms, side-effects and global indices of illness. The Symptom Self-rating Scale for Schizophrenia (4S) is psychometrically adequate (item analysis, internal consistency, factor structure). Side-effect ratings were reliable. Symptom ratings displayed consistent associations with clinicians' ratings of corresponding symptom dimensions, suggesting construct validity. Patients had most difficulties assessing negative symptom items. Patients were well able to assess their own symptoms and drug side-effects. The factor structure of symptom ratings differs between patients and clinicians as well as how they construe global indices of illness. Clinicians focus on psychotic, patients on affective symptoms. Use of symptom self-ratings is one way to improve communication and thereby strengthen the therapeutic alliance and increase treatment adherence.
Prospective studies of the serotonergic system and suicide report that low 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid (5-HIAA) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and a history of attempted suicide predict suicide risk. Low CSF homovanillic acid (HVA) is reported to be associated with past and future lethality of suicide attempts but not with suicide. The interrelationships between monoamine metabolites, violent method, suicide intent and lethality of suicidal behaviour are complex. We hypothesized that CSF 5-HIAA and HVA levels are related to suicide intent, violence and lethality of suicidal behaviour. Fifteen male suicide attempters admitted to a psychiatric ward at the Karolinska University Hospital and eight healthy male volunteers were submitted to lumbar puncture and CSF 5-HIAA and HVA were assayed. Suicide intent with the Beck Suicide Intent Scale (SIS), lethality and violence of suicidal behaviour were assessed. All patients were followed up for causes of death. Six suicides and one fatal accident were identified with death certificates. Mean CSF 5-HIAA but not CSF HVA differed between suicides and survivors. Violent suicides had higher suicide intent and CSF 5-HIAA than non-violent suicides. In violent suicides, CSF 5-HIAA levels were negatively correlated with SIS. Greater suicide intent may be associated with greater aggressive intent and predicts a violent suicide method.
Panic disorder with or without agoraphobia (PD/A) is common and can be treated effectively with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) medication or cognitive-behaviour therapy (CBT). However, the lack of access to CBT services has motivated the development of self-help approaches requiring less therapist contact. A novel treatment modality in this field, showing efficacy in several randomized trials but until now not evaluated within the context of regular psychiatric care, is Internet-based treatment. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effectiveness of Internet-based CBT for patients in a psychiatric setting. Twenty consecutively referred patients with PD were included in the study. A structured clinical interview with a psychiatrist was conducted for inclusion, as well as at post-treatment and at the 6-month follow-up. The treatment consisted of a 10-week CBT-based self-help programme, including minimal therapist support by e-mail. At post-treatment, 94% of patients no longer met DSM-IV criteria for PD (82% at 6-month follow-up). The within-group effect sizes (for the main outcome PDSS; Panic Disorder Severity Scale) were Cohen's d=2.5 (pre- to post-treatment) and 2.8 (pre-treatment to follow-up), respectively. The proportion of responders on the PDSS was 75% at post-treatment and 70% at 6-month follow-up. The results supports earlier efficacy data on Internet-based CBT for PD and indicates that it is effective also within a regular psychiatric setting. However, a larger randomized controlled trial should be conducted, directly comparing Internet-based CBT with traditionally administered CBT within such a setting.
MicroRNAs are known to regulate developmental processes but their mechanism of regulation remains largely uncharacterized. We show the transcription factor Twist-1 drives the expression of a 7.9-kb noncoding RNA transcript (from the Dynamin-3 gene intron) that encodes a miR-199a and miR-214 cluster. We also show that knocking down Twist-1 with shRNAs decreased miR-199a/214 levels and that Twist-1 bound an E-Box promoter motif to developmentally regulate the expression of these miRNAs. The expression of HIF-1 (known to mediate Twist-1 transcription), miR-199a and miR-214 was maximal at E12.5 and the miRNAs were expressed specifically in mouse cerebellum, midbrain, nasal process and fore- and hindlimb buds. This study shows the expression of the miR199a/214 cluster is controlled by Twist-1 via an E-Box promoter element and supports a role for these miRNAs as novel intermediates in the pathways controlling the development of specific neural cell populations.
RNAi-based gene-silencing techniques offer a fast and cost-effective way of knocking down genes' functions in an easily regulated manner. Exciting progress has been made in recent years in the application of these techniques in basic biomedical research and therapeutic development. However, it remains a difficult task to design effective siRNA experiments with high efficacy and specificity. We present siRecords, an extensive database of mammalian RNAi experiments with consistent efficacy ratings. This database serves two purposes. First, it provides a large and diverse dataset of siRNA experiments. This dataset faithfully represents the general, diverse RNAi experimental practice, and allows more reliable siRNA design tools to be developed with the overfitting problem well curbed. Second, the database helps experimental RNAi researchers directly by providing them with the efficacy and other information about the siRNAs experiments designed and conducted previously against the genes of their interest. The current release of siRecords contains the records of 17,192 RNAi experiments targeting 5086 genes.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are an important class of small noncoding RNAs capable of regulating other genes' expression. Much progress has been made in computational target prediction of miRNAs in recent years. More than 10 miRNA target prediction programs have been established, yet, the prediction of animal miRNA targets remains a challenging task. We have developed miRecords, an integrated resource for animal miRNA-target interactions. The Validated Targets component of this resource hosts a large, high-quality manually curated database of experimentally validated miRNA-target interactions with systematic documentation of experimental support for each interaction. The current release of this database includes 1135 records of validated miRNA-target interactions between 301 miRNAs and 902 target genes in seven animal species. The Predicted Targets component of miRecords stores predicted miRNA targets produced by 11 established miRNA target prediction programs. miRecords is expected to serve as a useful resource not only for experimental miRNA researchers, but also for informatics scientists developing the next-generation miRNA target prediction programs. The miRecords is available at http://miRecords.umn.edu/miRecords.
Neuroscience databases linking genes, proteins, (patho)physiology, anatomy and behaviour across species will be valuable in a broad range of studies of the nervous system. G2Cdb is such a neuroscience database aiming to present a global view of the role of synapse proteins in physiology and disease. G2Cdb warehouses sets of genes and proteins experimentally elucidated by proteomic mass spectroscopy of signalling complexes and proteins biochemically isolated from mammalian synapse preparations, giving an experimentally validated definition of the constituents of the mammalian synapse. Using automated text-mining and expert (human) curation we have systematically extracted information from published neurobiological studies in the fields of synaptic signalling electrophysiology and behaviour in knockout and other transgenic mice. We have also surveyed the human genetics literature for associations to disease caused by mutations in synaptic genes. The synapse proteome datasets that G2Cdb provides offer a basis for future work in synapse biology and provide useful information on brain diseases. They have been integrated in a such way that investigators can rapidly query whether a gene or protein is found in brain-signalling complex(es), has a phenotype in rodent models or whether mutations are associated with a human disease. G2Cdb can be freely accessed at http://www.genes2cognition.org.
The IUPHAR database (IUPHAR-DB) integrates peer-reviewed pharmacological, chemical, genetic, functional and anatomical information on the 354 nonsensory G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), 71 ligand-gated ion channel subunits and 141 voltage-gated-like ion channel subunits encoded by the human, rat and mouse genomes. These genes represent the targets of approximately one-third of currently approved drugs and are a major focus of drug discovery and development programs in the pharmaceutical industry. IUPHAR-DB provides a comprehensive description of the genes and their functions, with information on protein structure and interactions, ligands, expression patterns, signaling mechanisms, functional assays and biologically important receptor variants (e.g. single nucleotide polymorphisms and splice variants). In addition, the phenotypes resulting from altered gene expression (e.g. in genetically altered animals or in human genetic disorders) are described. The content of the database is peer reviewed by members of the International Union of Basic and Clinical Pharmacology Committee on Receptor Nomenclature and Drug Classification (NC-IUPHAR); the data are provided through manual curation of the primary literature by a network of over 60 subcommittees of NC-IUPHAR. Links to other bioinformatics resources, such as NCBI, Uniprot, HGNC and the rat and mouse genome databases are provided. IUPHAR-DB is freely available at http://www.iuphar-db.org.


There is mounting evidence of the value of task-specific training as a neuromotor intervention in neurological rehabilitation. The evidence is founded in the psychology of motor skill learning and in the neuroscience of experience-dependent and learning-dependent neural plastic changes in the brain in animals and humans. Further, there is growing empirical evidence for the effectiveness of task-specific training in rehabilitation and for neural plastic changes following task-oriented training. In this paper, we position the evidence for task-specific training in the context of rehabilitation; review its relevance for occupation-based neurological rehabilitation, particularly in relation to upper limb function and everyday activities; and recommend evidence-driven strategies for its application. We recommend that task-specific training be routinely applied by occupational therapists as a component of their neuromotor interventions, particularly in management related to post-stroke upper limb recovery. Specifically, we propose five implementation strategies based on review of the evidence. These are: task-specific training should be relevant to the patient/client and to the context; be randomly assigned; be repetitive and involve massed practice; aim towards reconstruction of the whole task; and be reinforced with positive and timely feedback.
Dendritic spines are actin-rich structures that accommodate the postsynaptic sites of most excitatory synapses in the brain. Although dendritic spines form and mature as synaptic connections develop, they remain plastic even in the adult brain, where they can rapidly grow, change, or collapse in response to normal physiological changes in synaptic activity that underlie learning and memory. Pathological stimuli can adversely affect dendritic spine shape and number, and this is seen in neurodegenerative disorders and some forms of mental retardation and autism as well. Many of the molecular signals that control these changes in dendritic spines act through the regulation of filamentous actin (F-actin), some through direct interaction with actin, and others via downstream effectors. For example, cortactin, cofilin, and gelsolin are actin-binding proteins that directly regulate actin dynamics in dendritic spines. Activities of these proteins are precisely regulated by intracellular signaling events that control their phosphorylation state and localization. In this review, we discuss how actin-regulating proteins maintain the balance between F-actin assembly and disassembly that is needed to stabilize mature dendritic spines, and how changes in their activities may lead to rapid remodeling of dendritic spines.

Our recent studies indicate that the prototypic proinflammatory cytokine IL-1 is upregulated in astroglial cells in the trigeminal interplolaris/caudalis (Vi/Vc) transition zone, a region of the spinal trigeminal complex involved in trigeminal pain processing, after masseter muscle inflammation. Here we investigated the effect of microinjection of IL-1 into the Vi/Vc transition zone on orofacial nociception. The mechanical sensitivity of the orofacial site was assessed with von Frey microfilaments. The EF(50) values, defined as the von Frey filament force (g) that produces a 50% response frequency, were derived and used as a measure of mechanical sensitivity. A significant reduction in EF(50) indicates the occurrence of mechanical hyperalgesia/allodynia. Unilateral intra-Vi/Vc IL-1 (0.016-160 fmol) produced hyperalgesia/allodynia dose-dependently, which appeared at bilateral facial sites. The hyperalgesia was detectable as early as 30 min and lasted for 2-6 h (n=6, p&lt;0.01). Intra-Vi/Vc pretreatment with an IL-1receptor antagonist (1 nmol) attenuated the IL-1-induced hyperalgesia (p&lt;0.01). Pre-injection of AP-5 (10 pmol) and MK-801 (20 pmol), two NMDA receptor antagonists, significantly attenuated IL-1-induced hyperalgesia (p&lt;0.05). Pretreatment with glial inhibitors fluorocitrate (120 pmol), minocycline (200 pmol) and propentofylline (10 pmol) did not attenuate IL-1-induced hyperalgesia. Excitotoxic lesions of the rostral ventromedial medulla with ibotenic acid (2 g) abolished IL-1-induced contralateral hyperalgesia, suggesting a contribution of descending facilitatory drive. These results suggest that the IL-1-produced effect on nociception was downstream to glial activation and involves interaction with NMDA receptors.

Endocrine ophthalmopathy is the most common cause of acute onset diplopia in middle aged or older individuals. Ocular muscle involvement is characterized by myositis followed by fibrosis: this causes a stiffness and a shortening of the muscles involved with restriction of ocular movements: so the impairment of rotation is due to a mechanical obstacle and not to a paresis. Prisms are rarely useful in relieving diplopia and the majority of symptomatic patients need squint surgery. Timing of surgery is very important and two considerations are to be kept in mind: first, the systemic disease must be in remission and the ocular deviation must be stable for at least six months; second, if more than one surgical procedure is needed for the ophthalmopathy, muscle surgery has its right place after orbital surgery and before lid surgery. Obviously dealing with restrictive disorders, surgery is based on weakening procedures of the affected muscles: identifying the affected muscles is of crucial importance and may be sometime difficult for the presence of misleading signs; great advances have been made in surgical technique with the development of adjustable sutures and of topical anesthesia. Prognosis is usually good with more than 80% of patients recovering a useful field of binocular single vision with one procedure and more than 90% with two or more procedures.
Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) gene knockout (KO) mice develop hearing loss, as well as hair cell damage in the inner ear. Furthermore, the hearing loss and hair cell damage may be caused and exacerbated by hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis. We are therefore seeking an effective treatment to protect the inner ear in ApoE-KO mice. ApoE-KO mice fed with an atherosclerotic diet were treated with simvastatin or with Strauss Heartdrops. The auditory brainstem responses were recorded, and plasma lipid levels and inner ear histology were examined. ApoE-KO and wild-type C57BL/6J mice fed with a normal chow diet served as controls. Compared to ApoE-KO mice fed only the atherosclerotic diet, ApoE-KO mice treated with simvastatin had no significant hearing loss and less severe atherosclerosis and hair cell damage in the inner ear. However, ApoE-KO mice treated with Strauss Heartdrops developed significant hearing loss and severe atherosclerosis and hair cell damage in the inner ear. These results demonstrate that statins may prevent hearing loss and inner ear damage in ApoE-KO mice by reducing the atherosclerotic lesions and levels of glucose, cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein, and triglyceride. Statins could be used to treat hearing loss associated with hyperlipidemia.
Induction of peripheral tolerance by oral administration of low-dose beta-tubulin antigen may be an effective, antigen-specific method to suppress experimental autoimmune hearing loss. Five groups of mice were fed with phosphate-buffered saline (PBS), ovalbumin (OVA), 20, 30 or 200 microg of beta-tubulin, respectively. All mice were then immunized by beta-tubulin. Hearing thresholds were measured before and after immunization. Inner ear histology and cytokine profile were examined. Mice fed with 20 or 30 microg of beta-tubulin showed less hearing loss and less inner ear damage compared to the groups treated with PBS, OVA or 200 microg of beta-tubulin. Interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) was decreased while interleukin-4 (IL-4), IL-5, IL-13 and TGF-beta were increased in both sera and in cell culture supernatants of the mice fed with 20 or 30 microg of beta-tubulin. However, no cytokine profile change was found in the group treated with 200 microg of tubulin. These results suggest that a low dose of beta-tubulin is active orally in an antigen-specific fashion and capable of inhibiting the autoimmune reactions in the inner ear by suppressing Th1 (IFN-gamma) and increasing Th2 and Th3 (IL-4, IL-5, IL-13 and TGF-beta) cytokines. Oral antigen tolerance may be used to treat autoimmune inner ear disease.
Zolpidem (trade name Ambien) has attracted much interest as a sleep-inducing agent and also in research. Attention has been centered mainly on receptor binding and electrochemistry in the central nervous system which are briefly addressed herein. A novel integrated approach to mode of action is presented. The pathways to be discussed involve basicity, reduction potential, electrostatics, cell signaling, GABA receptor binding, electron transfer (ET), pharmacodynamics, structure activity relationships (SAR) and side effects. The highly conjugated pyridinium salt formed by protonation of the amidine moiety is proposed to be the active form acting as an ET agent. Extrapolation of reduction potentials for related compounds supports the premise that zolpidem may act as an ET species in vivo. From recent literature reports, electrostatics is believed to play a significant role in drug action. The pyridinium cation displays molecular electrostatic potential which may well play a role energetically or as a bridging mechanism. An SAR analysis points to analogy with other physiologically active xenobiotics, namely benzodiazepines and paraquat in the conjugated iminium category. Inactivity of metabolites indicates that the parent is the active form of zolpidem. Absence of reactive oxygen species and oxidative stress is in line with minor side effects. In contrast, generally, the prior literature contains essentially no discussion of these fundamental biochemical relationships. Pharmacodynamics may play an important role. Concerning behavior at the blood-brain barrier, useful insight can be gained from investigations of the related cationic anesthetics that are structurally related to acetyl choline. Evidently, the neutral form of the drug penetrates the neuronal membrane, with the salt form operating at the receptor. The pathways of zolpidem have several clinical implications since the agent affects sedation, electroencephalographic activity, oxidative metabolites and receptors in the central nervous system. The drug acts at the GABA(A) receptor benzodiazepine site, displaying high and intermediate affinities to various receptor regions. Structural features for tight binding were determined. The sedative and anticonvulsant activities are due to its action on the alpha-1-GABA(A) receptors. One of the common adverse responses to zolpidem is hallucinations. Proposed mechanisms comprise changes in the GABA(A) receptor, pharmacodynamic interactions involving serotonin and neuronal-weak photon emission processes entailing redox phenomena. Reports cite cases of abuse with cravings based on anxiolytic and stimulating actions. It is important to recognize that insight concerning processes at the fundamental, molecular level can translate into beneficial results involving both positive and adverse side effects. In order for this to occur, interdisciplinary interaction is necessary. Suggestions are made for future research aimed at testing the various hypotheses.
Studies in animals and humans suggest that neonatal and early infant pain or stress experiences can induce long-term alterations in somatosensory and pain processing. We studied pain and sensory sensitivity in school-aged children (9-16 years) who had suffered moderate (N=24) or severe (N=24) burn injuries in infancy (6-24 months of age) and 24 controls. Quantitative sensory testing entailing detection and pain thresholds for thermal and mechanical stimuli and perceptual sensitization to tonic heat and repetitive mechanical stimuli was performed. Two testing sites (thenar, trigeminal region), both not affected by the burn injury, were used to determine whether there are global changes in pain sensitivity. The result pattern suggests a differential impact of burn severity. Compared to controls, moderately burned children showed significantly higher mechanical detection thresholds (thenar) and significantly lower mechanical pain thresholds and significantly greater perceptual sensitization to repetitive mechanical stimuli (both testing sites). No significant alterations were observed for thermal stimuli. In contrast, severely burned children showed, compared to controls, primarily alterations in thermal pain sensitivity (elevated pain thresholds at both testing sites, significantly greater perceptual sensitization at the thenar). In these children, mechanical pain sensitivity and detection thresholds were not consistently altered. This differential pattern of altered sensory and pain sensitivity may reflect differences in experienced stress, pain and analgesic treatment between moderately and severely burned children. Most importantly, our findings suggest that early traumatic and painful injuries, such as burns, can induce global, long-term alterations in sensory and pain processing.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS). While the primary symptoms of MS are losses of sensory and motor functions, it is now recognized that chronic pain is also a major concern affecting between 50% and 80% of MS patients. To date, however, few studies have examined the underlying mechanisms of chronic pain in MS or in the animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), which shares many features of MS pathology. We, therefore, set out to characterize the changes in pain sensitivity that arises in a chronic-relapsing model of EAE. We show here that female C57BL/6 mice immunized with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG(35-55)) develop a robust allodynia to both cold and tactile stimuli. Allodynia emerges early in the disease process, often before any signs of neurological deficit and is independent of the overall symptom severity in these mice. &quot;Classical&quot; cellular substrates for neuropathic pain and allodynia such as altered expression of sensory neuropeptides in the dorsal horn of the spinal do not appear to underlie these changes in sensory function. There is, however, a significant influx of CD3+ T cells and increased astrocyte and microglia/macrophage reactivity in the superficial dorsal horn of mice with MOG(35-55) EAE. This suggests that inflammation and reactive gliosis may be key mediators of allodynia in MOG(35-55) EAE similar to peripheral nerve and spinal cord injury models. Taken together, our results show that the MOG(35-55) EAE model is a useful tool to study neuropathic pain in MS.
Restless legs syndrome (RLS) has been described in association with a number of conditions including iron deficiency, neuropathy and Parkinson's disease. Here we report a patient who developed RLS concurrent with the development of classic post-polio syndrome (PPS), 40 years after recovery from an episode of paralytic poliomyelitis. PPS is still frequently encountered in neurological practice, and clinicians should be aware of the possibility of associated RLS.
Central nervous system tuberculosis is still one of the leading causes of morbidity in the developing world, and tuberculous abscess is one of its uncommon manifesting forms. It closely mimics a pyogenic abscess clinically, radiologically, and histologically. An accurate diagnosis is imperative due to therapeutic implications. In this study, 21 cases of tuberculous abscesses encountered over a period of 13 years (1995-2007) were reviewed to study the clinical, radiological, and histopathological spectrum of the disease. The presence of palisading epithelioid cells and sheets of foamy histiocytes, enclosing a neutrophillic exudate rich in fibrin with nuclear debris, were clues as to suspicion of a tuberculous abscess. The demonstration of acid fast bacilli in the wall of the abscess or necrotic contents by microscopy or culture is essential to confirm the diagnosis of tuberculous abscess. A high index of clinical suspicion is necessary particularly in countries endemic for tuberculosis to ensure an accurate diagnosis and application of an appropriate therapy.


Endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) is one of the efficacious surgical options available for obstructive hydrocephalus, and is preferable to a ventriculoperitoneal shunt in those eligible. We retrospectively studied 115 cases, who underwent ETV at our institute over the last 5 years. Thirty-eight patients were infants. Major indications for ETV were aqueductal stenosis (n = 60/115, 52.2%), Dandy-Walker malformation (15/115, 13%), associated arachnoid cyst (n = 13/115, 11.3%) and post-meningitic hydrocephalus (n = 12/115, 10.4%). Average duration of the follow-up was 10.6 months. Ninety-nine patients (86.1%) showed clinical improvement after surgery. Clinical improvement was seen in 27 out of 38 infants (71%) followed up. ETV is a highly effective tool in all age groups of patients for the management of hydrocephalus. Clinical features should be considered as indications of the success or failure of ventriculostomy in infants who have low-pressure hydrocephalus.
The kisspeptin precursor is the protein transcribed from the Kiss-1 gene and the kisspeptins are the peptides that are posttranslationally processed from the precursor. The kisspeptins activate the G-protein coupled receptor GPR54 and are strongly implicated in puberty onset and in regulation of the hypothalamo-pituitary gonadal axis in mammals. Physiological studies have indicated that these effects occur via a direct activation of the GnRH neurons, and at an unknown site in the median eminence or directly on the gonadotropes. Paradoxically, while the function of kisspeptin is relatively well understood, little data are available about the localization of kisspeptin neurons in the brain, and in particular the projection patterns of kisspeptin containing axons implicated in regulation of the hypothalamo-pituitary gonadal axis. This review covers the current information about the localization of kisspeptin neurons in the mammalian brain and discusses the facts and artifacts of the methods of their detection. The available data suggest that kisspeptins are synthesized in neurons in the anteroventral periventricular nucleus and the arcuate nucleus. Both populations are considered to be involved in control of gonadotropes. In addition, kisspeptin nerve terminals and receptors are found in other hypothalamic area suggesting that kisspeptins are involved in regulation of other yet unknown homeostatic or neuroendocrine functions.
Reproduction is a complex and energy demanding function. When internal and external conditions might impair reproductive success (negative energy balance, stress, harsh season) reproductive activity has to be repressed. Recent evidence suggests that these inhibitory mechanisms operate on Kiss1-expressing neurons, which were recently shown to be implicated in the regulation of GnRH release. Hamsters are seasonal rodents which are sexually active in long photoperiod and quiescent in short photoperiod. The photoperiodic information is transmitted to the reproductive system by melatonin, a pineal hormone whose secretion is adjusted to night length. The photoperiodic variation in circulating melatonin has been shown to synchronize reproductive activity with seasons, but the mechanisms involved in this effect of melatonin were so far unknown. Recently we have observed that Kiss1 mRNA level in the arcuate nucleus of the Syrian hamster is lower in short photoperiod, when animals are sexually quiescent. Notably, intracerebroventricular infusion of Kiss1 gene product, kisspeptin, in hamsters kept in short photoperiod is able to override the inhibitory photoperiod and to reactivate sexual activity. The inhibition of Kiss1 expression in short photoperiod is driven by melatonin because pinealectomy prevents decrease in Kiss1 mRNA level in short photoperiod and melatonin injection in long photoperiod down regulates Kiss1 expression. Whether melatonin acts directly on arcuate Kiss1 expressing neurons or mediates its action via interneurons is the subject of the current investigations.
Four transgenic mouse lines have been generated with mutations in the Gpr54 gene and two lines with mutations in the Kiss1 gene. In general, the phenotypes of all these mutant mice are very similar and provide evidence that these molecules constitute an authentic receptor/ligand pair with no obvious redundancy or overlap with other signaling pathways. The mutant mice all fail to undergo pubertal maturation and show poor development of the gonads and infertility with low sex steroid and gonadotrophic hormone levels (hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism). Spermatogenesis and ovulation are severely impaired and mutant females do not show estrous cycling. The gonads and the anterior pituitary retain functional responses to hormonal stimulation however, consistent with the primary defect being a failure to secrete gonadotrophin releasing hormone (GnRH) from the hypothalamus. Slight differences between the phenotype of some of the mutant lines may reflect the type of mutation carried by each line. These mutant mice are being used to interrogate the function of Gpr54 and Kiss1 in key aspects of mammalian reproduction in vivo including the role of these proteins in the generation of the pre-ovulatory luteinizing hormone (LH) surge and aspects of sexual behavior. They provide a useful resource to further understand the hypothalamic regulation of mammalian reproduction, its integration with the pituitary-gonadal axis and to study the potential function of Gpr54 and Kiss1 in peripheral tissues.
In three experiments, we examined the role of structural similarity and different types of motion on the efficiency of performing same--different shape judgments across changes in viewpoints. In all experiments, participants judged whether two novel, multi-part objects were structurally identical, and they were to ignore any viewpoint or motion differences between the objects. In experiment 1, participants were affected by viewpoint differences more for structurally similar than structurally distinct objects, but this interaction was mitigated by rigid motion. In experiments 2 and 3, we used only structurally similar objects that moved only some of their parts, either in a similar way between objects within a pair or in distinctive ways. Participants' recognition performance was facilitated by this articulated motion relative to both static and scrambled controls. We conclude that coherent motion facilitates generalisation across different views of dynamic objects under some conditions.
Over the past few decades, different theories have been advanced to explain geometric-optical illusions based on various perceptual processes such as assimilation and/or contrast. Consistent with the contradictory effects of assimilation and contrast, Pressey's assimilation theory provided an explanation for the Mller-Lyer illusion, but failed to account for the Titchener (Ebbinghaus) illusion. A model that explains both Mller-Lyer and Titchener illusions according to a common underlying process may outline a unified explanation for a variety of geometric-optical illusions. In order to develop such a model, the concept of empty space is introduced as an area of the illusory figure that is not filled by line drawings. It was predicted that the magnitude of illusion would increase with the area of the empty space around the illusory figures. The effect of empty space on the magnitude of perceptual distortion was measured in Mller-Lyer figures, with outward arrowheads of different length. The results indicated an overestimation of the target stimulus in all of the figures. Nevertheless, consistent with the prediction of the present model, the horizontal line in the Mller-Lyer figure with the longest arrowheads appeared shorter than that with the shortest arrowheads, although the size contrast of these figures was the same. According to the analysis proposed in the present study, the area of empty space not only affects the magnitude of illusion but also serves as a contextual cue for the perceptual system to determine the direction of illusion (orientation). The functional relationships between the size contrast and empty space provide a common explanation for the Mller-Lyer, Titchener, and a variety of other geometric-optical illusions.
We investigated here the detection of 2nd-order configural relations both in faces and in non-face objects. In experiment 1 it was shown that observers were more sensitive to feature displacements in upright faces and houses than in inverted faces and houses. The presence of an inversion effect in the house stimuli suggested that 2nd-order relational processing was applied to the non-face stimuli. In experiment 2, the inversion effect for houses was absent when only houses were presented. In experiment 3, face and house stimuli were once again presented in the same task and inversion effects were again seen for both types of stimuli. Together, these results suggest that 2nd-order relational processing can be flexibly applied to non-face objects when they are presented in the context of faces.

It is widely accepted that illusory contours have been first displayed and discussed by Schumann (1900, Zeitschrift fr Psychologie und Physiologie der Sinnesorgane 23 1-32). Here we show that, before him, Jastrow (1899, Popular Science Monthly 54 299-312) produced illusory contours consisting of a shadow word. A brief history of shadow writing in psychological literature from Jastrow to Brunswik is presented, in which the contributions of Pillsbury, Warren, Koffka, and Benussi are examined.
This paper presents the results of some recent experiments in neuroscience and perceptual science that reveal the role of virtual reality in normal visual perception, and the use of television technology by the visual brain. This involves particularly the cholinergic system in the forebrain. This research throws new light on the nature of perception and the relation of phenomenal consciousness and its brain. It is directly relevant to criticisms by certain analytical philosophers of aspects of neuroscience relating to these matters. Particular attention is paid to their support for Naive Realism.
What are the natural constraints for the human body representation? Here I report a perceptual illusion where healthy individuals experience having two right arms, with both sensing touches applied to them. This effect reveals how visual and tactile signals from the body are integrated in a probabilistic fashion, resulting in a single limb being represented at two locations at the same time, giving rise to a perceptual duplication of this limb. This is an important observation because it suggests that even the gross morphology that we experience of ourselves is a construct resulting from dynamic and integrative processes in the perceptual systems.
Previous studies have shown that people's ability to detect, from memory, alterations in highly familiar faces is excellent. Indeed, just noticeable differences for the detection of small alterations in a recognition-memory task were not significantly different from the corresponding measures in a perceptual-discrimination task (Brdart and Devue, 2006 Perception 35 101-106; Ge et al, 2003 Perception 32 601-614). The object of the present study was to evaluate whether people's perceptual memory for body shapes of very familiar persons reaches the high level of precision that was reported for face memory. For one group of participants, the task was to detect body shape alterations (an increase or a decrease of 2% to 10% of the waist-to-hip ratio) on photographs depicting either themselves or a friend. For another group of participants who did not know the target persons, the task was to discriminate whether two photographs presented side by side were the same or not. Results showed that the detection of alterations was significantly better in the perceptual-discrimination task than in the recognition-memory tasks (for the participant's own body as well as for the friend's body). In conclusion, the high fidelity of perceptual memory for very familiar faces does not extend to familiar body shapes.
Biological motion stimuli contain a great deal of information about the person and action depicted. Here, we extend the known range by showing that viewers can see which member of a pair of conversing actors is talking. Moreover, the ability varies with the emotional content of the conversation. The implications for social cognitive neuroscience are discussed.
Perceiving the body influences how we perceive and respond to stimuli in the world. We investigated the respective effects of different components of bodily representation--the senses of ownership and agency--on responses to simple visual stimuli. Participants viewed a video image of their hand on a computer monitor presented either in real time, or with a systematic delay. Blocks began with an induction period in which the index finger was (i) brushed, (ii) passively moved, or (iii) actively moved by the participant. Subjective reports showed that the sense of ownership over the seen hand emerged with synchronous video, regardless of the type of induction, whereas the sense of agency over the hand emerged only following synchronous video with active movement. Following induction, participants responded as quickly as possible to the onset of visual stimuli near the hand by pressing a button with their other hand. Reaction time was significantly speeded when participants had a sense of agency over their seen hand. This effect was eliminated when participants responded vocally, suggesting that it reflects priming of manual responses, rather than enhanced stimulus detection. These results suggest that vision of one's own hand-and, specifically, the sense of agency over that hand-primes manual motor responses.
Factors affecting manual discrimination of spatial orientations and orientation preferences in 5-month-old infants have been investigated by using a familiarisation/reaction to novelty procedure. In the first experiment we explored whether the 'vertical preference' observed by Gentaz and Streri (2004 Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience 16 1-7) and Kerzerho et al (2005 Neuro Report 16 1833-1837) is an intrinsic preference or whether it is due to familiarisation. In the second experiment we examined whether the magnitude of angular deviation to the vertical influences the direction of preference. Results showed that when both gravitational vertical and body axes were aligned, the intrinsic 'vertical preference' exists when the angular difference between the two orientations was 10 degrees. When the angular deviation from the vertical was greater than 10 degrees, the novel orientation was preferred. This modification of orientation preference in the manual discrimination of orientation by 5-month-old infants is discussed in relation to the magnitude of the angular deviation to the gravitational vertical and the spatial reference cues available in each condition.
Stereopsis is largely unperturbed by various types of eye, head, and target movements. Here, we used a simple setup to investigate the limits of a previously untested type of stimulus motion on stereoscopic depth perception. Clockwise and counterclockwise rotations of an autostereogram were used to describe the limits of stereopsis to roll-tilt. The result showed intact depth perception with stimulus rotation up to approximately 12 degrees, regardless of rotation direction and viewing distance, indicating a tolerant mechanism for stereoscopic processing by the human neural system.
Bodily illusions offer an experimental method to investigate the origins and functional role of the sense of one's own body. Using the rubber hand illusion (RHI) we show that a representation of one's own body is implicitly used to calibrate perception of external objects. Twelve participants experienced the RHI while watching stimulation of a large or small glove simultaneously with stimulation of their own hand. They then grasped cylinders of identical size but varying weight. RHI with the large glove caused the cylinders to feel heavier. We suggest that an illusory increase in hand size made the subsequently grasped cylinder feel correspondingly small, evoking a size-weight illusion. Self-representation thus influenced exteroception. The sense of one's own body provides a fundamental reference for perception in general.
In 1902, Santiago Ramn y Cajal (1852-1934), the father of modern neuroscience and a 1906 Nobel laureate, contributed a preface to a book of poems by his fellow countryman, Spanish poet and dramatist Marcos Zapata (1844-1914). In that uncustomary-for his neuroscience followers-essay, Cajal unfolds his ideas on the literary genres of drama and comedy in relation to the workings of the human mind and sentiments. The same text was reissued almost half a century later in Spain and in Argentina under the title The Psychology of Artists. We present an English version of Cajal's essay, which may be of interest to both humanists and biologists, and which further denotes the celebrated neuroanatomist's attempt at understanding the mystery of the human mind.
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) are mediators of synaptic plasticity and learning and are implicated in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disease and age-related cognitive dysfunction. NMDARs are heteromers, but the relative contribution of specific subunits to NMDAR-mediated learning is not fully understood. We characterized pre-conditioning systemic treatment of the NR2B subunit-selective antagonist Ro 25-6981 for effects on multi-trial, one-trial and low-shock Pavlovian fear conditioning in C57BL/6J mice. Ro 25-6981 was also profiled for effects on novel open field exploration, elevated plus-maze anxiety-like behavior, startle reactivity, prepulse inhibition of startle, and nociception. Three-month (adult) and 12-month old C57BL/6Tac mice were compared for Ro 25-6981 effects on multi-trial fear conditioning, and corticolimbic NR2B protein levels. Ro 25-6981 moderately impaired fear learning in the multi-trial and one-trial (but not low-shock) conditioning paradigms, but did not affect exploratory or anxiety-related behaviors or sensory functions. Memory impairing effects of Ro 25-6981 were absent in 12-month old mice, although NR2B protein levels were not significantly altered. Present data provide further evidence of the memory impairing effects of selective blockade of NR2B-containing NMDARs, and show loss of these effects with ageing. This work could ultimately have implications for elucidating the pathophysiology of learning dysfunction in neuropsychiatric disorders and ageing.
The influence of intra-ventral tegmental area administration of gamma-amino-butyric-acid-B (GABAB) receptor agonist and antagonist on the expression and acquisition of morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) in morphine-sensitized female rats was examined. Our pilot experiment showed that subcutaneous administration of morphine-(2.5, 5 and 7.5 mg/kg) induced CPP. Administration of one dose daily morphine (5 mg/kg) for 3 days followed by 5 days rest, enhanced the conditioning induced by ineffective doses of morphine (0.25, 0.5 and 1 mg/kg). Injections of GABAB receptor agonist, baclofen, (1.5 and 12 microg/rat) reduced the expression of morphine CPP whereas the dose of 6 microg/rat of the drug increased it. Baclofen also significantly reduced the acquisition of morphine CPP in morphine-sensitized animals. Administration of GABAB receptor antagonist, CGP 35348, significantly reduced the expression (12 microg/rat) and acquisition (1.5, 6 and 12 microg/rat) of morphine CPP in morphine-sensitized animals. In conclusion, results confirmed the importance of GABAB receptors within the ventral tegmental area of morphine CPP in morphine-sensitized female rats.
Low-dose combinations of naloxone and rimonabant produce additive effects on food intake and feeding behaviour, yet abolish the scratching syndrome typically induced by rimonabant per se. To assess the generality of these findings, we have examined the acute effects of low-dose combinations of naloxone (0.1 mg/kg) and the rimonabant derivative AM 251 (0.5 and 1.0 mg/kg) on food intake, feeding behaviour and weight gain in non-deprived male rats. Although ineffective when given alone, combined treatment with naloxone and 0.5 mg/kg AM 251 significantly and selectively suppressed mash intake and time spent feeding. By itself, 1.0 mg/kg AM 251 failed to alter any measure of feeding behaviour but did reduce food consumption and induce scratching behaviour. Co-administration of naloxone with 1.0 mg/kg AM 251 not only significantly suppressed both food intake and feeding behaviour but also simultaneously attenuated AM 251-induced scratching. This profile mirrors earlier findings with naloxone/rimonabant and is consistent with the reported diversity of opioid-cannabinoid system interactions at a more molecular level. Although further studies are required (e.g. 'neutral' CB1 receptor antagonists), current data constitute further proof of concept regarding the anorectic efficacy, selectivity and added value of low-dose polytherapy with opioid and CB1 receptor antagonists.

Acetylcholine acting on muscarinic M(3) receptors on the detrusor muscle is the principal stimulus for inducing the contractile response for urinary bladder voiding. The urinary bladder expresses, however, all cloned muscarinic receptor subtypes (M(1)-M(5)). In terms of quantity, the M(2) subtype dominates over the M(3) subtype in the detrusor, and its role in contraction seems to be primarily indirect, by blocking stimuli from cAMP-coupled receptors that induce relaxation. The excitatory M(1) and inhibitory M(2) and/or M(4) subtypes are also expressed prejunctionally. Muscarinic M(1) and M(2)/M(4) autoreceptors facilitate and inhibit, respectively, the release of acetylcholine. The urothelium had been considered to be a passive barrier; however, during the last decade, it has been shown that the urothelium is of importance for bladder function. In a state of bladder pathology, muscarinic receptor changes occur in the detrusor, prejunctionally, and in the urothelium, but the character of the change differs between disorders. The urothelium expresses all subtypes of muscarinic receptors, and upon stimulation it releases factors affecting bladder afferents and smooth muscle. During inflammation, the expression of muscarinic M(5) receptors is increased, particularly in the urothelium, together with a cholinergic-induced production of nitric oxide in the mucosa. The present review describes signalling mechanisms, expression and functional effects of muscarinic receptors in the lower urinary tract. Their roles in physiological and pathophysiological conditions, as well as clinical implications of the occurrence of different muscarinic receptors, are discussed.
Neurotransmitter substrate of spatial cognition belongs to current topics in behavioral neuroscience. The present study examined the effects of serotonin depletion with p-chlorophenylalanine on learning of rats in active place avoidance, a spatial task requiring allothetic mapping and cognitive coordination and highly dependent upon hippocampus. Serotonin depletion transiently increased locomotor activity in response to footshocks, but it did not change the avoidance efficiency measured by three spatial parameters. These results suggest that serotonin neurotransmission is not crucial for cognitive coordination and allothetic learning, i.e. the processes, which are crucial for active place avoidance performance.
Animal models of neuropsychiatric disorders are current topics in behavioral neuroscience. Application of non-competitive antagonists of NMDA receptors (such as MK-801) was proposed as a model of schizophrenia, as it leads to specific behavioral alterations, which are partly analogous to human psychotic symptoms. This study examined an animal model of schizophrenia induced by a systemic application of MK-801 (0.15 and 0.20 mg/kg) into rats tested in the active allothetic place avoidance (AAPA) task. Previous studies suggested that MK-801 may interact in vivo with other neurotransmitter systems, including noradrenergic system. Our experiments therefore evaluated the hypothesis that both locomotor stimulation and deficit in avoidance behavior in AAPA task induced by this drug would be reversible by application of alpha(1)-adrenergic antagonist prazosin (1 and 2 mg/kg). The results showed that both doses of prazosin partially reversed hyperlocomotion induced by higher doses of MK-801 and an avoidance deficit measured as number of entrances into the shock sector. Interestingly, no effect of prazosin on the MK-801-induced decrease of maximum time between two entrances (another measure of cognitive performance) was observed. These results support previous data showing that prazosin can compensate for the hyperlocomotion induced by MK-801 and newly show that this partial reduction sustains even in the forced locomotor conditions, which are involved in the AAPA task. The study also shows that certain parameters of avoidance efficiency may be closely related to locomotor activity, whereas other measures of cognition may more selectively reflect cognitive changes.
Transcription is a molecular requisite for long-term synaptic plasticity and long-term memory formation. Thus, in the last several years, one main interest of molecular neuroscience has been the identification of families of transcription factors that are involved in both of these processes. Transcription is a highly regulated process that involves the combined interaction and function of chromatin and many other proteins, some of which are essential for the basal process of transcription, while others control the selective activation or repression of specific genes. These regulated interactions ultimately allow a sophisticated response to multiple environmental conditions, as well as control of spatial and temporal differences in gene expression. Evidence based on correlative changes in expression, genetic mutations, and targeted molecular inhibition of gene expression have shed light on the function of transcription in both synaptic plasticity and memory formation. This review provides a brief overview of experimental work showing that several families of transcription factors, including CREB, C/EBP, Egr, AP-1, and Rel, have essential functions in both processes. The results of this work suggest that patterns of transcription regulation represent the molecular signatures of long-term synaptic changes and memory formation.
The beta subunit of human chorionic gonadotropin (beta-hCG) is a marker of malignancies. Recent studies have also reported its expression in pituitary adenomas, although its significance is unclear. In this retrospective study, the authors quantitatively investigated the immunohistochemical expression of beta-hCG in 123 patients undergoing surgery for pituitary adenomas and explored its relationship to the rest of the endocrine function, tumour recurrence and Ki-67 nuclear labelling. Based on the endocrine profile and immunohistochemistry, the pituitary adenomas were grouped into non-functioning (NFPA; N = 78) and functioning pituitary adenomas (N = 45). The latter included, 20 growth hormone (GH), 12 prolactin (PRL), 8 adreno-corticotrophin hormone (ACTH) and 5 mixed GH-PRL-producing adenomas. Ninety-three (76%) tumours were classified as primary and 30 (24%) tumours classified as recurrent adenomas. Immunohistochemically, 107 (87%) of pituitary adenomas expressed beta-hCG, which was more common in NFPA (91%) than functioning pituitary adenomas (80%). beta-hCG expression was not different between primary (86%) and recurrent pituitary adenomas (90%) and it was also not related to raised Ki-67 labelling. But, Ki-67 labelling was raised in recurrent pituitary adenomas (33%), compared to primary pituitary adenomas (11%). Although, beta-hCG is expressed in the majority of pituitary adenomas, more especially in NFPA, it is un-related to the risk of tumour recurrence or cellular proliferation as measured by Ki-67 nuclear labelling. The high incidence of beta-hCG expression in pituitary adenomas may provide a target for specific beta-hCG-directed tumour therapies in the future.
Cardiac arrhythmias are rare during transsphenoidal surgery and is often secondary to stimulation of the trigeminal nerve endings that supply the nasal passages and cavernous sinus walls. Authors report a patient with Acromegaly, who developed transient asystole, during the dissection of the adenoma extending into the left cavernous sinus wall. In such cases, the use of prophylactic atropine may help to avoid such a complication.

Recent analysis of genetically modified mice deficient in different kainate receptor (KAR) subunits have strongly pointed to a role of the GluK2 subunit, mediating the vulnerability of the brain towards seizures. Research concerning this issue has focused mainly on the hippocampus. However, several studies point to a potential role of other parts of the hippocampal formation, in particular the entorhinal cortex, in the development of epileptic seizures. There is extensive cell death after such seizures in layer III of the medial entorhinal cortex (LIII mEC), making this region of special interest for investigation into related pathological conditions. We therefore characterized KAR mediated currents in LIII mEC pyramidal neurons by several different approaches. Using patch-clamp technique, in combination with glutamate uncaging in horizontal brain slices, we show that LIII mEC neurons exhibit KAR currents. Use of genetically modified mice reveal that these currents are mediated by GluK2 containing KARs. The IV curve indicates the predominant presence of a Ca(2+) impermeable and edited form of the KAR. Finally, we show that GluK2 containing kainate receptors are essential for kainate-induced gamma oscillations within the entorhinal cortex.

The hippocampus is essential for the formation of memories for events, but the specific features of hippocampal neural activity that support memory formation are not yet understood. The ideal experiment to explore this issue would be to monitor changes in hippocampal neural coding throughout the entire learning process, as subjects acquire and use new episodic memories to guide behavior. Unfortunately, it is not clear whether established hippocampally-dependent learning paradigms are suitable for this kind of experiment. The goal of this study was to determine whether learning of the W-track continuous alternation task depends on the hippocampal formation. We tested six rats with NMDA lesions of the hippocampal formation and four sham-operated controls. Compared to controls, rats with hippocampal lesions made a significantly higher proportion of errors and took significantly longer to reach learning criterion. The effect of hippocampal lesion was not due to a deficit in locomotion or motivation, because rats with hippocampal lesions ran well on a linear track for food reward. Rats with hippocampal lesions also exhibited a pattern of perseverative errors during early task experience suggestive of an inability to suppress behaviors learned during pretraining on a linear track. Our findings establish the W-track continuous alternation task as a hippocampally-dependent learning paradigm which may be useful for identifying changes in the neural representation of spatial sequences and reward contingencies as rats learn and apply new task rules.

TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) is a member of the TNF family that participates in HIV-1 pathogenesis through the depletion of CD4+ T cells. TRAIL is expressed on the cell membrane of peripheral immune cells and can be cleaved into a soluble, secreted form. The regulation of TRAIL in macrophages during HIV-1 infection is not completely understood. In this study, we investigated the mechanism(s) of TRAIL expression in HIV-1-infected macrophages, an important cell type in HIV-1 pathogenesis. A human monocyte-derived macrophage (MDM) culture system was infected with macrophage-tropic HIV-1(ADA), HIV-1(JR-FL), or HIV-1(BAL) strains. TRAIL, predominantly the membrane-bound form, increased following HIV-1 infection. We found that HIV-1 infection also induced interferon regulatory factor (IRF)-1, IRF-7 gene expression and signal transducers and activators of transcription 1 (STAT1) activation. Small interfering RNA knockdown of IRF-1 or IRF-7, but not IRF-3, reduced STAT1 activation and TRAIL expression. Furthermore, the upregulation of IRF-1, IRF-7, TRAIL, and the activation of STAT1 by HIV-1 infection was reduced by the treatment of type I interferon (IFN)-neutralizing antibodies. In addition, inhibition of STAT1 by fludarabine abolished IRF-1, IRF-7, and TRAIL upregulation. We conclude that IRF-1, IRF-7, type I IFNs, and STAT1 form a signaling feedback loop that is critical in regulating TRAIL expression in HIV-1-infected macrophages.



Oxidative stress is an important contributor to cancer development. Consistent with that, antioxidant enzymes have been demonstrated to suppress tumorigenesis when being elevated both in vitro and in vivo, making induction of these enzymes a more potent approach for cancer prevention. Protandim, a well-defined combination of widely studied medicinal plants, has been shown to induce superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase activities and reduce superoxide generation and lipid peroxidation in healthy human subjects. To investigate whether Protandim can suppress tumor formation by a dietary approach, a two-stage mouse skin carcinogenesis study was performed. At the end of the study, the mice on a Protandim-containing basal diet had similar body weight compared with those on the basal diet, which indicated no overt toxicity by Protandim. After three weeks on the diets, there was a significant increase in the expression levels of SOD and catalase, in addition to the increases in SOD activities. Importantly, at the end of the carcinogenesis study, both skin tumor incidence and multiplicity were reduced in the mice on the Protandim diet by 33% and 57% respectively, compared with those on basal diet. Biochemical and histological studies revealed that the Protandim diet suppressed tumor promoter-induced oxidative stress (evidenced by reduction of protein carbonyl levels), cell proliferation (evidenced by reduction of skin hyperplasia and suppression of PKC/JNK/Jun pathway), and inflammation (evidenced by reduction of ICAM-1/VCAM-1 expression, NF-kappaB binding activity, and nuclear p65/p50 levels). Overall, induction of antioxidant enzymes by Protandim may serve as a practical and potent approach for cancer prevention.

With few exceptions the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is considered a continuous system of endomembranes within which proteins and ions can move. We have studied dynamic structural changes of the ER in hippocampal neurons in primary culture and organotypic slices. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) was used to quantify and model ER structural dynamics. Ultrastructure was assessed by electron microscopy. In live cell imaging experiments we found that, under basal conditions, the ER of neuronal soma and dendrites was continuous. The smooth and uninterrupted appearance of the ER changed dramatically after glutamate stimulation. The ER fragmented into isolated vesicles in a rapid fission reaction that occurred prior to overt signs of neuronal damage. ER fission was found to be independent of ER calcium levels. Apart from glutamate, the calcium ionophore ionomycin was able to induce ER fission. The N-methyl, D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK-801 inhibited ER fission induced by glutamate as well as by ionomycin. Fission was not blocked by either ifenprodil or kinase inhibitors. Interestingly, sub-lethal NMDA receptor stimulation caused rapid ER fission followed by fusion. Hence, ER fission is not strictly associated with cellular damage or death. Our results thus demonstrate that neuronal ER structure is dynamically regulated with important consequences for protein mobility and ER luminal calcium tunneling.
The characterization of topological architecture of complex brain networks is one of the most challenging issues in neuroscience. Slow (&lt;0.1 Hz), spontaneous fluctuations of the blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) signal in functional magnetic resonance imaging are thought to be potentially important for the reflection of spontaneous neuronal activity. Many studies have shown that these fluctuations are highly coherent within anatomically or functionally linked areas of the brain. However, the underlying topological mechanisms responsible for these coherent intrinsic or spontaneous fluctuations are still poorly understood. Here, we apply modern network analysis techniques to investigate how spontaneous neuronal activities in the human brain derived from the resting-state BOLD signals are topologically organized at both the temporal and spatial scales. We first show that the spontaneous brain functional networks have an intrinsically cohesive modular structure in which the connections between regions are much denser within modules than between them. These identified modules are found to be closely associated with several well known functionally interconnected subsystems such as the somatosensory/motor, auditory, attention, visual, subcortical, and the &quot;default&quot; system. Specifically, we demonstrate that the module-specific topological features can not be captured by means of computing the corresponding global network parameters, suggesting a unique organization within each module. Finally, we identify several pivotal network connectors and paths (predominantly associated with the association and limbic/paralimbic cortex regions) that are vital for the global coordination of information flow over the whole network, and we find that their lesions (deletions) critically affect the stability and robustness of the brain functional system. Together, our results demonstrate the highly organized modular architecture and associated topological properties in the temporal and spatial brain functional networks of the human brain that underlie spontaneous neuronal dynamics, which provides important implications for our understanding of how intrinsically coherent spontaneous brain activity has evolved into an optimal neuronal architecture to support global computation and information integration in the absence of specific stimuli or behaviors.
Maternal licking and grooming (LG) exerts profound influence on hippocampal development and function in the offspring. However, little information is available on the effects of variations in maternal care on other brain regions. Here we examined the effects of variation in the frequency of maternal LG on morphological and electrophysiological properties of layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons in the somatosensory cortex in adult offspring. Compared to low LG offspring, high LG offspring displayed decreased dendritic complexity, reduced spine density and decreased amplitude of spontaneous postsynaptic currents. These changes were accompanied by higher levels of reelin expression in offspring of high LG mothers. Taken together, these findings suggest that differential amount of naturally-occurring variations in maternal LG is associated with enduring changes in dendritic morphology and synaptic function in layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons of the somatosensory cortex.
Myotube apoptosis occurs normally during muscle development and aging but it can lead to destruction of skeletal muscle in neuromuscular diseases. Therefore, understanding how myotube apoptosis is regulated is important for developing novel strategies for treatment of muscle loss. We investigated the regulation of apoptosis in skeletal muscle and report a striking increase in resistance to apoptosis following differentiation. We find mitotic C2C12 cells (myoblast-like cells) are sensitive to cytosolic cytochrome c microinjection. However, differentiated C2C12 cells (myotube-like cells) and primary myotubes are markedly resistant. This resistance is due to endogenous X-linked inhibitor of apoptotic protein (XIAP). Importantly, the selective difference in the ability of XIAP to block myotube but not myoblast apoptosis is not due to a change in XIAP but rather a decrease in Apaf-1 expression. This decrease in Apaf-1 links XIAP to caspase activation and death. Our findings suggest that in order for myotubes to die, they may degrade XIAP, functionally inactivate XIAP or upregulate Apaf-1. Importantly, we identify a role for endogenous Smac in overcoming XIAP to allow myotube death. However, in postmitotic cardiomyocytes, where XIAP also restricts apoptosis, endogenous Smac was not capable of overcoming XIAP to cause death. These results show that as skeletal muscle differentiate, they become resistant to apoptosis because of the ability of XIAP to regulate caspase activation. The increased restriction of apoptosis in myotubes is presumably important to ensure the long term survival of these postmitotic cells as they play a vital role in the physiology of organisms.
Retinal ganglion cells that express the photopigment melanopsin are intrinsically photosensitive (ipRGCs) and exhibit robust synaptically driven ON-responses to light, yet they will continue to depolarize in response to light when all synaptic input from rod and cone photoreceptors is removed. The light-evoked increase in firing of classical ganglion cells is determined by synaptic input from ON-bipolar cells in the proximal sublamina of the inner plexiform layer. OFF-bipolar cells synapse with ganglion cell dendrites in the distal sublamina of the inner plexiform layer. Of the several types of ipRGC that have been described, M1 ipRGCs send dendrites exclusively into the OFF region of the inner plexiform layer where they stratify near the border of the inner nuclear layer. We tested whether M1 ipRGCs with dendrites restricted to the OFF sublamina of the inner plexiform layer receive synaptic ON-bipolar input by examining light-induced gene expression in vivo using melanopsin knockout mice. Mice in which both copies of the melanopsin gene (opn4) have been replaced with the tau-lacZ gene (homozygous tau-lacZ(+/+) knockin mice) are melanopsin knockouts (opn4(-/-)) but M1 ipRGCs are specifically identified by their expression of beta-galactosidase. Approximately 60% of M1 ipRGCs in Opn4(-/-) mice exposed to 3 hrs of light expressed c-Fos; no beta-galactosidase-positive RGCs expressed c-Fos in the dark. Intraocular application of L-AP4, a compound which blocks transmission of visual signals between photoreceptors and ON-bipolar cells significantly reduced light-evoked c-Fos expression in M1 ipRGCs compared to saline injected eyes (66% saline vs 27% L-AP4). The results are the first description of a light-evoked response in an ipRGC lacking melanopsin and provide in vivo confirmation of previous in vitro observations illustrating an unusual circuit in the retina in which ganglion cells sending dendrites to the OFF sublamina of the inner plexiform layer receive excitatory synaptic input from ON-bipolar cells.
A recent study found that false memories were reduced by 36% when low frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) was applied to the left anterior temporal lobe after the encoding (study) phase. Here we were interested in the consequences on a false memory task of brain stimulation throughout the encoding and retrieval task phases. We used transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) because it has been shown to be a useful tool to enhance cognition. Specifically, we examined whether tDCS can induce changes in a task assessing false memories. Based on our preliminary results, three conditions of stimulation were chosen: anodal left/cathodal right anterior temporal lobe (ATL) stimulation (&quot;bilateral stimulation&quot;); anodal left ATL stimulation (with a large contralateral cathodal electrode--referred as &quot;unilateral stimulation&quot;) and sham stimulation. Our results showed that false memories were reduced significantly after the two active conditions (unilateral and bilateral stimulation) as compared with sham stimulation. There were no significant changes in veridical memories. Our findings show that false memories are reduced by 73% when anodal tDCS is applied to the anterior temporal lobes throughout the encoding and retrieval stages, suggesting a possible strategy for improving certain aspects of learning.
Human subjects can report many items of a cluttered field a few hundred milliseconds after stimulus presentation. This memory decays rapidly and after a second only 3 or 4 items can be stored in working memory. Here we compared the dynamics of objective performance with a measure of subjective report and we observed that 1) Objective performance beyond explicit subjective reports (blindsight) was significantly more pronounced within a short temporal interval and within specific locations of the visual field which were robust across sessions 2) High confidence errors (false beliefs) were largely confined to a small spatial window neighboring the cue. The size of this window did not change in time 3) Subjective confidence showed a moderate but consistent decrease with time, independent of all other experimental factors. Our study allowed us to asses quantitatively the temporal and spatial access to an objective response and to subjective reports.
Extracellular electrical stimulation (EES) of the central nervous system (CNS) has been used empirically for decades, with both fundamental and clinical goals. Currently, microelectrode arrays (MEAs) offer new possibilities for CNS microstimulation. However, although focal CNS activation is of critical importance to achieve efficient stimulation strategies, the precise spatial extent of EES remains poorly understood. The aim of the present work is twofold. First, we validate a finite element model to compute accurately the electrical potential field generated throughout the extracellular medium by an EES delivered with MEAs. This model uses Robin boundary conditions that take into account the surface conductance of electrode/medium interfaces. Using this model, we determine how the potential field is influenced by the stimulation and ground electrode impedances, and by the electrical conductivity of the neural tissue. We confirm that current-controlled stimulations should be preferred to voltage-controlled stimulations in order to control the amplitude of the potential field. Second, we evaluate the focality of the potential field and threshold-distance curves for different electrode configurations. We propose a new configuration to improve the focality, using a ground surface surrounding all the electrodes of the array. We show that the lower the impedance of this surface, the more focal the stimulation. In conclusion, this study proposes new boundary conditions for the design of precise computational models of extracellular stimulation, and a new electrode configuration that can be easily incorporated into future MEA devices, either in vitro or in vivo, for a better spatial control of CNS microstimulation.
The specification and differentiation of dentate gyrus granule neurons in the hippocampus require temporally and spatially coordinated actions of both intrinsic and extrinsic molecules. The basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor Neurogenin2 (Ngn2) and NeuroD1 are key regulators in these processes. Based on existing classification, we analyzed the molecular events occurring during hippocampal neurogenesis, primarily focusing on juvenile animals. We found that Ngn2 is transiently expressed by late type-2a amplifying progenitors. The Ngn2 progenies mature into hippocampal granule neurons. Interestingly, the loss of Ngn2 at early stages of development leads to a robust reduction in neurogenesis, but does not disturb granule neuron maturation per se. We found that the role of Ngn2 is to maintain progenitors in an undifferentiated state, allowing them to amplify prior to their maturation into granule neurons upon NeuroD1 induction. When we overexpressed Ngn2 and NeuroD1 in vivo, we found NeuroD1 to exhibit a more pronounced neuron-inductive effect, leading to granule neuron commitment, than that displayed by Ngn2. Finally, we observed that all markers expressed during the transcriptional control of hippocampal neurogenesis in rodents are also present in the human hippocampus. Taken together, we demonstrate a critical role of for Ngn2 and NeuroD1 in controlling neuronal commitment and hippocampal granule neuroblast formation, both during embryonic development and in post-natal hippocampal granule neurogenesis.
Precise identification of neuronal populations is a major challenge in neuroscience. In the striatum, more than 95% of neurons are GABAergic medium-sized spiny neurons (MSNs), which form two intermingled populations distinguished by their projections and protein content. Those expressing dopamine D(1)-receptors (D1Rs) project preferentially to the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr), whereas those expressing dopamine D(2)- receptors (D2Rs) project preferentially to the lateral part of the globus pallidus (LGP). The degree of segregation of these populations has been a continuous subject of debate, and the recent introduction of bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) transgenic mice expressing fluorescent proteins driven by specific promoters was a major progress to facilitate striatal neuron identification. However, the fraction of MSNs labeled in these mice has been recently called into question, casting doubt on the generality of results obtained with such approaches. Here, we performed an in-depth quantitative analysis of striatal neurons in drd1a-EGFP and drd2-EGFP mice. We first quantified neuronal and non-neuronal populations in the striatum, based on nuclear staining with TO-PRO-3, and immunolabeling for NeuN, DARPP-32 (dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein Mr approximately 32,000), and various markers for interneurons. TO-PRO-3 staining was sufficient to identify MSNs by their typical nuclear morphology and, with a good probability, interneuron populations. In drd1a-EGFP/drd2-EGFP double transgenic mice all MSNs expressed EGFP, which was driven in about half of them by drd1a promoter. Retrograde labeling showed that all MSNs projecting to the SNr expressed D1R and very few D2R (&lt;1%). In contrast, our results were compatible with the existence of some D1R-EGFP-expressing fibers giving off terminals in the LGP. Thus, our study shows that nuclear staining is a simple method for identifying MSNs and other striatal neurons. It also unambiguously confirms the degree of segregation of MSNs in the mouse striatum and allows the full exploitation of results obtained with BAC-transgenic mice.

Glyoxalase 1 (Glo1) has been implicated in anxiety-like behavior in mice and in multiple psychiatric diseases in humans. We used mouse Affymetrix exon arrays to detect copy number variants (CNV) among inbred mouse strains and thereby identified a approximately 475 kb tandem duplication on chromosome 17 that includes Glo1 (30,174,390-30,651,226 Mb; mouse genome build 36). We developed a PCR-based strategy and used it to detect this duplication in 23 of 71 inbred strains tested, and in various outbred and wild-caught mice. Presence of the duplication is associated with a cis-acting expression QTL for Glo1 (LOD&gt;30) in BXD recombinant inbred strains. However, evidence for an eQTL for Glo1 was not obtained when we analyzed single SNPs or 3-SNP haplotypes in a panel of 27 inbred strains. We conclude that association analysis in the inbred strain panel failed to detect an eQTL because the duplication was present on multiple highly divergent haplotypes. Furthermore, we suggest that non-allelic homologous recombination has led to multiple reversions to the non-duplicated state among inbred strains. We show associations between multiple duplication-containing haplotypes, Glo1 expression and anxiety-like behavior in both inbred strain panels and outbred CD-1 mice. Our findings provide a molecular basis for differential expression of Glo1 and further implicate Glo1 in anxiety-like behavior. More broadly, these results identify problems with commonly employed tests for association in inbred strains when CNVs are present. Finally, these data provide an example of biologically significant phenotypic variability in model organisms that can be attributed to CNVs.
Watching a speaker's facial movements can dramatically enhance our ability to comprehend words, especially in noisy environments. From a general doctrine of combining information from different sensory modalities (the principle of inverse effectiveness), one would expect that the visual signals would be most effective at the highest levels of auditory noise. In contrast, we find, in accord with a recent paper, that visual information improves performance more at intermediate levels of auditory noise than at the highest levels, and we show that a novel visual stimulus containing only temporal information does the same. We present a Bayesian model of optimal cue integration that can explain these conflicts. In this model, words are regarded as points in a multidimensional space and word recognition is a probabilistic inference process. When the dimensionality of the feature space is low, the Bayesian model predicts inverse effectiveness; when the dimensionality is high, the enhancement is maximal at intermediate auditory noise levels. When the auditory and visual stimuli differ slightly in high noise, the model makes a counterintuitive prediction: as sound quality increases, the proportion of reported words corresponding to the visual stimulus should first increase and then decrease. We confirm this prediction in a behavioral experiment. We conclude that auditory-visual speech perception obeys the same notion of optimality previously observed only for simple multisensory stimuli.
Although many studies have shown that attention to a stimulus can enhance the responses of individual cortical sensory neurons, little is known about how attention accomplishes this change in response. Here, we propose that attention-based changes in neuronal responses depend on the same response normalization mechanism that adjusts sensory responses whenever multiple stimuli are present. We have implemented a model of attention that assumes that attention works only through this normalization mechanism, and show that it can replicate key effects of attention. The model successfully explains how attention changes the gain of responses to individual stimuli and also why modulation by attention is more robust and not a simple gain change when multiple stimuli are present inside a neuron's receptive field. Additionally, the model accounts well for physiological data that measure separately attentional modulation and sensory normalization of the responses of individual neurons in area MT in visual cortex. The proposal that attention works through a normalization mechanism sheds new light a broad range of observations on how attention alters the representation of sensory information in cerebral cortex.
The human lectin-like oxidized low density lipoprotein receptor 1 LOX-1, encoded by the ORL1 gene, is the major scavenger receptor for oxidized low density lipoprotein in endothelial cells. Here we report on the functional effects of a coding SNP, c.501G&gt;C, which produces a single amino acid change (K&gt;N at codon 167). Our study was aimed at elucidating whether the c.501G&gt;C polymorphism changes the binding affinity of LOX-1 receptor altering its function. The presence of p.K167N mutation reduces ox-LDL binding and uptake. Ox-LDL activated extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK 1/2) is inhibited. Furthermore, ox-LDL induced biosynthesis of LOX-1 receptors is dependent on the p.K167N variation. In human macrophages, derived from c.501G&gt;C heterozygous individuals, the ox-LDL induced LOX-1 46 kDa band is markedly lower than in induced macrophages derived from c.501G&gt;C controls. Investigation of p.K167N mutation through molecular dynamics simulation and electrostatic analysis suggests that the ox-LDL binding may be attributed to the coupling between the electrostatic potential distribution and the asymmetric flexibility of the basic spine residues. The N/N-LOX-1 mutant has either interrupted electrostatic potential and asymmetric fluctuations of the basic spine arginines.


Mutations in PTEN induced kinase 1 (PINK1), a mitochondrial Ser/Thr kinase, cause an autosomal recessive form of Parkinson's disease (PD), PARK6. Here, we report that PINK1 exists as a dimer in mitochondrial protein complexes that co-migrate with respiratory chain complexes in sucrose gradients. PARK6 related mutations do not affect this dimerization and its associated complexes. Using in vitro cell culture systems, we found that mutant PINK1 or PINK1 knock-down caused deficits in mitochondrial respiration and ATP synthesis. Furthermore, proteasome function is impaired with a loss of PINK1. Importantly, these deficits are accompanied by increased alpha-synclein aggregation. Our results indicate that it will be important to delineate the relationship between mitochondrial functional deficits, proteasome dysfunction and alpha-synclein aggregation.
Diffusion of inner membrane proteins is a prerequisite for correct functionality of mitochondria. The complicated structure of tubular, vesicular or flat cristae and their small connections to the inner boundary membrane impose constraints on the mobility of proteins making their diffusion a very complicated process. Therefore we investigate the molecular transport along the main mitochondrial axis using highly accurate computational methods. Diffusion is modeled on a curvilinear surface reproducing the shape of mitochondrial inner membrane (IM). Monte Carlo simulations are carried out for topologies resembling both tubular and lamellar cristae, for a range of physiologically viable crista sizes and densities. Geometrical confinement induces up to several-fold reduction in apparent mobility. IM surface curvature per se generates transient anomalous diffusion (TAD), while finite and stable values of projected diffusion coefficients are recovered in a quasi-normal regime for short- and long-time limits. In both these cases, a simple area-scaling law is found sufficient to explain limiting diffusion coefficients for permeable cristae junctions, while asymmetric reduction of the junction permeability leads to strong but predictable variations in molecular motion rate. A geometry-based model is given as an illustration for the time-dependence of diffusivity when IM has tubular topology. Implications for experimental observations of diffusion along mitochondria using methods of optical microscopy are drawn out: a non-homogenous power law is proposed as a suitable approach to TAD. The data demonstrate that if not taken into account appropriately, geometrical effects lead to significant misinterpretation of molecular mobility measurements in cellular curvilinear membranes.
The embodied cognition hypothesis suggests that motor and premotor areas are automatically and necessarily involved in understanding action language, as word conceptual representations are embodied. This transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) study explores the role of the left primary motor cortex in action-verb processing. TMS-induced motor-evoked potentials from right-hand muscles were recorded as a measure of M1 activity, while participants were asked either to judge explicitly whether a verb was action-related (semantic task) or to decide on the number of syllables in a verb (syllabic task). TMS was applied in three different experiments at 170, 350 and 500 ms post-stimulus during both tasks to identify when the enhancement of M1 activity occurred during word processing. The delays between stimulus onset and magnetic stimulation were consistent with electrophysiological studies, suggesting that word recognition can be differentiated into early (within 200 ms) and late (within 400 ms) lexical-semantic stages, and post-conceptual stages. Reaction times and accuracy were recorded to measure the extent to which the participants' linguistic performance was affected by the interference of TMS with M1 activity. No enhancement of M1 activity specific for action verbs was found at 170 and 350 ms post-stimulus, when lexical-semantic processes are presumed to occur (Experiments 1-2). When TMS was applied at 500 ms post-stimulus (Experiment 3), processing action verbs, compared with non-action verbs, increased the M1-activity in the semantic task and decreased it in the syllabic task. This effect was specific for hand-action verbs and was not observed for action-verbs related to other body parts. Neither accuracy nor RTs were affected by TMS. These findings suggest that the lexical-semantic processing of action verbs does not automatically activate the M1. This area seems to be rather involved in post-conceptual processing that follows the retrieval of motor representations, its activity being modulated (facilitated or inhibited), in a top-down manner, by the specific demand of the task.
Dopamine is an important neuromodulator in animals and its roles in mammalian sexual behavior are extensively studied. Drosophila as a useful model system is widely used in many fields of biological studies. It has been reported that dopamine reduction can affect female receptivity in Drosophila and leave male-female courtship behavior unaffected. Here, we used genetic and pharmacological approaches to decrease the dopamine level in dopaminergic cells in Drosophila, and investigated the consequence of this manipulation on male homosexual courtship behavior. We find that reduction of dopamine level can induce Drosophila male-male courtship behavior, and that this behavior is mainly due to the increased male attractiveness or decreased aversiveness towards other males, but not to their enhanced propensity to court other males. Chemical signal input probably plays a crucial role in the male-male courtship induced by the courtees with reduction of dopamine. Our finding provides insight into the relationship between the dopamine reduction and male-male courtship behavior, and hints dopamine level is important for controlling Drosophila courtship behavior.

Ca(2+) influx via GluR2-lacking Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA glutamate receptors (CP-AMPARs) can trigger changes in synaptic efficacy in both interneurons and principle neurons, but the underlying mechanisms remain unknown. We took advantage of genetically altered mice with no or reduced GluR2, thus allowing the expression of synaptic CP-AMPARs, to investigate the molecular signaling process during CP-AMPAR-induced synaptic plasticity at CA1 synapses in the hippocampus. Utilizing electrophysiological techniques, we demonstrated that these receptors were capable of inducing numerous forms of long-term potentiation (referred to as CP-AMPAR dependent LTP) through a number of different induction protocols, including high-frequency stimulation (HFS) and theta-burst stimulation (TBS). This included a previously undemonstrated form of protein-synthesis dependent late-LTP (L-LTP) at CA1 synapses that is NMDA-receptor independent. This form of plasticity was completely blocked by the selective CP-AMPAR inhibitor IEM-1460, and found to be dependent on postsynaptic Ca(2+) ions through calcium chelator (BAPTA) studies. Surprisingly, Ca/CaM-dependent kinase II (CaMKII), the key protein kinase that is indispensable for NMDA-receptor dependent LTP at CA1 synapses appeared to be not required for the induction of CP-AMPAR dependent LTP due to the lack of effect of two separate pharmacological inhibitors (KN-62 and staurosporine) on this form of potentiation. Both KN-62 and staurosporine strongly inhibited NMDA-receptor dependent LTP in control studies. In contrast, inhibitors for PI3-kinase (LY294002 and wortmannin) or the MAPK cascade (PD98059 and U0126) significantly attenuated this CP-AMPAR-dependent LTP. Similarly, postsynaptic infusion of tetanus toxin (TeTx) light chain, an inhibitor of exocytosis, also had a significant inhibitory effect on this form of LTP. These results suggest that distinct synaptic signaling underlies GluR2-lacking CP-AMPAR-dependent LTP, and reinforces the recent notions that CP-AMPARs are important facilitators of synaptic plasticity in the brain.

Mood disorders affect the lives and functioning of millions each year. Epidemiological studies indicate that childhood trauma is predominantly associated with higher rates of both mood and anxiety disorders. Exposure of rats to stress during juvenility (JS) (27-29 days of age) has comparable effects and was suggested as a model of induced predisposition for these disorders. The importance of the environment in the regulation of brain, behavior and physiology has long been recognized in biological, social and medical sciences. Here, we studied the effects of JS on emotional and cognitive aspects of depressive-like behavior in adulthood, on Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Adrenal (HPA) axis reactivity and on the expression of cell adhesion molecule L1 (L1-CAM). Furthermore, we combined it with the examination of potential reversibility by enriched environment (EE) of JS - induced disturbances of emotional and cognitive aspects of behavior in adulthood. Three groups were tested: Juvenile Stress -subjected to Juvenile stress; Enriched Environment--subjected to Juvenile stress and then, from day 30 on to EE; and Naves. In adulthood, coping and stress responses were examined using the elevated plus-maze, open field, novel setting exploration and two way shuttle avoidance learning. We found that, JS rats showed anxiety- and depressive-like behaviors in adulthood, altered HPA axis activity and altered L1-CAM expression. Increased expression of L1-CAM was evident among JS rats in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) and Thalamus (TL). Furthermore, we found that EE could reverse most of the effects of Juvenile stress, both at the behavioral, endocrine and at the biochemical levels. The interaction between JS and EE resulted in an increased expression of L1-CAM in dorsal cornu ammonis (CA) area 1 (dCA1).




Prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP) is expressed in nociceptive neurons and functions as an ectonucleotidase. When injected intraspinally, the secretory isoforms of human and bovine PAP protein have potent and long-lasting antinociceptive effects that are dependent on A(1)-adenosine receptor (A(1)R) activation. In this study, we purified the secretory isoform of mouse (m)PAP using the baculovirus expression system to determine if recombinant mPAP also had antinociceptive properties. We found that mPAP dephosphorylated AMP, and to a much lesser extent, ADP at neutral pH (pH 7.0). In contrast, mPAP dephosphorylated all purine nucleotides (AMP, ADP, ATP) at an acidic pH (pH 5.6). The transmembrane isoform of mPAP had similar pH-dependent ectonucleotidase activity. A single intraspinal injection of mPAP protein had long-lasting (three day) antinociceptive properties, including antihyperalgesic and antiallodynic effects in the Complete Freund's Adjuvant (CFA) inflammatory pain model. These antinociceptive effects were transiently blocked by the A(1)R antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1, 3-dipropylxanthine (CPX), suggesting mPAP dephosphorylates nucleotides to adenosine to mediate antinociception just like human and bovine PAP. Our studies indicate that PAP has species-conserved antinociceptive effects and has pH-dependent ectonucleotidase activity. The ability to metabolize nucleotides in a pH-dependent manner could be relevant to conditions like inflammation where tissue acidosis and nucleotide release occur. Lastly, our studies demonstrate that recombinant PAP protein can be used to treat chronic pain in animal models.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) can be isolated from different regions of the central nervous system. There has been controversy whether regional differences amongst stem and progenitor cells are cell intrinsic and whether these differences are maintained during expansion in culture. The identification of inherent regional differences has important implications for the use of these cells in neural repair. Here, we compared NSCs derived from the spinal cord and embryonic cortex. We found that while cultured cortical and spinal cord derived NSCs respond similarly to mitogens and are equally neuronogenic, they retain and maintain through multiple passages gene expression patterns indicative of the region from which they were isolated (e.g Emx2 and HoxD10). Further microarray analysis identified 229 genes that were differentially expressed between cortical and spinal cord derived neurospheres, including many Hox genes, Nuclear receptors, Irx3, Pace4, Lhx2, Emx2 and Ntrk2. NSCs in the cortex express LeX. However, in the embryonic spinal cord there are two lineally related populations of NSCs: one that expresses LeX and one that does not. The LeX negative population contains few markers of regional identity but is able to generate LeX expressing NSCs that express markers of regional identity. LeX positive cells do not give rise to LeX-negative NSCs. These results demonstrate that while both embryonic cortical and spinal cord NSCs have similar self-renewal properties and multipotency, they retain aspects of regional identity, even when passaged long-term in vitro. Furthermore, there is a population of a LeX negative NSC that is present in neurospheres derived from the embryonic spinal cord but not the cortex.
In humans, the pleasantness of odors is a major contributor to social relationships and food intake. Smells evoke attraction and repulsion responses, reflecting the hedonic value of the odorant. While olfactory preferences are known to be strongly modulated by experience and learning, it has been recently suggested that, in humans, the pleasantness of odors may be partly explained by the physicochemical properties of the odorant molecules themselves. If odor hedonic value is indeed predetermined by odorant structure, then it could be hypothesized that other species will show similar odor preferences to humans. Combining behavioral and psychophysical approaches, we here show that odorants rated as pleasant by humans were also those which, behaviorally, mice investigated longer and human subjects sniffed longer, thereby revealing for the first time a component of olfactory hedonic perception conserved across species. Consistent with this, we further show that odor pleasantness rating in humans and investigation time in mice were both correlated with the physicochemical properties of the molecules, suggesting that olfactory preferences are indeed partly engraved in the physicochemical structure of the odorant. That odor preferences are shared between mammal species and are guided by physicochemical features of odorant stimuli strengthens the view that odor preference is partially predetermined. These findings open up new perspectives for the study of the neural mechanisms of hedonic perception.
The mechanism of widespread neuronal death occurring in Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains enigmatic even after extensive investigation during the last two decades. Amyloid beta 42 peptide (Abeta(1-42)) is believed to play a causative role in the development of AD. Here we expressed human Abeta(1-42) and amyloid beta 40 (Abeta(1-40)) in Drosophila neurons. Abeta(1-42) but not Abeta(1-40) causes an extensive accumulation of autophagic vesicles that become increasingly dysfunctional with age. Abeta(1-42)-induced impairment of the degradative function, as well as the structural integrity, of post-lysosomal autophagic vesicles triggers a neurodegenerative cascade that can be enhanced by autophagy activation or partially rescued by autophagy inhibition. Compromise and leakage from post-lysosomal vesicles result in cytosolic acidification, additional damage to membranes and organelles, and erosive destruction of cytoplasm leading to eventual neuron death. Neuronal autophagy initially appears to play a pro-survival role that changes in an age-dependent way to a pro-death role in the context of Abeta(1-42) expression. Our in vivo observations provide a mechanistic understanding for the differential neurotoxicity of Abeta(1-42) and Abeta(1-40), and reveal an Abeta(1-42)-induced death execution pathway mediated by an age-dependent autophagic-lysosomal injury.
In mice behavioral response to pain is modulated by social status. Recently, social context also has been shown to affect pain sensitivity. In our study, we aimed to investigate the effects of interaction between status and social context in dyads of outbred CD-1 male mice in which the dominance/submission relationship was stable. Mice were assessed for pain response in a formalin (1% concentration) test either alone (individually tested-IT), or in pairs of dominant and subordinate mice. In the latter condition, they could be either both injected (BI) or only one injected (OI) with formalin. We observed a remarkable influence of social context on behavioral response to painful stimuli regardless of the social status of the mice. In the absence of differences between OI and IT conditions, BI mice exhibited half as much Paw-licking behavior than OI group. As expected, subordinates were hypoalgesic in response to the early phase of the formalin effects compared to dominants. Clear cut-differences in coping strategies of dominants and subordinates appeared. The former were more active, whereas the latter were more passive. Finally, analysis of behavior of the non-injected subjects (the observers) in the OI dyads revealed that dominant observers were more often involved in Self-grooming behavior upon observation of their subordinate partner in pain. This was not the case for subordinate mice observing the pain response of their dominant partner. In contrast, subordinate observers Stared at the dominant significantly more frequently compared to observer dominants in other dyads. The observation of a cagemate in pain significantly affected the observer's behavior. Additionally, the quality of observer's response was also modulated by the dominance/submission relationship.
Reproductive capacity and nutritional input are tightly linked and animals' specific responses to alterations in their physical environment and food availability are crucial to ensuring sustainability of that species. We have assessed how alterations in dietary energy intake (both reductions and excess), as well as in food availability, via intermittent fasting (IF), affect the gonadal transcriptome of both male and female rats. Starting at four months of age, male and female rats were subjected to a 20% or 40% caloric restriction (CR) dietary regime, every other day feeding (IF) or a high fat-high glucose (HFG) diet for six months. The transcriptional activity of the gonadal response to these variations in dietary energy intake was assessed at the individual gene level as well as at the parametric functional level. At the individual gene level, the females showed a higher degree of coherency in gonadal gene alterations to CR than the males. The gonadal transcriptional and hormonal response to IF was also significantly different between the male and female rats. The number of genes significantly regulated by IF in male animals was almost 5 times greater than in the females. These IF males also showed the highest testosterone to estrogen ratio in their plasma. Our data show that at the level of gonadal gene responses, the male rats on the IF regime adapt to their environment in a manner that is expected to increase the probability of eventual fertilization of females that the males predict are likely to be sub-fertile due to their perception of a food deficient environment.
The HIV promoter within the viral long terminal repeat (LTR) orchestrates many aspects of the viral life cycle, from the dynamics of viral gene expression and replication to the establishment of a latent state. In particular, after viral integration into the host genome, stochastic fluctuations in viral gene expression amplified by the Tat positive feedback loop can contribute to the formation of either a productive, transactivated state or an inactive state. In a significant fraction of cells harboring an integrated copy of the HIV-1 model provirus (LTR-GFP-IRES-Tat), this bimodal gene expression profile is dynamic, as cells spontaneously and continuously flip between active (Bright) and inactive (Off) expression modes. Furthermore, these switching dynamics may contribute to the establishment and maintenance of proviral latency, because after viral integration long delays in gene expression can occur before viral transactivation. The HIV-1 promoter contains cis-acting Sp1 and NF-kappaB elements that regulate gene expression via the recruitment of both activating and repressing complexes. We hypothesized that interplay in the recruitment of such positive and negative factors could modulate the stability of the Bright and Off modes and thereby alter the sensitivity of viral gene expression to stochastic fluctuations in the Tat feedback loop. Using model lentivirus variants with mutations introduced in the Sp1 and NF-kappaB elements, we employed flow cytometry, mRNA quantification, pharmacological perturbations, and chromatin immunoprecipitation to reveal significant functional differences in contributions of each site to viral gene regulation. Specifically, the Sp1 sites apparently stabilize both the Bright and the Off states, such that their mutation promotes noisy gene expression and reduction in the regulation of histone acetylation and deacetylation. Furthermore, the NF-kappaB sites exhibit distinct properties, with kappaB site I serving a stronger activating role than kappaB site II. Moreover, Sp1 site III plays a particularly important role in the recruitment of both p300 and RelA to the promoter. Finally, analysis of 362 clonal cell populations infected with the viral variants revealed that mutations in any of the Sp1 sites yield a 6-fold higher frequency of clonal bifurcation compared to that of the wild-type promoter. Thus, each Sp1 and NF-kappaB site differentially contributes to the regulation of viral gene expression, and Sp1 sites functionally &quot;dampen&quot; transcriptional noise and thereby modulate the frequency and maintenance of this model of viral latency. These results may have biomedical implications for the treatment of HIV latency.
In the light of newer scientific developments the biopsychosocial approach in psychotherapy appears to be in need of a revision. In neurosciences a paradigm change from a linear to a dynamic outlook on development as a self-organizing process guided by interactions with the environment took place under the heading of Neural Plasticity during the last ten years. This implies that the conditions of development for challenged children are not comparable with those of healthy children as the case-examples of children with Spina Bifida indicate. On this background, a pilot project was launched with the goal of determining which forms of psychotherapy are helpful for challenged children. A practically oriented, eclectic approach was developed applying empiric-regulative cycles which promotes the dynamics of self-organizing psychic and physical processes as shown in a presented example of a child experiencing post-lesional plasticity. Thus, psychotherapy is understood as a co-constructive process of reciprocal shaping of relationship; it fosters beneficial organization processes of psychic and physical impact.


We report the results of anatomical and vibrometric studies of the middle ear of the African clawed frog, Xenopus laevis. The cartilaginous tympanic disk of Xenopus shows pronounced sexual dimorphism, that of male frogs being much larger than that of females, relative to body size. The stapes footplate, however, is not enlarged in males. The cucullaris muscle was found to insert on the stapes in frogs of both sexes. Using laser interferometry to examine the response of middle ear structures to airborne sound, the stapes footplate was found to vibrate close to 180 out-of-phase with the tympanic disk across a range of frequencies, this resembling the relationship between tympanic membrane and footplate movement previously described in ranid frogs. By contrast, whereas there is a pronounced difference in vibration velocity between tympanic membrane and footplate in ranids, the footplate vibration velocity in Xenopus was found to be similar to that of the tympanic disk. This may be interpreted as an adaptation to improve the detection of sound underwater.
The study of culture and biology has long stood stratified within the social and natural sciences, a gap that physicist C.P. Snow (1959) famously called &quot;the two cultures.&quot; Cultural neuroscience is an emerging, interdisciplinary field that examines the bidirectional influence of culture and genes to brain and behavior across multiple timescales. Integrating theory and methods from cultural psychology, brain sciences, and population genetics, cultural neuroscience is the study of how cultural values, practices and beliefs shape brain function and how the human brain gives rise to cultural capacities and their transmission across macro- (e.g., phylogeny, lifespan) and micro timescales (e.g., situation). The current article presents the aims and methods of cultural neuroscience, highlights recent empirical findings in the field, and discusses the potential implications of this field for bridging the social and natural sciences as well as informing interethnic ideology and population health concerns, more broadly construed.
There is a long tradition that seeks to understand the impact of culture on the causes, form, treatment, and outcome of psychiatric disorders. An early, colonialist literature attributed cultural characteristics and variations in psychopathology and behavior to deficiencies in the brains of colonized peoples. Contemporary research in social and cultural neuroscience holds the promise of moving beyond these invidious comparisons to a more sophisticated understanding of cultural variations in brain function relevant to psychiatry. To achieve this, however, we need better models of the nature of psychopathology and of culture itself. Culture is not simply a set of traits or characteristics shared by people with a common geographic, historical, or ethnic background. Current anthropology understands culture as fluid, flexible systems of discourse, institutions, and practices, which individuals actively use for self-fashioning and social positioning. Globalization introduces new cultural dynamics and demands that we rethink culture in relation to a wider domain of evolving identities, knowledge, and practice. Psychopathology is not reducible to brain dysfunction in either its causes, mechanisms, or expression. In addition to neuropsychiatric disorders, the problems that people bring to psychiatrists may result from disorders in cognition, the personal and social meanings of experience, and the dynamics of interpersonal interactions or social systems and institutions. The shifting meanings of culture and psychopathology have implications for efforts to apply cultural neuroscience to psychiatry. We consider how cultural neuroscience can refine use of culture and its role in psychopathology using the example of adolescent aggression as a symptom of conduct disorder.
This paper aims primarily at two things: The first is to present an overview of the newly developed field of &quot;neuroarchaeology&quot; and discuss its theoretical grounding in Material Engagement Theory (MET) and the extended mind hypothesis. The second is to use the above overview as a basis for advancing some tentative proposals about the role that neuroarchaeology, by placing the mutual constitution of brain, mind, and culture in evolutionary perspective, can play within the field of cultural neuroscience and about the common benefits that can arise out of such a cross-disciplinary coalition.
Social support is an effective means by which people cope with stressful events, and consequently, it beneficially affects health and well-being. Yet there are profound cultural differences in the effectiveness of different types of support and how people use their support networks. In this paper, we examine research on the impact of culture on social support, the neural underpinnings of social support, and how cultural differences in social support seeking are manifested biologically. We focus on cultural factors that may affect individuals' decisions to seek or not to seek social support and how culture moderates the impact of support seeking on biological and psychological health outcomes. We also examine recent research on the interaction between genes and culture in social support use. Discussion centers on the importance of developing an overarching framework of social support that integrates health psychology, cultural psychology, social neuroscience, and genetics.
The self has been addressed extensively by philosophers and psychologists from different cultures. Recent cognitive neuroscience studies have uncovered neural substrates underlying the processing of different aspects of the self. As social psychologists have shown evidence for differences in self-construal styles between Western and East Asian cultures, recent transcultural neuroimaging research sought to find potential neural mechanisms mediating cultural specific self-related processing. The findings of transcultural neuroimaging research help to understand the culture-dependent nature of the self and its underlying neural substrates. This also sheds light on how to conceptualize the self in psychological and philosophical terms.
In the last few years, theorists have argued that culture can shape processes of basic visual perception. This work has primarily focused on cultural influences in nonsocial domains, such as cross-cultural differences in seeing and attending to focal stimuli versus backgrounds. Recently, researchers have begun to examine how culture can shape processes of social perception. We review such evidence and describe how culture tunes both the outcomes of social perception (as revealed in behavioral responses) as well as the activity of the neural mechanisms that mediate these outcomes. Such evidence comes from the domains of emotion recognition, social status perception, social group evaluation, and mental state inference. We explicate these findings through our viewpoint that ecologically important aspects of the sociocultural environment shape perceptual processing and its neural basis. More broadly, we discuss the promise of a cultural neuroscience approach to social perception and some of its epistemological challenges as a nascent interdisciplinary enterprise.
Cultural neuroscience, the study of how cultural experience shapes the brain, is an emerging subdiscipline in the neurosciences. Yet, a foundational question to the study of culture and the brain remains neglected by neuroscientific inquiry: &quot;How does cultural information get into the brain in the first place?&quot; Fortunately, the tools needed to explore the neural architecture of cultural learning - anthropological theories and cognitive neuroscience methodologies - already exist; they are merely separated by disciplinary boundaries. Here we review anthropological theories of cultural learning derived from fieldwork and modeling; since cultural learning theory suggests that sophisticated imitation abilities are at the core of human cultural learning, we focus our review on cultural imitative learning. Accordingly we proceed to discuss the neural underpinnings of imitation and other mechanisms important for cultural learning: learning biases, mental state attribution, and reinforcement learning. Using cultural neuroscience theory and cognitive neuroscience research as our guides, we then propose a preliminary model of the neural architecture of cultural learning. Finally, we discuss future studies needed to test this model and fully explore and explain the neural underpinnings of cultural imitative learning.
Cultural differences in the way Westerners and East Asians perceive and attend to visual objects and contexts have now been shown across many behavioral studies. Westerners display more attention to objects and their features, in line with an analytic processing style, whereas East Asians attend more to contextual relationship, reflecting holistic processing. In this article, we review these behavioral differences and relate them to neuroimaging studies that show the impact of cultural differences even on ventral visual processing of objects and contexts. We additionally consider the evidence showing how extended experience within a culture via aging affects ventral visual function. We conclude that the brain findings are in agreement with the analytic/holistic dichotomy of Western and East Asian visual processing styles. Westerners engage greater object-processing activity while East Asians engage more context-processing activity in the ventral visual areas of the brain. Although such cultural imaging studies are still few, they provide important early evidence supporting the importance of cultural experiences in sculpting visual processing at the neural level.
Research suggests that music, like language, is both a biological predisposition and a cultural universal. While humans naturally attend to and process many of the psychophysical cues present in musical information, there is a great - and often culture-specific - diversity of musical practices differentiated in part by form, timbre, pitch, rhythm, and other structural elements. Musical interactions situated within a given cultural context begin to influence human responses to music as early as one year of age. Despite the world's diversity of musical cultures, the majority of research in cognitive psychology and the cognitive neuroscience of music has been conducted on subjects and stimuli from Western music cultures. From the standpoint of cognitive neuroscience, identification of fundamental cognitive and neurological processes associated with music requires ascertaining that such processes are demonstrated by listeners from a broad range of cultural backgrounds and in relation to various musics across cultural traditions. This chapter will review current research regarding the role of enculturation in music perception and cognition and the degree to which cultural influences are reflected in brain function. Exploring music cognition from the standpoint of culture will lead to a better understanding of the core processes underlying perception and how those processes give rise to the world's diversity of music forms and expressions.
Neuroanthropology is a new field of research that can make two distinctive contributions to our understanding of the brain-culture nexus. The first contribution has to do with the question of how socially shared meanings and practices are reflected in brain function and structure - the culture in the brain problem. Neuroanthropology's second contribution relates to the neural processes that generate socially shared meanings and practices - the brain in culture problem. Research in cultural neuroscience has focused on the first question while research in social neuroscience has a bearing on the second. A neuroanthropological perspective is vital to integrate these two most important dimensions of the human condition. In this paper we review research from cultural anthropology, primatology, and developmental psychology, in addition to social and cultural neuroscience, that deals with these two core neuroanthropological issues. Regarding the brain in culture problem, the review reveals that relational recoding is the basis of a host of cognitive functions that enable the formation of socially shared meanings and practices. The review also shows that relational recoding corresponds to the processing style characteristic of the prefrontal cortex (PFC). With respect to the culture in the brain problem, the most salient finding is the extent and breadth of the influence of culture on the brain: literally all brain areas, cortical and subcortical, respond to regularities in the cultural stream of experience. Furthermore, culture not only shapes preexisting patterns of neural activity but it may also determine whether a pattern is at all present. In addition to influencing brain function culture also changes the structure of the brain. The review finally indicates that cultural regularities can modulate cognitive function both implicitly and explicitly. Overall, the PFC can be regarded as the structure that establishes relationships between things and events that are represented in the different areas distributed across the brain. These areas become in this manner more readily available for modulation or constitution by (cultural) experience. However, the PFC is the structure that stands first to be modified or constituted by cultural experience as it is the structure that lays culture's foundations.
Partly due to the failure of anthropology to productively engage the fields of psychology and neuroscience, investigations in cultural neuroscience have occurred largely without the active involvement of anthropologists or anthropological theory. Dramatic advances in the tools and findings of social neuroscience have emerged in parallel with significant advances in anthropology that connect social and political-economic processes with fine-grained descriptions of individual experience and behavior. We describe four domains of inquiry that follow from these recent developments, and provide suggestions for intersections between anthropological tools - such as social theory, ethnography, and quantitative modeling of cultural models - and cultural neuroscience. These domains are: the sociocultural construction of emotion, status and dominance, the embodiment of social information, and the dual social and biological nature of ritual. Anthropology can help locate unique or interesting populations and phenomena for cultural neuroscience research. Anthropological tools can also help &quot;drill down&quot; to investigate key socialization processes accountable for cross-group differences. Furthermore, anthropological research points at meaningful underlying complexity in assumed relationships between social forces and biological outcomes. Finally, ethnographic knowledge of cultural content can aid with the development of ecologically relevant stimuli for use in experimental protocols.

In the past ten years, rapid technological developments in the field of neuroimaging have produced a cornucopia of new techniques for examining both the structure and function of the human brain in vivo. In specialized centers, many of these methods are now being employed routinely in the assessment of patients diagnosed with disorders of consciousness, mapping patterns of residual function and dysfunction and helping to reduce diagnostic errors between related conditions such as the vegetative and minimally conscious states. Moreover, such efforts are beginning to provide important new prognostic indicators, helping to disentangle differences in outcome on the basis of a greater understanding of the underlying mechanisms responsible and providing information that will undoubtedly contribute to improved therapeutic choices in these challenging populations. Of course, these emerging technologies and the new information that they provide will bring new ethical challenges to this area and will have profound implications for clinical care and medical-legal decision-making in this population of patients. We review the most recent work in this area and suggest that the future integration of emerging neuroimaging techniques with existing clinical and behavioral methods of assessment will pave the way for new and innovative applications, both in basic neuroscience and in clinical practice.
The term 'locked-in'syndrome (LIS) describes a medical condition in which persons concerned are severely paralyzed and at the same time fully conscious and awake. The resulting anarthria makes it impossible for these patients to naturally communicate, which results in diagnostic as well as serious practical and ethical problems. Therefore, developing alternative, muscle-independent communication means is of prime importance. Such communication means can be realized via brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) circumventing the muscular system by using brain signals associated with preserved cognitive, sensory, and emotional brain functions. Primarily, BCIs based on electrophysiological measures have been developed and applied with remarkable success. Recently, also blood flow-based neuroimaging methods, such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS), have been explored in this context. After reviewing recent literature on the development of especially hemodynamically based BCIs, we introduce a highly reliable and easy-to-apply communication procedure that enables untrained participants to motor-independently and relatively effortlessly answer multiple-choice questions based on intentionally generated single-trial fMRI signals that can be decoded online. Our technique takes advantage of the participants' capability to voluntarily influence certain spatio-temporal aspects of the blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signal: source location (by using different mental tasks), signal onset and offset. We show that healthy participants are capable of hemodynamically encoding at least four distinct information units on a single-trial level without extensive pretraining and with little effort. Moreover, real-time data analysis based on simple multi-filter correlations allows for automated answer decoding with a high accuracy (94.9%) demonstrating the robustness of the presented method. Following our 'proof of concept', the next step will involve clinical trials with LIS patients, undertaken in close collaboration with their relatives and caretakers in order to elaborate individually tailored communication protocols. As our procedure can be easily transferred to MRI-equipped clinical sites, it may constitute a simple and effective possibility for online detection of residual consciousness and for LIS patients to communicate basic thoughts and needs in case no other alternative communication means are available (yet)--especially in the acute phase of the LIS. Future research may focus on further increasing the efficiency and accuracy of fMRI-based BCIs by implementing sophisticated data analysis methods (e.g., multivariate and independent component analysis) and neurofeedback training techniques. Finally, the presented BCI approach could be transferred to portable fNIRS systems as only this would enable hemodynamically based communication in daily life situations.
How do we evaluate a brain's capacity to sustain conscious experience if the subject does not manifest purposeful behaviour and does not respond to questions and commands? What should we measure in this case? An emerging idea in theoretical neuroscience is that what really matters for consciousness in the brain is not activity levels, access to sensory inputs or neural synchronization per se, but rather the ability of different areas of the thalamocortical system to interact causally with each other to form an integrated whole. In particular, the information integration theory of consciousness (IITC) argues that consciousness is integrated information and that the brain should be able to generate consciousness to the extent that it has a large repertoire of available states (information), yet it cannot be decomposed into a collection of causally independent subsystems (integration). To evaluate the ability to integrate information among distributed cortical regions, it may not be sufficient to observe the brain in action. Instead, it is useful to employ a perturbational approach and examine to what extent different regions of the thalamocortical system can interact causally (integration) and produce specific responses (information). Thanks to a recently developed technique, transcranial magnetic stimulation and high-density electroencephalography (TMS/hd-EEG), one can record the immediate reaction of the entire thalamocortical system to controlled perturbations of different cortical areas. In this chapter, using sleep as a model of unconsciousness, we show that TMS/hd-EEG can detect clear-cut changes in the ability of the thalamocortical system to integrate information when the level of consciousness fluctuates across the sleep-wake cycle. Based on these results, we discuss the potential applications of this novel technique to evaluate objectively the brain's capacity for consciousness at the bedside of brain-injured patients.
The assessment of the level and content of consciousness in brain-damaged patients relies to a large extent on behavioral assessment techniques. The limited behavioral repertoire displayed by vegetative and minimally conscious states requires the use of highly sensitive and reliable behavioral assessment methods, allowing the detection of subtle changes in behavior and associated level of consciousness. This situation is further complicated when patients with such disorders of consciousness have underlying deficits in the domain of communication functions, such as aphasia. The present paper examines the consequences of receptive and/or productive aphasia on the already limited behavioral repertoire presented in these patients and discusses a number of behavioral and neuroimaging assessment procedures designed to: (1) detect the presence of aphasia in patients with disorders of consciousness, and (2) reliably assess the level of consciousness of brain-damaged patients while taking into account the existence of receptive and/or expressive language deficits. The combined use of behavioral and neuroimaging assessment techniques appears to be particularly promising for disentangling impaired consciousness and aphasia.
We tend to regard consciousness as a fundamentally subjective phenomenon, yet we can only study it scientifically if it has objective, publicly visible, manifestations. This creates a central, recurring, tension in consciousness science which remains unresolved. On one 'objectivist' view, consciousness is not merely revealed but endowed by the process of reporting which makes it publicly accessible. On a contrasting 'subjectivist' view, consciousness, per se, is independent of the possibility of report, and indeed will always remain beyond the reach of direct observation. I shall explore this tension with examples drawn from clinical neurology, cognitive neuroscience and philosophy. The underlying aim of the paper is to open up the simple but profoundly difficult question that lurks in the background of consciousness science: what is it that are studying?
While enormous progress has been made to identify neural correlates of consciousness (NCC), crucial NCC aspects are still very controversial. A major hurdle is the lack of an adequate definition and characterization of different aspects of conscious experience and also its relationship to attention and metacognitive processes like monitoring. In this paper, we therefore attempt to develop a unitary theoretical framework for NCC, with an interdependent characterization of endogenous attention, access consciousness, phenomenal awareness, metacognitive consciousness, and a non-referential form of unified consciousness. We advance an adaptive workspace hypothesis about the NCC based on the global workspace model emphasizing transient resonant neurodynamics and prefrontal cortex function, as well as meditation-related characterizations of conscious experiences. In this hypothesis, transient dynamic links within an adaptive coding net in prefrontal cortex, especially in anterior prefrontal cortex, and between it and the rest of the brain, in terms of ongoing intrinsic and long-range signal exchanges, flexibly regulate the interplay between endogenous attention, access consciousness, phenomenal awareness, and metacognitive consciousness processes. Such processes are established in terms of complementary aspects of an ongoing transition between context-sensitive global workspace assemblies, modulated moment-to-moment by body and environment states. Brain regions associated to momentary interoceptive and exteroceptive self-awareness, or first-person experiential perspective as emphasized in open monitoring meditation, play an important modulatory role in adaptive workspace transitions.
When we identify a visual object such as a word or letter our ability to detect a second object is impaired if it appears within 500 ms of the first. This outcome has been named the 'attentional blink' (AB) and has been the topic of numerous research reports since 1992 when the first AB paper was published. During the first decade of research on this topic, the focus has been on 'behavioural' approaches to understanding the AB phenomenon, with manipulations made on stimulus parameters (e.g. type and spatial distribution), nature of the stimuli (uni-modal or cross-modal) and importantly the role of masking. More recently, researchers have begun to focus on neurophysiological underpinnings of the AB studying patients with focal lesions and using approaches such as ERP, TMS, fMRI and MEG. My chapter presents the results of a number of such neurophysiological techniques, suggesting that localisation, in combination with activation and synchronisation methods have begun to unravel a dynamic temporo-parietal frontal network of structures involved in the AB.
Recovery of function after damage to the CNS is limited due to the absence of axon regeneration and relatively low levels of plasticity. Plasticity in the CNS can be reactivated in the adult CNS by treatment with chondroitinase ABC, which removes glycosaminoglycan (GAG) chains from chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs). Plasticity in the adult CNS is restricted by perineuronal nets (PNNs) around many neuronal cell bodies and dendrites, which appear at the closure of critical periods and contain several inhibitory CSPGs. Formation of these structures and the turning off of plasticity is triggered by impulse activity in neurons. Expression of a link protein by neurons is the event that triggers the formation of PNNs. Treatment with chondroitinase removes PNNs and other inhibitory influences in the damaged spinal cord and promotes sprouting of new connections. However, promoting plasticity by itself does not necessarily bring back useful behavior; this only happens when useful connections are stabilized and inappropriate connections removed, driven by behavior. Thus after rodent spinal cord injury, combining a daily rehabilitation treatment for skilled paw function with chondroitinase produces much greater recovery than either treatment alone. The rehabilitation must be specific for the behavior that is to be enhanced because non-specific rehabilitation improves locomotor behavior but not skilled paw function. Plasticity-enhancing treatments may therefore open up a window of opportunity for successful rehabilitation.

A dramatic paradigm shift is taking place in our understanding of the pathophysiology of multiple sclerosis (MS). An important contribution to such a shift has been made possible by the advances in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technology, which allows structural damage to be quantified in the brains of patients with MS and to be followed over the course of the disease. Modern quantitative MR techniques have reshaped the picture of MS, leading to the definition of the so- called &quot;axonal hypothesis&quot; (i.e., changes in axonal metabolism, morphology, or density are important determinants of functional impairment in MS). Metrics derived from magnetization transfer and diffusion-weighted MRI enable us to quantify the extent of structural changes occurring within T2-visible lesions and normal-appearing tissues (including gray matter), with increased pathological specificity over conventional MRI to irreversible tissue damage; proton MR spectroscopy adds valuable pieces of information on the biochemical nature of such changes. Finally, functional MRI can provide new insights into the role of cortical adaptive changes in limiting the clinical consequences of MS-related irreversible structural damage. Our current understanding of the pathophysiology of MS is that this is not only a disease of the white matter, characterized by focal inflammatory lesions, but also a disease involving more subtle and diffuse damage throughout the white and gray matter. The inflammatory and neurodegenerative components of the disease process are present from the earliest observable phases of the disease, but appear to be, at least partially, dissociated. In addition, recovery and repair play an important role in the genesis of the clinical manifestations of the disease, involving both structural changes and plastic reorganization of the cortex. This new picture of MS has important implications in the context of treatment options, since it suggests that agents that protect against neurodegeneration or promote tissue repair may have an important role to play alongside agents acting on the inflammatory component of the disease.
During the development of the brain, synaptic connections between nerve cells are being established with remarkable specificity. This is achieved by a series of steps: first, axons grow to their terminal areas. Second, axons and dendrites contact each other and select among potential synaptic partners. Third, after synapses have become functional, the fine-tuning of synaptic connections optimizes emerging networks to perform their specific functions. Here, I summarize the evidence for a central role of intracellular calcium signaling in all three stages of the development of specific synaptic connections. In particular, calcium signaling has the capacity to integrate information from a wide array of extracellular factors that are known to regulate neuronal development, such as molecular cues or neuronal activity. Calcium signaling, in turn, directs structural as well as functional adaptations in individual neurons that underlie the establishment of synaptic specificity. Importantly, evidence is accumulating that errors in calcium-dependent network maturation are associated with neurodevelopmental disorders. Therefore, understanding the role of calcium in setting up brain networks may not only advance our insights into mechanisms of normal brain development, but also help identifying the causes of diseases such as autism or mental retardation.
The use of deep brain stimulation in psychiatric disorders has received great interest owing to the small risk of the operation, the reversible nature of the technique, and the possibility of optimizing treatment postoperatively. Currently, deep brain stimulation in psychiatry is investigated for obsessive-compulsive disorder, Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome, and major depression. This chapter reviews the application of deep brain stimulation in obsessive-compulsive disorder. Preliminary results suggest that deep brain stimulation in obsessive-compulsive disorder can effectuate a decrease of 40-60% in at least half of the patients. Although various side effects occur, most of these are transitory and linked to specific stimulation parameters which can be changed. Because only a few studies have been performed with a limited number of patients in accordance with varying research protocols, appliance of deep brain stimulation to obsessive-compulsive disorder is still at an experimental stage. The speed of the effect of deep brain stimulation causes fundamental assumptions on the pathophysiology of obsessive-compulsive disorder.
The recent upsurge in placebo research has demonstrated the sound neurobiological substrate of a phenomenon once believed to be only patient mystification, or at best a variable to control in clinical trials, bringing about a new awareness of its potential exploitation to the patient's benefit and framing it as a positive context effect, with the power to influence the therapy outcome. Placebo effects have been described both in the experimental setting and in different clinical conditions, many of which are of neurological interest. Multiple mechanisms have been described, namely conditioning and cognitive factors like expectation, desire, and reward. A body of evidence from neurochemical, pharmacological, and neuroimaging studies points to the involvement of neural pathways specific to single conditions, such as the activation of the endogenous antinociceptive system during placebo analgesia or the release of dopamine in the striatum of parkinsonian patients experiencing placebo reduction of motor impairment. The possible clinical applications of placebo studies range from the design of clinical trials incorporating specific recommendations and minimizing the use of placebo arms to the optimization of the context surrounding the patient, in order to maximize the placebo component present in any treatment.
Reconstructive surgery of the peripheral nerve has undergone major technical improvements over the last decades, leading to a significant improvement in the clinical outcome of surgery. Nonetheless, functional recovery remains suboptimal in the majority of patients after nerve repair surgery. In this review, we first discuss the molecular mechanisms involved in peripheral nerve injury and regeneration, with a special emphasis on the role of neurotrophic factors. We then identify five major challenges that currently exist in the clinical practice of nerve repair and their molecular basis. The first challenge is the slow rate of axonal outgrowth after peripheral nerve repair. The second problem is that of scar formation at the site of nerve injury, which is detrimental to functional recovery. As a third issue, we discuss the difficulty in assessing the degree of injury in closed traction lesions without total loss of continuity of the involved nerve elements. The fourth challenge is the problem of misrouting of regenerating axons. As a fifth and final issue we discuss the potential drawbacks of using sensory nerve grafts to support the regeneration of motoneurons. For all these challenges, solutions are likely to emerge from (a) a better understanding of their molecular basis and (b) the ability to influence these processes at a molecular level, possibly with the aid of viral vectors. We discuss how lentiviral vectors have been applied in the peripheral nerve to express neurotrophic factors and summarize both the advantages and drawbacks of this approach. Finally, we discuss how lentiviral vectors can be used to provide new, molecular neurobiology-based, approaches to address the clinical challenges described above.
