Cocaine-primed reinstatement of drug seeking is associated with a decrease in extracellular GABA in the ventral pallidum (VP). The present study investigated the neural mechanism of this cocaine-induced decrease in VP GABA by determining if activity of the glutamatergic projection from the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) to the nucleus accumbens is required for the effect. Microdialysis was performed to measure extracellular GABA in the VP while simultaneously, either a combination of the GABA agonists baclofen and muscimol was microinjected into the PFC, or the AMPA/kainate glutamate receptor antagonist CNQX was microinjected into the accumbens core. Inhibition of the PFC with GABA agonists and blockade of AMPA glutamate receptors in the accumbens core were both sufficient to prevent the cocaine-induced decrease in VP GABA, further implicating increased activity of the cortico-striato-pallidal circuit in relapse to drug seeking.
Glyoxalase-1 (Glo1) is an antioxidant enzyme which detoxifies alpha-ketoaldehydes to prevent the accumulation of pro-oxidant compounds, such as methylglyoxal, in all cell types. Glo1 has been suggested to be involved in anxiety disorders, autism, and Alzheimer's disease. Mood disorders have a high rate of comorbidity with anxiety disorders although, to date, little is known of the involvement of Glo1 in the pathophysiology of these conditions. In the present study, we examined the expression levels of Glo1 mRNA in peripheral white blood cells of mood disorder patients to understand the role of Glo1 in mood disorders. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction experiments revealed that reduced expression of Glo1 mRNA was observed in major depressive and bipolar disorder patients in a current depressive state, as compared with healthy control subjects. In contrast, the expression of Glo1 mRNA in major depressive and bipolar patients, in a remissive state, showed no significant alteration when compared with healthy control subjects. These results suggest that the aberrant expression of Glo1 might be involved in the pathophysiology of mood disorders.
Dynorphin-A-like immunoreactivity was investigated in the rat mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus (Mes 5) at the light and electron microscopic levels. Dynorphin-A immunoreactive fibers and puncta, likely representing nerve terminals, were observed throughout rostrocaudal extension of the Mes 5 at the light microscopic level. Within the rostrocaudal extension, more abundant fibers and puncta were localized in the midbrain-pontine junction and pontine areas than in the midbrain area. At the electron microscopic level, dynorphin-A immunoreactive synapses were observed on the somata of Mes 5. Dynorphin-A-like immunoreactivity tended to be restricted to dense-cored vesicles in the synapses. These results suggest that dynorphin-A-containing fiber systems affect mastication through the Mes 5.
Genetic inhibition of the ephrin receptor (EphA6) in mice produced behavioral deficits specifically in tests of learning and memory. Using a fear conditioning training paradigm, mice deficient in EphA6 did not acquire the task as strongly as did wild type (WT) mice. When tested in the same context 24h later, knockout (KO) mice did not freeze as much as WT mice indicating reduced memory of the consequences of the training context. The KO mice also displayed less freezing when presented with the conditioning stimulus (CS) in a separate context. In the hidden platform phase of the Morris water maze (MWM) task, KO mice did not reach the same level of proficiency as did WT mice. KO mice also exhibited less preference for the target quadrant during a probe trial and were significantly impaired on an initial reversal of the platform. These findings suggest that EphA6, in line with a number of other Eph receptors and their ephrin ligands, is involved in neural circuits underlying aspects of learning and memory.


This is the first report of the in vivo effectiveness of memantine as a neuroprotective agent against rotenone-induced retinal toxicity. We tested the hypothesis that uncompetitive NMDAR blockade with memantine prevents mitochondrial dysfunction-related neurodegeneration in vivo, using a mouse model of retinal ganglion cell layer (GCL) degeneration induced by rotenone, a mitochondrial complex I inhibitor. Rotenone induced an increase in cell death and oxidative stress in GCL compared to controls, and these changes were prevented by the co-administration of memantine. The neurotoxic effect of rotenone was also reflected as a decrease in total cell density in GCL and GCL+nerve fiber layer thickness. These changes were also prevented by co-administration of memantine in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, memantine induced an increase in long-term retinal energy metabolic capacity. The results suggest that NMDAR activation contributes to cell death induced by mitochondrial dysfunction and that uncompetitive NMDAR blockade may be used as a neuroprotective strategy against mitochondrial dysfunction in neurodegenerative diseases.
Corticosterone hormones mediate the stress response and function in the survival of hippocampal neurons via activation of gluco-(GR) and mineralocorticoid (MR) receptors. Activated GR and MR couple the corticosterone signal through immediate early genes (IEGs) to the late expression of downstream genes, such as neurotrophic factors. The potential importance of IEGs in GR/MR-dependent plasticity in the brain is largely unknown. We examined the region- and time-dependent transcriptional profiles of six IEGs (c-fos, fosB, fra-1, junB, c-jun and egr-1) by in situ hybridization after acute corticosterone challenge in the hippocampus and the primary somatosensory cortex (S1). Adrenalectomized rats and subsequent hormone injections were used as a model system to eliminate interference of endogenous corticosterone on IEG expression. In the hippocampus, a single corticosterone dose (10 mg/kg, s.c.) caused a widespread and transient reduction of fosB mRNA after 0.8 h, whereas changes in both c-fos and fra-1 mRNA levels were restricted to the dentate gyrus region. Corticosterone treatment gave rise to a delayed and significant reduction of junB mRNA signals after 2 h in all hippocampal regions, which reversed to increase at 4 h. c-jun and egr-1 mRNA levels were unaffected by corticosterone treatment. On the contrary, in the S1, IEG expression seems to be unaffected by corticosterone treatment, with the exception of a transient increase of junB transcripts at 0.8 h. The early reduction in c-fos family and junB transcripts may contribute to the GR/MR-dependent changes on hippocampal plasticity and may be dependent on rapid corticosteroid signaling.
Cold allodynia is a poorly understood symptom of neuropathic pain. Two members of the transient receptor potential (TRP) family of proteins, TRPM8 and TRPA1, may contribute to cold somatosensation. The aim of the present study was to investigate the usefulness of icilin as a pharmacological tool to study primary afferent fibre responses to cold stimuli and to determine whether there are differences in the responses of spinal neurones to cooling of peripheral receptive fields in control versus neuropathic rats. The effects of icilin, a TRPM8 and TRPA1 agonist, on intracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](i)) responses of small diameter adult dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurones were determined. Icilin (10 nM-10 microM) produced a concentration-related increase in [Ca(2+)](i) in DRG neurones, which was attenuated by the non-selective TRP channel antagonist ruthenium red (10 microM). In vivo electrophysiology in nave, sham-operated and SNL rats demonstrated that application of ice to receptive fields evoked firing of wide dynamic range (WDR) neurones, which was significantly greater in SNL rats than nave and sham-operated rats. Intraplantar injection of icilin did not evoke firing of WDR neurones in nave, sham-operated or SNL rats but inhibited mechanically-evoked responses of WDR neurones in nave and sham-operated rats, whilst facilitating mechanically-evoked responses in SNL rats. Icilin increased both innocuous (sham-operated and SNL rats) and noxious (SNL rats) receptive field sizes of WDR neurones. Our data suggests that icilin modulates the mechanosensitivity of dorsal horn neurones. The differing effects of ice and icilin on dorsal horn neurones indicate different mechanisms of action.
Cells are generally labeled during in vivo implantation studies enabling the cells to be traced. The relationship between the labeling efficiency and cellular proliferation after transplantation is critical for the interpretation of data obtained by detection of the signals on tissue sections. Here, we compare cellular labeling methods of rat marrow stromal cells that were labeled with 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU), 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate (DiI) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Our data show that (i) BrdU uniformly labeled the nuclei, (ii) DiI-labeled cells had many dots or stained clear and uniform when a longer exposure time was used during detection and (iii) FISH labeled the cells with dots along the edges of the nuclei. The labeling efficiency was 94.1+/-8.6%, 97.6+/-3.4% and 90.5+/-3.0%, in BrdU, DiI- and FISH-labeled cells, respectively. After sub-culturing of labeled cells, the percentage of BrdU-positive cells was found to be 71.9+/-18.0% and 18.4+/-6.9%, after the first and second passages, respectively. The percentage of DiI-labeled cells detected depended on the exposure time: a long exposure time (&gt;10 s) resulted in identification of 95.1+/-4.0% and 94.5+/-3.9% DiI-positive cells after the first and second sub-cultures, respectively. The percentage of FISH-positive cells was found to be 87.0+/-3.0% and 89.1+/-9.7%. The BrdU labeling signal quickly decreased over time. Thus, BrdU should only be used to temporarily label dividing cells. In contrast, our data indicate that DiI and FISH labeling may be used to steadily trace cells during in vivo experiments. To our knowledge, this is the first time that the effects of different labeling methods over time have been examined during a cell transplantation study.
There is now a large body of evidence linking inflammation to Alzheimer's disease (AD). This association manifests itself neuropathologically in the presence of activated microglia and astrocytes around neuritic plaques and increased levels of inflammatory mediators in the brains of AD patients. It is considered that amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta), which is derived from the processing of the longer amyloid precursor protein (APP), could be the most important stimulator of this response, and therefore determining the role of the different secretases involved in its generation is essential for a better understanding of the regulation of inflammation in AD. The finding that certain non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can affect the processing of APP by inhibiting beta- and gamma-secretases, together with recent revelations that these enzymes may be regulated by inflammation, suggest that they could be an interesting target for anti-inflammatory drugs. In this review we will discuss some of these issues and the role of the secretases in inflammation, independent of their effect on Abeta formation.
Conscious awareness of the self as continuous through time is attributed to the human ability to remember the past and to predict the future, a cogitation that has been called &quot;mental time travel&quot; (MTT). MTT allows one to re-experience one's own past by subjectively &quot;locating&quot; the self to a previously experienced place and time, or to pre-experience an event by locating the self into the future. Here, we used a novel behavioral paradigm in combination with evoked potential mapping and electrical neuroimaging, revealing that MTT is composed of two different cognitive processes: absolute MTT, which is the location of the self to different points in time (past, present, or future), and relative MTT, which is the location of one's self with respect to the experienced event (relative past and relative future). These processes recruit a network of brain areas in distinct time periods including the occipitotemporal, temporoparietal, and anteromedial temporal cortices. Our findings suggest that in addition to autobiographical memory processes, the cognitive mechanisms of MTT also involve mental imagery and self-location, and that relative MTT, but not absolute MTT, is more strongly directed to future prediction than to past recollection.
Kainate receptors (KARs) are ionotropic glutamate receptors contributing to EPSCs with a slow-decaying component that is likely essential for synaptic integration. The slow kinetics of KAR-EPSCs markedly contrasts with the fast kinetics reported for recombinant KARs expressed in heterologous systems, for reasons that remain unexplained. Here we have studied the properties of recombinant heteromeric GluR6/KA2 receptors, which compose synaptic KARs. We report that, in response to brief glutamate applications, currents mediated by recombinant GluR6/KA2 receptors, but not GluR6 receptors, decay with a time course similar to KAR-EPSCs. Model simulations suggest that, after brief agonist exposures, GluR6/KA2 currents undergo slow deactivation caused by the stabilization of partially bound open states. We propose, therefore, that the GluR6/KA2 gating features could contribute to the slow KAR-EPSC decay kinetics.
Exposure to an acute stressful event enhances classical eyeblink conditioning in male rats, but severely impairs conditioning in female rats. Previous studies have demonstrated that the hippocampus and amygdala critically mediate this effect in both sexes. Thus, although stress affects learning in opposite ways, the structures involved are similar. Previously, we found that the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) is also necessary for the enhanced learning after stress in male rats. Here we used BNST inactivation to determine whether the BNST, a sexually dimorphic brain region, is required in female rats for the impaired learning after stress. Interestingly, inactivation of the BNST did not prevent the stress-induced impairment of conditioning in females. Thus, unlike the hippocampus and amygdala, the BNST is critically involved in the modulation of learning by stress in males, but not in females. This exclusive involvement in males may be caused by the sex differences within the BNST. These sex differences result from early testosterone exposure, which masculinizes brain regions including the BNST. Previously, we reported that, like males, females with brains that are masculinized at birth learn better after stressful experience. Here we found that the enhanced learning after stress in masculinized females was prevented by BNST inactivation, just like in males. These data suggest that a masculinized BNST is required for the enhanced learning after a stressful experience. Importantly, together these studies indicate that males and females can engage different brain structures to modulate learning after a stressful experience.
Spontaneous &quot;off-line&quot; reactivation of neuronal activity patterns may contribute to the consolidation of memory traces. The ventral striatum exhibits reactivation and has been implicated in the processing of motivational information. It is unknown, however, whether reactivating neuronal ensembles specifically recapitulate information relating to rewards that were encountered during wakefulness. We demonstrate a prolonged reactivation in rat ventral striatum during quiet wakefulness and slow-wave but not rapid eye movement sleep. Reactivation of reward-related information processed in this structure was particularly prominent, and this was primarily attributable to spike trains temporally linked to reward sites. It was accounted for by small, strongly correlated subgroups in recorded cell assemblies and can thus be characterized as a sparse phenomenon. Our results indicate that reactivated memory traces may not only comprise feature- and context-specific information but also contain a value component.
Intensity variation poses a fundamental problem for sensory discrimination because changes in the response of sensory neurons as a result of stimulus identity, e.g., a change in the identity of the speaker uttering a word, can potentially be confused with changes resulting from stimulus intensity, for example, the loudness of the utterance. Here we report on the responses of neurons in field L, the primary auditory cortex homolog in songbirds, which allow for accurate discrimination of birdsongs that is invariant to intensity changes over a large range. Such neurons comprise a subset of a population that is highly diverse, in terms of both discrimination accuracy and intensity sensitivity. We find that the neurons with a high degree of invariance also display a high discrimination performance, and that the degree of invariance is significantly correlated with the reproducibility of spike timing on a short time scale and the temporal sparseness of spiking activity. Our results indicate that a temporally sparse spike timing-based code at a primary cortical stage can provide a substrate for intensity-invariant discrimination of natural sounds.
The symptoms of major psychotic illness are diverse and vary widely across individuals. Furthermore, the prepsychotic phase is indistinct, providing little indication of the precise pattern of symptoms that may subsequently emerge. Likewise, although in some individuals who have affected family members the occurrence of disease may be predicted, the specific symptom profile may not. An important question, therefore, is whether predictive physiological markers of symptom expression can be identified. We conducted a placebo-controlled, within-subjects study in healthy individuals to investigate whether individual variability in baseline physiology, as assessed using functional magnetic resonance imaging, predicted psychosis elicited by the psychotomimetic drug ketamine and whether physiological change under drug reproduced those reported in patients. Here we show that brain responses to cognitive task demands under placebo predict the expression of psychotic phenomena after drug administration. Frontothalamic responses to a working memory task were associated with the tendency of subjects to experience negative symptoms under ketamine. Bilateral frontal responses to an attention task were also predictive of negative symptoms. Frontotemporal activations during language processing tasks were predictive of thought disorder and auditory illusory experiences. A subpsychotic dose of ketamine administered during a second scanning session resulted in increased basal ganglia and thalamic activation during the working memory task, paralleling previous reports in patients with schizophrenia. These results demonstrate precise and predictive brain markers for individual profiles of vulnerability to drug-induced psychosis.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common age-related neurodegenerative disease and it is critical to develop models which recapitulate the pathogenic process including the effect of the ageing process. Although the pathogenesis of sporadic PD is unknown, the identification of the mendelian genetic factor PINK1 has provided new mechanistic insights. In order to investigate the role of PINK1 in Parkinson's disease, we studied PINK1 loss of function in human and primary mouse neurons. Using RNAi, we created stable PINK1 knockdown in human dopaminergic neurons differentiated from foetal ventral mesencephalon stem cells, as well as in an immortalised human neuroblastoma cell line. We sought to validate our findings in primary neurons derived from a transgenic PINK1 knockout mouse. For the first time we demonstrate an age dependent neurodegenerative phenotype in human and mouse neurons. PINK1 deficiency leads to reduced long-term viability in human neurons, which die via the mitochondrial apoptosis pathway. Human neurons lacking PINK1 demonstrate features of marked oxidative stress with widespread mitochondrial dysfunction and abnormal mitochondrial morphology. We report that PINK1 plays a neuroprotective role in the mitochondria of mammalian neurons, especially against stress such as staurosporine. In addition we provide evidence that cellular compensatory mechanisms such as mitochondrial biogenesis and upregulation of lysosomal degradation pathways occur in PINK1 deficiency. The phenotypic effects of PINK1 loss-of-function described here in mammalian neurons provides mechanistic insight into the age-related degeneration of nigral dopaminergic neurons seen in PD.

Mitochondrial dysfunction including that caused by oxidative stress has been implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. Glutaredoxin 1 (Grx1), a cytosolic thiol disulfide oxido-reductase, reduces glutathionylated proteins to protein thiols and helps maintain redox status of proteins during oxidative stress. Grx1 downregulation aggravates mitochondrial dysfunction in animal models of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson's and motor neuron disease. We examined the mechanism underlying the regulation of mitochondrial function by Grx1. Downregulation of Grx1 by shRNA results in loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), which is prevented by the thiol antioxidant, alpha-lipoic acid, or by cyclosporine A, an inhibitor of mitochondrial permeability transition. The thiol groups of voltage dependent anion channel (VDAC), an outer membrane protein in mitochondria but not adenosine nucleotide translocase (ANT), an inner membrane protein, are oxidized when Grx1 is downregulated. We then examined the effect of beta-N-oxalyl amino-L-alanine (L-BOAA), an excitatory amino acid implicated in neurolathyrism (a type of motor neuron disease), that causes mitochondrial dysfunction. Exposure of cells to L-BOAA resulted in loss of MMP, which was prevented by overexpression of Grx1. Grx1 expression is regulated by estrogen in the CNS and treatment of SH-SY5Y cells with estrogen upregulated Grx1 and protected from L-BOAA mediated MMP loss. Our studies demonstrate that Grx1, a cytosolic oxido-reductase, helps maintain mitochondrial integrity and prevents MMP loss caused by oxidative insult. Further, downregulation of Grx1 leads to mitochondrial dysfunction through oxidative modification of the outer membrane protein, VDAC, providing support for the critical role of Grx1 in maintenance of MMP.
Micro contact printing (microCP) has been established as a simple technique for high-resolution protein patterning for micro- and nanoarrays. However, as biochemical assays based on immobilized protein arrays progress from immunoassays to more delicate functional assays, the demand for methods of miniaturized, gentle, and oriented immobilization, which are applicable to many different target proteins, becomes larger. In this study, we present a novel microCP templated assembly approach, based on a recombinant SNAP-FLAG-HIS 10 (SFH) immobilization vehicle, which exploits the recently developed SNAP-tag protein. The SNAP-tag is derived from the human DNA repair protein hAGT, which covalently transfers the alkyl group of benzyl guanine (BG) substrates onto itself. We have designed a model SFH cassette carrying three tags (SNAP-tag, FLAG-tag, and HIS-tag), each of which can be used for fluorescence labeling or surface immobilization. When patterns of streptavidin modified with BG-biotin (streptavidin-BG) are stamped onto a surface, the SFH can subsequently assemble on the ligand pattern from solution, functioning as a general immobilization vehicle for high-resolution patterning of any protein expressed in the SFH cassette, in a gentle and oriented manner. Alternatively, the SFH can be site-selectively biotinylated using BG-biotin and, subsequently, assemble on stamped streptavidin. We exploit several ways to biotinylate the SFH protein via the SNAP-tag, promoting its templated assembly on micropatterns of streptavidin in four complementary formats. Quantitative analysis of the obtained patterns, revealed by immunostaining, indicates that all four approaches resulted in proper SFH immobilization and antibody recognition, demonstrating the versatility of the SFH cassette and the potential for high resolution patterning applications. Also, our data confirm that streptavidin can be stamped directly on surfaces, without loss of activity. While three strategies resulted in similar patterning efficiencies, one particular approach--namely templated assembly of SFH directly on streptavidin-BG patterns--resulted in an order of magnitude increase in patterning efficiency.
We are delighted to announce the arrival of a brand new journal dedicated to the ever-expanding field of neuroscience. Molecular Brain is a peer-reviewed, open-access online journal that aims at publishing high quality articles as rapidly as possible. The journal will cover a broad spectrum of neuroscience ranging from molecular/cellular to behavioral/cognitive neuroscience and from basic to clinical research. Molecular Brain will publish not only research articles, but also methodology articles, editorials, reviews, and short reports. It will be a premier platform for neuroscientists to exchange their ideas with researchers from around the world to help improve our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of the brain and mind.
Although gamma frequency oscillations are common in the brain, their functional contributions to neural computation are not understood. Here we report in vitro electrophysiological recordings to evaluate how noisy gamma frequency oscillatory input interacts with the overall activation level of a neuron to determine the precise timing of its action potentials. The experiments were designed to evaluate spike synchrony in a neural circuit architecture in which a population of neurons receives a common noisy gamma oscillatory synaptic drive while the firing rate of each individual neuron is determined by a slowly varying independent input. We demonstrate that similarity of firing rate is a major determinant of synchrony under common noisy oscillatory input: Near coincidence of spikes at similar rates gives way to substantial desynchronization at larger firing rate differences. Analysis of this rate-specific synchrony phenomenon reveals distinct spike timing &quot;fingerprints&quot; at different firing rates that emerge through a combination of phase shifting and abrupt changes in spike patterns. We further demonstrate that rate-specific synchrony permits robust detection of rate similarity in a population of neurons through synchronous activation of a postsynaptic neuron, supporting the biological plausibility of a Many Are Equal computation. Our results reveal that spatially coherent noisy oscillations, which are common throughout the brain, can generate previously unknown relationships among neural rate codes, noisy interspike intervals, and precise spike synchrony codes. All of these can coexist in a self-consistent manner because of rate-specific synchrony.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune disease of the central nervous system (CNS) mediated by Th17 and Th1 cells. DNA microarray analysis previously showed that NR4A2, an orphan nuclear receptor, is strongly up-regulated in the peripheral blood T cells of MS. Here, we report that NR4A2 plays a pivotal role for mediating cytokine production from pathogenic T cells. In experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of MS, NR4A2, was selectively up-regulated in the T cells isolated from the CNS. Strikingly, a forced expression of NR4A2 augmented promoter activities of IL-17 and IFN-gamma genes, leading to an excessive production of these cytokines. Conversely, treatment with siRNA for NR4A2, resulted in a significant reduction in the production of IL-17 and IFN-gamma. Furthermore, treatment with NR4A2 siRNA reduced the ability of encephalitogenic T cells to transfer EAE in recipient mice. Thus, NR4A2 is an essential transcription factor for triggering the inflammatory cascade of MS/EAE and may serve as a therapeutic target.

Exocytosis of neurotransmitters and hormones occurs through the fusion of secretory vesicles with the plasma membrane. This highly regulated process involves key proteins, such as SNAREs, and specific lipids at the site of membrane fusion. Phospholipase D (PLD) has recently emerged as a promoter of membrane fusion in various exocytotic events potentially by providing fusogenic cone-shaped phosphatidic acid. We show here that PLD1 is regulated by ribosomal S6 kinase 2 (RSK2)-dependent phosphorylation. RSK2 is activated by a high K(+)-induced rise in cytosolic calcium. Expression of inactive RSK2 mutants or selective knockdown of endogenous RSK2 dramatically affects the different kinetic components of the exocytotic response in chromaffin cells. RSK2 physically interacts with and stimulates PLD activity through the phosphorylation of Thr-147 in the PLD1 amino-terminal phox homology domain. Expression of PLD1 phosphomimetic mutants fully restores secretion in cells depleted of RSK2, suggesting that RSK2 is a critical upstream signaling element in the activation of PLD1 to produce the lipids required for exocytosis. We propose that PLD-related defects in neuronal and endocrine activities could contribute to the effect observed after the loss-of-function mutations in Rsk2 that lead to Coffin-Lowry syndrome, an X-linked form of growth and mental retardation.
In the central amygdala (CeA), ethanol acts via corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF) type 1 receptors to enhance GABA release. Amygdala CRF mediates anxiety associated with stress and drug dependence, and it regulates ethanol intake. Because mutant mice that lack PKCepsilon exhibit reduced anxiety-like behavior and alcohol consumption, we investigated whether PKCepsilon lies downstream of CRF(1) receptors in the CeA. Compared with PKCepsilon(+/+) CeA neurons, PKCepsilon(-/-) neurons showed increased GABAergic tone due to enhanced GABA release. CRF and ethanol stimulated GABA release in the PKCepsilon(+/+) CeA, but not in the PKCepsilon(-/-) CeA. A PKCepsilon-specific inhibitor blocked both CRF- and ethanol-induced GABA release in the PKCepsilon(+/+) CeA, confirming findings in the PKCepsilon(-/-) CeA. These results identify a PKCepsilon signaling pathway in the CeA that is activated by CRF(1) receptor stimulation, mediates GABA release at nerve terminals, and regulates anxiety and alcohol consumption.
The intercellular spaces between neurons and glia contain an amorphous, negatively charged extracellular matrix (ECM) with the potential to shape and regulate the distribution of many diffusing ions, proteins and drugs. However, little evidence exists for direct regulation of extracellular diffusion by the ECM in living tissue. Here, we demonstrate macromolecule sequestration by an ECM component in vivo, using quantitative diffusion measurements from integrative optical imaging. Diffusion measurements in free solution, supported by confocal imaging and binding assays with cultured cells, were used to characterize the properties of a fluorescently labeled protein, lactoferrin (Lf), and its association with heparin and heparan sulfate in vitro. In vivo diffusion measurements were then performed through an open cranial window over rat somatosensory cortex to measure effective diffusion coefficients (D*) under different conditions, revealing that D* for Lf was reduced approximately 60% by binding to heparan sulfate proteoglycans, a prominent component of the ECM and cell surfaces in brain. Finally, we describe a method for quantifying heparan sulfate binding site density from data for Lf and the structurally similar protein transferrin, allowing us to predict a low micromolar concentration of these binding sites in neocortex, the first estimate in living tissue. Our results have significance for many tissues, because heparan sulfate is synthesized by almost every type of cell in the body. Quantifying ECM effects on diffusion will also aid in the modeling and design of drug delivery strategies for growth factors and viral vectors, some of which are likely to interact with heparan sulfate.

Maintaining a balance between self-renewal and differentiation in neural progenitor cells during development is important to ensure that correct numbers of neural cells are generated. We report that the ephrin-B-PDZ-RGS3 signaling pathway functions to regulate this balance in the developing mammalian cerebral cortex. During cortical neurogenesis, expression of ephrin-B1 and PDZ-RGS3 is specifically seen in progenitor cells and is turned off at the onset of neuronal differentiation. Persistent expression of ephrin-B1 and PDZ-RGS3 prevents differentiation of neural progenitor cells. Blocking RGS-mediated ephrin-B1 signaling in progenitor cells through RNA interference or expression of dominant-negative mutants results in differentiation. Genetic knockout of ephrin-B1 causes early cell cycle exit and leads to a concomitant loss of neural progenitor cells. Our results indicate that ephrin-B function is critical for the maintenance of the neural progenitor cell state and that this role of ephrin-B is mediated by PDZ-RGS3, likely via interacting with the noncanonical G protein signaling pathway, which is essential in neural progenitor asymmetrical cell division.




The synthesis and pharmacological characterization of a novel furan-based class of voltage-gated sodium channel blockers is reported. Compounds were evaluated for their ability to block the tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium channel Na(v)1.8 (PN3) as well as the Na(v)1.2 and Na(v)1.5 subtypes. Benchmark compounds from this series possessed enhanced potency, oral bioavailability, and robust efficacy in a rodent model of neuropathic pain, together with improved CNS and cardiovascular safety profiles compared to the clinically used sodium channel blockers mexiletine and lamotrigine.
A novel alpha7 nAChR agonist, N-[(3R,5R)-1-azabicyclo[3.2.1]oct-3-yl]furo[2,3-c]pyridine-5-carboxamide (3a, PHA-709829), has been identified for the potential treatment of cognitive deficits in schizophrenia. The compound shows potent and selective alpha7 in vitro activity, excellent brain penetration, good rat oral bioavailability and robust in vivo efficacy in a rat auditory sensory gating model.
Brain lateralization in birds is frequently expressed as a preference to view stimuli with one eye using the lateral monocular visual field. As few studies have investigated lateralized behaviour in wild birds, we scored eye preferences of Australian magpies (Gymnorhina tibicen) performing anti-predator responses. When animals deal with potential predators by mobbing them, constant assessment is needed to consider whether to approach, mob or withdraw. When presented with a taxidermic specimen of a monitor lizard, the magpies assembled on the ground close to the lizard and circled, pecked, jumped over, viewed and approached, or withdrew from it. Using video footage, the monocular fixations prior to or during performance of these activities were scored and the following significant eye preferences were found. Prior to withdrawing, the magpies viewed the lizard with the left eye (LE) (85% of events). Prior to approaching, the right eye (RE) was used (72%). Hence, the left hemisphere is used to process visual inputs prior to approaching the predator and the right hemisphere prior to withdrawing from it. This result is consistent with hemispheric specialization shown in other species, including humans. The LE was used also prior to jumping (73%) and prior to circling (65%), as well as during circling (58%) and for high alert inspection of the predator (72%). Mobbing and perhaps circling are agonistic responses controlled by the LE/right hemisphere, as also seen in other species. Alert inspection involves detailed examination of the predator and likely high levels of fear, known to be right hemisphere function.
The ability to communicate intentionally and referentially about predators by issuing specific and unique alarm calls per predator type, usually considered indicative of forebrain activity, is generally regarded as evidence of complex cognition. However, the neurobiology of such expressions is not well-understood and the relationship of song to alarm calls is not clear. In the very few studies of brain activity in calls of non-songbirds and songbirds so far, it was found that it is only the midbrain that is involved in the production of calls. The paper argues that such midbrain activity, even in so-called referential signalling, may have been misconstrued as higher cognition when, in fact, it may be merely indicative of a well-preserved (even 'clever') midbrain survival mechanism of prey species, and may be based on instantaneous 'non-thinking' activities of the midbrain. This does not rule out that, in specific species of songbird and in specific types of calls, the production of alarm calls may indeed involve activity and interaction of nuclei in midbrain and forebrain. Such a possible interaction in the production of vocalisations (unlearned and learned) has also been shown in some songbirds, including the zebra finch. A study of alarm calls in Australian magpies (Gymnorhina tibicen), a prolific songbird, is used here to give an example of possible considered responses in alarm calling based on behavioural evidence.
The avian brain is functionally lateralized. Different strategies of choice (within and between modalities) are adopted by each hemisphere. Visual lateralization has been studied most but attention to auditory, olfactory and magnetic cues is also lateralized. The left hemisphere (LH) focuses on cues that reliably separate pertinent stimuli from distracting stimuli (e.g. food from pebbles, odour cues from attractive visual cues, magnetic cues from other cues indicating location), whereas the right hemisphere (RH) has broad attention and is easily distracted by novel stimuli. The RH also controls fear and escape responses, as in reaction to predators. Exposure of the embryo to light just before hatching, when the posture adopted occludes the left eye (LE) but not the right eye (RE), leads to the development of asymmetry in the visual projections to the pallium and enhances the ability of the RE/LH to inhibit attention to distracting visual cues and of the LH to inhibit the RH, but has no effect on the RH's interest in novelty. Exposure to light before hatching has both short- and long-term consequences that are important for species-typical behaviour and survival. For example, on a food search task with a predator presented overhead, dark-incubated chicks perform poorly on both aspects of the task, whereas light-exposed chicks have no difficulty. Steroid hormone levels prior to hatching modulate light-dependent development of asymmetry in the visual projections and consequently affect neural competence for parallel processing and response inhibition. Differences between lateralization in the chick and pigeon are discussed.
The binding of exogenous nicotine to nicotinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptors (nAChR) and the binding of endogenous ACh to both nAChR and muscarinic ACh receptors (mAChR) stimulate growth of both small cell and non-small cell lung carcinomas. Understanding how cholinergic signaling is up-regulated in lung cancer may suggest new therapeutic approaches. Analysis of 28 squamous cell lung carcinomas (SCC) showed increased levels of alpha5 and beta3 nAChR mRNA and increased levels of ACh associated with increased levels of choline acetyltransferase mRNA and decreased cholinesterase mRNAs. Lynx1, an allosteric inhibitor of nAChR activity, was also decreased in SCC. Thus, cholinergic signaling is broadly increased in SCC caused by increased levels of receptors, increased levels of ligands, and decreased levels of receptor inhibitors. Partially explaining the cholinergic up-regulation seen in SCC, incubation of the H520 SCC cell line with nicotine increased levels of ACh secretion, increased expression of nAChR, and, as measured by electrophysiologic recording, increased activity of the expressed nAChR. Consistent with these effects, nicotine stimulated proliferation of H520 cells. One approach to blocking proliferative effects of nicotine and ACh on growth of lung cancers may be through M3 mAChR antagonists, which can limit the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase that is caused by both nicotinic and muscarinic signaling. This was tested with the M3-selective muscarinic antagonist darifenacin. Darifenacin blocked nicotine-stimulated H520 growth in vitro and also blocked H520 growth in nude mice in vivo. Thus, cholinergic signaling is broadly up-regulated in SCC and blocking cholinergic signaling can limit basal and nicotine-stimulated growth of SCC.
Flap endonuclease 1 (FEN1) processes Okazaki fragments in lagging strand DNA synthesis, and FEN1 is involved in several DNA repair pathways. The interaction of FEN1 with the proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) processivity factor is central to the function of FEN1 in both DNA replication and repair. Here we present two gene-targeted mice with mutations in FEN1. The first mutant mouse carries a single amino acid point mutation in the active site of the nuclease domain of FEN1 (Fen1(E160D/E160D)), and the second mutant mouse contains two amino acid substitutions in the highly conserved PCNA interaction domain of FEN1 (Fen1(DeltaPCNA/DeltaPCNA)). Fen1(E160D/E160D) mice develop a considerably elevated incidence of B-cell lymphomas beginning at 6 months of age, particularly in females. By 16 months of age, more than 90% of the Fen1(E160D/E160D) females have tumors, primarily lymphomas. By contrast, Fen1(DeltaPCNA/DeltaPCNA) mouse embryos show extensive apoptosis in the forebrain and vertebrae area and die around stage E9.5 to E11.5.
All available 3-hydroxy-3-methyglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors (statins) have been implicated in causing rhabdomyolysis either as monotherapy or in combination with other myotoxic drugs such as cyclosporine, colchicine and fibrates. Cerivastatin (Baycol) is a third generation statin, which has been implicated in cases of fatal rhabdomyolysis. It was voluntary withdrawn from the U.S. market by Bayer after reports of fatal rhabdomyolysis appeared in the literature. We present here a case of an 85-year-old woman who developed rhabdomyolysis and severe obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) symptoms after having been started on cerivastatin therapy for hypercholesteremia.
Two embryonic cell populations, the neural crest and cranial ectodermal placodes, between them give rise to many of the unique characters of vertebrates. Neurogenic placode derivatives are vital for sensing both external and internal stimuli. In this speculative review, we discuss potential developmental and evolutionary relationships between two placode series that are usually considered to be entirely independent: lateral line placodes, which form the mechanosensory and electroreceptive hair cells of the anamniote lateral line system as well as their afferent neurons, and epibranchial placodes (geniculate, petrosal and nodose), which form Phox2b(+) visceral sensory neurons with input from both the external and internal environment. We illustrate their development using molecular data we recently obtained in shark embryos, and we describe their derivatives, including the possible geniculate placode origin of a mechanosensory sense organ associated with the first pharyngeal pouch/cleft (the anamniote spiracular organ/amniote paratympanic organ). We discuss how both lateral line and epibranchial placodes can be related in different ways to the otic placode (which forms the inner ear and its afferent neurons), and how both are important for protective somatic reflexes. Finally, we put forward a highly speculative proposal about the original function of the cells whose evolutionary descendants today include the derivatives of the lateral line, otic and epibranchial placodes, namely that they produced sensory receptors and neurons for Phox2b-dependent protective reflex circuits. We hope this review will stimulate both debate and a fresh look at possible developmental and evolutionary relationships between these seemingly disparate and independent placodes.
IL-17-secreting T cells represent a distinct CD4(+) effector T cell lineage (Th17) that appears to be essential in the pathogenesis of numerous inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. Although extensively studied in the murine system, human Th17 cells have not been well characterized. In this study, we identify CD4(+)CD45RO(+)CCR7(-)CCR6(+) effector memory T cells as the principal IL-17-secreting T cells. Human Th17 cells have a unique cytokine profile because the majority coexpress TNF-alpha but not IL-6 and a minor subset express IL-17 with IL-22 or IL-17 and IFN-gamma. We demonstrate that the cytokines that promote the differentiation of human naive T cells into IL-17-secreting cells regulate IL-17 production by memory T cells. IL-1beta alone or in association with IL-23 and IL-6 markedly increase IL-17(+) CCR6(+) memory T cells and induce IL-17 production in CCR6(-) memory T cells. We also show that T cell activation induces Foxp3 expression in T cells and that the balance between the percentage of Foxp3(+) and IL-17(+) T cells is inversely influenced by the cytokine environment. These studies suggest that the cytokine environment may play a critical role in the expansion of memory T cells in chronic autoimmune diseases.
Administration of the endotoxin, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) diminished motor activity and increased plasma corticosterone as well as circulating levels of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), IL-6, tumor necrosis-factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and IL-10. Among cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) knockout mice the behavioural, corticosterone and cytokine variations promoted by LPS were moderately (home cage activity, corticosterone, TNF-alpha) or largely (IL-6) reduced. However, if mice were exposed to a psychosocial stressor (social disruption associated with grouping mice with novel cage-mates after a period of isolation) coupled with LPS treatment, then the effects of the COX-2 deletion were absent, or there was a synergistic or additive elevation apparent (e.g., in the case of TNF-alpha, IL-6 and corticosterone). Evidently, COX-2 deletion may have either pro- or anti-inflammatory actions, depending upon the psychosocial context in which immune activation occurs.
Madras motor neuron disease (MMND), MMND variant (MMNDV) and Familial MMND (FMMND) have a unique geographic distribution predominantly reported from Southern India. The characteristic features are onset in young, weakness and wasting of limbs, multiple lower cranial nerve palsies and sensorineural hearing loss. We describe the clinical features and survival pattern in 116 patients with Sporadic MMND, MMND variant and FMMND. A retrospective review of patients' medical records for clinical manifestations, electromyography, imaging, audiological and histopathology findings was performed. Over 36 years (1971 to 2007) 116 patients (men: 59; women: 57) particularly hailing from Southern India were seen. Mean age of onset was 15.8+/-7.9 years. Predominant initial manifestations were impaired hearing with wasting and weakness of distal limb muscles and pyramidal dysfunction. All patients had clinical and/or audiological evidence of hearing impairment. Patients with MMNDV in addition had optic atrophy. The overall mean survival duration was 334.9+/-27.9 months. Thus, Madras motor neuron disease is clinically a distinct entity with features of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis but with young age of onset and presence of auditory neuropathy. Studies to look for environmental and genetic basis of this intriguing disease are necessary to find the causation of this rare disorder.
Modern neuroscience and the interest in biomimetic control design demand increasingly sophisticated experimental techniques that can be applied in freely moving animals under realistic behavioral conditions. To explore sensorimotor flight control mechanisms in free-flying fruit flies (Drosophila melanogaster), we equipped a wind tunnel with a Virtual Reality (VR) display system based on standard digital hardware and a 3D path tracking system. We demonstrate the experimental power of this approach by example of a 'one-parameter open loop' testing paradigm. It provided (1) a straightforward measure of transient responses in presence of open loop visual stimulation; (2) high data throughput and standardized measurement conditions from process automation; and (3) simplified data analysis due to well-defined testing conditions. Being based on standard hardware and software techniques, our methods provide an affordable, easy to replicate and general solution for a broad range of behavioral applications in freely moving animals. Particular relevance for advanced behavioral research tools originates from the need to perform detailed behavioral analyses in genetically modified organisms and animal models for disease research.
Measurements of system dynamics, such as input-output frequency response estimation, have been widely used in neuroscience. Dynamic characterization of sensory systems has been particularly useful because both the amplitude and time-dependent properties of sensory input signals can often be accurately controlled. However, chemoreceptors have proved less amenable to these approaches because it is often difficult to accurately modulate or measure chemical concentration at a sensory receptor. New methods of dynamic olfactory stimulation have recently been introduced that combine controlled mechanical release of odorant with detection by photoionization of surrogate tracer gas mixed with the odorant. We have developed a modified version of this approach based on rapid binary switching of odorant flow using pseudo-random binary signals (maximum-length sequences, or M-sequences) generated by a software shift register. This system offers several advantages over previous methods, including higher frequency range stimulation, experimental simplicity and the possibility of computational efficiencies. We show that there is predictable dynamic odorant concentration at the sensory receptor and we explore the stimulation parameters as functions of total air flow rate and spatial location. A typical application of the system is shown by measuring the frequency response function of a Drosophila electroantennogram.
The object recognition task (ORT) has become increasingly popular as a memory test in neuroscience research. Scoring of ORT performance is still mostly done by hand, which can be liable to subjective scoring. To our knowledge, no suited software is available yet since the direction of the nose of the animal cannot be tracked reliably. We have developed a software paradigm that reliably tracks the nose of the rats and have conducted a series of experiments to evaluate the reliability of this newly developed program. We used Wistar rats, which showed good object memory after 1h interval. Subsequently, we used scopolamine (SCOP) to impair the memory performance of the rats. The object exploration was scored by two observers and the automated system. Both observers and the automated system found an impairing drug effect of scopolamine on ORT performance. When using large objects the correlation between the discrimination index d2 of observers was: 0.60 (SCOP) and 0.79 (SAL). However, the correlation between observers and the automated system was quite low: 0.41 (SCOP) and 0.40 (SAL). Reducing the size of the objects increased the reliability between observers and the automated system substantially (0.82-0.87). We conclude that the use of small objects in combination with our program enables reliable automated scoring in the ORT, thus increasing the objectivity and validity of this task.

A novel E41K beta-tropomyosin (beta-Tm) mutation, associated with congenital myopathy and muscle weakness, was recently identified in a woman and her daughter. In both patients, muscle weakness was coupled with muscle fibre atrophy. It remains unknown, however, whether the E41K beta-Tm mutation directly affects regulation of muscle contraction, contributing to the muscle weakness. To address this question, we studied a broad range of contractile characteristics in skinned muscle fibres from the two patients and eight healthy controls. Results showed decreases (i) in speed of contraction at saturated Ca(2+) concentration (apparent rate constant of force redevelopment (k(tr)) and unloaded shortening speed (V(0))); and (ii) in contraction sensitivity to Ca(2+) concentration, in fibres from patients compared with controls, suggesting that the mutation has a negative effect on contractile function, contributing to the muscle weakness. To investigate whether these negative impacts are reversible, we exposed skinned muscle fibres to the Ca(2+) sensitizer EMD 57033. In fibres from patients, 30 mum of EMD 57033 (i) had no effect on speed of contraction (k(tr) and V(0)) at saturated Ca(2+) concentration but (ii) increased Ca(2+) sensitivity of contraction, suggesting a potential therapeutic approach in patients carrying the E41K beta-Tm mutation.
Movement disorders other than late onset tremor-ataxia in association with fragile X syndrome, the most common identifiable cause of inherited mental retardation, seem to be rare. Here we describe five male patients from three unrelated families with fragile X syndrome that presented with motor and phonic tics. Clinically, 4 patients fulfilled diagnostic criteria for Gilles de la Tourette syndrome (GTS) while 1 patient would have been diagnosed with an adult onset tic disorder. However, in all patients onset of tics was considerably later than in typical GTS. Three patients had atypical tics and two patients reported waxing and waning of tic intensity over time. Four of the 5 patients showed clinical signs typical of fragile X syndrome, in particular dysmorphic features, learning difficulties and speech and language problems that required special treatment. All patients had co-morbidities common to both GTS and fragile X syndrome. We suggest considering fragile X syndrome in GTS complicated by co-morbidity with late onset of atypical tics, in particular when learning disability and dysmorphic features are present.

Bovine adrenal zona fasciculata (AZF) cells express bTREK-1 K(+) channels that set the resting membrane potential. Inhibition of these channels by adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) is coupled to membrane depolarization and cortisol secretion. Curcumin, a phytochemical with medicinal properties extracted from the spice turmeric, was found to modulate both bTREK-1 K(+) currents and cortisol secretion from AZF cells. In whole-cell patch clamp experiments, curcumin inhibited bTREK-1 with an IC(50) of 0.93muM by a mechanism that was voltage-independent. bTREK-1 inhibition by curcumin occurred through interaction with an external binding site and was independent of ATP hydrolysis. Curcumin produced a concentration-dependent increase in cortisol secretion that persisted for up to 24h. At a maximally effective concentration of 50muM, curcumin increased secretion as much as 10-fold. These results demonstrate that curcumin potently inhibits bTREK-1 K(+) channels and stimulates cortisol secretion from bovine AZF cells. The inhibition of bTREK-1 by curcumin may be linked to cortisol secretion through membrane depolarization. Since TREK-1 is widely expressed in a variety of cells, it is likely that some of the biological actions of curcumin, including its therapeutic effects, may be mediated through inhibition of these K(+) channels.
Decapping is an important process in the control of eukaryotic mRNA degradation. The scavenger decapping enzyme DcpS functions to clear the cell of cap structure following decay of the RNA body by catalyzing the hydrolysis of m(7)GpppN to m(7)Gp and ppN. Structural analysis has revealed that DcpS is a dimeric protein with a domain-swapped amino terminus. The protein dimer contains two cap binding/hydrolysis sites and displays a symmetric structure with both binding sites in the open conformation in the ligand-free state and an asymmetric conformation with one site open and one site closed in the ligand-bound state. The structural data are suggestive of a dynamic decapping mechanism where each monomer could alternate between an open and closed state. Using transient state kinetic studies, we show that both the rate-limiting step and rate of decapping are regulated by cap substrate. A regulatory mechanism is established by the intrinsic domain-swapped structure of the DcpS dimer such that the decapping reaction is very efficient at low cap substrate concentrations yet regulated with excess cap substrate. These data provide biochemical evidence to verify experimentally a dynamic and mutually exclusive cap hydrolysis activity of the two cap binding sites of DcpS and provide key insights into its regulation.
Excitable cells express a variety of ion channels that allow rapid exchange of ions with the extracellular space. Opening of Na(+) channels in excitable cells results in influx of Na(+) and cellular depolarization. The function of Na(v)1.5, an Na(+) channel expressed in the heart, brain, and gastrointestinal tract, is altered by interacting proteins. The pore-forming alpha-subunit of this channel is encoded by SCN5A. Genetic perturbations in SCN5A cause type 3 long QT syndrome and type 1 Brugada syndrome, two distinct heritable arrhythmia syndromes. Mutations in SCN5A are also associated with increased prevalence of gastrointestinal symptoms, suggesting that the Na(+) channel plays a role in normal gastrointestinal physiology and that alterations in its function may cause disease. We collected blood from patients with intestinal pseudo-obstruction (a disease associated with abnormal motility in the gut) and screened for mutations in SCN5A and ion channel-interacting proteins. A 42-year-old male patient was found to have a mutation in the gene TCAP, encoding for the small protein telethonin. Telethonin was found to be expressed in the human gastrointestinal smooth muscle, co-localized with Na(v)1.5, and co-immunoprecipitated with sodium channels. Expression of mutated telethonin, when co-expressed with SCN5A in HEK 293 cells, altered steady state activation kinetics of SCN5A, resulting in a doubling of the window current. These results suggest a new role for telethonin, namely that telethonin is a sodium channel-interacting protein. Also, mutations in telethonin can alter Na(v)1.5 kinetics and may play a role in intestinal pseudo-obstruction.
The circadian timing system includes the major circadian pacemaker in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus and less well characterized circadian pacemakers in the brain and peripheral tissues throughout the body. The coupling between these discrete circadian clocks is not well understood, although individual neurons of the SCN are considered competent circadian pacemakers that interact to produce rhythms in the SCN and in its afferents. Because the SCN is a complex assemblage of small neurons of several phenotypes, we sought a simpler circadian brain nucleus with larger neurons that might provide insight into circadian timing not easily obtained from the SCN. Using bioluminescence imaging of brain tissue explants from transgenic mice containing the firefly luciferase gene luc controlled by the mPer1 promoter, we discovered elevated transgene expression throughout the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus (Me5) of the brain stem. Large sensory neurons of the Me5 receive proprioceptive signals from periodontal ligaments and masseter muscle spindles. The Me5 cells displayed circadian rhythms with elevated expression in culture corresponding with the dark portion of the prior light cycle. Because of known interactions between the Me5 and the tuberomammillary nucleus and because of the role of both nuclei in satiety, it is possible that a circadian clock in the Me5 serves in regulating daily feeding behavior. This newly identified circadian pacemaker in the Me5 may prove useful for single-cell analyses of circadian gene expression in clock cells and for comparison with the SCN.
Selective lowering of Abeta42 levels (the 42-residue isoform of the amyloid-beta peptide) with small-molecule gamma-secretase modulators (GSMs), such as some non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, is a promising therapeutic approach for Alzheimer's disease. To identify the target of these agents we developed biotinylated photoactivatable GSMs. GSM photoprobes did not label the core proteins of the gamma-secretase complex, but instead labelled the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP), APP carboxy-terminal fragments and amyloid-beta peptide in human neuroglioma H4 cells. Substrate labelling was competed by other GSMs, and labelling of an APP gamma-secretase substrate was more efficient than a Notch substrate. GSM interaction was localized to residues 28-36 of amyloid-beta, a region critical for aggregation. We also demonstrate that compounds known to interact with this region of amyloid-beta act as GSMs, and some GSMs alter the production of cell-derived amyloid-beta oligomers. Furthermore, mutation of the GSM binding site in the APP alters the sensitivity of the substrate to GSMs. These findings indicate that substrate targeting by GSMs mechanistically links two therapeutic actions: alteration in Abeta42 production and inhibition of amyloid-beta aggregation, which may synergistically reduce amyloid-beta deposition in Alzheimer's disease. These data also demonstrate the existence and feasibility of 'substrate targeting' by small-molecule effectors of proteolytic enzymes, which if generally applicable may significantly broaden the current notion of 'druggable' targets.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is currently the mainstay of neuroimaging in cognitive neuroscience. Advances in scanner technology, image acquisition protocols, experimental design, and analysis methods promise to push forward fMRI from mere cartography to the true study of brain organization. However, fundamental questions concerning the interpretation of fMRI data abound, as the conclusions drawn often ignore the actual limitations of the methodology. Here I give an overview of the current state of fMRI, and draw on neuroimaging and physiological data to present the current understanding of the haemodynamic signals and the constraints they impose on neuroimaging data interpretation.
The &quot;endowment effect&quot; refers to the tendency to place greater value on items that one owns-an anomaly that violates the reference-independence assumption of rational choice theories. We investigated neural antecedents of the endowment effect in an event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study. During scanning, 24 subjects considered six products paired with 18 different prices under buying, choosing, or selling conditions. Subjects showed greater nucleus accumbens (NAcc) activation for preferred products across buy and sell conditions combined, but greater mesial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) activation in response to low prices when buying versus selling. During selling, right insular activation for preferred products predicted individual differences in susceptibility to the endowment effect. These findings are consistent with a reference-dependent account in which ownership increases value by enhancing the salience of the possible loss of preferred products.
Both cerebellum and neocortex receive input from the somatosensory system. Interaction between these regions has been proposed to underpin the correct selection and execution of motor commands, but it is not clear how such interactions occur. In neocortex, inputs give rise to population rhythms, providing a spatiotemporal coding strategy for inputs and consequent outputs. Here, we show that similar patterns of rhythm generation occur in cerebellum during nicotinic receptor subtype activation. Both gamma oscillations (30-80 Hz) and very fast oscillations (VFOs, 80-160 Hz) were generated by intrinsic cerebellar cortical circuitry in the absence of functional glutamatergic connections. As in neocortex, gamma rhythms were dependent on GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition, whereas VFOs required only nonsynaptically connected intercellular networks. The ability of cerebellar cortex to generate population rhythms within the same frequency bands as neocortex suggests that they act as a common spatiotemporal code within which corticocerebellar dialog may occur.
Membrane proteins function in a polarized ionic environment with sodium-rich extracellular and potassium-rich intracellular solutions. Glutamate receptors that mediate excitatory synaptic transmission in the brain show unusual sensitivity to external ions, resulting in an apparent requirement for sodium in order for glutamate to activate kainate receptors. Here, we solve the structure of the Na(+)-binding sites and determine the mechanism by which allosteric anions and cations regulate ligand-binding dimer stability, and hence the rate of desensitization and receptor availability for gating by glutamate. We establish a stoichiometry for binding of 2 Na(+) to 1 Cl(-) and show that allosteric anions and cations bind at physically discrete sites with strong electric fields, that the binding sites are not saturated in CSF, and that the requirement of kainate receptors for Na(+) occurs simply because other cations bind with lower affinity and have lower efficacy compared to Na(+).
Apolipoprotein E is associated with age-related risk for Alzheimer's disease and plays critical roles in Abeta homeostasis. We report that ApoE plays a role in facilitating the proteolytic clearance of soluble Abeta from the brain. The endolytic degradation of Abeta peptides within microglia by neprilysin and related enzymes is dramatically enhanced by ApoE. Similarly, Abeta degradation extracellularly by insulin-degrading enzyme is facilitated by ApoE. The capacity of ApoE to promote Abeta degradation is dependent upon the ApoE isoform and its lipidation status. The enhanced expression of lipidated ApoE, through the activation of liver X receptors, stimulates Abeta degradation. Indeed, aged Tg2576 mice treated with the LXR agonist GW3965 exhibited a dramatic reduction in brain Abeta load. GW3965 treatment also reversed contextual memory deficits. These data demonstrate a mechanism through which ApoE facilitates the clearance of Abeta from the brain and suggest that LXR agonists may represent a novel therapy for AD.
Rapid, experience-dependent plasticity in developing visual cortex is thought to be competitive. After monocular visual deprivation, the reduction in response of binocular neurons to one eye is matched by a corresponding increase to the other. Chronic optical imaging in mice deficient in TNFalpha reveals the normal initial loss of deprived-eye responses, but the subsequent increase in response to the open eye is absent. This mutation also blocks homeostatic synaptic scaling of mEPSCs in visual cortex in vitro, without affecting LTP. In monocular cortex, thought not to be subject to competition, responses in TNFalpha mutants are as reduced as in the binocular zone. Pharmacological inhibition of endogenous TNFalpha in wild-type mice phenocopies the knockout. These findings suggest that experience-dependent competition in developing visual cortex is the outcome of two distinct, noncompetitive processes, a loss of deprived-eye responses followed by an apparently homeostatic increase in responses dependent on TNFalpha signaling.
Emotion plays a critical role in many contemporary accounts of decision making, but exactly what underlies its influence and how this is mediated in the brain remain far from clear. Here, we review behavioral studies that suggest that Pavlovian processes can exert an important influence over choice and may account for many effects that have traditionally been attributed to emotion. We illustrate how recent experiments cast light on the underlying structure of Pavlovian control and argue that generally this influence makes good computational sense. Corresponding neuroscientific data from both animals and humans implicate a central role for the amygdala through interactions with other brain areas. This yields a neurobiological account of emotion in which it may operate, often covertly, to optimize rather than corrupt economic choice.
Cerebellar high-frequency oscillations have been observed for many decades, but their underlying mechanisms have remained enigmatic. In this issue of Neuron, two papers indicate that specific intrinsic mechanisms in the cerebellar cortex contribute to the generation of these oscillations. Middleton et al. show that GABA(A) receptor activation and nonchemical transmission are required for nicotine-dependent oscillations at 30-80 Hz and 80-160 Hz, respectively, while de Solages et al. provide evidence that recurrent inhibition by Purkinje cells is essential for oscillations around 200 Hz.
Although insulin clearly affects brain function, the role of insulin receptor (IR) signaling in the establishment and function of circuits in vivo remains largely unknown. In this issue of Neuron, Chiu et al. show a role for IRs in regulating synapse density and dendritic plasticity required for visual responses in Xenopus.
TNFalpha has been proposed to underlie synaptic scaling, but the mechanism and functional significance of this remain unclear. In this issue of Neuron, Cingolani et al. demonstrate that TNFalpha can mediate scaling through the regulation of beta3 integrins. Kaneko et al. show that TNFalpha-dependent synaptic scaling plays an important role in visual cortical plasticity.
How the brain processes temporal information embedded in sounds is a core question in auditory research. This article synthesizes recent studies from our laboratory regarding neural representations of time-varying signals in auditory cortex and thalamus in awake marmoset monkeys. Findings from these studies show that 1) the primary auditory cortex (A1) uses a temporal representation to encode slowly varying acoustic signals and a firing rate-based representation to encode rapidly changing acoustic signals, 2) the dual temporal-rate representations in A1 represent a progressive transformation from the auditory thalamus, 3) firing rate-based representations in the form of monotonic rate-code are also found to encode slow temporal repetitions in the range of acoustic flutter in A1 and more prevalently in the cortical fields rostral to A1 in the core region of marmoset auditory cortex, suggesting further temporal-to-rate transformations in higher cortical areas. These findings indicate that the auditory cortex forms internal representations of temporal characteristics of sounds that are no longer faithful replicas of their acoustic structures. We suggest that such transformations are necessary for the auditory cortex to perform a wide range of functions including sound segmentation, object processing and multi-sensory integration.
We investigated the firing pattern and frequency tuning properties of medial geniculate body (MGB) neurons, through in vivo intracellular recordings in anesthetized guinea pigs. Twenty-two of the 25 physiological characterized neurons were anatomically identified. Ten neurons were located in the ventral division of the medial geniculate body (MGv) (seven in pars ovoidea (OV) and three in the pars lateralis (LV)). Eight were located in the dorsal division (MGd), and four in the medial division (MGm). OV neurons showed a uniform, phasic ON response with high frequency selectivity. Functionally, they are interpreted as relaying spectral information with high reliability. LV neurons exhibited various patterns: phasic, tonic and excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSP) with a spike train. These high magnitude EPSPs are proposed to convey temporal information of the auditory signals with more encoding power. MGd neurons had relatively low best frequencies while MGm neurons had high intensity threshold, broader frequency selectivity, and a tonic response pattern. Tonic firing is likely to impose a strong impact onto wide cortical area and amygdala. When hyperpolarized with current injection, MGB neurons evoked low-threshold calcium spikes. Distinct change in these spike numbers was observed among MGv and MGd neurons as compared with MGm neurons, implying their differential roles. MGm neurons are more modulatory in nature, while the long lasting bursts of low-threshold calcium spikes observed in MGv and MGd neurons probably participate in propagating the sleep oscillations.
The calyx of Held is a morphologically complex nerve terminal containing hundreds to thousands of active zones. The calyx must support high rates of transient, sound-evoked vesicular release superimposed on a background of sustained release, due to the high spontaneous rates of some afferent fibers. One means of distributing vesicle release in space and time is to have heterogeneous release probabilities (Pr) at distinct active zones, which has been observed at several CNS synapses including the calyx of Held. Pr may be modulated by vesicle proximity to Ca2+ channels, by Ca2+ buffers, by changes in phosphorylation state of proteins involved in the release process, or by local variations in Ca2+ influx. In this study, we explore the idea that the complex geometry of the calyx also contributes to heterogeneous Pr by impeding equal propagation of action potentials through all calyx compartments. Given the difficulty of probing ion channel distribution and recording from adult calyces, we undertook a structural and modeling approach based on computerized reconstructions of calyces labeled in adult cats. We were thus able to manipulate placement of conductances and test their effects on Ca2+ concentration in all regions of the calyx following an evoked action potential in the calyceal axon. Our results indicate that with a non-uniform distribution of Na+ and K+ channels, action potentials do not propagate uniformly into the calyx, Ca2+ influx varies across different release sites, and latency for these events varies among calyx compartments. We suggest that the electrotonic structure of the calyx of Held, which our modeling efforts indicate is very sensitive to the axial resistivity of cytoplasm, may contribute to variations in release probability within the calyx.
Simultaneous grouping by common onset time is believed to be a powerful cue in auditory perception; components that start or stop roughly at the same time are judged as far more likely to have originated from the same source. Here we report a simple experiment designed to simulate a complex psychophysical paradigm first described by Darwin and Sutherland [(1984) Grouping frequency components of vowels. When is a harmonic not a harmonic? Quarterly J of Experimental Psychology: Hum Exp Psychol 36(A):193-208]. It is possible to change the perception of the vowel /I/ to /epsilon/ by manipulating the harmonics around the first formant (F1). Increasing the amplitude of one harmonic around F1 caused the perception of the vowel to change from /I/ to /epsilon/. Extending the increased component before the vowel could, however, greatly reduce this change. The role of neural adaptation in this effect was questioned by repeating the experiment but this time using a 'captor' tone which was switched on with the asynchronous harmonic and off when the vowel started. This time the vowel percept did change in a fashion analogous to the effect of an increase in the amplitude of the fourth harmonic (which is close to F1). This effect was explained by assuming that the captor had grouped with the leading portion of the asynchronous component enabling the remainder of the asynchronous component to be grouped with the remainder of the components. We propose a relatively low-level neuronal explanation for this grouping effect: the captor reduces the neural response to the leading segment of the asynchronous component by activating across-frequency suppression, either from the cochlea, or acting via a wideband inhibitor in the ventral cochlear nucleus. The reduction in neural response results in a release from adaptation with the offset of the captor terminating the inhibition, such that the response to the continuation of that component is now enhanced. Using a simplified paradigm we show that both primary-like and chopper units in the ventral cochlear nucleus of the anesthetized guinea pig may show a rebound in excitation when a captor is positioned so as to stimulate the suppressive sidebands in its receptive field. The strength of the rebound was positively correlated with the strength of the suppression. These and other results are consistent with the view that low-level mechanisms underlie the psychophysical captor effect.
Genes that are highly expressed in the inner ear, as revealed by cDNA microarray analysis, may have a crucial functional role there. Those that are expressed specifically in auditory tissues are likely to be good candidates to screen for genetic alterations in patients with deafness, and several genes have been successfully identified as responsible for hereditary hearing loss. To understand the detailed mechanisms of the hearing loss caused by the mutations in these genes, the present study examined the immunocytochemical localization of the proteins encoded by Crym, KIAA1199 homolog, Uba52, Col9a3, and Col9a1 in the cochlea of rats and mice. Confocal microscopic immunocytochemistry was performed on cryostat sections. Ultrastructurally, postembedding immunogold cytochemistry was applied using Lowicryl sections. Crym protein was predominantly distributed in the fibrocytes in the spiral ligament, as well as the stria vascularis in rats. KIAA1199 protein homolog was localized in various supporting cells, including inner phalangeal, border, inner and outer pillar, and Deiters' cells. Uba52 protein was restrictedly localized within the surface of the marginal cells of the stria vascularis. Collagen type IX was found within the tectorial membrane as well as fibrocytes in the spiral ligament. The present results showed cell-specific localization of the encoded proteins of these highly expressed genes, indicating that the coordinated actions of various molecules distributed in different parts of the cochlea are essential for maintenance of auditory processing in the cochlea.
Response features of inferior colliculus (IC) neurons to both current injections and tone bursts were studied with in vivo whole cell recordings in awake Mexican free-tailed bats. Of 160 cells recorded, 95% displayed one of three general types of discharge patterns in response to the injection of positive current: 1) sustained discharges; 2) adapting discharges; and 3) onset-bursting discharges. Sustained neurons were the most common type (N=78), followed by onset-bursting (N=57). The least common type was adapting (N=17). In 90 neurons the profiles of synaptic and discharge activity evoked by tones of different frequencies at 50 dB SPL were recorded. Three major tone-evoked response profiles were obtained; 1) neurons dominated by excitation (N=32) in which tones evoked excitatory post-synaptic potentials (EPSPs) or EPSPs with discharges over a range of frequencies with little or no evidence of inhibitory post-synaptic potentials (IPSPs) evoked by frequencies that flanked the excitation; 2) neurons that had an excitatory frequency region in which discharges were evoked that was flanked by frequencies that evoked predominantly IPSPs (N=26); 3) neurons in which all frequencies evoked IPSPs with little or no depolarizations (N=32). The question we asked is whether IC cells that express a particular profile of PSPs and discharges to acoustic stimulation also have the same current-evoked response profile. We show that, with one exception, the intrinsic features of an IC neuron are not correlated with the pattern of its synaptic innervation; the two features are unrelated in the majority of IC cells. The exception is a subtype of inhibitory dominated cell where most frequencies evoked IPSPs to both the onset and to the offset of the tone bursts. In those cells injected current steps always evoked an onset-bursting response.
Differential innervation of segregated dendritic domains in the chick nucleus laminaris (NL), composed of third-order auditory neurons, provides a unique model to study synaptic regulation of dendritic structure. Altering the synaptic input to one dendritic domain affects the structure and length of the manipulated dendrites while leaving the other set of unmanipulated dendrites largely unchanged. Little is known about the effects of neuronal input on the cytoskeletal structure of NL dendrites and whether changes in the cytoskeleton are responsible for dendritic remodeling following manipulations of synaptic input. In this study, we investigate changes in the immunoreactivity of high-molecular weight microtubule associated protein 2 (MAP2) in NL dendrites following two different manipulations of their afferent input. Unilateral cochlea removal eliminates excitatory synaptic input to the ventral dendrites of the contralateral NL and the dorsal dendrites of the ipsilateral NL. This manipulation produced a dramatic decrease in MAP2 immunoreactivity in the deafferented dendrites. This decrease was detected as early as 3 h following the surgery, well before any degeneration of afferent axons. A similar decrease in MAP2 immunoreactivity in deafferented NL dendrites was detected following a midline transection that silences the excitatory synaptic input to the ventral dendrites on both sides of the brain. These changes were most distinct in the caudal portion of the nucleus where individual deafferented dendritic branches contained less immunoreactivity than intact dendrites. Our results suggest that the cytoskeletal protein MAP2, which is distributed in dendrites, perikarya, and postsynaptic densities, may play a role in deafferentation-induced dendritic remodeling.
The inferior colliculus is a major relay nucleus in the ascending auditory pathways that receives multiple glutamatergic inputs. Vesicular glutamate transporters 1 and 2 (VGLUT1, VGLUT2) most often have complementary non-overlapping distributions and can be used to differentiate glutamatergic inputs. The present study therefore examined co-immunolabeling of VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 in three divisions of the rat inferior colliculus. Additional co-immunolabeling of microtubule-associated protein 2 and neuronal class III beta-tubulin provided visualization of neuronal soma and processes and allowed identification of axo-somatic versus axo-dendritic contacts. Results showed numerous VGLUT1 and 2 immunolabeled terminals in the central nucleus, lateral cortex and dorsal cortex. In all three divisions there was little to no co-containment of the two vesicular glutamate transporters indicating a complementary distribution. VGLUT1 made predominantly axo-dendritic connections in the neuropil, while VGLUT2 had many axo-somatic contacts in addition to axo-dendritic contacts. VGLUT2 immunolabeled terminals were numerous on the soma and proximal dendrites of many medium-to-large and large neurons in the central nucleus and medium to large neurons in the dorsal cortex. There were more VGLUT2 terminals than VGLUT1 in all divisions and more VGLUT2 terminals in dorsal and lateral cortices than in the central nucleus. This study shows that VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 differentiate complementary patterns of glutamatergic inputs into the central nucleus, lateral and dorsal cortex of the inferior colliculus with VGLUT1 endings predominantly on the dendrites and VGLUT2 on both dendrites and somas.
Principal cells of the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) receive their excitatory input through large somatic terminals, the calyces of Held, which arise from axons of globular bushy cells located in the contralateral ventral cochlear nucleus. Discharges of MNTB neurons are characterized by high stimulus evoked firing rates, temporally precise onset responses, and a high degree of phase-locking to either pure tones or stimulus envelopes. Since the calyx of Held synapse is accessible to in vitro and to in vivo recordings, it serves as one of the most elaborate models for studying synaptic transmission in the mammalian brain. Although in such studies, the major emphasis is on synaptic physiology, the interpretation of the data will benefit from an understanding of the MNTB's contribution to auditory signal processing, including possible functional differences in different species. This implies the consideration of possible functional differences in different species. Here, we compare single unit recordings from MNTB principal cells in vivo in three different rodent species: gerbil, mouse and rat. Because of their good low-frequency hearing gerbils are often used in in vivo preparations, while mice and rats are predominantly used in slice preparations. We show that MNTB units in all three species exhibit high firing rates and precise onset-timing. Still there are species-specific specializations that might suggest the preferential use of one species over the others, depending on the scope of the respective investigation.
Spherical cells in the anteroventral division of the cochlear nucleus, which relay excitatory inputs from the auditory nerve, also receive both GABAergic and glycinergic inhibitory synapses. Inhibition mediated by GABA and glycine fulfils essential roles in the processing abilities of these and other auditory neurons. However, the developmental program leading to a mature complement of GABAergic and glycinergic synapses and microcircuits is largely unknown. Because of their relatively simple geometry, spherical cells provide an excellent model for unraveling basic developmental patterns of inhibitory synaptogenesis. Using a combination of high resolution immunocytochemical methods, we report that, in the rat, synapses containing GABA or glycine are deployed on spherical cell bodies over a time period extending well beyond hearing onset. Such postnatal developmental recruitment of inhibitory endings is progressive, although there are two distinct leaps in their numbers. The first occurs by the end of the first postnatal week, prior to hearing onset, and the second, during the third postnatal week, after hearing onset. This pattern suggests that adjustments in inhibition could be driven by acoustic experience. While GABAergic and glycinergic endings are maturing and growing in number and size, their neurotransmitter content also appears to be developmentally regulated. Quantitative ultrastructural immunocytochemistry with colloidal gold suggests that GABA and glycine accumulation in synaptic endings follows a staggered pattern, with labeling stabilizing at adult levels by postnatal day 21. This may account for adjustments in synaptic efficacy and strength.
Temporal coding in the auditory nerve is strikingly transformed in the cochlear nucleus. In contrast to fibers in the auditory nerve, some neurons in the cochlear nucleus can show &quot;picket fence&quot; phase-locking to low-frequency pure tones: they fire a precisely timed action potential at every cycle of the stimulus. Such synchronization enhancement and entrainment is particularly prominent in neurons with the spherical and globular morphology, described by Osen [Osen KK (1969) Cytoarchitecture of the cochlear nuclei in the cat. J Comp Neurol 136:453-483]. These neurons receive large axosomatic terminals from the auditory nerve--the end bulbs and modified end bulbs of Held--and project to binaural comparator nuclei in the superior olivary complex. The most popular model to account for picket fence phase-locking is monaural coincidence detection. This mechanism is plausible for globular neurons, which receive a large number of inputs. We draw attention to the existence of enhanced phase-locking and entrainment in spherical neurons, which receive too few end-bulb inputs from the auditory nerve to make a coincidence detection of end-bulb firings a plausible mechanism of synchronization enhancement.
Principal cells of the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) differ in the magnitudes of low-voltage-activated potassium (gKL) and hyperpolarization-activated (gh) conductances that determine the time course of signaling. Octopus cells in mice have large gKL (500 nS) and gh (150 nS), bushy cells have smaller gKL (80 nS) and gh (30 nS), and T stellate cells have little gKL and a small gh (20 nS). gKL Arises through potassium channels of which approximately 60% contain Kv1.1 (potassium channels in the shaker or KCNA family) subunits; gh arises through channels that include hyperpolarization and cyclic nucleotide gated (HCN) 1 subunits. The surfaces of cell bodies and dendrites of octopus cells in the dorsocaudal pole, and of similar cells along the ventrolateral edge of the PVCN, were brightly labeled by an antibody against HCN1 that was colocalized with labeling for Kv1.1. More anteriorly neurons with little surface labeling were intermingled among cell bodies and dendrites with surface labeling for both proteins, likely corresponding to T stellate and bushy cells. The membrane-associated labeling patterns for Kv1.1 and HCN1 were consistent with what is known about the distribution and the electrophysiological properties of the principal cells of the VCN. The cytoplasm of large cells and axonal paranodes contained immunofluorescent labeling for only Kv1.1.
The mammalian cochlear nucleus (CN) consists of a diverse set of neurons both physiologically and morphologically that are involved in processing different aspects of the sound signal. One class of CN neurons that is located near the entrance of the auditory nerve (AN) to the CN has an oval soma with an eccentric nucleus and a short-bushy dendritic tree and is called a globular/bushy cell (GBC). They contact the principal cells of the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) with the very large calyx of Held that is one of the most secure synapses in the brain. Because MNTB cells provide an inhibitory input to the lateral superior olive (LSO), a structure purported to play a role in lateralizing high frequency sounds, GBC physiology is of great interest. Results were obtained with intracellular recording and subsequent labeling with neurobiotin of 32 GBCs along with a number of cells characterized extracellularly as likely GBCs in the cochlear nucleus (CN) of cat. Their poststimulus discharge response pattern to repeated tones varies from a primarylike pattern, i.e. similar to the AN, to a primarylike pattern with a 0.5-2 ms notch after the initial spike, to an onset pattern with a low-sustained rate. They can represent low frequency tones and amplitude modulated signals exceptionally well with a temporal code.
The modulation of neuronal activity by the gas nitric oxide is one of the most novel discoveries in neuroscience. In the auditory pathway, the highest expression of nitric oxide synthase is found in the inferior colliculus (IC), an important center for the convergence of parallel ascending pathways traveling in the brainstem, and descending projections from the auditory cortex. Here we use immunocytochemistry with an antibody for neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), or NOS Type 1, to map the distribution of nNOS expression in the IC of the guinea pig. The results show that nNOS is differentially expressed by both cell bodies and neuropil across its different subdivisions. The highest levels of neuronal staining are seen in the dorsal and lateral cortices, and the commissural nucleus, making them readily distinguishable from the ventro-lateral part of the central nucleus where nNOS expression in neuropil and somata is minimal. Dorso-medially, and caudally, however, the region of nNOS expression extends from the dorsal cortex into the area normally designated as the central nucleus, and nNOS is expressed by neurons characteristic of this subdivision. Our findings support the idea of a gradual transition in cell properties rather than a distinct boundary between the central nucleus and the dorsal cortex. This transition zone may provide a cytoarchitectonic substrate for functional interaction between these two subdivisions.
The characteristic features of individual brain regions are determined by anatomical, physiological, and biochemical properties, which are caused by the nature and amount of proteins expressed. Proteomics is a powerful technology for assessing different protein profiles, comparing hundreds of proteins simultaneously. Here we performed a semi-quantitative proteomic analysis of two prominent brain regions in the male adult rat, the inferior colliculus and the cerebellum. Both play important roles in sensorimotor integration but have distinct anatomical and biochemical features. Soluble proteins of mainly cytoplasmic origin were obtained through subcellular fractionation, separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, and identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry. Out of 169 annotated and quantified spots, 40 (24%) displayed significant differences in intensity between the two brain regions. Of those, 21 spots (containing 26 proteins) were more intense in the inferior colliculus and 19 spots (containing 25 proteins) in the cerebellum. The inferior colliculus displayed a higher abundance of proteins involved in vesicular trafficking, such as dynamin-1 and cofilin-1. In the cerebellum, Ca2+ -binding proteins (calbindin and calretinin) as well as 14-3-3 proteins were more abundant. Both protein groups play a central role in cellular signaling. Finally, several differences occurred among proteins involved in cellular energy metabolism. Our study presents a proof of principle to demonstrate marked heterogeneity of proteins between two brain samples. The heterogeneity is likely associated with functional differences, warranting further histological and physiological analyses.
During development, GABA/glycinergic connections from the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) to the lateral superior olive (LSO) gradually change from being depolarizing to being hyperpolarizing. Previous studies have shown that depolarizing MNTB-LSO synapses can trigger action potentials and increase the concentration of intracellular calcium. In the present study we used confocal calcium imaging combined with whole-cell patch clamp recordings to investigate how depolarizing MNTB inputs in neonatal rats and mice increase the calcium concentration in the dendrites of LSO neurons. Our results show that subthreshold synaptic responses can elicit local dendritic calcium responses while suprathreshold responses reliably generate global calcium responses that are observed in all dendritic processes. The amplitude of global dendritic calcium responses increased with distance from the soma. Global calcium responses were blocked by tetrodotoxin and could not be recovered by somatic injection of action potential waveforms indicating that global calcium responses are generated by back-propagating sodium action potentials.
It is well established that restricted mechanical lesions of the cochlea result in reorganization of the tonotopic map in the auditory thalamus and cortex, but it is unclear whether acoustic trauma produces similar effects at earlier stages of the auditory pathways. To test whether the tonotopic map is reorganized after acoustic trauma at the midbrain level, i.e. the inferior colliculus (IC), we exposed rats to an acoustic trauma and let them survive for at least 5 weeks to ensure that we produced a permanent threshold shift. Experiments were carried out in urethane-anesthetized animals 35-296 days after the traumatic exposure. The acoustic lesions were assessed by measuring the compound action potential. We mapped the frequency organization of the IC using multiunit recordings. In addition, we recorded frequency response areas (FRAs) when a single unit was isolated (N=142). The results show that acoustic trauma produces a persistent reorganization of the tonotopic map and that the normal stepwise representation of sound frequency in the IC is profoundly disrupted. Although the reorganization in the IC is similar to that previously described in the cortex and thalamus in that the affected area appears to be invaded by the adjacent normal frequencies, changes in thresholds and FRAs in these regions are different from those in the forebrain. We conclude that most of the changes can be explained by the residual-response hypothesis [Irvine DR, Rajan R, Smith S (2003) Effects of restricted cochlear lesions in adult cats on the frequency organization of the inferior colliculus. J Comp Neurol 467:354-374]. Plastic reorganization of frequency response areas and tonotopic organization does not seem to occur at the midbrain level following acoustic trauma in adult animals in a manner similar to that previously shown in the auditory cortex. Maintaining the stability of the neuronal circuitry for frequency coding in the IC may be important for the treatment of noise-induced hearing loss.
The auditory midbrain implant (AMI), which is designed for stimulation of the inferior colliculus (IC), is now in clinical trials. The AMI consists of a single shank array (20 contacts) and uses a stimulation strategy originally designed for cochlear implants since it is already approved for human use and we do not yet know how to optimally activate the auditory midbrain. The goal of this study was to investigate the effects of different pulse rates and phase durations on loudness and pitch percepts because these parameters are required to implement the AMI stimulation strategy. Although each patient was implanted into a different region (i.e. lateral lemniscus, central nucleus of IC, dorsal cortex of IC), they generally exhibited similar threshold versus phase duration, threshold versus pulse rate, and pitch versus pulse rate curves. In particular, stimulation with 100 mus/phase, 250 pulse per second (pps) pulse trains achieved an optimal balance among safety, energy, and current threshold requirements while avoiding rate pitch effects. However, we observed large differences across patients in loudness adaptation to continuous pulse stimulation over long time scales. One patient (implanted in dorsal cortex of IC) even experienced complete loudness decay and elevation of thresholds with daily stimulation. Comparing these results with those of cochlear implant and auditory brainstem implant patients, it appears that stimulation of higher order neurons exhibits less and even no loudness summation for higher rate stimuli and greater current leakage for longer phase durations than that of cochlear neurons. The fact that all midbrain regions we stimulated, which includes three distinctly different nuclei, exhibited similar loudness summation effects (i.e. none for pulse rates above 250 pps) suggests a possible shift in some coding properties that is affected more by which stage along the auditory pathway rather than the types of neurons are being stimulated. However, loudness adaptation occurs at multiple stages from the cochlea up to the midbrain.
The tip links between stereocilia of acousticolateral hair cells have been suggested to contain cadherin 23 (CDH23) comprising an upper branched portion that is bound to a lower portion composed of protocadherin 15 (PCDH15). The molecular conformation of CDH23, its binding to PCDH15, the tip links, and mechanoelectrical transduction have all been shown previously to be sensitive to exposure to low levels of calcium. The aim of this study was to compare the characteristics of tip links in guinea-pig cochlear hair cells with reported features of the CDH23-PCDH15 complex. Tip links were examined using field emission scanning electron microscopy and transmission electron microscopy in conventional preparations and after treatment with the detergent Triton-X-100 or varying calcium concentrations in the extracellular solution. The results showed that tip links have a twisted double-stranded appearance with a branched upper region. They survived demembranation of the stereocilia by detergent suggesting that they have transmembrane domains at both ends. Their lengths, when fixed in the presence of 2 mM extracellular calcium, were approximately 150 nm. With prior exposure to 1 mM calcium their lengths were approximately 164 nm. The lengths in 50 microM calcium are similar ( approximately 185 nm) to those reported for CDH23-PCDH15 complexes in 100 microM calcium ( approximately 180 nm). Exposure to 1 microM calcium caused loss of tip links and an increased distance between the residual attachment sites. The data indicate that extracellular calcium concentration affects tip-link length. One model compatible with the recently proposed tip-link structure is that the CDH23 double strand undergoes calcium-dependent unfolding, changing the length of the links. The bundle may also tilt in the direction of the tallest row of stereocilia as the tip link lengthens and then is lost. Overall, our data are consistent with a tip link composed of complexes of CDH23 and PCDH15 but do not rule out other possibilities.
Loss of temporal processing is characteristic of age-related loss of speech understanding observed in the elderly. Inhibitory glycinergic circuits provide input onto dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) projection neurons which likely serve to modulate excitatory responses to time-varying complex acoustic signals. The present study sought to test the hypothesis that age-related loss of inhibition would compromise the ability of output neurons to encode sinusoidally amplitude modulated (SAM) tones. Extracellular recordings were obtained from young and aged FBN rat DCN putative fusiform cells. Stimuli were SAM tones at three modulation depths (100, 50, and 20%) at 30 dB hearing level with the carrier frequency set to the unit's characteristic frequency. Discharge rate and synchrony were calculated to describe SAM responses. There were significant age-related changes in the shape and peak vector strength [best modulation frequency (BMF)] of temporal modulation transfer functions (tMTFs), with no significant age-related changes in rate modulation transfer functions (rMTFs) at BMF. Young neurons exhibited band-pass tMTFs for most SAM conditions while aged fusiform cells exhibited significantly more low-pass or double-peaked tMTFs. There were significant differences in tMTFs between buildup, pauser-buildup, and wide-chopper temporal response types. Young and aged wide-choppers displayed significantly lower vector strength values than the other two temporal DCN response types. Age-related decreases in the number of pauser-buildup response types and increases in wide-chopper types reported previously, could account, in part, for the observed loss of temporal coding of the aged fusiform cell. Age-related changes in SAM coding were similar to changes observed with receptor blockade of glycinergic inhibition onto fusiform cells and consistent with previously observed age-related loss of endogenous glycine levels and changes in normal adult glycine receptor function. DCN changes in SAM coding could, in part, underpin temporal processing deficits observed in the elderly.
Afferents to the primary startle circuit are essential for the elicitation and modulation of the acoustic startle reflex (ASR). In the rat, cochlear root neurons (CRNs) comprise the first component of the acoustic startle circuit and play a crucial role in mediating the ASR. Nevertheless, the neurochemical pattern of their afferents remains unclear. To determine the distribution of excitatory and inhibitory inputs, we used confocal microscopy to analyze the immunostaining for vesicular glutamate and GABA transporter proteins (VGLUT1 and VGAT) on retrogradely labeled CRNs. We also used reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunohistochemistry to detect and localize specific neurotransmitter receptor subunits in the cochlear root. Our results show differential distributions of VGLUT1- and VGAT-immunoreactive endings around cell bodies and dendrites. The RT-PCR data showed a positive band for several ionotropic glutamate receptor subunits, M1-M5 muscarinic receptor subtypes, the glycine receptor alpha1 subunit (GlyRalpha1), GABAA, GABAB, and subunits of alpha2 and beta-noradrenergic receptors. By immunohistochemistry, we confirmed that CRN cell bodies exhibit positive immunoreaction for the glutamate receptor (GluR) 3 and NR1 GluR subunits. Cell bodies and dendrites were also positive for M2 and M4, and GlyRalpha1. Other subunits, such as GluR1 and GluR4 of the AMPA GluRs, were observed in glial cells neighboring unlabeled CRN cell bodies. We further confirmed the existence of noradrenergic afferents onto CRNs from the locus coeruleus by combining tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry and tract-tracing experiments. Our results provide valuable information toward understanding how CRNs might integrate excitatory and inhibitory inputs, and hence how they could elicit and modulate the ASR.
Axonal projections from the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (DNLL) distribute contralaterally in a pattern of banded layers in the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (IC). The banded pattern of DNLL projections is already in the IC by onset of hearing in postnatal rat pups. Previously, it was shown that unilateral cochlear ablation in neonatal rat pups disrupted the banded pattern in IC for the projections of the DNLL contralateral to the ablation but not those of the DNLL ipsilateral to the ablation. In the present study, bilateral cochlear ablation or sham surgery was performed at postnatal day 9 (P9) after which rat pups were killed at P12 and the brains removed to study axonal projections of the DNLL. A lipophilic carbocyanine dye, 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate (DiI), was placed in the dorsal tegmental commissure of Probst to label decussating DNLL axons that end in the central nucleus of the contralateral IC. The distribution of labeled fibers across the central nucleus of the IC was analyzed in digital images by comparing the pattern of labeling with a sine model of periodic distribution of banded layers. In the control group, labeled axons formed a regular pattern of dense banded layers in IC. In the bilateral cochlear ablation group, labeled axons in the IC were distributed diffusely and there was little or no regular pattern of dense bands of axonal labeling. The influence of the cochlea on developing auditory circuits possibly mediated by activity-dependent mechanisms is discussed.
Projections from the cochlear nuclear complex to the inferior colliculus in the gerbil (Meriones unguiculatus) were studied using anterograde tracing methods based on axonal transport. Methods were developed to map the results onto comparable sets of sections through the inferior colliculus so that the patterns of termination in different animals could be compared directly. Projections to the contralateral inferior colliculus are widespread and most, if not all of them, are topographically organized. Axons terminate throughout the central nucleus and also in at least three distinct regions outside the central nucleus: a caudomedial region in the dorsal cortex, the ventrolateral nucleus and the rostral pole nucleus. Projections from the dorsal and ventral cochlear nuclei appear to overlap almost completely, although those from the dorsal cochlear nucleus may be slightly more widespread at the boundaries of the central nucleus. Projections from the ipsilateral cochlear nuclei arise in both the dorsal and ventral divisions and are largely restricted to the dorsal (low-frequency) part of the inferior colliculus. In this region, the pattern of ipsilateral and contralateral projections is similar, although the terminal fields from the two sides do not appear to overlap completely. The methods developed to display the results form a framework for comparisons with the distribution of inputs from the other major sources of input to the inferior colliculus.
In most mammals the cochlear nuclear complex (CN) contains a distributed system of granule cells (GCS), whose parallel fiber axons innervate the dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN). Like their counterpart in cerebellum, CN granules are innervated by mossy fibers of various origins. The GCS is complemented by unipolar brush (UBCs) and Golgi cells, and by stellate and cartwheel cells of the DCN. This cerebellum-like microcircuit modulates the activity of the DCN's main projection neurons, the pyramidal, giant and tuberculoventral neurons, and is thought to improve auditory performance by integrating acoustic and proprioceptive information. In this paper, we focus on the rat UBCs, a chemically heterogeneous neuronal population, using antibodies to calretinin, metabotropic glutamate receptor 1alpha (mGluR1alpha), epidermal growth factor substrate 8 (Eps8) and the transcription factor T-box gene Tbr2 (Tbr2). Eps8 and Tbr2 labeled most of the CN's UBCs, if not the entire population, while calretinin and mGluR1alpha distinguished two largely separate subsets with overlapping distributions. By double labeling with antibodies to Tbr2 and the alpha6 GABA receptor A (GABAA) subunit, we found that UBCs populate all regions of the GCS and occur at remarkably high densities in the DCN and subpeduncular corner, but rarely in the lamina. Although GCS subregions likely share the same microcircuitry, their dissimilar UBC densities suggest they may be functionally distinct. UBCs and granules are also present in regions previously not included in the GCS, namely the rostrodorsal magnocellular portions of ventral cochlear nucleus, vestibular nerve root, trapezoid body, spinal tract and sensory and principal nuclei of the trigeminal nerve, and cerebellar peduncles. The UBC's dendritic brush receives AMPA- and NMDA-mediated input from an individual mossy fiber, favoring singularity of input, and its axon most likely forms several mossy fiber-like endings that target numerous granule cells and other UBCs, as in the cerebellum. The UBCs therefore, may amplify afferent signals temporally and spatially, synchronizing pools of target neurons.
The strength of synapses between auditory nerve (AN) fibers and ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN) neurons is an important factor in determining the nature of neural integration in VCN neurons of different response types. Synaptic strength was analyzed using cross-correlation of spike trains recorded simultaneously from an AN fiber and a VCN neuron in anesthetized cats. VCN neurons were classified as chopper, primarylike, and onset using previously defined criteria, although onset neurons usually were not analyzed because of their low discharge rates. The correlograms showed an excitatory peak (EP), consistent with monosynaptic excitation, in AN-VCN pairs with similar best frequencies (49% 24/49 of pairs with best frequencies within +/-5%). Chopper and primarylike neurons showed similar EPs, except that the primarylike neurons had shorter latencies and shorter-duration EPs. Large EPs consistent with end bulb terminals on spherical bushy cells were not observed, probably because of the low probability of recording from one. The small EPs observed in primarylike neurons, presumably spherical bushy cells, could be derived from small terminals that accompany end bulbs on these cells. EPs on chopper or primarylike-with-notch neurons were consistent with the smaller synaptic terminals on multipolar and globular bushy cells. Unexpectedly, EPs were observed only at sound levels within about 20 dB of threshold, showing that VCN responses to steady tones shift from a 1:1 relationship between AN and VCN spikes at low sound levels to a more autonomous mode of firing at high levels. In the high level mode, the pattern of output spikes seems to be determined by the properties of the postsynaptic spike generator rather than the input spike patterns. The EP amplitudes did not change significantly when the presynaptic spike was preceded by either a short or long interspike interval, suggesting that synaptic depression and facilitation have little effect under the conditions studied here.
Stains for acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and retrograde labeling with Fluorogold (FG) were used to study olivocochlear neurons and their dendritic patterns in mice. The two methods gave similar results for location and number of somata. The total number of medial olivocochlear (MOC) neurons in the ventral nucleus of the trapezoid body (VNTB) is about 170 per side. An additional dozen large olivocochlear neurons are located in the dorsal periolivary nucleus (DPO). Dendrites of all of these neurons are long and extend in all directions from the cell bodies, a pattern that contrasts with the sharp frequency tuning of their responses. For VNTB neurons, there were greater numbers of dendrites directed medially than laterally and those directed medially were longer (on average, 25-50% longer). Dendrite extensions were most pronounced for neurons located in the rostral portion of the VNTB. When each dendrite from a single neuron was represented as a vector, and all the vectors summed, the result was also skewed toward the medial direction. DPO neurons, however, had more symmetric dendrites that projected into more dorsal parts of the trapezoid body, suggesting that this small group of olivocochlear neurons has very different physiological properties. Dendrites of both types of neurons were somewhat elongated rostrally, about 20% longer than those directed caudally. These results can be interpreted as extensions of dendrites of olivocochlear neurons toward their synaptic inputs: medially to meet crossing fibers from the cochlear nucleus that are part of the MOC reflex pathway, and rostrally to meet descending inputs from higher centers.
The inferior colliculus (IC) is the major component of the auditory midbrain and contains three major subdivisions: a central nucleus, a dorsal cortex, and a lateral cortex (LC). Discrepancies in the nomenclature and parcellation of the LC in the rat and cat seem to imply different, species-specific functions for this region. To establish a comparable parcellation of the LC for both rat and cat, we investigated its histochemistry and inputs. In both species, the deep lateral cortex is marked by a transition between the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase (NADPH-d) rich superficial cortex and a cytochrome oxidase (CO) rich central nucleus. In both species, focal injections of anterograde tracers in the cochlear nucleus at sites of known best frequency produced bands of labeled inputs in two different subdivisions of the IC. A medial band of axons terminated in the central nucleus, while shorter bands were located laterally and oriented nearly perpendicularly to the medial bands. In the rat, these lateral bands were located in the third, deepest layer of the lateral (external) cortex. In the cat, the bands were located in a region that was previously ascribed to the central nucleus, but now considered to belong to the third, deepest layer of the LC, the ventrolateral nucleus. In both species, the LC inputs had a tonotopic organization. In view of this parallel organization, we propose a common parcellation of the IC for rat and cat with a new nomenclature. The deep layer of the LC, previously referred to as layer 3 in the rat, is designated as the 'ventrolateral nucleus' of the LC, making it clear that this region is thought to be homologous with the ventrolateral nucleus in the cat. The similar organization of the LC implies that this subdivision of the IC has similar functions in cats and rats.
Sensory experiences contribute to the development and specialization of signal processing capacities in the mammalian auditory system during a &quot;critical period&quot; of postnatal development. Earlier studies have shown that passive exposure to tonal stimuli during this postnatal epoch induces a large-scale expansion of the representations of those stimuli within the primary auditory cortex (A1) [Zhang LI, Bao S, Merzenich MM (2001) Persistent and specific influences of early acoustic environments on primary auditory cortex. Nat Neurosci 4:1123-1130]. Here, we show that exposing rat pups through the normal critical period epoch and beyond to continuous, un-modulated, moderate-level tones induces no such representational distortion, and in fact disrupts the normal development of frequency response selectivity and tonotopicity all across area A1. The area of cortex responding selectively to continuously exposed sound frequencies was actually reduced, when compared with rats reared in normal environments. Strong exposure-driven plasticity characteristic of the critical period could be induced well beyond the normal end of the critical period, by simply modulating the tonal stimulus. Thus, continuous tone exposure, like continuous noise exposure [Chang EF, Merzenich MM (2003) Environmental noise retards auditory cortical development. Science 300:498-502], ineffectively induces critical period plasticity, and indefinitely blocks the closure of a normally-brief critical period window. These findings again demonstrate the crucial role of temporally structured inputs for inducing the progressive cortical maturational changes that result in the closure of the critical period window.
Branched axons (BAs) projecting to different areas of the brain can create multiple feature-specific maps or synchronize processing in remote targets. We examined the organization of BAs in the cat auditory forebrain using two sensitive retrograde tracers. In one set of experiments (n=4), the tracers were injected into different frequency-matched loci in the primary auditory area (AI) and the anterior auditory field (AAF). In the other set (n=4), we injected primary, non-primary, or limbic cortical areas. After mapped injections, percentages of double-labeled cells (PDLs) in the medial geniculate body (MGB) ranged from 1.4% (ventral division) to 2.8% (rostral pole). In both ipsilateral and contralateral areas AI and AAF, the average PDLs were &lt;1%. In the unmapped cases, the MGB PDLs ranged from 0.6% (ventral division) after insular cortex injections to 6.7% (dorsal division) after temporal cortex injections. Cortical PDLs ranged from 0.1% (ipsilateral AI injections) to 3.7% in the second auditory cortical area (AII) (contralateral AII injections). PDLs within the smaller (minority) projection population were significantly higher than those in the overall population. About 2% of auditory forebrain projection cells have BAs and such cells are organized differently than those in the subcortical auditory system, where BAs can be far more numerous. Forebrain branched projections follow different organizational rules than their unbranched counterparts. Finally, the relatively larger proportion of visual and somatic sensory forebrain BAs suggests modality specific rules for BA organization.
Auditory localization experiments typically either require subjects to judge the location of a sound source from a discrete set of response alternatives or involve measurements of the accuracy of orienting responses made toward the source location. To compare the results obtained by both methods, we trained ferrets by positive conditioning to stand on a platform at the center of a circular arena prior to stimulus presentation and then approach the source of a broadband noise burst delivered from 1 of 12 loudspeakers arranged at 30 degrees intervals in the horizontal plane. Animals were rewarded for making a correct choice. We also obtained a non-categorized measure of localization accuracy by recording head-orienting movements made during the first second following stimulus onset. The accuracy of the approach-to-target responses declined as the stimulus duration was reduced, particularly for lateral and posterior locations, although responses to sounds presented in the frontal region of space and directly behind the animal remained quite accurate. Head movements had a latency of approximately 200 ms and varied systematically in amplitude with stimulus direction. However, the final head bearing progressively undershot the target with increasing eccentricity and rarely exceeded 60 degrees to each side of the midline. In contrast to the approach-to-target responses, the accuracy of the head orienting responses did not change much with stimulus duration, suggesting that the improvement in percent correct scores with longer stimuli was due, at least in part, to re-sampling of the acoustical stimulus after the initial head turn had been made. Nevertheless, for incorrect trials, head orienting responses were more closely correlated with the direction approached by the animals than with the actual target direction, implying that at least part of the neural circuitry for translating sensory spatial signals into motor commands is shared by these two behaviors.
Using a microchemical approach, we measured changes of amino acid concentrations in the chinchilla caudal posteroventral cochlear nucleus (PVCN) after cochlear ablation to determine to what extent slow decreases of glutamate and aspartate concentrations after carboplatin treatment resulted from slower effects of cochlear damage in chinchillas than in rats and guinea pigs, as opposed to effects of carboplatin treatment being slower than those of cochlear ablation. Our results indicate that both factors are involved: decreases of glutamate and aspartate concentrations after cochlear ablation are much slower in chinchillas than in rats and guinea pigs, but they are much faster than the decreases after carboplatin treatment. Further, aspartate and glutamate concentrations in the chinchilla caudal PVCN decreased by larger amounts after cochlear ablation than in rats or guinea pigs, and there was a transient increase of aspartate concentration at short survival times. Detailed mapping of amino acid concentrations in the PVCN of a chinchilla with 1 month survival after cochlear ablation and a rat with 7 days' survival indicated that the reductions of glutamate and aspartate occurred throughout the PVCN but were somewhat larger in ventral and caudal parts in chinchilla. Any decreases in the adjacent granular region were very small. There were also sustained bilateral decreases in concentrations of other amino acids, notably GABA and glycine, in the caudal PVCN of cochlea-ablated chinchillas but not rats. The effects of cochlear ablation on the concentrations of most of these other amino acids in chinchilla caudal PVCN differed from those of carboplatin treatment. Thus, although a major effect of auditory nerve damage on the cochlear nucleus-decreases of glutamate and aspartate concentrations-occurs across species and types of lesions, the details of timing and magnitude and the effects on other amino acids can vary greatly.
We used an antibody to choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) to label cholinergic cells in guinea pig brainstem. ChAT-immunoreactive (IR) cells comprise several prominent groups, including the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, and parabigeminal nucleus, as well as the cranial nerve somatic motor and parasympathetic nuclei. Additional concentrations are present in the parabrachial nuclei and superior colliculus. Among auditory nuclei, the majority of ChAT-IR cells are in the superior olive, particularly in and around the lateral superior olive, the ventral nucleus of the trapezoid body and the superior paraolivary nucleus. A discrete group of ChAT-IR cells is located in the sagulum, and additional cells are scattered in the nucleus of the brachium of the inferior colliculus. A group of ChAT-IR cells lies dorsal to the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus. A few ChAT-IR cells are found in the cochlear nucleus and the ventral nucleus of the lateral lemniscus. The distribution of cholinergic cells in guinea pigs is largely similar to that of other species; differences occur mainly in cell groups that have few ChAT-IR cells. The results provide a basis for further studies to characterize the connections of these cholinergic groups.
In nonprimate mammals, the dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) is thought to play a role in the orientation of the head toward sounds of interest by integrating acoustic and somatosensory information. Humans and higher primates might not use this system because of reported phylogenetic changes in DCN cytoarchitecture [Moskowitz N (1969) Comparative aspects of some features of the central auditory system of primates. Ann N Y Acad Sci 167:357-369; Moore JK, Osen KK (1979) The cochlear nuclei in man. Am J Anat 154:393-418; Moore JK (1980) The primate cochlear nuclei: loss of lamination as a phylogenetic process. J Comp Neurol 193:609-629]. In this study, we re-evaluated this question from a comparative perspective and examined the rhesus monkey (cercopithecoid primate) using more sensitive probes and higher resolution imaging methods. We used electron microscopy to identify parallel fibers and their synapses, and molecular markers to determine that primates exhibit the main components of excitatory neurotransmission as other mammals. We observed that characteristics of the monkey molecular layer resembled what has been reported for nonprimates: (1) immunohistochemistry revealed many unmyelinated, thin axons and en passant glutamatergic synapses on dendritic spines; (2) immunohistochemistry for phosphodiesterase (PDE10A) showed the nuclei of granule cells distributed in the external molecular layer and the deep layers in the DCN; (3) antibodies for the inositol trisphosphate receptor (IP3r) and calbindin immunostained cartwheel cells; (4) postembedding immunogold labeling revealed synaptic expression of AMPA and delta glutamate receptor subunits on spines in parallel fiber endings; and (5) parallel fibers use vesicular glutamate transporter 1 (VGLUT1) to package glutamate into the synaptic vesicles and to mediate glutamate transport. These observations are consistent with the argument that the rhesus monkey DCN has neuronal features similar to those of other nonprimate mammals.
The marginal shell of the anteroventral cochlear nucleus houses small cells that are distinct from the overlying microneurons of the granule cell domain and the underlying projection neurons of the magnocellular core. This thin shell of small cells and associated neuropil receives auditory nerve input from only the low (&lt;18 spikes/s) spontaneous rate (SR), high threshold auditory nerve fibers; high SR, low threshold fibers do not project there. It should be noted, that most of these auditory nerve terminations reside in the neuropil and intermix with dendrites that originate outside the shell. Consequently, electron microscopy is necessary to determine the synaptic targets. For this report, the terminations of intracellularly labeled low SR auditory nerve fibers in the small cell of cats cap were mapped through serial sections using a light microscope. The terminals were then examined with an electron microscope and found to form synapses with the somata and dendrites of small cells. Moreover, the small cell dendrites were identifiable by an abundance of microtubules and the presence of polyribosomes that were free or associated with membranous cisterns. These data contribute to the concept of a high threshold feedback circuit to the inner ear, and reveal translational machinery for local control of activity-dependent synaptic modification.
The inferior colliculus (IC) is among the largest nuclei in the central auditory system and is considered to be a major integration center in the auditory pathway. To understand how IC contributes to auditory processing, we investigated the effects of preceding hyperpolarization on membrane excitability and firing behavior of neurons located in the dorsal cortex of the inferior colliculus (ICD). We made whole-cell patch clamp recordings from ICD neurons (n=96) in rat brain slices. We classified ICD neurons into three types, i.e. sustained-regular, sustained-adapting and buildup, according to their responses to depolarizing current injection. Nearly 91% of the neurons had sustained firing throughout the period of current injection, showing either regular or adapting pattern. About 9% of the neurons exhibited a buildup pattern, in which sustained firing started after a long delay. Rebound depolarization and spikes after hyperpolarization were seen in 51.7% of the sustained neurons, but were not seen in buildup neurons. When depolarizing current was preceded by a hyperpolarizing current, various forms of the modification on membrane excitability were observed. For non-rebound neurons, the membrane excitability was either suppressed or unchanged after pre-hyperpolarization. The first spike latency lengthened in neurons whose firing changed to a buildup pattern, shortened in those whose firing changed to a pauser pattern, and remained unchanged in those whose discharge pattern remained sustained. For rebound neurons, the firing rate decreased in neurons whose firing pattern was changed to onset or pauser, increased in neurons whose firing was changed to adapting, or remained unchanged in neurons whose firing became irregular. The first spike latency was shortened in all the rebound cells. The results suggest that intrinsic membrane properties can play an important role in integration of excitatory and inhibitory inputs and thereby in determination of the output of ICD neurons.
This paper integrates archaeology, anthropology and functional brain imaging in an examination of the cognition of words and objects. Based on a review of recent brain imaging experiments, it is argued that in cognition and action, material symbols may be the link between internal representations and objects and words in the world. This principle is applied to the sapient paradox, the slow development of material innovation at the advent of the anatomically modern human. This translates the paradox into a long-term build-up of extended and distributed cognition supported by development in the complexity of material symbols.
This article discusses four different scenarios to specify increasingly complex mechanisms that enable increasingly flexible social interactions. The key dimension on which these mechanisms differ is the extent to which organisms are able to process other organisms' intentions and to keep them apart from their own. Drawing on findings from ecological psychology, scenario 1 focuses on entrainment and simultaneous affordance in 'intentionally blind' individuals. Scenario 2 discusses how an interface between perception and action allows observers to simulate intentional action in others. Scenario 3 is concerned with shared perceptions, arising through joint attention and the ability to distinguish between self and other. Scenario 4 illustrates how people could form intentions to act together while simultaneously distinguishing between their own and the other's part of a joint action. The final part focuses on how combining the functionality of the four mechanisms can explain different forms of social interactions. It is proposed that basic interpersonal processes are put to service by more advanced functions that support the type of intentionality required to engage in joint action, cultural learning, and communication.
The present paper addresses the tensions between internalist and radical-interactionist approaches to cognitive neuroscience, and the conflicting conclusions these positions lead to as regards the issue of whether archaeological artefacts constitute 'results' or 'components' of cognition. Wild systems theory (WST) and the notion of wild agency are presented as a potential resolution. Specifically, WST conceptualizes organisms (i.e. wild agents) as open, multi-scale self-sustaining systems. It is thus able to address the causal properties of wild systems in a manner that is consistent with radical-interactionist concerns regarding multi-scale contingent interactions. Furthermore, by conceptualizing wild agents as self-sustaining embodiments of the persistent, multi-scale contexts that afforded their emergence and in which they sustain themselves, WST is able to address the semantic properties of wild agents in a way that acknowledges the internalist concerns regarding meaningful (i.e. semantic) internal states (i.e. causal content). In conclusion, WST agrees with radical interactionism and asserts that archaeological artefacts constitute components of cognition. In addition, given its ability to resolve tensions between the internalist and the radical interactionist approaches to cognition, WST is presented as potentially integrative for cognitive science in general.
The human genome, and hence the human brain at birth, may not have changed greatly over the past 60000 years. Yet many of the major behavioural changes that we associate with most human societies are very much more recent, some appearing with the sedentary revolution of some 10000 years ago. Among these are activities implying the emergence of powerful concepts of value and of the sacred. What then are the neuronal mechanisms that may underlie these consistent, significant (and emergent) patterns of behaviour?
There is room for considerable cooperation between archaeology and neuroscience, but in order for this to happen we need to think about the interactions among brain-body-world, in which each of these three terms acts as cause and effect, without attributing a causally determinant position to any one. Consequently, I develop the term social ontology to look at how human capabilities of mind and body are brought about through an interaction with the material world. I look also at the key notion of plasticity to think about not only the malleable nature of human brains, but also the artefactual world. Using an example from the British Iron Age (approx. 750 BC-AD 43), I consider how new materials would put novel demands on the bodies and brains of people making, using and appreciating objects, focusing on an especially beautiful sword. In conclusion, I outline some possible areas of enquiry in which neuroscientists and archaeologists might collaborate.
This paper presents the possible outline of a framework that will enable the incorporation of material culture into the study of the human self. To this end, I introduce the notions of extended self and tectonoetic awareness. Focusing on the complex interactions between brains, bodies and things and drawing a number of different and usually unconnected threads of evidence from archaeology, philosophy and neuroscience together, I present a view of selfhood as an extended and distributed phenomenon that is enacted across the skin barrier and which thus comprises both neural and extra-neural resources. Finally, I use the example of a gold Mycenaean signet ring to explore how a piece of inanimate matter can be seen (sometimes) as a constitutive and efficacious part of the human self-system.

Gamma-secretase is an unusual membrane-embedded protease, which cleaves the transmembrane domains (TMDs) of type I membrane proteins, including amyloid-beta precursor protein and Notch receptor. We have previously shown the existence of a hydrophilic pore formed by TMD6 and TMD7 of presenilin 1 (PS1), the catalytic subunit of gamma-secretase, within the membrane by the substituted cysteine accessibility method. Here we analyzed the structure of TMD8, TMD9, and the C terminus of PS1, which encompass the conserved PAL motif and the hydrophobic C-terminal tip, both being critical for the catalytic activity and the formation of the gamma-secretase complex. We found that the amino acid residues around the PAL motif and the extracellular/luminal portion of TMD9 are highly water accessible and located in proximity to the catalytic pore. Furthermore, the region starting from the luminal end of TMD9 toward the C terminus forms an amphipathic alpha-helix-like structure that extends along the interface between the membrane and the extracellular milieu. Competition analysis using gamma-secretase inhibitors revealed that the TMD9 is involved in the initial binding of substrates, as well as in the subsequent catalytic process as a subsite. Our results provide mechanistic insights into the role of TMD9 in the formation of the catalytic pore and the substrate entry, crucial to the unusual mode of intramembrane proteolysis by gamma-secretase.
To elucidate the pathogenic mechanisms in Huntington's disease (HD) elicited by expression of full-length human mutant huntingtin (fl-mhtt), a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC)-mediated transgenic mouse model (BACHD) was developed expressing fl-mhtt with 97 glutamine repeats under the control of endogenous htt regulatory machinery on the BAC. BACHD mice exhibit progressive motor deficits, neuronal synaptic dysfunction, and late-onset selective neuropathology, which includes significant cortical and striatal atrophy and striatal dark neuron degeneration. Power analyses reveal the robustness of the behavioral and neuropathological phenotypes, suggesting BACHD as a suitable fl-mhtt mouse model for preclinical studies. Additional analyses of BACHD mice provide novel insights into how mhtt may elicit neuropathogenesis. First, unlike previous fl-mhtt mouse models, BACHD mice reveal that the slowly progressive and selective pathogenic process in HD mouse brains can occur without early and diffuse nuclear accumulation of aggregated mhtt (i.e., as detected by immunostaining with the EM48 antibody). Instead, a relatively steady-state level of predominantly full-length mhtt and a small amount of mhtt N-terminal fragments are sufficient to elicit the disease process. Second, the polyglutamine repeat within fl-mhtt in BACHD mice is encoded by a mixed CAA-CAG repeat, which is stable in both the germline and somatic tissues including the cortex and striatum at the onset of neuropathology. Therefore, our results suggest that somatic repeat instability does not play a necessary role in selective neuropathogenesis in BACHD mice. In summary, the BACHD model constitutes a novel and robust in vivo paradigm for the investigation of HD pathogenesis and treatment.
High-frequency stimulation (HFS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is a well-established therapy for patients with severe Parkinson's disease (PD), but its mechanism of action is unclear. Exaggerated oscillatory synchronization in the beta (13-30 Hz) frequency band has been associated with bradykinesia in patients with PD. Accordingly, we tested the hypothesis that the clinical benefit exerted by STN HFS is accompanied by suppression of local beta activity. To this end, we explored the after effects of STN HFS on the oscillatory local field potential (LFP) activity recorded from the STN immediately after the cessation of HFS in 11 PD patients. Only patients that demonstrated a temporary persistence of clinical benefit after cessation of HFS were analyzed. STN HFS led to a significant reduction in STN LFP beta activity for 12 s after the end of stimulation and a decrease in motor cortical-STN coherence in the beta band over the same time period. The reduction in LFP beta activity correlated with the movement amplitude during a simple motor task, so that a smaller amount of beta activity was associated with better task performance. These features were absent when power in the 5-12 Hz frequency band was considered. Our findings suggest that HFS may act by modulating pathological patterns of synchronized oscillations, specifically by reduction of pathological beta activity in PD.
Oligodendrogliopathy, microglial infiltration, and lack of remyelination are detected in the brains of patients with multiple sclerosis and are accompanied by high levels of the transcription factor p53. In this study, we used the cuprizone model of demyelination, characterized by oligodendrogliopathy and microglial infiltration, to define the effect of p53 inhibition. Myelin preservation, decreased microglial recruitment, and gene expression were observed in mice lacking p53 or receiving systemic administration of the p53 inhibitor pifithrin-alpha, compared with untreated controls. Decreased levels of lypopolysaccharide-induced gene expression were also observed in vitro, in p53(-/-) primary microglial cultures or in pifithrin-alpha-treated microglial BV2 cells. An additional beneficial effect of lack or inhibition of p53 was observed in Sox2+ multipotential progenitors of the subventricular zone that responded with increased proliferation and oligodendrogliogenesis. Based on these results, we propose transient inhibition of p53 as a potential therapeutic target for demyelinating conditions primarily characterized by oligodendrogliopathy.
High-frequency field ripples occur in the rodent hippocampal formation and are assumed to depend on interneuron type-specific firing patterns, structuring the activity of pyramidal cells. Ripples with similar characteristics are also present in humans, yet their underlying cellular correlates are still unknown. By in vivo recording interneurons and pyramidal cells in the human hippocampal formation, we find that cell type-specific firing patterns and phase-locking on a millisecond timescale can be distinguished during ripples. In particular, pyramidal cells fired preferentially at the highest amplitude of the ripple, but interneurons began to discharge earlier than pyramidal cells. Furthermore, a large fraction of cells were phase-locked to the ripple cycle, but the preferred phase of discharge of interneurons followed the maximum discharge probability of pyramidal neurons. These relationships between human ripples and unit activity are qualitatively similar to that observed in vivo in the rodents, suggesting that their underlying mechanisms are similar.

Glioma and glioblastoma multiforme constitute rapidly proliferating glial cell tumors whose pathogenic mechanisms are not well understood. This study examined proinflammatory and neurodegenerative gene expression in five American Tissue Culture Collection glioma and glioblastoma multiforme tumor cell lines and in 14 glioma and glioblastoma samples obtained from human brain biopsy. Expression of the low-abundance cyclooxygenase-1 and the high-abundance cytoskeletal element beta-actin were found not to significantly change in any cells or tissues studied and were used as internal controls. In contrast, proinflammatory cyclooxygenase-2, cytosolic phospholipase A2, IL-1beta, and beta-amyloid precursor protein expression levels were found to be significantly upregulated. These studies suggest that glioma and glioblastoma exhibit robust upregulation of proinflammatory and neurodegenerative genetic markers that may contribute to the pathobiology, phenotype, and proliferation of glial cell growth.
To determine the basic word order in Japanese, oxyhemoglobin concentration changes in the frontal region of 32 healthy men were measured by near-infrared spectroscopy. Our experiment used four types of sentences: (i) subject-object-verb (SOV), (ii) object-subject-verb (OSV), (iii) subject-naze (why)-object-verb (SwhyOV), and (iv) naze (why)-subject-object-verb (whySOV). The results have shown that although oxyhemoglobin changes in the OSV sentences were significantly larger than those in the SOV sentences in the left frontal lobe, such effects were not observed between SwhyOV sentences and whySOV sentences. These results are consistent with the view that both SwhyOV and whySOV are the basic, which suggests that neurolinguistic evidence has the potential to provide an important basis for determining the basic word order in a free word-order language.

Cytochrome P450 (P450) is a super-family of drug metabolizing enzymes. P450 enzymes have dual function; they can metabolize drugs to pharmacologically inactive metabolites facilitating their excretion or biotransform them to pharmacologically active metabolites which may have longer half-life than the parent drug. The variable pharmacological response to psychoactive drugs typically seen in population groups is often not accountable by considering dissimilarities in hepatic metabolism. Metabolism in brain specific nuclei may play a role in pharmacological modulation of drugs acting on the CNS and help explain some of the diverse response to these drugs seen in patient population. P450 enzymes are also present in brain where drug metabolism can take place and modify therapeutic action of drugs at the site of action. We have earlier demonstrated an intrinsic difference in the biotransformation of alprazolam (ALP) in brain and liver, relatively more alpha-hydroxy alprazolam (alpha-OHALP) is formed in brain as compared to liver. In the present study we show that recombinant CYP3A43 metabolizes ALP to both alpha-OHALP and 4-hydroxy alprazolam (4-OHALP) while CYP3A4 metabolizes ALP predominantly to its inactive metabolite, 4-OHALP. The expression of CYP3A43 mRNA in human brain samples correlates with formation of relatively higher levels of alpha-OH ALP indicating that individuals who express higher levels of CYP3A43 in the brain would generate larger amounts of alpha-OHALP. Further, the expression of CYP3A43 was relatively higher in brain as compared to liver across different ethnic populations. Since CYP3A enzymes play a prominent role in the metabolism of drugs, the higher expression of CYP3A43 would generate metabolite profile of drugs differentially in human brain and thus impact the pharmacodynamics of psychoactive drugs at the site of action.
The level of dietary energy intake influences metabolism, reproductive function, the development of age-related diseases, and even cognitive behavior. Because males and females typically play different roles in the acquisition and allocation of energy resources, we reasoned that dietary energy intake might differentially affect the brains of males and females at the molecular level. To test this hypothesis, we performed a gene array analysis of the hippocampus in male and female rats that had been maintained for 6 months on either ad libitum (control), 20% caloric restriction (CR), 40% CR, intermittent fasting (IF) or high fat/high glucose (HFG) diets. These diets resulted in expected changes in body weight, and circulating levels of glucose, insulin and leptin. However, the CR diets significantly increased the size of the hippocampus of females, but not males. Multiple genes were regulated coherently in response to energy restriction diets in females, but not in males. Functional physiological pathway analyses showed that the 20% CR diet down-regulated genes involved in glycolysis and mitochondrial ATP production in males, whereas these metabolic pathways were up-regulated in females. The 40% CR diet up-regulated genes involved in glycolysis, protein deacetylation, PGC-1alpha and mTor pathways in both sexes. IF down-regulated many genes in males including those involved in protein degradation and apoptosis, but up-regulated many genes in females including those involved in cellular energy metabolism, cell cycle regulation and protein deacetylation. Genes involved in energy metabolism, oxidative stress responses and cell death were affected by the HFG diet in both males and females. The gender-specific molecular genetic responses of hippocampal cells to variations in dietary energy intake identified in this study may mediate differential behavioral responses of males and females to differences in energy availability.

In tennis, as in many disciplines of sport, fine spatio-temporal resolution is required to reach optimal performance. While many studies on tennis have focused on anticipatory skills or decision making, fewer have investigated the underlying visual perception abilities. In this study, we used a battery of seven visual tests that allowed us to assess which kind of visual information processing is performed better by tennis players than other athletes (triathletes) and non-athletes. We found that certain time-related skills, such as speed discrimination, are superior in tennis players compared to non-athletes and triathletes. Such tasks might be used to improve tennis performance in the future.
Triple reuptake inhibitors, which block the serotonin transporter (SERT), norepinephrine transporter (NET) and dopamine transporter (DAT) in the central nervous system have been described as therapeutic alternatives for classical selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, with advantages due to their multiple mechanisms of action. JNJ-7925476 (trans-6-(4-ethynylphenyl)-1,2,3,5,6,10b-hexahydropyrrolo[2,1-a]isoquinoline) is a selective and potent inhibitor of the SERT, NET, and DAT (K(i)=0.9, 17 and 5.2 nM, respectively). Following subcutaneous dosing in rat, JNJ-7925476 was rapidly absorbed into the plasma, and drug concentrations in the brain tracked with those in the plasma but were 7-fold higher. The ED(50) values for JNJ-7925476 occupancy of the SERT, NET, and DAT in rat brain were 0.18, 0.09 and 2.4 mg/kg, respectively. JNJ-7925476 (0.1-10 mg/kg, s.c.) rapidly induced a robust, dose-dependent increase in extracellular serotonin, dopamine, and norepinephrine levels in rat cerebral cortex. The compound also showed potent antidepressant-like activity in the mouse tail suspension test (ED(50)=0.3 mg/kg, i.p.). These results demonstrate that JNJ-7925476 is a triple reuptake inhibitor with in-vivo efficacy in biochemical and behavioral models of depression.
The supraspinal regulation of genital reflexes is poorly understood. The brainstem nucleus paragigantocellularis (nPGi) of rats is a well-established source of tonic inhibition of genital reflexes. However, the organization, gonadal steroid receptor expression, and activity of nPGi afferents during sex have not been fully characterized in male and female rats. To delineate the anatomical and physiological organization of nPGi afferents, the retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold (FG) was injected into the nPGi of sexually experienced male and female rats. Animals engaged in sexual behavior 1 hour before sacrifice. Cells containing FG, estrogen receptor-alpha (ER(alpha)), androgen receptor (AR), and the immediate-early gene product Fos were identified immunocytochemically. Retrograde labeling from the nPGi was prominent in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, paraventricular nucleus (PVN), posterior hypothalamus, precommissural nucleus, deep mesencephalic nucleus, and periaqueductal gray (PAG) of both sexes. Sex differences were observed in the caudal medial preoptic area (MPO), with significantly more FG+ cells observed in males, and in the PAG and inferior colliculus, where significantly more FG+ cells were observed in females. The majority of regions that contained FG+ cells also contained ER(alpha) or AR, indicating sensitivity to gonadal steroids. The proportions of FG+ cells that co-localized with sex-induced Fos was high in the PVN of both sexes and high in the MPO of males but low in the PAG of both sexes despite the large number of PAG-nPGi output neurons and Fos+ cells in both sexes. The characterization of these afferents will lead to a further understanding of the neural regulation of genital reflexes.
Classical conditioning paradigms, such as trace conditioning, in which a silent period elapses between the offset of the conditioned stimulus (CS) and the delivery of the unconditioned stimulus (US), and delay conditioning, in which the CS and US coterminate, are widely used to study the neural substrates of associative learning. However, there are significant gaps in our knowledge of the neural systems underlying conditioning in humans. For example, evidence from animal and human patient research suggests that the hippocampus plays a critical role during trace eyeblink conditioning, but there is no evidence to date in humans that the hippocampus is active during trace eyeblink conditioning or is differentially responsive to delay and trace paradigms. The present work provides a direct comparison of the neural correlates of human delay and trace eyeblink conditioning by using functional MRI. Behavioral results showed that humans can learn both delay and trace conditioning in parallel. Comparable delay and trace activation was measured in the cerebellum, whereas greater hippocampal activity was detected during trace compared with delay conditioning. These findings further support the position that the cerebellum is involved in both delay and trace eyeblink conditioning whereas the hippocampus is critical for trace eyeblink conditioning. These results also suggest that the neural circuitry supporting delay and trace eyeblink classical conditioning in humans and laboratory animals may be functionally similar.
Neurons in the developing CNS tend to send out long axon collaterals to multiple target areas. For these neurons to attain specific connections, some of their axon collaterals are subsequently pruned-a process called stereotyped axon pruning. One of the most striking examples of stereotyped pruning in the CNS is the pruning of corticospinal tract (CST) axons. The long CST collaterals from layer V neurons of the visual and motor cortices are differentially pruned during development. Here we demonstrate that select plexins and neuropilins, which serve as coreceptors for semaphorins, are expressed in visual cortical neurons at the time when CST axon collaterals are stereotypically pruned. By analyzing mutant mice, we find that the pruning of visual, but not motor, CST axon collaterals depends on plexin-A3, plexin-A4, and neuropilin-2. Expression pattern study suggests that Sema3F is a candidate local cue for the pruning of visual CST axons. Using electron microscopic analysis, we also show that visual CST axon collaterals form synaptic contacts in the spinal cord before pruning and that the unpruned collaterals in adult mutant mice are unmyelinated and maintain their synaptic contacts. Our results indicate that the stereotyped pruning of the visual and motor CST axon collaterals is differentially regulated and that this specificity arises from the differential expression of plexin receptors in the cortex.
The modifiability of neuronal response plasticity is called &quot;metaplasticity.&quot; In suppressing synaptic inhibition and facilitating induction of long-term excitatory synaptic plasticity, endocannabinoids (eCBs) act as agents of metaplasticity. We now report the discovery of a calcium-dependent mechanism that regulates eCB mobilization by metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) activation. The switch-like mechanism primes cells to release eCBs and requires a transient rise in intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) but not concurrent activation of mGluRs. Conversely, short-term, [Ca2+]i-dependent eCB release can be persistently enhanced by mGluR activation. Hence, eCBs are also objects of metaplasticity, subject to higher levels of physiological control.
These animations show the activation and actions of neuronal calpains under physiological and pathophysiological conditions. They emphasize how physiological events involved in excitatory neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity-such as glutamate release, calcium influx, and activation of postsynaptic calpains-can become destructive under pathological conditions. These animations would be useful in a neurobiology or neuroscience course, where they could be used to illustrate proteolytic mechanisms underling activity-dependent synaptic plasticity, and how excessive activation of these signaling mechanisms can lead to excitotoxic neuronal death.
Growing evidence suggests substantial crosstalk between endogenous opioid and cannabinoid systems in the regulation of appetite. Not only is cannabinoid-induced hyperphagia abolished by opioid receptor antagonists (and vice versa), but several laboratories have reported supra-additive anorectic responses following co-administration of opioid and CB1 receptor antagonists. In the present study, videoanalysis has been used to characterise the acute effects of sub-anorectic doses of rimonabant (0.25, 0.75 mg/kg) and naloxone (0.1 mg/kg), alone and in combination, on mash intake, ingestive and non-ingestive behaviour, and post-treatment weight gain in male rats. The results confirmed that, when administered alone, none of these treatments significantly altered mash consumption, various measures of feeding behaviour, or weight gain. Although most non-ingestive behaviours were also unaffected, 0.75 mg/kg rimonabant induced compulsive scratching and grooming. However, when naloxone was given in combination with either dose of rimonabant, both food intake and time spent feeding were significantly decreased while the behavioural satiety sequence (BSS) was accelerated. On further analysis, the co-treatment reductions in food intake and feeding behaviour were found to be of an additive rather than supra-additive nature. Intriguingly, the co-administration of naloxone also virtually abolished the compulsive scratching response to the higher dose of rimonabant. Findings are discussed in relation to current views on the molecular bases of opioid-cannabinoid system interactions and the unexpected 'dual' advantage (reduction in appetite plus attenuation of side-effect) of low-dose combinations of opioid and cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonists.
Neurobiological models of drug abuse propose that drug use is initiated and maintained by rewarding feedback mechanisms. However, the most commonly used drugs are plant neurotoxins that evolved to punish, not reward, consumption by animal herbivores. Reward models therefore implicitly assume an evolutionary mismatch between recent drug-profligate environments and a relatively drug-free past in which a reward centre, incidentally vulnerable to neurotoxins, could evolve. By contrast, emerging insights from plant evolutionary ecology and the genetics of hepatic enzymes, particularly cytochrome P450, indicate that animal and hominid taxa have been exposed to plant toxins throughout their evolution. Specifically, evidence of conserved function, stabilizing selection, and population-specific selection of human cytochrome P450 genes indicate recent evolutionary exposure to plant toxins, including those that affect animal nervous systems. Thus, the human propensity to seek out and consume plant neurotoxins is a paradox with far-reaching implications for current drug-reward theory. We sketch some potential resolutions of the paradox, including the possibility that humans may have evolved to counter-exploit plant neurotoxins. Resolving the paradox of drug reward will require a synthesis of ecological and neurobiological perspectives of drug seeking and use.
Changes in the number, size, and shape of dendritic spines are associated with synaptic plasticity, which underlies cognitive functions such as learning and memory. This plasticity is attributed to reorganization of actin, but the molecular signals that regulate this process are poorly understood. In this study, we show neural Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (N-WASP) regulates the formation of dendritic spines and synapses in hippocampal neurons. N-WASP localized to spines and active, functional synapses as shown by loading with FM4-64 dye. Knock down of endogenous N-WASP expression by RNA interference or inhibition of its activity by treatment with a specific inhibitor, wiskostatin, caused a significant decrease in the number of spines and excitatory synapses. Deletion of the C-terminal VCA region of N-WASP, which binds and activates the actin-related protein 2/3 (Arp2/3) complex, dramatically decreased the number of spines and synapses, suggesting activation of the Arp2/3 complex is critical for spine and synapse formation. Consistent with this, Arp3, like N-WASP, was enriched in spines and excitatory synapses and knock down of Arp3 expression impaired spine and synapse formation. A similar defect in spine and synapse formation was observed when expression of an N-WASP activator, Cdc42, was knocked down. Thus, activation of N-WASP and, subsequently, the Arp2/3 complex appears to be an important molecular signal for regulating spines and synapses. Arp2/3-mediated branching of actin could be a mechanism by which dendritic spine heads enlarge and subsequently mature. Collectively, our results point to a critical role for N-WASP and the Arp2/3 complex in spine and synapse formation.
Inherited neurodegenerative diseases, such as Huntington disease and subset of Alzheimer disease, Parkinson disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, are caused by the mutant genes that have gained undefined properties that harm cells in the nervous system, causing neurodegeneration and clinical phenotypes. Lowering the mutant gene expression is predicted to slow the disease progression and produce clinical benefit. Administration of small interfering RNA (siRNA) can silence specific genes. However, long term delivery of siRNA to silence the mutant genes, a requirement for treatment of these chronic central nervous system (CNS) diseases, remains a critical unsolved issue. Here we designed and tested a chemically stabilized siRNA against human Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) in a mouse model for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. We show that the modified siRNA has enhanced stability and retains siRNA activity. Administration of this siRNA at the disease onset by long term infusion into the CNS resulted in widespread distribution of this siRNA, knocked down the mutant SOD1 expression, slowed the disease progression, and extended the survival. These results bring RNA interference therapy one step closer to its clinical application for treatment of chronic, devastating, and fatal CNS disorders.
Alterations in circadian rhythm generation may be related to the development of mood disorders. Although it has been reported that the most popular antidepressant, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) affect circadian phase, no data are available that describe the effects of SSRIs on other circadian parameters (period, amplitude and damping rate) in dissociated cells. In the present study we used real-time monitoring of bioluminescence in rat-1 fibroblasts expressing the Period1-luciferase transgene, and that in Period1-luciferase transgenic mouse suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) explants, in order to characterize the effects of SSRI on circadian oscillator function in vitro. We found that mRNA of the serotonin transporter (SERT), a target of SSRIs, was expressed in rat-1 fibroblasts. Sertraline, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, citalopram and paroxetine all significantly shortened the period of Period1-bioluminescence rhythms in rat-1 fibroblasts. The amplitude was reduced by sertraline, and the damping rate was decreased by sertraline, fluoxetine, flvoxamine and paroxetine. The effect of sertraline was dose-dependent, and it also shortened the circadian period in the SCN. SERT is associated with lipid microdomains, which are required for efficient SERT activity. Indeed, cholesterol chelating reagent methyl-beta-cyclodextrin significantly reduced the period and the amplitude in rat-1 fibroblasts. Furthermore, lipid binding reagent xylazine significantly reduced the period. In summary our data present evidence that SSRIs affect circadian rhythmicity. The action of SSRIs is likely mediated by suppression of SERT activity. A better understanding of the relationship between mental illness and biological timing may yield new insight into disease etiology and avenues for treatment.
Computational modeling of neuronal morphology is a powerful tool for understanding developmental processes and structure-function relationships. We present a multifaceted approach based on stochastic sampling of morphological measures from digital reconstructions of real cells. We examined how dendritic elongation, branching, and taper are controlled by three morphometric determinants: Branch Order, Radius, and Path Distance from the soma. Virtual dendrites were simulated starting from 3,715 neuronal trees reconstructed in 16 different laboratories, including morphological classes as diverse as spinal motoneurons and dentate granule cells. Several emergent morphometrics were used to compare real and virtual trees. Relating model parameters to Branch Order best constrained the number of terminations for most morphological classes, except pyramidal cell apical trees, which were better described by a dependence on Path Distance. In contrast, bifurcation asymmetry was best constrained by Radius for apical, but Path Distance for basal trees. All determinants showed similar performance in capturing total surface area, while surface area asymmetry was best determined by Path Distance. Grouping by other characteristics, such as size, asymmetry, arborizations, or animal species, showed smaller differences than observed between apical and basal, pointing to the biological importance of this separation. Hybrid models using combinations of the determinants confirmed these trends and allowed a detailed characterization of morphological relations. The differential findings between morphological groups suggest different underlying developmental mechanisms. By comparing the effects of several morphometric determinants on the simulation of different neuronal classes, this approach sheds light on possible growth mechanism variations responsible for the observed neuronal diversity.
Both impulsivity and novelty-seeking have been suggested to be behavioral markers of the propensity to take addictive drugs. However, their relevance for the vulnerability to compulsively seek and take drugs, which is a hallmark feature of addiction, is unknown. We report here that, whereas high reactivity to novelty predicts the propensity to initiate cocaine self-administration, high impulsivity predicts the development of addiction-like behavior in rats, including persistent or compulsive drug-taking in the face of aversive outcomes. This study shows experimental evidence that a shift from impulsivity to compulsivity occurs during the development of addictive behavior, which provides insights into the genesis and neural mechanisms of drug addiction.
Mental retardation (MR) is a common trait, affecting approximately 2-3% of individuals in the general population. Although the etiology of MR remains largely unknown, genetics apparently play a major role. Recent molecular studies of X-linked form of MR in European and North American countries have revealed 24 nonsyndromic X-linked mental retardation (NS-XLMR) genes including FTSJ1, a human homolog of the Escherichia coli 2'-O-rRNA methyltransferase FtsJ/RrmJ gene. Here we identified a novel FTSJ1 mutation in an XLMR family through mutation screening of a cohort of 73 unrelated Japanese male probands with MR. Sequence analysis of the proband and his mother revealed a G &gt; A substitution at the consensus for the donor splicing site in intron 8 (c.571 + 1G &gt; A) of FTSJ1. This mutation prevented the removal intron 8 from the pre-mRNA, thereby leading to a frameshift in the mutant FTSJ1 mRNA and resulting in a premature termination in exon 9. Quantitative RT-PCR showed a significant reduction of mutant FTSJ1 mRNA in the patient's lymphoblast cells, which was restored by treatment with cycloheximide, a potent inhibitor of nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD). Therefore, mRNAs carrying this mutation are likely subject to degradation by NMD. Together, loss-of-function of FTSJ1 may be a mechanism for the cognitive dysfunction observed in this family. Our study also suggested that the FTSJ1 mutation probably accounts for XLMR in Japanese at a similar frequency (1-2%) as in Europeans.

The aim of this study was to elucidate physiological processes that are involved in the homeostatic regulation of REM sleep. Adult rats were chronically instrumented with sleep-wake recording electrodes. Following post-surgical recovery, rats were habituated extensively for freely moving polygraphic recording conditions. On the first experimental recording day (baseline day, BLD), polygraphic signs of undisturbed sleep-wake activities were recorded for 4 h (between 11:00 AM and 3:00 PM). During the second experimental recording day (REM sleep deprivation day, RDD), rats were selectively deprived of REM sleep for the first 2 h and then allowed to have normal sleep-wake for the following 2 h. The results demonstrated that during the first 2 h, compared to BLD, RDD recordings exhibited 87.80% less time in REM sleep and 16% more time in non-REM (NREM) sleep. The total percentages of wakefulness remained comparable between the BLD and RDD. During the RDD, the mean number of REM sleep episodes was much higher than in the BLD, indicating increased REM sleep drive. Electroencephalographic (EEG) power spectral analysis revealed that selective REM sleep deprivation increased delta power but decreased theta power during the residual REM sleep. During the last 2 h, after REM sleep deprivation, rats spent 51% more time in REM sleep compared to the BLD. Also during this period, the number of REM sleep episodes with the shortest (5-30 s) and longest (&gt;120 s) duration increased during the RDD. These findings suggest that the REM sleep homeostatic process involves increased delta- and decreased theta-frequency wave activities in the cortical EEG.
Replacement of myelin-forming cells is an attractive but unproven therapy for inherited and acquired myelin diseases. In this issue of Cell Stem Cell, Windrem et al. (2008) describe the first progenitor cell transplantation paradigm that rescues the neurological phenotypes and increases life spans of mice with inherited myelin disease.

Lysosomes are the stomachs of the cell-terminal organelles on the endocytic pathway where internalized macromolecules are degraded. Containing a wide range of hydrolytic enzymes, lysosomes depend on maintaining acidic luminal pH values for efficient function. Although acidification is mediated by a V-type proton ATPase, a parallel anion pathway is essential to allow bulk proton transport. The molecular identity of this anion transporter remains unknown. Recent results of knockout experiments raise the possibility that ClC-7, a member of the CLC family of anion channels and transporters, is a contributor to this pathway in an osteoclast lysosome-like compartment, with loss of ClC-7 function causing osteopetrosis. Several mammalian members of the CLC family have been characterized in detail; some (including ClC-0, ClC-1 and ClC-2) function as Cl--conducting ion channels, whereas others act as Cl-/H+antiporters (ClC-4 and ClC-5). However, previous attempts at heterologous expression of ClC-7 have failed to yield evidence of functional protein, so it is unclear whether ClC-7 has an important function in lysosomal biology, and also whether this protein functions as a Cl- channel, a Cl-/H+ antiporter, or as something else entirely. Here we directly demonstrate an anion transport pathway in lysosomes that has the defining characteristics of a CLC Cl-/H+ antiporter and show that this transporter is the predominant route for Cl- through the lysosomal membrane. Furthermore, knockdown of ClC-7 expression by short interfering RNA can essentially ablate this lysosomal Cl-/H+ antiport activity and can strongly diminish the ability of lysosomes to acidify in vivo, demonstrating that ClC-7 is a Cl-/H+ antiporter, that it constitutes the major Cl- permeability of lysosomes, and that it is important in lysosomal acidification.
JC virus (JCV) is a human polyomavirus that can emerge from a latent state to cause the cytolytic destruction of oligodendrocytes in the brain resulting in the fatal demyelinating disease, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). Previous studies described a cis-acting transcriptional regulatory element in the JCV non-coding control region (NCCR) that is involved in the response of JCV to cytokines. This consists of a 23 base pair GGA/C rich sequence (GRS) near the replication origin (5112 to +4) that contains potential binding sites for Sp1 and Egr-1. Gel shift analysis showed that Egr-1, but not Sp1, bound to GRS. Evidence is presented that the GRS gel shift seen on cellular stimulation is due to Egr-1. Thus, TPA-induced GRS gel shift could be blocked by antibody to Egr-1. Further, the TPA-induced GRS DNA/protein complex was isolated and found to contain Egr-1 by Western blot. No other Egr-1 sites were found in the JCV NCCR. Functionally, Egr-1 was found to stimulate transcription of JCV late promoter but not early promoter reporter constructs. Mutation of the Egr-1 site abrogated Egr-1 binding and virus with the mutated Egr-1 site showed markedly reduced VP1 expression and DNA replication. Infection of primary astrocytes by wild-type JCV induced Egr-1 nuclear expression that was maximal at 5-10 days post-infection. Finally, upregulation of Egr-1 was detected in PML by immunohistochemistry. These data suggest that Egr-1 induction may be important in the life cycle of JCV and PML pathogenesis.
Previous studies have demonstrated that the JC virus (JCV) late regulatory protein agnoprotein is phosphorylated by the serine/threonine-specific protein kinase-C (PKC) and mutants of this protein at the PKC phosphorylation sites exhibit defects in the viral replication cycle. We have now investigated whether agnoprotein phosphorylation is regulated by PP2A, a serine/threonine-specific protein phosphatase and whether JCV small t antigen (Sm t-Ag) is involved in this regulation. Protein-protein interaction studies demonstrated that PP2A associates with agnoprotein and dephosphorylates it at PKC-specific sites. Sm t-Ag was also found to interact with PP2A and this interaction inhibited the dephosphorylation of agnoprotein by PP2A. The interaction domains of Sm t-Ag and agnoprotein with PP2A were mapped, as were the interaction domains of Sm t-Ag with agnoprotein. The middle portion of Sm t-Ag (aa 82-124) was found to be critical for the interaction with both agnoprotein and PP2A and the N-terminal region of agnoprotein for interaction with Sm t-Ag. To further understand the role of Sm t-Ag in JCV regulation, a stop codon was introduced at Ser90 immediately after splice donor site of the JCV early gene and the functional consequences of this mutation were investigated. The ability of this mutant virus to replicate was substantially reduced compared to WT. Next, the functional significance of PP2A in JCV replication was examined by siRNA targeting. Downregulation of PP2A caused a significant reduction in the level of JCV replication. Moreover, the impact of Sm t-Ag on agnoprotein phosphorylation was investigated by creating a double mutant of JCV, where Sm t-Ag stop codon mutant was combined with an agnoprotein triple phosphorylation mutant (Ser7, Ser11 and Thr21 to Ala). Results showed that double mutant behaves much like the triple phosphorylation mutant of agnoprotein during viral replication cycle, which suggests that agnoprotein might be an important target of Sm t-Ag with respect to the regulation of its phosphorylation. Collectively, these results suggest that there is an interplay between agnoprotein, Sm t-Ag and PP2A with respect to the regulation of JCV life cycle and this could be important for the progression of the JCV-induced disease, PML.
The rat prelimbic prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens core are critical for initiating cocaine seeking. In contrast, the neural circuitry responsible for inhibiting cocaine seeking during extinction is unknown. The present findings using inhibition of selected brain nuclei with GABA agonists show that the suppression of cocaine seeking produced by previous extinction training required activity in the rat infralimbic cortex. Conversely, the reinstatement of drug seeking by a cocaine injection in extinguished animals was suppressed by increasing neuronal activity in infralimbic cortex with the glutamate agonist AMPA. The cocaine seeking induced by inactivating infralimbic cortex resembled other forms of reinstated drug seeking by depending on activity in prelimbic cortex and the basolateral amygdala. A primary efferent projection from the infralimbic cortex is to the nucleus accumbens shell. Akin to infralimbic cortex, inhibition of the accumbens shell induced cocaine seeking in extinguished rats. However, bilateral inhibition of the shell also elicited increased locomotor activity. Nonetheless, unilateral inhibition of the accumbens shell did not increase motor activity, and simultaneous unilateral inactivation of the infralimbic cortex and shell induced cocaine seeking, suggesting that an interaction between these two structures is necessary for extinction training to inhibit cocaine seeking. The infralimbic cortex and accumbens shell appear to be recruited by extinction learning because inactivation of these structures before extinction training did not alter cocaine seeking. Together, these findings suggest that a neuronal network involving the infralimbic cortex and accumbens shell is recruited by extinction training to suppress cocaine seeking.
Maternal licking and grooming (LG) in infancy influences stress responsiveness and cognitive performance in the offspring. We examined the effects of variation in the frequency of pup LG on morphological, electrophysiological, and behavioral aspects of hippocampal synaptic plasticity under basal and stress-like conditions. We found shorter dendritic branch length and lower spine density in CA1 cells from the adult offspring of low compared with high LG offspring. We also observed dramatic effects on long-term potentiation (LTP) depending on corticosterone treatment. Low LG offspring, in contrast to those of high LG mothers, displayed significantly impaired LTP under basal conditions but surprisingly a significantly enhanced LTP in response to high corticosterone in vitro. This enhanced plasticity under conditions that mimic those of a stressful event was apparent in vivo. Adult low LG offspring displayed enhanced memory relative to high LG offspring when tested in a hippocampal-dependent, contextual fear-conditioning paradigm. Hippocampal levels of glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptors were reduced in low compared with high LG offspring. Such effects, as well as the differences in dendritic morphology, likely contribute to LTP differences under resting conditions, as well as to the maternal effects on synaptic plasticity and behavior in response to elevated corticosterone levels. These results suggest that maternal effects may modulate optimal cognitive functioning in environments varying in demand in later life, with offspring of high and low LG mothers showing enhanced learning under contexts of low and high stress, respectively.
Analyses of the biologic effects of mutations in the BRI2 (ITM2b) and the amyloid beta precursor protein (APP) genes support the hypothesis that cerebral accumulation of amyloidogenic peptides in familial British and familial Danish dementias and Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with neurodegeneration. We have used somatic brain transgenic technology to express the BRI2 and BRI2-Abeta1-40 transgenes in APP mouse models. Expression of BRI2-Abeta1-40 mimics the suppressive effect previously observed using conventional transgenic methods, further validating the somatic brain transgenic methodology. Unexpectedly, we also find that expression of wild-type human BRI2 reduces cerebral Abeta deposition in an AD mouse model. Additional data indicate that the 23 aa peptide, Bri23, released from BRI2 by normal processing, is present in human CSF, inhibits Abeta aggregation in vitro and mediates its anti-amyloidogenic effect in vivo. These studies demonstrate that BRI2 is a novel mediator of Abeta deposition in vivo.
Complete understanding of the neural mechanisms by which stimulants such as methylphenidate ameliorate attention deficit hyperactivity disorder is lacking. Theories of catecholamine function predict that the neural effects of stimulant drugs will vary according to task requirements. We used event-related, pharmacological functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate the effects of 60 mg of methylphenidate, alone and in combination with 400 mg of sulpiride, on blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signal in a group of 20 healthy participants during probabilistic reversal learning, in a placebo-controlled design. In a whole-brain analysis, methylphenidate attenuated BOLD signal in the ventral striatum during response switching after negative feedback but modulated activity in the prefrontal cortex when subjects maintained their current response set. The results show that the precise neural site of modulation by methylphenidate depends on the nature of the cognitive subprocess recruited.
In rodent hippocampus, neuronal activity is organized by a 6-10 Hz theta oscillation. The spike timing of hippocampal pyramidal cells with respect to the theta rhythm correlates with an animal's position in space. This correlation has been suggested to indicate an explicit temporal code for position. Alternatively, it may be interpreted as a byproduct of theta-dependent dynamics of spatial information flow in hippocampus. Here we show that place cell activity on different phases of theta reflects positions shifted into the future or past along the animal's trajectory in a two-dimensional environment. The phases encoding future and past positions are consistent across recorded CA1 place cells, indicating a coherent representation at the network level. Consistent theta-dependent time offsets are not simply a consequence of phase-position correlation (phase precession), because they are no longer seen after data randomization that preserves the phase-position relationship. The scale of these time offsets, 100-300 ms, is similar to the latencies of hippocampal activity after sensory input and before motor output, suggesting that offset activity may maintain coherent brain activity in the face of information processing delays.
Posterior parietal cortex (PPC) has connections with motor and premotor cortex, thought to transfer information relevant for planning movements in space. We used twin-coil transcranial magnetic stimulation (tcTMS) methods to show that the functional interplay between human right PPC and ipsilateral motor cortex (M1) varies with current motor plans. tcTMS during the reaction time of a reach task revealed facilitatory influences of right PPC on right M1 only when planning a (contralateral) leftward rather than rightward reach, at two specific time intervals (50 and 125 ms) after an auditory cue. The earlier reach-direction-specific facilitatory influence from PPC on M1 occurred when subjects were blindfolded or when the targets were presented briefly, so that visual feedback corrections could not occur. PPC-M1 interplay was similar within the left hemisphere but was specific to (contralateral) rightward planned reaches, with peaks at 50 and 100 ms. Functional interplay between human parietal and motor cortex is enhanced during early stages of planning a reach in the contralateral direction.

Honeybees, Apis mellifera, readily learn to associate odours with sugar rewards and we show here that recall of the olfactory memory, as demonstrated by the bee extending its proboscis when presented with the trained odour, involves first the right and then the left antenna. At 1-2 hour after training using both antennae, recall is possible mainly when the bee uses its right antenna but by 6 hours after training a lateral shift has occurred and the memory can now be recalled mainly when the left antenna is in use. Long-term memory one day after training is also accessed mainly via the left antenna. This time-dependent shift from right to left antenna is also seen as side biases in responding to odour presented to the bee's left or right side. Hence, not only are the cellular events of memory formation similar in bees and vertebrate species but also the lateralized networks involved may be similar. These findings therefore seem to call for remarkable parallel evolution and suggest that the proper functioning of memory formation in a bilateral animal, either vertebrate or invertebrate, requires lateralization of processing.

Gene linkage and association studies have implicated the region of chromosome 10q containing the calcyon locus with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia susceptibility. In addition, levels of calcyon protein and transcripts are also significantly increased in postmortem tissue from schizophrenic brains. But whether altered calcyon expression might be part of the disease etiology or merely a patho-physiological side effect is not known. To begin to address this issue, we generated a transgenic mouse line (Cal(OE)) using the human calcyon cDNA in which calcyon expression is up-regulated in a number of forebrain structures including the hippocampus, prefrontal cortex (PFC), striatum, and amygdala. Compared to control littermates, the Cal(OE) mice display a range of abnormal behaviors including spontaneous hyperactivity, reduced anxiety, and/or impaired restraint (harm avoidance) that would indicate that calcyon up-regulation leads to deficits in control over behavioral output.


Neurons in the early stages of visual processing are often thought of as edge detectors for different orientations. Here we investigate the existence of detectors for specific combinations of edges-detectors for specific curvatures. Previous attempts to demonstrate such detectors through aftereffects have ultimately been explained by adaptation to local orientation rather than curvature per se. To control for local aftereffects, we adapted one patch of visual field to two adjacent gratings presented as an obtuse contour (compound patch), and another patch to the same component gratings presented alternately (component patch). In this way both patches are adapted equally to the local orientation components of the stimuli, but only the compound patch is adapted to the global contour. Thus any difference in adaptation between the patches must result from the presence of the contour as a global figure. We found that perceived contrast of probe stimuli was not differentially altered in the two patches. However, apparent curvature of the probes was consistently greater in the compound patch than in the component patch. This effect was considerably reduced by increasing the spatial separation of the component gratings. The results are consistent with curvature detectors involved in the perceptual grouping of edges.


A comprehensive, domain-wide comparative analysis of genomic imprinting between mammals that imprint and those that do not can provide valuable information about how and why imprinting evolved. The imprinting status, DNA methylation, and genomic landscape of the Dlk1-Dio3 cluster were determined in eutherian, metatherian, and prototherian mammals including tammar wallaby and platypus. Imprinting across the whole domain evolved after the divergence of eutherian from marsupial mammals and in eutherians is under strong purifying selection. The marsupial locus at 1.6 megabases, is double that of eutherians due to the accumulation of LINE repeats. Comparative sequence analysis of the domain in seven vertebrates determined evolutionary conserved regions common to particular sub-groups and to all vertebrates. The emergence of Dlk1-Dio3 imprinting in eutherians has occurred on the maternally inherited chromosome and is associated with region-specific resistance to expansion by repetitive elements and the local introduction of noncoding transcripts including microRNAs and C/D small nucleolar RNAs. A recent mammal-specific retrotransposition event led to the formation of a completely new gene only in the eutherian domain, which may have driven imprinting at the cluster.
Complexins (Cplxs) are key regulators of synaptic exocytosis, but whether they act as facilitators or inhibitors is currently being disputed controversially. We show that genetic deletion of all Cplxs expressed in the mouse brain causes a reduction in Ca(2+)-triggered and spontaneous neurotransmitter release at both excitatory and inhibitory synapses. Our results demonstrate that at mammalian central nervous system synapses, Cplxs facilitate neurotransmitter release and do not simply act as inhibitory clamps of the synaptic vesicle fusion machinery.


The mammalian cerebellum is composed of a highly reproducible array of transverse zones, each of which is subdivided into parasagittal stripes. By using a combination of Purkinje cell antigenic markers and afferent tracing, four transverse zones have been identified: the anterior zone (AZ: approximately lobules I-V), the central zone (CZ: approximately lobules VI-VII), the posterior zone (PZ: approximately lobules VIII-dorsal IX) and the nodular zone (NZ: approximately ventral lobule IX+lobule X). Neurofilament-associated antigen (NAA) is an epitope recognized by a monoclonal antibody, which is expressed strongly in association with neurofilaments. During perinatal cerebellar development, anti-NAA immunocytochemistry reveals novel features of cerebellar organization. In particular, the CZ is reproducibly subdivided into anterior and posterior components. Between embryonic day 17 and postnatal day 7 NAA immunoreactivity is expressed selectively by a parallel fiber bundle that is restricted to lobule VII, thereby distinguishing the CZ anterior (lobules VIa, b) from the CZ posterior (lobule VII). The novel restriction boundary at lobule VII/VIII, which is also reflected in the morphology of the external granular layer and aligns with a gap in the developing Purkinje cell layer, precedes the morphological appearance of the posterior superior fissure between lobules VIb and VII. In addition, afferent axons to the CZ terminate in an array of parasagittal stripes that is probably a specific climbing fiber projection. Thus, the transverse zone architecture of the mouse cerebellum is more complex than had previously been appreciated.
Although the posterior oral cavity and oropharynx play a major role in swallowing, their central representation is poorly understood. High-field functional magnetic resonance imaging of the brain was used to study the central processing of brief air-pulses, delivered to the peritonsillar region of the lateral oropharynx, in six healthy adults. Bilateral air-pulse stimulation was associated with the activation of a bilateral network including the primary somatosensory cortex and the thalamus, classic motor areas (primary motor cortex, supplementary motor area, cingulate motor areas), and polymodal areas (including the insula and frontal cortex). These results suggest that oropharyngeal stimulation can activate a bilaterally distributed cortical network that overlaps cortical regions previously implicated in oral and pharyngeal sensorimotor functions such as tongue movement, mastication, and swallowing. The present study also demonstrates the utility of air-pulse stimulation in investigating oropharyngeal sensorimotor processing in functional brain imaging experiments.
Prolyl oligopeptidase (POP) is a serine endopeptidase which hydrolyzes proline-containing peptides shorter than 30 amino acids. It has been suggested that POP is associated with cognitive functions, possibly via the cleavage of neuropeptides such as substance P (SP). Recently, several studies have also linked POP to the inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP(3)) signaling. However, the neuroanatomical interactions between these substances are not known. We used double-labeled immunofluorescence to determine the POP colocalization with SP, SP receptor (neurokinin-1 receptor, NK-1R) and IP(3) type 1 receptor (IP(3)R1) in the rat brain. Furthermore, since striatal and cortical GABAergic neurons are involved in SP neurotransmission, we studied the coexpression of POP, SP and GABA by triple-labeled immunofluorescence. POP was moderately present in IP(3)R1-containing cells in cortex; the colocalization was particularly high in the thalamus, hippocampal CA1 field and cerebellar Purkinje cells. Colocalization of POP with SP and NK1-receptor was infrequent throughout the brain, though some POP and SP coexpression was observed in cerebellar Purkinje cells. We also found that POP partially colocalized with SP-containing GABAergic neurons in striatum and cortex. Our findings support the view that POP is at least spatially associated with the IP(3)-signaling in the thalamus, hippocampus and cerebellar Purkinje cells. This might point to a role for POP in the regulation of long-term potentiation and/or depression. Moreover, the low degree of colocalization of POP, SP and its NK-1R suggests that a transport system is needed either for POP or SP to make hydrolysis possible and that POP may act both intra- and extracellularly.
Muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (M1-M5) regulate many key functions of the CNS and peripheral nervous system. In the present study, the role of M1 muscarinic receptors (M1R) in the psychomotor stimulant and sensitizing properties of methamphetamine (METH) is investigated using molecular, neurochemical, and behavioral approaches. Acute and repeated treatment with METH increased M1R mRNA expression in the frontal cortex and the CA2 region of the hippocampus. Repeated treatment with METH also increased M1R mRNA expression in the dentate gyrus. Dicyclomine, an M1R antagonist, did not affect the psychomotor effect of METH, but it attenuated METH-induced increases in the dopamine (DA) efflux in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). Dicyclomine enhanced the psychomotor effect of METH after repeated treatment with METH and 8.0 mg/kg of dicyclomine, and also augmented the increase in the NAc DA overflow evoked by repeated METH treatment. These results suggest that M1R plays a role in the METH-induced psychomotor stimulant effect by changing the release of DA in the NAc of mice.
Two groups of rats, one bearing bilateral excitotoxic lesions of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and one sham-lesioned group, were run in a successive negative contrast paradigm. Both groups had telemeters implanted to monitor core temperature and activity. After ad libitum baseline and food restriction to 85% body weights, rats received a sucrose solution once daily for 5 min and 30 s at 10:30 h. They received their preshift 32% sucrose solution for 14 days followed by a sucrose concentration reduction (downshift) to 4% sucrose for 12 days. Rats were then upshifted to 32% for six additional days before being downshifted to 4% for the next 6 days. There were no differences in intake of the 32% sucrose during the preshift. All rats showed profound suppression of intake upon the shift to 4% sucrose. On the first day of the unexpected 4% sucrose, lesioned rats showed an enhanced psychogenic fever compared with Shams, whereas on the second day of 4% sucrose they showed an impaired ability to blunt that fever compared with Shams. In addition, lesioned rats showed greater rates of recovery and asymptotic drinking of the subsequent 4% sucrose solution than Shams, indicating impairments in the encoding or retrieval of the shift. In addition, lesioned rats showed enhanced entrainment to the 32% sucrose meals, normal damping of anticipation, and enhanced spontaneous recovery of anticipatory thermal responses to the calorically impoverished 4% solutions. These failures to inhibit responding point to a failure in interference learning in rats bearing lesions of the mPFC.
The subplate plays an important role in forming neuronal connections during early cortical development. We characterized by the use of whole-cell and cell-attached patch-clamp recordings in coronal brain slices from newborn mice (postnatal day [P] 0-3) the functional properties of two major pathways onto subplate neurons (SPn), the thalamocortical and the intra-subplate synaptic input. The two afferent pathways were stimulated extracellularly with bipolar electrodes placed in the thalamus and the subplate, respectively. Synaptically evoked and pharmacologically isolated N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) -mediated responses with an onset latency of approximately 6 ms could be reliably recorded in P0-3 SPn. Whereas the intra-subplate input revealed a pronounced facilitation using paired pulse stimulation at 60-120 ms or repetitive activation at 10-40 Hz, the thalamocortical input was either stable or markedly suppressed under these conditions. Single cell reverse transcription PCR revealed the expression of the NR2A, B and D subunit in all investigated SPn. The intra-subplate and the thalamocortical synaptic input did not differ in their sensitivity to NVP-AAM077 or ifenprodil, indicating that both synaptic inputs have a similar NR2A/2B subunit composition. At P0, NMDAR-mediated synaptic inputs arising from the thalamus were significantly larger as compared with the intra-subplate input. This difference could no longer be detected in P2-3 SPn, indicating an input-specific developmental regulation during the first Ps. Our data indicate that the thalamocortical and intra-subplate synaptic input onto P0-3 SPn differs in functional, molecular and developmental properties. The intra-subplate synaptic input shows more mature functional properties and sustains high stimulation frequencies, thereby promoting the immature thalamocortical input to the developing neocortical circuit.
Respiratory neurons are synchronized on a long time scale to generate inspiratory and expiratory-phase activities that are critical for respiration. Long time scale synchrony within the respiratory network occurs on a time scale of more than hundreds of milliseconds to seconds. During inspiration, neurons are synchronized on a short time scale to produce synchronous oscillations, which shape the pattern of inspiratory motor output. This latter form of synchrony within the respiratory network spans a shorter time range of tens of milliseconds. In the neonatal mouse rhythmically active medullary slice preparation, we recorded bilateral inspiratory activity from hypoglossal (XII) rootlets to study where in the slice synchronous oscillations are generated. Based on previous work that proposed the origin of these oscillations, we tested the pre-Btzinger complex (PreBtC) and the XII motor nucleus. Unilateral excitation of the PreBtC, via local application of a perfusate containing high K(+), increased mean inspiratory burst frequency bilaterally (296+/-66%; n=10, P&lt;0.01), but had no effect on the relative power of oscillations. In contrast, unilateral excitation of the XII nucleus increased both mean peak integrated activity bilaterally (ipsilateral: 41+/-10%, P&lt;0.01; contralateral: 17+/-7%; P&lt;0.05, n=10) and oscillation power in the ipsilateral (50+/-17%, n=7, P&lt;0.05), but not in the contralateral rootlet. Cross-correlation analysis of control inspiratory activity recorded from the left and right XII rootlets produced cross-correlation histograms with significant peaks centered around a time lag of zero and showed no subsidiary harmonic peaks. Coherence analysis of left and right XII rootlet recordings demonstrated that oscillations are only weakly coherent. Together, the findings from local application experiments and cross-correlation and coherence analyses indicate that short time scale synchronous oscillations recorded in the slice are likely generated in or immediately upstream of the XII motor nucleus.
Akinesia (or absence of movement) is a prominent feature of Parkinson's disease. Akinetic symptoms, however, are also observed in depression and schizophrenia, which support the hypothesis that akinesia involves more than only motor behavior. A common feature of these disorders is the disruption of dopamine homeostasis in the CNS. Here we aimed at relating the respective involvement of the nigrostriatal and mesocortical dopaminergic pathways to akinesia. We investigated in the rat the relative effects of selective bilateral partial lesions of substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) or ventral tegmental area (VTA) which did not affect locomotion, on fine motor, motivational and cognitive behaviors. Motor impairments were measured by the evaluation of fine motor control in the stepping test and in the paw reaching test. Cognitive functions were assessed by various paradigms: spontaneous alternation in the Y maze and object exploration task. Motivational behavior was evaluated by the 100-pellets test. The results suggested that specific behavioral impairments are obtained following selective lesions of either SNc or VTA. SNc-lesioned rats exhibited deficits in fine motor functions as previously described in animal models of Parkinson's disease, whereas VTA-lesioned rats demonstrated traits of perseveration without significant motor impairments.
The prefrontal cortex is continuously required for working memory processing during wakefulness, but is particularly hypoactivated during sleep and in psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia. Ammon's horn CA1 hippocampus subfield (CA1) afferents provide a functional modulatory path that is subjected to synaptic plasticity and a prominent monoaminergic influence. However, little is known about the muscarinic cholinergic effects on prefrontal synapses. Here, we investigated the effects of the muscarinic agonist, pilocarpine (PILO), on the induction and maintenance of CA1-medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) long-term potentiation (LTP) as well as on brain monoamine levels. Field evoked responses were recorded in urethane-anesthetized rats during baseline (50 min) and after LTP (130 min), and compared with controls. LTP was induced 20 min after PILO administration (15 mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle (NaCl 0.15 M, i.p.). In a separate group of animals, the hippocampus and mPFC were microdissected 20 min after PILO injection and used to quantify monoamine levels. Our results show that PILO potentiates the late-phase of mPFC LTP without affecting either post-tetanic potentiation or early LTP (20 min). This effect was correlated with a significant decrease in relative delta (1-4 Hz) power and an increase in sigma (10-15 Hz) and gamma (25-40 Hz) powers in CA1. Monoamine levels were specifically altered in the mPFC. We observed a decrease in dopamine, 5-HT, 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid and noradrenaline levels, with no changes in 3,4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid levels. Our data, therefore, suggest that muscarinic activation exerts a boosting effect on mPFC synaptic plasticity and possibly on mPFC-dependent memories, associated to monoaminergic changes.
Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated channels (HCN) are responsible for the functional hyperpolarization-activated current (I(h)) in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. We studied HCN1-4 channel mRNA and protein expression and correlated these findings with I(h) functional properties in rat DRG neurons of different size. Quantitative RT-PCR (TaqMan) analysis demonstrated that HCN2 and HCN1 mRNAs were more abundantly expressed in large diameter (55-80 microm) neurons, while HCN3 mRNA was preferentially expressed in small diameter (20-30 microm) neurons. HCN4 mRNA expression was very low in neurons of all sizes. At the protein level, subunit-selective polyclonal antibodies and immunofluorescence indicated that HCN1 and HCN3 are present in large diameter neurons and small diameter neurons. Staining in small diameter neurons was in IB4-positive (non-peptidergic) and IB4-negative (peptidergic) cells. HCN2 immunofluorescent staining was heterogeneous and predominantly in large diameter neurons and in small diameter IB4-negative neurons. HCN4 was poorly expressed in all neurons. Functionally, I(h) amplitude and density were significantly larger, and activation kinetics faster, in large diameter neurons when compared with small neurons. I(h) activation rates in small and large diameter DRG neurons were consistent with the relative abundance of HCN subunits in the respective cell type, considering the reported HCN channel activation rates in heterologous systems (HCN1&gt;HCN2 approximately HCN3&gt;HCN4), suggesting exclusivity of roles of different HCN subunits contributing to the excitability of DRG neurons of different size. Additionally, a functional role of I(h) in small DRG neuron excitability was evaluated using a computational model.
Dissociated cortical neurons from rat embryos cultured onto micro-electrode arrays exhibit characteristic patterns of electrophysiological activity, ranging from isolated spikes in the first days of development to highly synchronized bursts after 3-4 weeks in vitro. In this work we analyzed these features by considering the approach proposed by the self-organized criticality theory: we found that networks of dissociated cortical neurons also generate spontaneous events of spreading activity, previously observed in cortical slices, in the form of neuronal avalanches. Choosing an appropriate time scale of observation to detect such neuronal avalanches, we studied the dynamics by considering the spontaneous activity during acute recordings in mature cultures and following the development of the network. We observed different behaviors, i.e. sub-critical, critical or super-critical distributions of avalanche sizes and durations, depending on both the age and the development of cultures. In order to clarify this variability, neuronal avalanches were correlated with other statistical parameters describing the global activity of the network. Criticality was found in correspondence to medium synchronization among bursts and high ratio between bursting and spiking activity. Then, the action of specific drugs affecting global bursting dynamics (i.e. acetylcholine and bicuculline) was investigated to confirm the correlation between criticality and regulated balance between synchronization and variability in the bursting activity. Finally, a computational model of neuronal network was developed in order to interpret the experimental results and understand which parameters (e.g. connectivity, excitability) influence the distribution of avalanches. In summary, cortical neurons preserve their capability to self-organize in an effective network even when dissociated and cultured in vitro. The distribution of avalanche features seems to be critical in those cultures displaying medium synchronization among bursts and poor random spiking activity, as confirmed by chemical manipulation experiments and modeling studies.
Songbirds produce learned vocalizations that are controlled by a specialized network of neural structures, the song control system. Several nuclei in this song control system demonstrate a marked degree of adult seasonal plasticity. Nucleus volume varies seasonally based on changes in cell size or spacing, and in the case of nucleus HVC and area X on the incorporation of new neurons. Reelin, a large glycoprotein defective in reeler mice, is assumed to determine the final location of migrating neurons in the developing brain. In mammals, reelin is also expressed in the adult brain but its functions are less well characterized. We investigated the relationships between the expression of reelin and/or its receptors and the dramatic seasonal plasticity in the canary (Serinus canaria) brain. We detected a broad distribution of the reelin protein, its mRNA and the mRNAs encoding for the reelin receptors (VLDLR and ApoER2) as well as for its intracellular signaling protein, Disabled1. These different mRNAs and proteins did not display the same neuroanatomical distribution and were not clearly associated, in an exclusive manner, with telencephalic brain areas that incorporate new neurons in adulthood. Song control nuclei were associated with a particular specialized expression of reelin and its mRNA, with the reelin signal being either denser or lighter in the song nucleus than in the surrounding tissue. The density of reelin-immunoreactive structures did not seem to be affected by 4 weeks of treatment with exogenous testosterone. These observations do not provide conclusive evidence that reelin plays a prominent role in the positioning of new neurons in the adult canary brain but call for additional work on this protein analyzing its expression comparatively during development and in adulthood with a better temporal resolution at critical points in the reproductive cycle when brain plasticity is known to occur.
Clinical observations have shown a link for the high comorbid rate between smoking and psychiatric disorders, including anxiety disorders. However, little is known about the neural mechanism underlying the progression from nicotine dependence to an anxiety disorder. A deficit in fear extinction in general is considered to contribute to anxiety disorders. The aim of the present study is to investigate the effects of chronic nicotine on fear extinction in rats. Rats were administrated s.c. nicotine twice per day for 14 days. Two weeks after the last injection rats received a cued or contextual fear conditioning session. Twenty-four hours and 48 h after conditioning, rats received an extinction training session and an extinction test session, respectively. Percent freezing was assessed during all phases of training. In the cued task, prior chronic nicotine did not affect the acquisition of fear response or the within-session fear extinction, but impaired the between-session fear extinction. In the contextual task, the same nicotine treatment schedule did not affect the acquisition of fear response or the within- and between-session fear extinction, but enhanced the retention of fear conditioning. This prior chronic nicotine-induced deficit in cued fear extinction and/or enhanced fear to context may be one of the critical components that contribute to the progression from nicotine dependence to an anxiety disorder.
In a dynamic postural task, visual information plays a fundamental role in the selection of the balancing strategy. While standing on a platform oscillating in the antero-posterior direction, subjects almost fix their head in space when vision is allowed and oscillate with the platform with eyes closed. We investigated two competing hypotheses regarding the relationship between visual acuity and balance control strategy. One hypothesis refers to the existence of a threshold value of visual acuity as a turning point between the eyes-open and eyes-closed strategy. The other assumes that the change from eyes-open to eyes-closed behavior is continuous and parallels the progressive worsening of visual acuity. Ten subjects balanced on the mobile platform wearing an examination frame and a facemask occluding peripheral vision. Seven different test lenses were used in different trials to modify visual acuity, from a visus value of 10/10 to severely blurred vision. Head stabilization in space progressively worsened with the decrease in visual acuity and turned toward the eyes-closed behavior when vision was blurred. The increase in head oscillation as a function of visual acuity was best fitted by a logarithmic function. In five of the subjects, additional trials were performed without facemask, to add peripheral vision to each visual acuity level, and with black lenses to allow peripheral vision alone. Addition of peripheral vision gave a significant contribution to head stabilization. With peripheral vision alone, head stabilization was intermediate between the eyes-closed and 10/10 visus value condition. We conclude that, in order to stabilize the head in space, visual information of the environment must be definite and worsening of central vision leads to a graded modification of the 'head fixed in space' behavior. Thus, the more conservative hypothesis of two different fundamental balancing strategies is not supported. Instead, the body exhibits a continuous mode of balancing patterns as a function of visual acuity. The findings support the notion that the central mechanism for head stabilization operates through linear integration of the central-field visual input with the general somesthetic feedback.
This review explores the potential role of hormones in modulating the auditory function. The review describes four groups of hormones (the hormones of the circadian cycle, reproduction, stress response and the fluid and electrolyte balance), their physiological variations, interactions, as well as the physiological basis for their effect on the auditory system. Possible contribution of hormones to pathophysiology of auditory dysfunctions, including hyperacusis, tinnitus, Menire's disease and pre-menstrual auditory dysfunction, has also been discussed.
Recent studies reveal that multisensory convergence can occur in early sensory cortical areas. However, the behavioral importance of the multisensory integration in such early cortical areas is unknown. Here, we used c-Fos immunohistochemistry to explore neuronal populations specifically activated during the facilitation of reaction time induced by the temporally congruent audiovisual stimuli in rats. Our newly developed analytical method for c-Fos mapping revealed a pronounced up-regulation of c-Fos expression particularly in layer 4 of the lateral secondary visual area (V2L). A local injection of a GABA A receptor agonist, muscimol, into V2L completely suppressed the audiovisual facilitation of reaction time without affecting responses to unimodal stimuli. Such a selective suppression was not found following the injection of muscimol into the primary auditory and visual areas. To examine whether or not the rats might have shown the facilitated responses because of increment of stimulus intensity caused by the two modal stimuli, the behavioral facilitation induced by the high-intensity unimodal stimuli was tested by the injection of muscimol into V2L, which turned out not to affect the facilitation. These results suggest that V2L, an early visual area, is critically involved in the multisensory facilitation of reaction time induced by the combination of auditory and visual stimuli.
The activation of glial cells in the CNS has been suggested to be involved in abnormal pain sensation after peripheral nerve injury. Previous studies demonstrated phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) in spinal cord glial cells after peripheral nerve injury, and such phosphorylation has been suggested to be involved in the development of neuropathic pain. The aim of this study was to examine the dorsal column nuclei for phosphorylation of p38 MAPK following peripheral nerve injury and to explore a possibility of its contribution to neuropathic pain. Immunohistochemical labeling for phosphorylated p38 (p-p38) MAPK was performed in histological sections of the rat spinal cord and medulla oblongata after the fifth lumbar (L5) spinal nerve ligation (SNL). The number of p-p38 MAPK-immunoreactive (IR) cells was significantly increased in the L5 dorsal horn and the gracile nucleus ipsilateral to the injury at days 3-21 after SNL. Double immunofluorescence labeling with cell-specific markers revealed that p-p38 MAPK-IR cells co-expressed OX-42, suggesting their microglial identity. Increased immunofluorescence labeling for OX-42 indicated that microglial cells were activated by SNL in the L5 dorsal horn and the gracile nucleus ipsilateral to the injury. Continuous infusion of a p38 MAPK inhibitor into the cisterna magna for 14 days beginning on the day of SNL suppressed the development of tactile allodynia, but not thermal hyperalgesia induced by nerve injury. These results demonstrate that SNL activates p38 MAPK pathway in microglia in the gracile nucleus as well as in the spinal cord dorsal horn. Activation of p38 MAPK in medullary microglia may contribute to the pathogenesis of neuropathic pain.
The effects of noradrenaline (NA) on the inhibitory responses to GABA were studied in vivo in neurons of the vestibular nuclei of the rat using extracellular recordings of single unit electrical activity and a microiontophoretic technique of drug application in loco. NA application influenced GABA-evoked inhibitions in 82% of tested neurons, depressing them in 42% and enhancing them in 40% of cases. The more frequent action of NA on GABA responses was depressive in lateral and superior vestibular nuclei (50% of neurons) and enhancing in the remaining nuclei (56% of neurons). The most intense effect of NA application was the enhancement of GABA responses induced in a population of lateral vestibular nucleus neurons, characterized by a background firing rate significantly higher than that of other units. The alpha(2) noradrenergic receptor agonist clonidine mimicked the enhancing action of NA on GABA responses; this action was blocked by application of the specific alpha(2) antagonist yohimbine. The beta adrenergic agonist isoproterenol induced either depressive or enhancing effects on GABA responses; the former more than the latter were totally or partially blocked by application of the beta antagonist timolol. It is concluded that NA enhances GABA responses by acting on noradrenergic alpha(2) and to a lesser extent beta receptors, whereas depressive action involves beta receptors only. These results confirm the hypothesis that the noradrenergic system participates in the regulation of the vestibulospinal and the vestibulo-ocular reflexes and suggest that conspicuous changes of NA content in brain due to aging or stress could lead to a deterioration in the mechanisms of normal vestibular function.
The present study investigated the effects of exercise on the serum concentrations of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), prolactin (PRL) and cortisol (COR) in 11 chronically spinal cord-injured athletes. In these subjects BDNF concentration at rest was sixfold higher compared with the concentrations reported earlier in able-bodied persons, while IGF-1, PRL and COR were within normal range. Ten minutes of moderate intensity handbiking (54% of the maximal heart rate) during a warm-up period (W) induced an increase (P&lt;0.05) of BDNF of approximately 1.5-fold from basal level at rest, while a decrease to basal level was found after an immediately succeeding handbiking time trial (89% of the maximal heart rate) over the marathon distance of 42 km (M). An increase (P&lt;0.01) of serum IGF-1 was found after W and this levels remained elevated (P&lt;0.01) until the end of M. W had no significant effects on the serum PRL and COR, however, M induced an increase (P&lt;0.01) of both hormones. This is the first study showing elevated BDNF concentrations at rest in spinal cord-injured athletes. Furthermore, short moderate intensity handbiking but not immediately following long lasting high intensity handbiking further increases serum BDNF concentrations. IGF-1 response to exercise differs to BDNF response as this neuroplasticity-related protein remains elevated during the long lasting physical demand with high intensity. The augmented PRL concentration suggests that a possible mechanism by which exercise promotes neuroplasticity might be the activation of neural serotonergic pathways as 5-HT is the main PRL releasing factor. Elevated COR concentrations after M are unlikely to be deleterious to neuroplasticity as COR concentrations remain within the physiological range. The present study suggests that exercise might be beneficial to enhance neuroprotection and neuroplasticity, thereby improving recovery after spinal cord injury.
Basal forebrain neurons express the neurotrophin receptors, p75NTR and tyrosine kinase receptor A (TrkA). We tested the hypothesis that impairment of memory in rats could be achieved by RNA interference (RNAi) -induced silencing of TrkA specifically within these neurons. A novel fusogenic, karyophilic immunoporter (fkAb(p75)-ipr) was constructed from the antibody, MC192 (monoclonal antibody to the rat neurotrophin receptor p75NTR, Ab(p75)), poly-l-lysine together with the hemagglutinin 2 and VP1 nuclear localization peptides of influenza and SV40 virus, respectively. Plasmid DNA constructs containing short hairpin sequences inhibitory to tyrosine kinase receptor A expression (TrkAi) and the gene encoding cGFP (green fluorescent protein from coral fish) was produced. These TrkAi plasmids were mixed with the immunoporter, forming the immunogene, TrkAi-fkAb(p75). A control TrkAsc complexed with fkAb(p75) (TrkAsc-fkAb(p75)) immunogene was constructed from a scrambled sequence (TrkAsc) and fkAb(p75)-ipr. Rats were infused using an osmotic mini-pump into the third ventricle with either TrkAi-fkAb(p75) or TrkAsc-fkAb(p75). Naive rats were also included as additional controls. After 7 days, examination of gene expression on forebrain sections of some rats revealed cGFP expression in TrkA neurons. Fifteen to 19 days after infusion, rats were tested in a Morris water maze apparatus. Animals that received TrkAi-fkAb(p75) showed significantly impaired spatial memory learning ability compared with naive or TrkAsc-fkAb(p75)-treated rats. Western blot and immunofluorescence analysis showed that TrkA protein levels and numbers of TrkA positive neurons were reduced by 60% and 55% respectively in TrkAi-fkAb(p75)-infused rats compared with infused controls or naive animals. We conclude that p75-receptor-mediated RNAi-induced silencing of genes offers a novel and powerful way to study the function of specific endogenous genes within distinct neuronal subpopulations of the brain.
Parkinson's disease is a common progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Mitochondrial dysfunction has been strongly implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. Thus, therapeutic approaches that improve mitochondrial function may prove to be beneficial. Previously, we have documented that near-infrared light via light-emitting diode (LED) treatment was therapeutic to neurons functionally inactivated by tetrodotoxin, potassium cyanide (KCN), or methanol intoxication, and LED pretreatment rescued neurons from KCN-induced apoptotic cell death. The current study tested our hypothesis that LED treatment can protect neurons from both rotenone- and MPP(+)-induced neurotoxicity. Primary cultures of postnatal rat striatal and cortical neurons served as models, and the optimal frequency of LED treatment per day was also determined. Results indicated that LED treatments twice a day significantly increased cellular adenosine triphosphate content, decreased the number of neurons undergoing cell death, and significantly reduced the expressions of reactive oxygen species and reactive nitrogen species in rotenone- or MPP(+)-exposed neurons as compared with untreated ones. These results strongly suggest that LED treatment may be therapeutic to neurons damaged by neurotoxins linked to Parkinson's disease by energizing the cells and increasing their viability.
Visinin-like protein-1 (VILIP-1) belongs to the neuronal calcium sensor (NCS) family of EF-hand Ca(2+)-binding proteins which are involved in a variety of Ca(2+)-dependent signal transduction processes in neurons. VILIP-1 has been implicated in the pathology of CNS disorders including Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia, but its expression has also been found to be regulated following induction of hippocampal synaptic plasticity underlying learning and memory processes. VILIP-1 is strongly expressed in different populations of principal and non-principal neurons in the rat hippocampus. VILIP-1-containing interneurons are morphologically and neurochemically heterogeneous. On the basis of co-localizing markers, VILIP-1 is rarely present in perisomatic inhibitory parvalbumin containing cells. However, VILIP-1 is frequently expressed in mid-proximal dendritic inhibitory cells characterized by calbindin immunoreactivity, and most strongly co-expressed in calretinin-positive disinhibitory interneurons. Partial co-localization of the metabotropic glutamate receptor mGluR1alpha with VILIP-1 was often found in interneurons located in the stratum oriens of the hippocampal CA1 region and in hilar interneurons. Partial co-localization of alpha4beta2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor with VILIP-1 was seen in stratum oriens interneurons and particularly at the border of the hilus in the dentate gyrus, where VILIP-1 also strongly co-localized with calretinin. We speculate that depending on the regulation of the expression of VILIP-1 in hippocampal pyramidal cells or defined types of interneurons, it may have different effects on hippocampal synaptic plasticity and network activity in health and disease.
Classically, upon hypothalamic stimulation, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) is released from the pituitary and acts on melanocortin 2 receptors (MC2R) in the adrenal cortex, stimulating glucocorticoid synthesis and release. Our earlier studies suggested that ACTH might have a direct effect on sympathetic ganglia. To analyze further the involvement of ACTH in regulation of gene expression of norepinephrine (NE) biosynthetic enzymes, we examined the effect of bilateral adrenalectomy (ADX) of Sprague-Dawley male rats. Fourteen days post-ADX, as expected, plasma ACTH was elevated, and levels of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH) and MC2R mRNAs in superior cervical ganglia (SCG), and TH mRNA in locus coeruleus (LC) were increased compared with sham-operated animals. To determine effect of pulsatile elevation of ACTH, corticosterone pellets were implanted to ADX rats. Similar to immobilization (IMO) stress ACTH injections to these animals caused a rise in ACTH in plasma and triggered elevation of TH and DBH mRNAs in SCG and in LC with single and repeated daily injections, and MC2R mRNA in SCG with single injections. To study the effect of ACTH in isolated cells, primary cultures of rat SCG were transfected with TH and DBH promoter constructs and treated with ACTH. In agreement with the in vivo data, ACTH elevated their promoter activities similar to levels triggered by cyclic AMP analog. ACTH in the human SK-N-SH neuroblastoma cells increased TH and DBH promoter activity and endogenous DBH mRNA levels. The results show that ACTH can have a direct effect on transcription and gene expression of NE biosynthetic enzymes even without contribution of adrenal hormones.
There is little information on the molecular mechanisms in FK506-mediated neuroprotection. In the present study, we investigated the protective effect of FK506, an immunosuppressant and neuroprotectant, on trimethyltin (TMT)-induced neurotoxicity in the rat hippocampus. Histologically, TMT-induced neuronal damage was partially prevented by FK506 in the hippocampal CA1 region, but not in CA3. FK506 treatment significantly reduced the number of apoptotic cells in CA1, but not in CA3, and also prevented induction of cognitive deficits by TMT. Microarray analysis of the rat hippocampus detected 14 genes with TMT-induced alteration of mRNA expression that was rescued by FK506 treatment. Subsequent quantitative RT-PCR analysis confirmed elevated mRNA levels for four inflammatory genes, glutathione S-transferase, lysozyme, matrix Gla protein, and osteopontin after TMT treatment. Upregulation of these genes was reversed by FK506 treatment at 5 days postgavage. Immunohistochemistry revealed that FK506 reduced osteopontin (OPN) induction by TMT in the periarterial area at 5 days postgavage. Our data suggest that inflammatory gene expression is involved in TMT-induced damage to the hippocampal CA1 region, resulting in apoptosis, and that this process is initiated by periarterial OPN activation, and can be alleviated by FK506.
Terminal Schwann cells (tSCs) are non-myelinating glia that wrap the nerve terminal at the neuromuscular junction. They are required for the maintenance of the neuromuscular synapse and are likely to play essential roles in the restoration of synaptic connections after nerve injury. tSCs acquire a reactive phenotype after nerve damage characterized by the extension of cellular processes that may facilitate reinnervation. The molecular signaling events underpinning the tSC reactive state remain elusive, in particular, little is known about transcription factors involved in the transcriptional reprogramming during tSC activation. Prior research implicated nine members of the zinc-finger transcription factor family in Schwann cell (SC) development and myelination, and levels of one such protein were reported increased in other non-myelinating SCs after denervation. We hypothesize that zinc-finger transcription factors could play a role during tSC activation. Because of their relative paucity, tSCs are difficult to study molecularly. Here, we used the rat cervical sympathetic trunk (CST), an autonomic nerve in which non-myelinating SCs are the predominant cell type, to isolate zinc-finger protein (ZFP) cDNAs by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. We isolated 29 unique ZFP sequences of which zinc proliferation 1 (Zipro1) was the most abundant. We found that after CST transection, levels for Zipro1 mRNA doubled and that Zipro1 protein expression increased in non-myelinating CST SCs. We also determined that Zipro1 is expressed in tSCs and its levels increased following skeletal muscle denervation. Thus, Zipro1 is a good candidate for a transcription factor involved in activation of non-myelinating SCs in general, and tSCs in particular.
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is one of the most common psychiatric disorders. Despite the extensive study of the neurobiological correlates of this disorder, the underlying mechanisms of PTSD are still poorly understood. Recently, a study demonstrated that dexamethasone (Dex), a synthetic glucocorticoid, can up-regulate p11, known as S100A10-protein which is down-regulated in patients with depression, (Yao et al., 1999; Huang et al., 2003) a common comorbid disorder in PTSD. These observations led to our hypothesis that traumatic stress may alter expression of p11 mediated through a glucocorticoid receptor. Here, we demonstrate that inescapable tail shock increased both prefrontal cortical p11 mRNA levels and plasma corticosterone levels in rats. We also found that Dex up-regulated p11 expression in SH-SY5Y cells through glucocorticoid response elements (GREs) within the p11 promoter. This response was attenuated by either RU486, a glucocorticoid receptor (GR) antagonist or mutating two of three glucocorticoid response elements (GRE2 and GRE3) in the p11 promoter. Finally, we showed that p11 mRNA levels were increased in postmortem prefrontal cortical tissue (area 46) of patients with PTSD. The data obtained from our work in a rat model of inescapable tail shock, a p11-transfected cell line and postmortem brain tissue from PTSD patients outline a possible mechanism by which p11 is regulated by glucocorticoids elevated by traumatic stress.
Conditioned fear to context in the rat leads to a host of sympathetically mediated physiological changes, including a marked rise in mean arterial pressure, a delayed rise in heart rate and a marked cutaneous vasoconstriction, along with the behavioral responses of freezing and ultrasonic vocalization. In this study we examine the role of the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM), which includes raphe nuclei pallidus and magnus, in the expression of these changes. RVM is a major premotor sympathetic and somatic center and an important integrating center in the descending emotional motor system. To evaluate its role, conditioned fear was tested after temporary blockade with microinjections (0.4 microl) of the GABA-A receptor agonist muscimol (0.2 mM) or the glutamate receptor antagonist kynurenic acid (0.1 M). Changes in mean arterial pressure, heart rate and activity were recorded by radio-telemetry. Cutaneous vasoconstriction in the tail was recorded indirectly by infrared thermography. Muscimol and kynurenic acid had different, almost complementary effects. Muscimol abolished the skin vasoconstrictor response and significantly reduced the tachycardic response, but did not reduce the pressor response significantly and had little effect on the somatic motor components, freezing and ultrasonic vocalization. In contrast, kynurenic acid abolished ultrasonic vocalization and significantly reduced freezing but had no effect on the cardiovascular components. The results show that neurons in the rostral ventromedial medulla are implicated in the expression of some of the cardiac, vascular and somatic motor components of conditioned fear. Most importantly, these cardiovascular components are not under local glutamatergic control whereas the somatic motor components are.
The planarian Dugesia japonica has a relatively well-organized CNS that includes the brain and the ventral nerve cords, and also has high regenerative capacity derived from pluripotent stem cells present in the mesenchymal space throughout the body. Glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) is the enzyme that converts glutamic acid into GABA, a major inhibitory neurotransmitter. In this study, we first identified a full-length GAD gene (DjGAD, D. japonica glutamic acid decarboxylase) in the planarian D. japonica. Whole-mount in situ hybridization revealed that a few cells expressed DjGAD mRNA, and these cells were located in both the head and pharynx regions. In order to examine the distribution pattern of DjGAD protein, we generated a mouse monoclonal anti-DjGAD antibody. The distribution pattern of DjGAD protein was very similar to that of DjGAD mRNA. A neural network of DjGAD-immunopositive cells was also clearly observed. In addition, we examined the immunofluorescence during the process of regeneration of the head from the tail piece. At day 3 of regeneration, we could detect newly formed DjGAD-immunopositive neurons in the anterior region. During day 5-7 of regeneration, reconstruction of the neural network of DjGAD-immunopositive cells occurred. DjGAD-immunoreactivity was lost in DjGAD-knockdown planarians obtained by RNA interference. The amount of GABA was significantly decreased in DjGAD-knockdown planarians, which lost negative phototaxis but not locomotion activity. These results suggest that DjGAD is clearly required for GABA biosynthesis and photosensitivity in planarians, and expression of DjGAD as detected by anti-DjGAD antibody is a useful marker for GABAergic neurons.
The A7 catecholamine cell group consists of noradrenergic (NAergic) neurons that project to the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Here, we characterized their morphology and physiology properties and tested the effect of substance P (Sub-P) on them, since the results of many morphological studies suggest that A7 neurons are densely innervated by Sub-P-releasing terminals from nuclei involved in the descending inhibitory system, such as the lateral hypothalamus and periaqueductal gray area. Whole cell recordings were made from neurons located approximately 200 microm rostral to the trigeminal motor nucleus (the presumed A7 area) in sagittal brainstem slices from rats aged 7-10 days. After recording, the neurons were injected with biocytin and immunostained with antibody against dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH). DBH-immunoreactive (ir) cells were presumed to be NAergic neurons. They had a large somata diameter ( approximately 20 microm) and relatively simple dendritic branching patterns. They fired action potentials (AP) spontaneously with or without blockade of synaptic inputs, and had similar properties to those of NAergic neurons in other areas, including the existence of calcium channel-mediated APs and a voltage-dependent delay in initiation of the AP (an indicator of the existence of A-type potassium currents) and an ability to be hyperpolarized by norepinephrine. Furthermore, in all DBH-ir neurons tested, Sub-P caused depolarization of the membrane potential and an increase in neuronal firing rate by acting on neurokinin-1 receptors. Non-DBH-ir neurons with a smaller somata size were also found in the A7 area. These showed great diversity in firing patterns and about half were depolarized by Sub-P. Morphological examination suggested that the non-DBH-ir neurons form contacts with DBH-ir neurons. These results provide the first description of the intrinsic regulation of membrane properties of, and the excitatory effect of Sub-P on, A7 area neurons, which play an important role in pain regulation.
The orexinergic neurons of the lateral hypothalamus (LH) are critical for wakefulness [McCarley RW (2007) Neurobiology of REM and NREM sleep. Sleep Med 8:302-330]. Recent evidence suggests that adenosine (AD), a homeostatic sleep factor, may act via A1 receptor (A1R) to control orexinergic activity and regulate sleep-wakefulness [Thakkar MM, Winston S, McCarley RW (2002) Orexin neurons of the hypothalamus express adenosine A1 receptors. Brain Res 944:190-194; Liu ZW, Gao XB (2006) Adenosine inhibits activity of hypocretin/orexin neurons via A1 receptor in the lateral hypothalamus: a possible sleep-promoting effect. J Neurophysiol]. To evaluate the role of AD in the orexinergic LH and its influences on sleep-wakefulness, we designed two experiments in freely behaving rats: First, we bilaterally microinjected 1,3-dipropyl-8-phenylxanthine (DPX) (1.5 pmol and 15 pmol), a selective A1R antagonist into the LH during the light cycle and examined its effect on spontaneous sleep-wakefulness. Second, we performed 6 h of sleep deprivation. Thirty minutes before the animals were allowed to enter recovery sleep, 15 pmol of DPX was bilaterally microinjected into the LH and its effects on recovery sleep were monitored. Microinjection of DPX into the orexinergic LH produced a significant increase in wakefulness with a concomitant reduction in sleep, both during spontaneous bouts of sleep-wakefulness and during recovery sleep. Local administration of DPX into the LH produced a significant increase in the latency to non-REM sleep during recovery sleep. However, total slow wave (delta) activity during non-REM sleep phase of recovery sleep remained unaffected after DPX treatment. This is the first study that implicates endogenous adenosine to have a functional role in controlling orexinergic tone and influencing the homeostatic regulation of sleep-wakefulness.
While it is established that glial cells actively influence neuronal and synaptic properties, the functional effects of glial-neuronal interactions are still not well understood. To address the role of glia at the network level we have examined the effects of the specific gliotoxin L-aminoadipic acid on the locomotor network output and cellular and synaptic properties in the lamprey spinal cord. The gliotoxic effect of aminoadipic acid was associated with a specific depolarization of glial cells. Aminoadipic acid depolarized the membrane potential of spinal cord neurons, suggesting a functional link between glia and neurons. The depolarization was significantly reduced by glutamate receptor antagonists in adults, but by gap junction blockers in larvae, suggesting a developmental difference in glial-neuronal interactions. Aminoadipic acid also reduced the amplitude of monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs), an effect that was not associated with changes in the presynaptic release probability or postsynaptic response to glutamate. These cellular and synaptic effects of aminoadipic acid were associated with disruption of the locomotor network output. This could not be accounted for by changes in glutamate uptake or potassium buffering by glia, suggesting a direct role for glia in the network. Interestingly, we found that the aminoadipic acid-evoked disruption of network activity and reduction of monosynaptic EPSP amplitudes did not occur in the presence of the endogenous spinal modulator 5-HT. These results thus provide evidence for an active functional role for glial cells in spinal cord locomotor networks, and suggest a potential glial modulatory effect of 5-HT.
A continuous supply of fusion-competent synaptic vesicles is essential for sustainable neurotransmission. Drosophila mutations of the dicistronic stoned locus disrupt normal vesicle cycling and cause functional deficits in synaptic transmission. Although both Stoned A and B proteins putatively participate in reconstituting synaptic vesicles, their precise function is still unclear. Here we investigate the effects of progressive depletion of Stoned B protein (STNB) on the release properties of neuromuscular synapses using a novel set of synthetic stnB hypomorphic alleles. Decreasing neuronal STNB expression to &lt; or =35% of wild-type level causes a strong reduction in excitatory junctional current amplitude at low stimulation frequencies and a marked slowing in synaptic depression during high-frequency stimulation, suggesting vesicle depletion is attenuated by decreased release probability. Recovery from synaptic depression after prolonged stimulation is also decelerated in mutants, indicating a delayed recovery of fusion-ready vesicles. These phenotypes appear not to be due to a diminished vesicle population, since the docked vesicle pool is ultrastructurally unaffected, and the total number of vesicles is only slightly reduced in these hypomorphs, unlike lethal stoned mutants. Therefore, we conclude that STNB not only functions as an essential component of the endocytic complex for vesicle reconstitution, as previously proposed, but also regulates the competence of recycled vesicles to undergo fusion. In support of such role of STNB, synaptic levels of the vesicular glutamate transporter (vGLUT) and synaptotagmin-1 are strongly reduced with diminishing STNB function, while other synaptic proteins are largely unaffected. We conclude that STNB organizes the endocytic sorting of a subset of integral synaptic vesicle proteins thereby regulating the fusion-competence of the recycled vesicle.
The beneficial effects of caffeine on cognition are controversial in humans, whereas its benefit in rodents had been well characterized. However, most studies were performed with acute administration of caffeine and the tasks used to evaluate cognition had aversive components. Here, we evaluated adulthood administration of caffeine up to old age on recognition memory in mice using the object recognition task (ORT) and on brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BNDF) and tyrosine kinase receptor (TrkB) immunocontent in the hippocampus. Adult mice (6 months old) received either drinking water or caffeine (1 mg/mL) during 12 months. At 18 months of age both groups were tested for ORT. Our results showed that aged mice exhibited lower performance in the recognition memory compared with adults (6 months old). Furthermore, caffeine-treated mice showed similar performance to adult mice in the ORT and an improvement compared with their age-matched control mice. Caffeine also counteracted the age-related increase in BDNF and TrkB immunocontent. Our results corroborate with other studies and reinforce that caffeine consumed in adulthood may prevent recognition memory decline with aging. This preventive effect may involve a decrease in the hippocampal BDNF and TrkB immunocontent.
Recent evidence suggests an important role for hypothalamic orexins/hypocretins in modulation of drug reward and addiction-like behaviors in rodents. Our recent study has shown that the aversive state of arousal during acute morphine withdrawal is associated with increased orexin gene expression in lateral hypothalamus (LH) of Fischer 344 (F344) inbred rats, with no change in the expression of preprodynorphin (ppDyn), a gene co-expressed with LH orexin. Therefore, we determined whether orexin and ppDyn mRNA levels in LH or medial hypothalamus (including perifornical and dorsomedial areas) of F344 or Sprague-Dawley (SD) outbred rats, are altered following: 1) cocaine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) conditioned place preference (CPP); 2) chronic (14 days) cocaine exposure using both &quot;binge&quot; pattern administration in steady-dose (45 mg/kg/day) and escalating-dose (45-90 mg/kg/day) regimens; and 3) acute (1 day) and chronic (14 days) withdrawal from cocaine with opioid receptor antagonist naloxone treatment (1 mg/kg). We found that orexin mRNA levels were decreased after cocaine place conditioning in the LH of SD rats. A decreased LH orexin mRNA level was also observed after chronic escalating-dose cocaine (but not CPP pattern regimen without conditioning, or steady-dose regimen) in both strains. In F344 rats only, acute withdrawal from chronic escalating-dose cocaine administration resulted in increases in both LH orexin and ppDyn mRNA levels, which were unaltered by naloxone or after chronic withdrawal. Our results suggest that (1) alteration of LH orexin gene expression is region-specific after cocaine place conditioning in SD rats and dose-dependent after chronic exposure in both strains; and (2) increased LH orexin and ppDyn gene expressions in F344 rats may contribute to negative affective states in cocaine withdrawal.
At the developing vertebrate neuromuscular junction, postsynaptic localization of the acetylcholine receptor (AChR) is regulated by agrin signaling via the muscle specific kinase (MuSK) and requires an intracellular scaffolding protein called rapsyn. In addition to its structural role, rapsyn is also necessary for agrin-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of the AChR, which regulates some aspects of receptor localization. Here, we have investigated the molecular mechanism by which rapsyn mediates AChR phosphorylation at the rodent neuromuscular junction. In a heterologous COS cell system, we show that MuSK and rapsyn induced phosphorylation of beta subunit tyrosine 390 (Y390) and delta subunit Y393, as in muscle cells. Mutation of beta Y390 or delta Y393 did not inhibit MuSK/rapsyn-induced phosphorylation of the other subunit in COS cells, and mutation of beta Y390 did not inhibit agrin-induced phosphorylation of the delta subunit in Sol8 muscle cells; thus, their phosphorylation occurs independently, downstream of MuSK activation. In COS cells, we further show that MuSK-induced phosphorylation of the beta subunit was mediated by rapsyn, as MuSK plus rapsyn increased beta Y390 phosphorylation more than rapsyn alone and MuSK alone had no effect. Intriguingly, MuSK also induced tyrosine phosphorylation of rapsyn itself. We then used deletion mutants to map the rapsyn domains responsible for activation of cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases that phosphorylate the AChR subunits. We found that rapsyn C-terminal domains (amino acids 212-412) are both necessary and sufficient for activation of tyrosine kinases and induction of cellular tyrosine phosphorylation. Moreover, deletion of the rapsyn RING domain (365-412) abolished MuSK-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of the AChR beta subunit. Together, these findings suggest that rapsyn facilitates AChR phosphorylation by activating or localizing tyrosine kinases via its C-terminal domains.
Both mu- and delta-opioid agonists selectively inhibit nociception but have little effect on other sensory modalities. Voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels in the primary sensory neurons are important for the regulation of nociceptive transmission. In this study, we determined the effect of delta-opioid agonists on voltage-activated Ca(2+) channel currents (I(Ca)) in small-diameter rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons that do and do not bind isolectin B(4) (IB(4)). The delta-opioid agonists [d-Pen(2),d-Pen(5)]-enkephalin (DPDPE) and deltorphin II produced a greater inhibition of high voltage-activated I(Ca) in IB(4)-negative than IB(4)-positive neurons. Furthermore, DPDPE produced a greater inhibition of N-, P/Q-, and L-type I(Ca) in IB(4)-negative than IB(4)-positive neurons. However, DPDPE had no significant effect on the R-type I(Ca) in either type of cells. We were surprised to find that DPDPE failed to inhibit either the T-type or high voltage-activated I(Ca) in all the DRG neurons with T-type I(Ca). Double immunofluorescence labeling showed that the majority of the delta-opioid receptor-immunoreactive DRG neurons had IB(4) labeling, while all DRG neurons immunoreactive to delta-opioid receptors exhibited Cav(3.2) immunoreactivity. Additionally, DPDPE significantly inhibited high voltage-activated I(Ca) in Tyrode's or N-methyl-d-glucamine solution but not in tetraethylammonium solution. This study provides new information that delta-opioid agonists have a distinct effect on voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels in different phenotypes of primary sensory neurons. High voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels are more sensitive to inhibition by delta-opioid agonists in IB(4)-negative than IB(4)-positive neurons, and this opioid effect is restricted to DRG neurons devoid of functional T-type Ca(2+) currents.
Qualitative and quantitative examination was performed to evaluate the expression of peripherin and 200 kDa neurofilament in the sensory compartment of the peripheral nervous system of the rat both in vivo and in a new in vitro model. Under physiological conditions, these two neuronal intermediate filaments show different expression patterns in sensory neurons. To have a more complete comprehension of the role of these intermediate filaments and to fill in the blanks left in previously reported literature, we demonstrate in vivo using a morphological approach that peripherin and 200 kDa neurofilament define two distinct subpopulations within the dorsal root ganglia sensory neurons. Moreover, peripherin is specifically expressed in unmyelinated fibers while 200 kDa neurofilament is expressed in myelinated fibers. Additionally, in vitro analysis of RNA taken from dorsal root ganglia explants suggested that 200 kDa neurofilament is downregulated and peripherin is transiently expressed throughout sensory fiber regrowth. In particular, both neuronal intermediate filaments are downregulated immediately after sensory fiber axotomy thus suggesting that neither peripherin nor 200 kDa neurofilament has a role in the first steps of fiber regrowth. However, the upregulation of peripherin a few days after the beginning of fiber regrowth in vitro suggests that low levels of peripherin may be require to carry on the sequence of events involved in the correct regeneration and direction of sensory fibers.
We here investigated the effects of neonatal lesions of the entorhinal cortex (EC) in rats on maze learning and on structural alterations of its main projection region, the hippocampus, as well as other regions with anatomical connections to the EC that are involved in maze learning. Since early brain damage is considered to be involved in certain neuropsychiatric diseases, this approach sought to model certain aspects of this etiopathogenesis. Bilateral neonatal lesions were induced on postnatal day 7 by microinjection of ibotenic acid (1.3 microg/0.2 microl phosphate-buffered saline (PBS)) into the EC. Naive and sham-lesioned rats served as controls. Rats were trained and tested on an eight-arm radial maze for allocentric and egocentric learning. Subsequently, gold-chloride staining and immunohistochemical staining for the microtubule-associated protein MAP-2 was used to assess myelination and dendritic density in the hippocampus, striatum and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of these rats. Additionally, parvalbumin-expressing, presumably GABAergic interneurons, were evaluated in these regions. Performance in both the allocentric and the egocentric strategy was disturbed after neonatal EC lesion as shown by an increase of repeated arm entries, which indicates disturbed working memory. Histological evaluation revealed that the density of parvalbumin-immunopositive neurons and myelin sheaths was reduced in the hippocampus but not in the striatum and mPFC in neonatally lesioned rats. Density of MAP-2 staining did not differ between groups in all regions tested. Since structural alterations were only found in the EC and hippocampus our findings support their eminent role in working memory and show that no functional restoration occurs after neonatal lesions.
Sex-related differences in antinociception produced by the activation of alpha(2)-adrenoceptors (alpha(2)-ARs) have been reported, however, the precise role of gonadal steroids is still unknown. Hence, we hypothesized that estrogen and testosterone modulate antinociceptive effects of clonidine (an alpha(2)-AR agonist) on N-methyl-D-aspartate- (NMDA) and heat-induced spinal nociception. We also investigated whether estrogen or testosterone alters the expression of alpha(2A)-adrenoceptors in the spinal cord. Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were implanted with PE10 cannulae in the intrathecal space of the lumbosacral spinal cord and divided into male, proestrous and diestrous female, ovariectomized (OVX), estradiol-treated OVX (OVX+E), castrated male (GDX), testosterone (GDX+T) and estradiol-treated castrated male (GDX+E) groups. Clonidine dose-dependently inhibited NMDA-induced scratching behavior in the male and OVX groups but to a significantly lesser extent in the OVX+E group. It also increased the tail withdrawal latency in the male, OVX, diestrous and GDX+T groups but not in the OVX+E, proestrous, GDX and GDX+E groups. Levels of alpha(2A)-AR mRNA were significantly higher in the OVX, estradiol-treated OVX, GDX and GDX+E animals. In contrast, alpha(2A)-AR protein levels were higher in estradiol-treated OVX, GDX, GDX+T and GDX+E animals as compared with the male. Indeed, no correlations were observed between changes in the mRNA or protein levels of alpha(2A)-AR and behavioral observations. These results support our hypothesis that sex-related differences in alpha(2)-AR-mediated modulation of spinal nociception are gonadal hormone-dependent: estrogen attenuates antinociceptive effects in females whereas testosterone is required for the expression of antinociception in males. In addition, results also revealed that the mechanism of action of gonadal hormones may not involve a global alternation in expression of alpha(2A)-AR in the spinal cord. Estrogen-induced attenuation of alpha(2)-AR-mediated inhibition of nociception could contribute to the higher prevalence of pain syndromes in women.
Previous data suggest that cyclic GMP (cGMP) signaling can play key roles in the circuitry of the olfactory bulb (OB). Therefore, the expression of cGMP-selective subunits of the cyclic nucleotide-gated ion channels (CNGs) can be expected in this brain region. In the present study, we demonstrate a widespread expression of the cGMP-selective A3 subunit of the cyclic nucleotide-gated ion channels (CNGA3) in the rat OB. CNGA3 appears in principal cells, including mitral cells and internal, medium and external tufted cells. Moreover, it appears in two populations of interneurons, including a subset of periglomerular cells and a group of deep short-axon cells. In addition to neurons, CNGA3-immunoreactivity is found in the ensheathing glia of the olfactory nerve. Finally, an abundant population of CNGA3-containing cells with fusiform morphology and radial processes is found in the inframitral layers. These cells express doublecortin and have a morphology similar to that of the undifferentiated cells that leave the rostral migratory stream and migrate radially through the layers of the OB. Altogether, our results suggest that CNGA3 can play important and different roles in the OB. Channels composed of this subunit can be involved in the processing of the olfactory information taking place in the bulbar circuitry. Moreover, they can be involved in the function of the ensheathing glia and in the radial migration of immature cells through the bulbar layers.
It has been demonstrated, in normal and aged rats and mice, that acute i.c.v. ghrelin (Ghr) administration increases memory retention. In order to evaluate if this treatment, restores memory retention in animals exhibiting impaired memory, in the present work we selected a chronic food restriction mouse model (since undernutrition prejudices higher nervous functions). We employed adult female mice with 28 days of 50% food restriction and evaluated: a) behavioral performance using novel object recognition test for memory, and plus maze for anxiety-like behavior, b) some morphometric parameters as body and hepatic weights and c) plasma Ghr levels. The animals with 50% food restriction showed an increase in plasma Ghr levels and a decrease in morphometric parameters and in the percentage of novel object recognition time. When the peptide was i.c.v. injected in food-restricted animals (0.03, 0.3 or 3.0 nmol/microl), memory increases in relation to food-restricted mice injected with vehicle, reaching a performance similar to controls.
The malfunction of glutamatergic neurotransmission in the neonatal or postnatal periods may be a risk factor for the appearance of neuroanatomical, neurochemical or functional changes that are characteristic of schizophrenia. Thus, the present study was undertaken to investigate whether blockade of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the postnatal period influences rat behavior in tests characterizing schizophrenia-like deficits such as psychomotor agitation, impairments of sensorimotor gating, working memory, and intensity of social interactions. (E)-2-amino-4-methyl-5-phosphono-3-pentenoic acid (CGP 40116), a competitive antagonist of NMDA receptors, was given postnatally (1.25 mg/kg on days 1, 3, 6, 9; 2.5 mg/kg on days 12, 15, 18; and finally 5 mg/kg on day 21, all injections s.c.), and rats were tested at 60 days old. We found that blockade of NMDA receptors in the postnatal period led to an enhancement of exploration, mimicking psychomotor agitation, impairments in sensorimotor gating as measured by a prepulse-evoked inhibition of acoustic startle response, and an impaired working memory, as measured by an increase in the latency to achieve accurate rate of response in the delayed alternation task. Decreases in non-aggressive social interactions and increases in aggressive interactions were also observed. In addition to cognitive deficits typical of schizophrenia, rats treated postnatally with NMDA receptor antagonists also showed higher level of fear exhibited in the elevated plus maze. Thus, the blockade of NMDA receptors in the postnatal period may model deficits that are characteristic of schizophrenia.
The toxicity of released glutamate contributes substantially to secondary cell death following spinal cord injury (SCI). In this work, the extent and time courses of glutamate-induced losses of neurons and oligodendrocytes are established. Glutamate was administered into the spinal cords of anesthetized rats at approximately the concentration and duration of its release following SCI. Cells in normal tissue, in tissue exposed to artificial cerebrospinal fluid and in tissue exposed to glutamate were counted on a confocal system in control animals and from 6 h to 28 days after treatment to assess cell losses. Oligodendrocytes were identified by staining with antibody CC-1 and neurons by immunostaining for Neuronal Nuclei (NeuN) or Neurofilament H. The density of oligodendrocytes declined precipitously in the first 6 h after exposure to glutamate, and then relatively little from 24 h to 28 days post-exposure. Similarly, neuron densities first declined rapidly, but at a decreasing rate, from 0 h to 72 h post-glutamate exposure and did not change significantly from 72 h to 28 days thereafter. The nuclei of many cells strongly and specifically stained for activated caspase-3, an indicator of apoptosis, in response to exposure to glutamate. Caspase-3 was localized to the nucleus and may participate in apoptotic cell death. However, persistence of caspase-3 staining for at least a week after exposure to glutamate during little to no loss of oligodendrocytes and neurons demonstrates that elevation of caspase-3 does not necessarily lead to rapid cell death. Beyond about 48 h after exposure to glutamate, locomotor function began to recover while cell numbers stabilized or declined slowly, demonstrating that functional recovery in the experiments presented involves processes other than replacement of oligodendrocytes and/or neurons.
We studied encoding of temporally modulated sounds in 28 multiunits in the primary auditory cortical field (AI) and in 35 multiunits in the secondary auditory cortical field (caudomedial auditory cortical field, CM) by presenting periodic click trains with click rates between 1 and 300 Hz lasting for 2-4 s. We found that all multiunits increased or decreased their firing rate during the steady state portion of the click train and that all except two multiunits synchronized their firing to individual clicks in the train. Rate increases and synchronized responses were most prevalent and strongest at low click rates, as expressed by best modulation frequency, limiting frequency, percentage of responsive multiunits, and average rate response and vector strength. Synchronized responses occurred up to 100 Hz; rate response occurred up to 300 Hz. Both auditory fields responded similarly to low click rates but differed at click rates above approximately 12 Hz at which more multiunits in AI than in CM exhibited synchronized responses and increased rate responses and more multiunits in CM exhibited decreased rate responses. These findings suggest that the auditory cortex of macaque monkeys encodes temporally modulated sounds similar to the auditory cortex of other mammals. Together with other observations presented in this and other reports, our findings also suggest that AI and CM have largely overlapping sensitivities for acoustic stimulus features but encode these features differently.
Previous studies revealed that stress is a pivotal factor in the regulation of growth. Psychological harassment may result in psychosocial dwarfism with delayed puberty, short stature and depression. Growth hormone (GH) secretion is suppressed by stress, possibly via the attenuation of growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) secretion. However, the morphological substrate of this phenomenon has not been elucidated yet. Since neuropeptide Y (NPY) levels in the plasma is increased by administration of various stressors, the common consensus is that NPY plays a crucial role in the stress response. In the present study, we examined the putative juxtapositions between the NPY- and GHRH-immunoreactive (IR) systems in the human hypothalamus using double-label immunohistochemistry. Our findings revealed that the majority of the GHRH-IR perikarya formed intimate associations with NPY-IR fiber varicosities. The majority of these juxtapositions were found in the infundibular nucleus/median eminence where NPY-IR fiber varicosities often covered a significant surface area of the GHRH neurons. Since the juxtapositions between the GHRH-IR perikarya and NPY-IR fiber varicosities may be functional synapses, they may represent the morphological substrate of stress-suppressed GH secretion. The large number of contacting elements indicates that NPY plays a pivotal role in GH release, and may be considered as a major factor in the attenuation of growth by stress in humans.
The c-kit receptor tyrosine kinase is expressed in a subpopulation of small- and medium-sized neurons of the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and in the superficial layer of the spinal cord. Stem cell factor (SCF), a ligand of the c-kit receptor, induces neurite outgrowth from DRG and supports the survival of c-kit-expressing neurons. To clarify the possible function of the SCF/c-kit receptor system in the adult animal, we investigated the expression of c-kit receptor in the spinal cord and DRG in relation to pain by using H2C7, a newly developed anti-c-kit monoclonal antibody. S.c. and intrathecal injection of SCF markedly reduced the paw withdrawal threshold to mechanical stimuli and intrathecal SCF at 10 pg maximally induced mechanical allodynia in conscious mice. Intrathecal SCF also reduced the paw withdrawal latency to heat stimuli significantly but transiently. The c-kit receptor was co-expressed in 58.4% of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) -positive, but only 5.1% of isolectin B4-positive, DRG neurons. In the spinal cord, the c-kit receptor was detected in the superficial layer of the dorsal horn and co-localized there with CGRP in central terminals of DRG neurons. Selective elimination of unmyelinated C-fibers by neonatal capsaicin treatment resulted in marked reduction of the c-kit receptor and CGRP expression in the superficial layer of the spinal cord. Cell-size profiles showed that c-kit receptor expression was significantly up-regulated and down-regulated in medium-sized DRG neurons after neonatal capsaicin treatment and nerve injury, respectively. These results suggest that the c-kit receptor is mainly expressed in peptidergic small-sized DRG neurons and may be involved in pain regulation both peripherally and centrally.
Mitochondrial defects including reduction of a key mitochondrial tricarboxylic acid cycle enzyme alpha-ketoglutarate-dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC) are characteristic of many neurodegenerative diseases. KGDHC consists of alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase, dihydrolipoyl succinyltransferase (E2k), and dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (Dld) subunits. We investigated whether Dld or E2k deficiency influences adult brain neurogenesis using immunohistochemistry for the immature neuron markers, doublecortin (Dcx) and polysialic acid-neural cell adhesion molecule, as well as a marker for proliferation, proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). Both Dld- and E2k-deficient mice showed reduced Dcx-positive neuroblasts in the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the hippocampal dentate gyrus compared with wild-type mice. In the E2k knockout mice, increased immunoreactivity for the lipid peroxidation marker, malondialdehyde occurred in the SGZ. These alterations did not occur in the subventricular zone (SVZ). PCNA staining revealed decreased proliferation in the SGZ of E2k-deficient mice. In a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease, Dcx-positive cells in the SGZ were also reduced compared with wild type, but Dld deficiency did not exacerbate the reduction. In the malonate lesion model of Huntington's disease, Dld deficiency did not alter the lesion-induced increase and migration of Dcx-positive cells from the SVZ into the ipsilateral striatum. Thus, the KGDHC subunit deficiencies associated with elevated lipid peroxidation selectively reduced the number of neuroblasts and proliferating cells in the hippocampal neurogenic zone. However, these mitochondrial defects neither exacerbated certain pathological conditions, such as amyloid precursor protein (APP) mutation-induced reduction of SGZ neuroblasts, nor inhibited malonate-induced migration of SVZ neuroblasts. Our findings support the view that mitochondrial dysfunction can influence the number of neural progenitor cells in the hippocampus of adult mice.

Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) constitute a family of at least 23 structurally related heparin-binding proteins that are involved in regulation of cell growth, survival, differentiation and migration. Sucrose octasulfate (SOS), a chemical analogue of heparin, has been demonstrated to activate FGF signalling pathways. The structure of rat FGF1 crystallized in the presence of SOS has been determined at 2.2 A resolution. SOS-mediated dimerization of FGF1 was observed, which was further supported by gel-filtration experiments. The major contributors to the sulfate-binding sites in rat FGF1 are Lys113, Lys118, Arg122 and Lys128. An arginine at position 116 is a consensus residue in mammalian FGF molecules; however, it is a serine in rat FGF1. This difference may be important for SOS-mediated FGF1 dimerization in rat.
Lower cranial nerve schwannomas are rare tumours. We present a 35 year old female patient who had a lower cranial nerve schwannoma with both intracranial and extracranial components. The internal jugular vein was injured during the dissection of the extracranial portion of the tumour. Ligation of the internal jugular vein is not associated with significant post-operative complications. Our patient however, developed retrograde cortical venous thrombosis on the 14(th) post-operative day resulting in multiple areas of haemorrhagic venous infarction with raised intracranial pressure. Such a delayed contiguous cortical venous thrombosis has not been reported. We present this report to highlight this event and to outline the probable causes for the same.


The nature of episodic associations has been subject to a long standing debate, where the two opposing positions postulate associations as either a holistic representation of the constituent elements or as independently modifiable pointers between them. In spite of a history of inconsistent findings, evidence in favour of the theory of symmetric associations has accumulated, yet only for verbal memory [Caplan, J. B., Glaholt, M. G., &amp; McIntosh, A. R. (2006). Linking associative and serial list memory: Pairs versus triples. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 32(6), 1244-1265; Kahana, M. J. (2002). Associative symmetry and memory theory. Memory and Cognition, 30(6), 823-840]. Although object-location associations differ in several fundamental characteristics from verbal paired-associates, we recently found associative symmetry in the memory for this class of associations as well [Sommer, T., Rose, M., &amp; Bchel, C. (2007). Associative symmetry vs. independent associations in the memory for object-location associations. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 33(1), 90-106]. Due to the inconsistencies in the verbal literature, we felt it to be pertinent to confirm this finding using another experimental approach. Based on recent advances in understanding the effects of successive testing, we were able to make use of this knowledge and introduce this effect as an experimental manipulation in the study of associative symmetry. In particular, we investigated whether the influence of a prior memory test on a subsequent memory test differs when the same or opposite constituent element of an object-location paired-associate cues the retrieval on each test. We observed an identical testing effect for both conditions, which was exclusively driven by reminiscence, the recovery of previously inaccessible information. This finding lends strong support in favour of holistically or symmetrically represented object-location associations and suggests, given the verbal memory literature, a general principle of associative symmetry [Asch, S. E., &amp; Ebenholtz, S. M. (1962). The principle of associative symmetry. Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, 106, 135-163].
Recent studies have implicated the endocannabinoid (eCB) system in the neuronal mechanisms underlying substance dependence. Here, we review results of studies using cannabinoid receptor subtype 1 (CB1) knockout mice as well as CB1 antagonists to elucidate the role of this neurotransmitter system in psychostimulant addiction. The overall picture is that CB1 receptors appear not to be involved in psychostimulant reward, nor in the development of dependence to such substances. In contrast, the eCB system appears to play a role in the persistence of psychostimulant addiction. In particular, CB1 receptors have been found to play a cardinal role in mediating reinstatement of previously extinguished drug-seeking behavior upon re-exposure to the drug or drug-associated cues. The anatomical loci as well as the neuronal mechanisms of the relapse-preventing effects of CB1 antagonists are still poorly understood, although interactions of the eCB system with afferent glutamatergic and possibly dopaminergic projections to the nucleus accumbens are most likely involved. In addition, CB1 receptors seem to modulate drug-related memories, in line with the hypothesized role of the eCB system in memory-related plasticity. Together, these findings suggest that modulators of the eCB system represent a promising novel type of therapy to treat drug addiction.
Functional Neuroanatomy is a course designed to help students learn the function and anatomy of the human nervous system. Historically, students have had difficulty with the spinal tract curricular unit and frequently resorted to memorization to &quot;learn&quot; the material. They performed poorly on exams and failed to demonstrate competence in the functional application of their knowledge. In an effort to improve learning and promote critical thinking in this course, the instructor revised the curriculum to include 1) shorter, less detailed lectures; 2) a set of practice problems that presented the spinal tracts in an applied context; and 3) a manipulative, which was composed of a magnetic bulletin board and a kit of magnets representing structures of the nervous system. Student learning, as assessed by summative exams, improved under the revised curriculum. Scores on knowledge, analytical, and synthesis questions were significantly higher than scores from previous classes using the traditional lecture curriculum (P &lt; 0.05). This curricular protocol could potentially be applied to other topics where students resort to memorization and fail to comprehend concepts and processes.


Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a CD4+ T cell-mediated autoimmune disease affecting the central nervous system. It was largely accepted that Th1 cells driven by IL-12 were pathogenic T cells in human MS and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, an animal model of MS. Recent data have established that IL-17-producing CD4+ T cells, driven by IL-23 and referred to as Th17 cells, play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of EAE. A combination of TGF-beta and IL-6 induce Th17 cell lineage commitment via expression of transcription factor RORgammat. Th17 cells and induced Foxp3+ T regulatory cells are in reciprocal position in the T cell lineage commitment governed by TGF-beta and IL-6. The vitamin A metabolite retinoic acid is involved in this process via TGF-beta dependent induction of Foxp3. We have demonstrated that human Th17 cells could be identified as CCR2+ CCR5- memory CD4+ T cells. It is becoming clear that IL-23/Th17 axis also plays an important role in the pathogenesis of various human autoimmune diseases including MS. Additionally, accumulating evidences raise a possibility that CCR2 on Th17 cells may be a therapeutic target in MS.


This article presents an interim study into the end-of-life experiences of elderly residents in a Gloucestershire nursing home as reported by nurses and care assistants. It draws comparisons between the experiences of an end-of-life experiences pilot study conducted with the Camden Palliative Care Team in the United Kingdom with those of the nursing home staff to consider whether the dying experience of elderly nursing home residents is the same as those whose lives are foreshortened through terminal illness. It draws the conclusion that elderly residents have end-of-life experiences similar to those described in the Camden pilot study. It also examines the effect that end-of-life experiences have on the carers and reflects on possible needs for specialized training and support to deal with such existential issues.
The aim of this study was to investigate fast corticosteroid feedback of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis under basal conditions, in particular the role of the mineralocorticoid receptor. Blood samples were collected every 5 min from conscious rats at the diurnal peak, using an automated blood sampling system, and assayed for corticosterone. Feedback inhibition by rapidly increasing concentrations of ligand was achieved with an intravenous bolus of exogenous corticosteroid. This resulted in a significant reduction in plasma corticosterone concentrations within 23 min of the aldosterone bolus and 28 min of methylprednisolone. Evaluation of the pulsatile secretion of corticosterone revealed that the secretory event in progress at the time of administration of exogenous steroid was unaffected, whereas the next secretory event was inhibited by both aldosterone and methylprednisolone. The inhibitory effect of aldosterone was limited in duration (1 secretory event only), whereas that of methylprednisolone persisted for 4-5 h. Intravenous administration of canrenoate (a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist) also had rapid effects on the HPA axis, with an elevation of ACTH within 10 min and corticosterone within 20 min. The inhibitory effect of aldosterone was unaffected by pretreatment with the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist RU-38486 but blocked by the canrenoate. These data imply an important role for the mineralocorticoid receptor in fast feedback of basal HPA activity and suggest that mineralocorticoids can dynamically regulate basal corticosterone concentrations during the diurnal peak, a time of day when there is already a high level of occupancy of the cytoplasmic mineralocorticoid receptor.
5-HT(4) receptor agonists facilitate synaptic transmission in the enteric nervous system, and these drugs are used to treat constipation. In the present study, we investigated the effects of the 5-HT(4) receptor agonist, renzapride, on rundown and recovery of fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) during and after trains of stimulation and on transmitter release from individual myenteric neuronal varicosities. Intracellular electrophysiological methods were used to record fEPSPs from neurons in longitudinal muscle myenteric plexus preparations of guinea pig ileum in vitro. During trains of supramaximal electrical stimulation (10 Hz, 2 s), fEPSP amplitude declined (time constant = 0.6 +/- 0.1 s) from 17 +/- 2 mV to 0.7 +/- 0.3 mV. Renzapride (0.1 microM) did not change the time constant for fEPSP rundown, but it decreased the time constant for recovery of fEPSP amplitude after the stimulus train from 7 +/- 2 s to 1.6 +/- 0.2 s (P &lt; 0.05). 5-HT (0.1 microM) also increased fEPSPs and facilitated recovery from rundown. The adenylate cyclase activator, forskolin (1 muM), mimicked the actions of renzapride and 5-HT, whereas H-89, a protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor, blocked the effects of renzapride. We used nicotinic acetylcholine receptor containing outside-out patches obtained from myenteric neurons maintained in primary culture to detect acetylcholine release from single varicosities. Renzapride (0.1 microM) increased release probability twofold. We conclude that 5-HT(4) receptors activate the adenylyl cyclase-PKA pathway to increase acetylcholine release from single varicosities and to accelerate recovery from synaptic rundown. These responses may contribute to the prokinetic actions of 5-HT(4) receptor agonists.
Patients with primary aldosteronism (PA) were shown to have suppressed muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) in our previous study. Although baroreflex inhibition probably accounts in part for this reduced MSNA in PA, we hypothesized that the lowered activity of the renin-angiotensin system in PA may also contribute to the suppressed SNA. We recorded MSNA in 9 PA and 16 age-matched normotensive controls (NC). In PA, the resting mean blood pressure (MBP) and serum sodium concentrations were increased, and MSNA was reduced. We examined the effects of infusion of a high physiological dose of ANG II (5.0 ng.kg(-1).min(-1)) on MSNA in 6 of 9 PA and 9 of 16 NC. Infusion of ANG II caused a greater pressor response in PA than NC, but, in spite of the greater increase in pressure, MSNA increased in PA, whereas it decreased in NC. Simultaneous infusion of nitroprusside and ANG II, to maintain central venous pressure at the baseline level and reduce the elevation in MBP induced by ANG II, caused significantly greater increases in MSNA in PA than in NC. Baroreflex sensitivity of heart rate, estimated during phenylephrine infusions, was reduced in PA, but baroreflex sensitivity of MSNA was unchanged in PA compared with NC. All the abnormalities in PA were eliminated following unilateral adrenalectomy. In conclusion, the suppressed SNA in PA depends in part on the low level of ANG II in these patients.
Attachment theory and neurobiology are at the forefront of scientific research, particularly in the area of child psychiatry. Several authors have encountered a surprising isomorphism between findings in these areas and concepts central in psychoanalysis. The author postulates that attachment theory is an outcome of the history of the transformation of the old concept of libido now applied interpersonally. The author also postulates that the neurobiology of attachment mediates but does not substitute psychoanalysis for the final understanding of the human bond. Findings in both fields, attachment theory and psychobiology, often compellingly lead to psychoanalytic concepts; on the other hand, the neurobiology of the psyche does not make full sense without the wealth of research conducted by psychoanalysts during the 20th century. The concept of seduction in particular, in its broad sense, is akin to mirroring and attachment and a useful tool in this regard. Although some cling to the idea of the purity of psychoanalysis and see these kin areas as a threat to its integrity, the author believes that psychoanalysis, serving as a bridge between them, can only be enriched by their empirical and experimental outcomes. The American Journal of Psychoanalysis (2008) 68, 148-155. doi:10.1057/ajp.2008.4.
Currently the best studied mechanism for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is the one caused by mutations in the gene for cytosolic Cu/Zn-binding superoxide dismutase (SOD1). Mutant SOD1 protein causes motor neuron degeneration due to the gain of a novel toxic function. To evaluate the relevance of SOD1 levels in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in ALS patients, the SOD1 concentration was immunoassayed in the CSF of 11 patients with ALS and 19 neurological controls. The mean level of SOD1 in CSF from all samples was 45.5+/-11.3 ng/ml. There was no statistically significant difference between the levels of SOD1 in CSF of ALS patients and neurological control subjects. Here we show that the SOD1 concentration in the CSF is significantly higher in male ALS patients (54.0+/-9.0 ng/ml) compared to female ALS patients (38.1+/-6.4 ng/ml) (p=0.007). This gender difference is not observed in the CSF of neurological controls. This is the first report of a potential gender difference in levels of SOD1 in CSF of ALS patients. Further investigation of larger sample groups is needed to determine whether it is relevant to gender related differences in disease incidence.

Developmental dyslexia is associated with functional abnormalities within reading areas of the brain. For some children diagnosed with dyslexia, phonologically based remediation programs appear to rehabilitate brain function in key reading areas (Shaywitz et al., Biological Psychiatry 55: 101-110, 2004; Simos et al., Neuroscience 58: 1203-1213, 2002). However, a non-trivial number of children diagnosed with dyslexia fail to respond to these interventions (Torgesen, Learning Disabilities Research &amp; Practice 15: 55-64, 2000). A cross-sectional fMRI study investigating post-treatment effects was conducted in an effort to better understand differences in brain function between treatment responders and non-responders. Educational testing and brain activation measured after treatment suggested that the reading intervention used in the present study rehabilitated several basic level reading processes in all participants diagnosed with dyslexia. However, activation in the left inferior parietal lobe differentiated treatment responders and non-responders in comparison to non-impaired readers. Children with persistent deficits in single word decoding (treatment non-responders) demonstrated significantly less activation in the left inferior parietal lobe when compared to non-impaired readers.

BACKGROUND: Brain research has documented that the cortical mechanisms for language and action are tightly interwoven and, concurrently, new approaches to language therapy in neurological patients are being developed that implement language training in the context of relevant linguistic and non-linguistic actions, therefore taking advantage of the mutual connections of language and action systems in the brain. A further well-known neuroscience principle is that learning at the neuronal level is driven by correlation; consequently, new approaches to language therapy emphasise massed practice in a short time, thus maximising therapy quantity and frequency and, therefore, correlation at the behavioural and neuronal levels. Learned non-use of unsuccessful actions plays a major role in the chronification of neurological deficits, and behavioural approaches to therapy have therefore employed shaping and other learning techniques to counteract such non-use. AIMS: Advances in theoretical and experimental neuroscience have important implications for clinical practice. We exemplify this in the domain of aphasia rehabilitation. MAIN CONTRIBUTION: Whereas classical wisdom had been that aphasia cannot be significantly improved at a chronic stage, we here review evidence that one type of intensive language-action therapy (ILAT)-constraint-induced aphasia therapy-led to significant improvement of language performance in patients with chronic aphasia. We discuss perspectives for further improving speech-language therapy, including drug treatment that may be particularly fruitful when applied in conjunction with behavioural treatment. In a final section we highlight intensive and rapid therapy studies in chronic aphasia as a unique tool for exploring the cortical reorganisation of language. CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that intensive language action therapy is an efficient tool for improving language functions even at chronic stages of aphasia. Therapy studies using this technique can open new perspectives for research into the plasticity of human language circuits.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are common neurodevelopmental disorders that occur along a broad continuum of severity with impairments in social interactions, communication and behaviour. This review highlights recent advances in autism research that shed light on the causes of the disorder and that have implications for clinical practice. It focuses on (1) the rising prevalence of ASD with attention given to recent epidemiological studies, (2) important genetic discoveries that may affect clinical evaluation of children with ASD, (3) active areas of research in cognitive neuroscience that seek to explain the underlying mechanisms of a complex disorder and (4) important studies on clinical populations with implications for screening and early identification of infants and toddlers with ASD.


Artemisinins are fast-acting and highly efficacious antimalarials. There has been a rapid increase in their use in response to increasing drug resistance and further increases in their use are anticipated as they continue to replace existing therapies. In laboratory studies, artemisinins can produce relatively specific brainstem neurotoxicity. Select nuclei in the medulla, pons and mesencephalon are usually found to be most vulnerable. Species-specific differences in the vulnerability of nuclei may also exist. While not yet completely understood, occurrence of the lesion seems to be dependent upon a sustained, rather than peak, level of circulating drug or metabolite. With daily administrations, the onset of signs of brainstem neurotoxicity frequently develops abruptly and sometimes is observable only at the end of, or after, a regimen of administration. Behavioral correlates of brainstem neurotoxicity in laboratory animals include ataxic symptoms such as tremor, gait impairment and balance disturbance. Symptoms may also include auditory impairment. Screening and diagnostic procedures to guard against artemisinin-induced brainstem neurotoxicity in humans need to be based on the available, albeit limited, data from laboratory studies. Substantial and fundamental gaps in our understanding of artemisinin brainstem neurotoxicity exist including the mode of action of neurotoxicity and the specific conditions under which it occurs. Further, the possibility of increased vulnerability from age-related factors, drug interactions and cumulative administration regimens has not yet been investigated. Substantial progress addressing these issues is needed to maintain appropriate pharmacovigilance as the use of these powerful and life-saving antimalarials increases.
The mental health of Canada's Aboriginal women has received little scholarly attention. This paper describes the mental health of First Nations women living on reserve in Ontario and compares these findings with results from the National Population Health Survey (NPHS). Reserve communities were randomly selected within urban, rural, remote and special access regions. Depression was measured by the Composite International Diagnostic Interview. Alcohol use and health services utilization questions were identical to those used in the NPHS. Compared with NPHS women, First Nations women reported significantly higher rates of depression (18% vs 9%) but significantly lower rates of alcohol use (55% vs 74% reported drinking in the last year), although significantly greater proportions reported having 5+ drinks on one occasion (43% vs 24%). Given the burden of suffering associated with depression and the twofold risk found here, it is important to examine risk and protective factors specific to First Nations women. The findings of a higher proportion of abstainers, but also a higher proportion of consumers of 5+ drinks among First Nations women relative to NPHS women indicate the need for a more careful investigation, based on community rather than clinical data, of patterns of alcohol use.
Neuroanatomy in addition to neurophysiology, are the basic areas for the proper formation from health students to specialized professionals in neuroscience. A step by step guide for practical studies of neuroanatomy is required for this kind of knowledge to become more acceptable among medical students, neurosurgeons, neurologists, neuropediatricians and psychiatric physicians. Based on the well known courses of sulci, gyri and ventricles offered by Beneficncia Portuguesa Hospital in So Paulo, Brazil, two times a year, since 1994, totalizing more than 20 complete courses, and answering the request of many neuroscience students and professionals whose asked for a practical guide to the neuroanatomy study, the authors suggest a protocol for the study of superficial and deep brain structures showing how to approach the more structures as possible with minimum damage to the anatomic piece and with the smaller number of brains.
Guanosine 5'-O-(3-[(35)S]thio)triphosphate ([(35)S]GTPgammaS) binding assays were established and utilized as a reliable and high-capacity functional assay for determining antagonist and inverse agonist pharmacological parameters of novel histamine H(3) ligands, at the recombinant human H(3) receptor. [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding assays were performed with membranes prepared from human embryonic kidney 293 cells stably expressing the full-length (445 amino acids) human H(3) receptor isoform, at approximately 1 pmol/mg of protein. Utilizing robotic liquid handling, assay filtration, and scintillation counting in a 96-well format, concentration-response curves were determined for up to 40 compounds per assay. The imidazole-containing H(3) receptor antagonist ciproxifan and the non-imidazole antagonist ABT-239 inhibited (R)-alpha-methylhistamine (RAMH)-stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding in a competitive manner, and negative logarithm of the dissociation equilibrium constant (pK(b)) values determined for nearly 200 structurally diverse H(3) antagonists were very similar to the respective negative logarithm of the equilibrium inhibition constant values from N-alpha-[(3)H]methylhistamine competition binding assays. H(3) antagonists also concentration-dependently decreased basal [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding, thereby displaying inverse agonism at the constitutively active H(3) receptor. At maximally effective concentrations, non-imidazole H(3) antagonists inhibited basal [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding by approximately 20%. For over 100 of these antagonists, negative logarithm of the 50% effective concentration values for inverse agonism were very similar to the respective pK(b) values. Both H(3) receptor agonist-dependent and -independent (constitutive) [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding were sensitive to changes in assay concentrations of sodium, magnesium, and the guanine nucleotide GDP; however, the potency of ABT-239 for inhibition of RAMH-stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding was not significantly affected. These robust and reliable [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding assays have become one of the important tools in our pharmacological analysis and development of novel histamine H(3) receptor antagonists/inverse agonists.
A novel fluorescence-based assay of monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL) activity that is simple, sensitive, and amenable to the screening of small molecule inhibitors is described. Purified recombinant human MAGL protein and 7-hydroxycoumarinyl-arachidonate (7-HCA), a fluorogenic substrate for MAGL, were employed in the assay. MAGL protein catalyzes the hydrolysis of 7-HCA to generate arachidonic acid and the highly fluorescent 7-hydroxyl coumarin (7-HC). Release of 7-HC was measured using a fluorometer. MAGL protein catalyzed the hydrolysis of 7-HCA with an apparent K(m) of 9.8 microM and V(max) of 1.7 mmol/min/mg of protein. The assay is specific for MAGL as assay buffer alone or heat-denatured MAGL protein had no significant activity against 7-HCA. Furthermore, MAGL activity was inhibited in a dose-dependent manner by the specific inhibitor URB602 as well as N-arachidonyl maleimide with 50% inhibitory concentration values of 3.1 microM and 155 nM, respectively. The assay was further optimized under different conditions, including pH range and bovine serum albumin protein and dimethyl sulfoxide concentrations. The assay was found to be reproducible, having Z' values ranging from 0.7 to 0.9, and is therefore suitable for high-throughput screening.
A psychological measurement model provides an explicit definition of (a) the theoretical and (b) the numerical relationships between observed scores and the latent variables that underlie the observed scores. Examination of the metric invariance of a measurement model involves testing the hypothesis that all components of the model relating observed scores to latent variables are equal across groups. The assumption of metric invariance is necessary for simple interpretation of scores. Establishing metric invariance also has implications for interpretation of convergent and divergent validity and patterns of deficit or disability. In this study the equivalence of the measurement model derived from the U.S. Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-III standardization sample was compared with a heterogeneous neurosciences sample in Australia. A pattern of strict metric invariance was observed across samples. These results provide evidence of the generality of the model underlying measurement of cognitive abilities.



Individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are often reported to be good at detecting minute changes in the environment. This study tested two factors in this phenomenon; detail-focus and reduced top-down influence of scene-schema expectations on spontaneous attention to visual scene elements. Using a change blindness paradigm, adults with ASD and matched typically developing (TD) adults were presented with images of naturalistic scenes (e.g., living room). Scene changes involved three types of object substitution: an object was replaced with (i) an unexpected scene-unrelated object, (ii) a scene-related object of a different basic-level category, (iii) or a different exemplar of the original object category. Top-down effects of scene-schema expectations should render scene-unrelated (i) substitutions easiest to recognize; detail focus should increase detection of exemplar changes. The TD group showed the expected condition effects, detecting scene-unrelated substitutions significantly better than both types of scene-related changes. By contrast, the ASD group showed no condition effect, and was only significantly slower and less accurate than the TD group in detecting scene-unrelated objects. These findings suggest reduced influence of schematic expectations on spontaneous attention in individuals with ASD. Together with other factors, this may contribute to the tendency to notice &quot;irrelevant&quot; changes in the environment.
Neuroligin-3 is a member of the class of cell adhesion proteins that mediate synapse development and have been implicated in autism. Mice with the human R451C mutation (NL3), identical to the point mutation found in two brothers with autism spectrum disorders, were generated and phenotyped in multiple behavioral assays with face validity to the diagnostic symptoms of autism. No differences between NL3 and their wildtype (WT) littermate controls were detected on measures of juvenile reciprocal social interaction, adult social approach, cognitive abilities, and resistance to change in a spatial habit, findings which were replicated in several cohorts of males and females. Physical and procedural abilities were similar across genotypes on measures of general health, sensory abilities, sensorimotor gating, motor functions, and anxiety-related traits. Minor developmental differences were detected between NL3 and WT, including slightly different rates of somatic growth, slower righting reflexes at postnatal days 2-6, faster homing reflexes in females, and less vocalizations on postnatal day 8 in males. Significant differences in NL3 adults included somewhat longer latencies to fall from the rotarod, less vertical activity in the open field, and less acoustic startle to high decibel tones. The humanized R451C mutation in mice did not result in apparent autism-like phenotypes, but produced detectable functional consequences that may be interpreted in terms of physical development and/or reduced sensitivity to stimuli.
The superior cervical ganglion (SCG) neurons contain a considerable amount of zinc ions, but little is known about the zinc homeostasis in the SCG. It is known that zinc transporter 7 (ZnT7, Slc30a7), a member of the Slc30 ZnT family, is involved in mobilizing zinc ions from the cytoplasm into the Golgi apparatus. In the present study, we examined the expression and localization of ZnT7 and labile zinc ions in the mouse SCG using immunohistochemistry, Western blot and in vivo zinc selenium autometallography (AMG). Our immunohistochemical analysis revealed that the ZnT7 immunoreactivity in the SCG neurons was predominately present in the perinuclear region of the neurons, suggesting an affiliation to the Golgi apparatus. The Western blot results verified that ZnT7 protein was expressed in the mouse SCGs. The AMG reaction product was shown to have a similar distribution as ZnT7 immunoreactivity. These observations support the notion that ZnT7 may participate in zinc transport, storage, and incorporation of zinc into zinc-binding proteins in the Golgi apparatus of mouse SCG neurons.

Transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) are slowly progressive and fatal neurodegenerative diseases affecting man and animals. They are caused by pathological isoforms (PrP(Sc)) of the host-encoded cellular prion protein (PrP(C)). There are two crucial factors for the initiation of infection, namely host cells PrP(C) expression and sufficient sequence homology between the PrP(Sc) to which the animal is exposed and its own PrP(C). In acquired TSEs, the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) is the main prion entry site. Hence, it is of paramount importance to an understanding of the early pathogenesis of prion infections, to characterize the GIT cell types constitutively expressing PrP(C). Twenty-three mice were utilized, including wild-type (WT), Prnp knock-out (KO), and PrP(C)-overexpressing (tga20/tga20) animals, of 20-30 g in weight and of either sex. In all three groups of mice, PrP(C)-immunoreactivity (IR), along with glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-IR and synaptophysin (Syn)-IR were investigated by means of indirect immunofluorescence in wholemount preparations from several gut regions, from duodenum to rectum. In WT mice, PrP(C)-IR and GFAP-IR co-localization was observed in enteric glial cells (EGCs) from all intestinal segments. PrP(C)-overexpressing mice showed a stronger PrP(C)-IR in EGCs, whereas the same cells exhibited no PrP(C)-IR in Prnp-KO mice. Our findings clearly indicate that EGCs of the mouse intestine constitutively express PrP(C); thus they could be a potential target for infectious prions.
Neuroconstructivism: How the Brain Constructs Cognition proposes a unifying framework for the study of cognitive development that brings together (1) constructivism (which views development as the progressive elaboration of increasingly complex structures), (2) cognitive neuroscience (which aims to understand the neural mechanisms underlying behavior), and (3) computational modeling (which proposes formal and explicit specifications of information processing). The guiding principle of our approach is context dependence, within and (in contrast to Marr [1982]) between levels of organization. We propose that three mechanisms guide the emergence of representations: competition, cooperation, and chronotopy; which themselves allow for two central processes: proactivity and progressive specialization. We suggest that the main outcome of development is partial representations, distributed across distinct functional circuits. This framework is derived by examining development at the level of single neurons, brain systems, and whole organisms. We use the terms encellment, embrainment, and embodiment to describe the higher-level contextual influences that act at each of these levels of organization. To illustrate these mechanisms in operation we provide case studies in early visual perception, infant habituation, phonological development, and object representations in infancy. Three further case studies are concerned with interactions between levels of explanation: social development, atypical development and within that, developmental dyslexia. We conclude that cognitive development arises from a dynamic, contextual change in embodied neural structures leading to partial representations across multiple brain regions and timescales, in response to proactively specified physical and social environment.
The shy-bold continuum is a fundamental behavioral trait conserved across human and nonhuman animals. Individual differences along the shy-bold continuum are presumed to arise from, and are maintained by, differences in the excitability of forebrain limbic areas involved in the evaluation of stimulus saliency. To test this hypothesis, the authors conducted an event-related functional MRI (fMRI) study in which brain scans were acquired on shy and bold adults during the presentation of neutral stranger and personally familiar faces. Shy adults exhibited greater bilateral amygdala activation during the presentation of stranger faces and greater left amygdala activation during personally familiar faces than their bold counterparts. Bold adults exhibited greater bilateral nucleus accumbens activation in response to stranger and personally familiar faces than shy adults. Findings suggest that there are distinct neural substrates underlying and maintaining individual differences along a shy-bold continuum in humans.
Postpartum rats are less anxious than diestrous virgin females, a phenomenon requiring that mothers have recent contact with their infants. Oxytocin (OT) is one of many neurochemicals released intracerebrally while mothers interact with infants, and we investigated whether OT receptor activity in the ventrocaudal periaqueductal gray (cPAGv) contributes to mothers' reduced anxiety. Infusion of the highly specific OT receptor antagonist, desGly-NH2,d(CH2)5[D-Tyr2,Thr-sup-4]OVT, into the cPAGv reduced the percentage of time dams spent in the open arms of an elevated plus-maze, but had no effect on the open-arm behavior of diestrous virgins. Conversely, after separating dams from their litters for 4 hr to increase anxiety, a lower (2 ng) but not higher (5 ng) dose of OT infused into each hemisphere of the cPAGv doubled the percentage of time dams spent in open arms, but did not do so in virgins. OTergic manipulations inconsistently affected risk-assessment behaviors (stretch-attend postures, head dips) in both virgins and dams. Therefore, OT receptor activation in the cPAGv is an important consequence of contact with infants that reduces some anxiety-related behaviors in mother rats.
Experiments in completely spinal cord transected (Tx) cats have provided compelling evidence that clonidine combined with tail stimulation can promote locomotor function recovery. However, clonidine has generally failed to induce locomotor activity in other comparable animal models suggesting the existence of species- or condition-specific effects. This study aimed at investigating the effects of clonidine administered (0.25 or 5.0 mg/kg, i.p.) in mice during tail pinching in early (6-7 days post-Tx) or late (41-42 days post-Tx) paraplegic animals (Th9/10 level). Comparisons were made with the effects induced by 8-OH-DPAT (1.0 mg/kg, i.p.), a 5-HT1A/7 receptor agonist known to display prolocomotor effects. Clonidine with or without tail pinching failed to induce hind limb movements and even suppressed the frequency of spontaneously occurring nonlocomotor (NLM) and locomotor-like movements (LM) whereas tail pinching alone (prior to clonidine administration) increased the frequency of spontaneous movements specifically in late chronic animals. In turn, 8-OH-DPAT clearly induced hind limb movements that remained relatively unchanged during tail pinching. Altogether, the results suggest that the prolocomotor effects of clonidine reported elsewhere must depend upon stimuli or factors that remain to be identified.
Recent research has examined the effects on behavioral adjustment of a range of within-session changes in the reinforcer ratio available from two alternatives. Regularities between extended patterns of behavior (choice) and a distribution of food deliveries (expressed as a food-rate ratio) have emerged from such studies. To assess the generality of these findings, the present study manipulated rats' experience in the choice situation. Sixteen rats were divided into two groups of eight rats each. Seven non-signaled food-rate ratios were arranged to occur for responses on two concurrently available levers. Group 1 experienced a different food-rate ratio every day; each ratio provided 70 food deliveries, and none of the seven ratios operated for 2 consecutive days. Group 2 experienced the same sequence of food-rate ratios, except that each food-rate ratio remained in effect for 17 consecutive days (providing 70 food deliveries per session), after which a different food-rate ratio was selected for the next 17 sessions. In all cases, preference was adjusted to changes in food-rate ratios. Estimates of sensitivity to changes in food-rate ratios increased with an increasing number of sessions (i.e., experience in the choice situation).
This paper presents a formal symbolic language, with its own specialized vocabulary and grammar, for codifying any behavioral contingency, including the complex multiparty contingencies encountered in law, economics, business, public affairs, sociology, education, and psychotherapy. This language specifies the &quot;if, then&quot; and temporal relationships between acts and their consequences for the parties involved. It provides for the notation of the probabilities, magnitudes, positive or negative valences, or time delays of the consequences for the parties, and for the parties that would perceive, misperceive, not perceive, predict, mispredict, or not predict events. The language's fractal-like hierarchical and recursive grammar provides for the flexible combination and permutation of the modifiers of the language's four nouns: acts, consequences, time intervals, and agents of acts; and its four verbs: consequate, prevent, perceive, and predict-thereby giving the language the ability to describe and codify various nuances of such complex contingencies as fraud, betting, blackmail, various types of games, theft, crime and punishment, contracts, family dynamics, racing, competition, mutual deterrence, feuding, bargaining, deception, borrowing, insurance, elections, global warming, tipping for service, vigilance, sexual overtures, decision making, and mistaken identity. Applications to the management of practical situations and techniques for doing so, as well as applications in current behavior analysis research and neuroscience, are discussed.
Inhibition of insulin-regulated aminopeptidase (IRAP) has been demonstrated to facilitate memory in rodents, making IRAP a potential target for the development of cognitive enhancing therapies. In this study, we generated a 3-D model of the catalytic domain of IRAP based on the crystal structure of leukotriene A4 hydrolase (LTA4H). This model identified two key residues at the 'entrance' of the catalytic cleft of IRAP, Ala427 and Leu483, which present a more open arrangement of the S1 subsite compared with LTA4H. These residues may define the size and 3-D structure of the catalytic pocket, thereby conferring substrate and inhibitor specificity. Alteration of the S1 subsite by the mutation A427Y in IRAP markedly increased the rate of substrate cleavage V of the enzyme for a synthetic substrate, although a corresponding increase in the rate of cleavage of peptide substrates Leu-enkephalin and vasopressin was was not apparent. In contrast, [L483F]IRAP demonstrated a 30-fold decrease in activity due to changes in both substrate affinity and rate of substrate cleavage. [L483F]IRAP, although capable of efficiently cleaving the N-terminal cysteine from vasopressin, was unable to cleave the tyrosine residue from either Leu-enkephalin or Cyt6-desCys1-vasopressin (2-9), both substrates of IRAP. An 11-fold reduction in the affinity of the peptide inhibitor norleucine1-angiotensin IV was observed, whereas the affinity of angiotensin IV remained unaltered. In additionm we predict that the peptide inhibitors bind to the catalytic site, with the NH2-terminal P1 residue occupying the catalytic cleft (S1 subsite) in a manner similar to that proposed for peptide substrates.
mRNA turnover in human mitochondria, one of the key mechanisms governing mitochondrial gene expression, still presents an unsolved puzzle. The present article summarizes the current research on the mechanisms and enzymes that may be involved in that process.
The sirtuins are a family of enzymes which control diverse and vital cellular functions, including metabolism and aging. Manipulations of sirtuin activities cause activation of anti-apoptotic, anti-inflammatory, anti-stress responses, and the modulation of an aggregation of proteins involved in neurodegenerative disorders. Recently, sirtuins were found to be disease-modifiers in various models of neurodegeneration. However, almost in all instances, the exact mechanisms of neuroprotection remain elusive. Nevertheless, the manipulation of sirtuin activities is appealing as a novel therapeutic strategy for the treatment of currently fatal human disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Here, we review current data which support the putative therapeutic roles of sirtuin in aging and in neurodegenerative diseases and the feasibility of the development of sirtuin-based therapies.
Previously we demonstrated that insulin protects against neuronal oxidative stress by restoring antioxidants and energy metabolism. In this study, we analysed how insulin influences insulin-(IR) and insulin growth factor-1 receptor (IGF-1R) intracellular signaling pathways after oxidative stress caused by ascorbate/Fe2+ in rat cortical neurons. Insulin prevented oxidative stress-induced decrease in tyrosine phosphorylation of IR and IGF-1R and Akt inactivation. Insulin also decreased the active form of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) upon oxidation. Since phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI-3K)/Akt-mediated inhibition of GSK-3beta may stimulate protein synthesis and decrease apoptosis, we analysed mRNA and protein expression of &quot;candidate&quot; proteins involved in antioxidant defense, glucose metabolism and apoptosis. Insulin prevented oxidative stress-induced increase in glutathione peroxidase-1 and decrease in hexokinase-II expression, supporting previous findings of changes in glutathione redox cycle and glycolysis. Moreover, insulin precluded Bcl-2 decrease and caspase-3 increased expression. Concordantly, insulin abolished caspase-3 activity and DNA fragmentation caused by oxidative stress. Thus, insulin-mediated activation of IR/IGF-1R stimulates PI-3K/Akt and inhibits GSK-3beta signaling pathways, modifying neuronal antioxidant defense-, glucose metabolism- and anti-apoptotic-associated protein synthesis. These and previous data implicate insulin as a promising neuroprotective agent against oxidative stress associated with neurodegenerative diseases.
Endogenously expressed human canonical transient receptor potential 1 (hTRPC1) and human canonical transient receptor potential 6 (hTRPC6) have been shown to play a role in store-operated Ca2+ entry (SOCE) in human platelets, where two mechanisms for SOCE, regulated by the dense tubular system (DTS) or the acidic granules, have been identified. In cells preincubated for 1 min with 100 microM flufenamic acid we show that hTRPC6 is involved in SOCE activated by both mechanisms, as demonstrated by selective depletion of the DTS or the acidic stores, using thapsigargin (TG) (10 nM) or 2,5-di-(tert-butyl)-1,4-hydroquinone (TBHQ) (20 microM), respectively, although it is more relevant after acidic store depletion. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments indicated that depletion of both stores separately results in time-dependent interaction between hTRPC1 and hTRPC6, and also between both hTRPCs and the type II IP3 receptor (IP3RII). The latter was greater after treatment with TG. TBHQ-induced coupling between hTRPC1 and 6 was transient and decreased after 30s of treatment, while that induced by TG increased for at least 3 min. TBHQ induced association between SERCA3, located in the acidic stores, hTRPC1, hTRPC6 and Orai1. TBHQ also evoked coupling between SERCA3 and IP3RII, presumably located in the DTS, thus suggesting interplay between both Ca2+ stores. Similarly, TG induces the interaction of SERCA2b with hTRPC1 and 6 and the IP3RII. The interactions between hTRPC1, hTRPC6, IP3RII and SERCA3 were impaired by disruption of the microtubules, supporting a role for microtubules in Ca2+ homeostasis. In conclusion, the present data demonstrate for the first time that hTRPC1, hTRPC6, IP3RII and SERCA3 are parts of a macromolecular protein complex activated by depletion of the intracellular Ca2+ stores in human platelets.
Tissue kallikrein KLK1 and the kallikrein-related peptidases KLK2-15 are a subfamily of serine proteases that have defined or proposed roles in a range of central nervous system (CNS) and non-CNS pathologies. To further understand their potential activity in multiple sclerosis (MS), serum levels of KLK1, 6, 7, 8 and 10 were determined in 35 MS patients and 62 controls by quantitative fluorometric ELISA. Serum levels were then correlated with Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) scores determined at the time of serological sampling or at last clinical follow-up. Serum levels of KLK1 and KLK6 were elevated in MS patients (p&lt;or=0.027), with highest levels associated with secondary progressive disease. Elevated KLK1 correlated with higher EDSS scores at the time of serum draw and KLK6 with future EDSS worsening in relapsing remitting patients (p&lt;or=0.007). Supporting the concept that KLK1 and KLK6 promote degenerative events associated with progressive MS, exposure of murine cortical neurons to either kallikrein promoted rapid neurite retraction and neuron loss. These novel findings suggest that KLK1 and KLK6 may serve as serological markers of progressive MS and contribute directly to the development of neurological disability by promoting axonal injury and neuron cell death.
In nature, sounds from objects of interest arrive at the ears accompanied by sound waves from other actively emitting objects and by reflections off of nearby surfaces. Despite the fact that all of these waveforms sum at the eardrums, humans with normal hearing effortlessly segregate one sound source from another. Our laboratory is investigating the neural basis of this perceptual feat, often called the &quot;cocktail party effect&quot;, using the barn owl as an animal model. The barn owl, renowned for its ability to localize sounds and its spatiotopic representation of auditory space, is an established model for spatial hearing. Here, we briefly review the neural basis of sound-localization of a single sound source in an anechoic environment and then generalize the ideas developed therein to cases in which there are multiple, concomitant sound sources and acoustical reflection.
Recently, we proposed an ensemble-coding scheme of the midbrain superior colliculus (SC) in which, during a saccade, each spike emitted by each recruited SC neuron contributes a fixed minivector to the gaze-control motor output. The size and direction of this 'spike vector' depend exclusively on a cell's location within the SC motor map (Goossens and Van Opstal, in J Neurophysiol 95: 2326-2341, 2006). According to this simple scheme, the planned saccade trajectory results from instantaneous linear summation of all spike vectors across the motor map. In our simulations with this model, the brainstem saccade generator was simplified by a linear feedback system, rendering the total model (which has only three free parameters) essentially linear. Interestingly, when this scheme was applied to actually recorded spike trains from 139 saccade-related SC neurons, measured during thousands of eye movements to single visual targets, straight saccades resulted with the correct velocity profiles and nonlinear kinematic relations ('main sequence properties' and 'component stretching'). Hence, we concluded that the kinematic nonlinearity of saccades resides in the spatial-temporal distribution of SC activity, rather than in the brainstem burst generator. The latter is generally assumed in models of the saccadic system. Here we analyze how this behaviour might emerge from this simple scheme. In addition, we will show new experimental evidence in support of the proposed mechanism.
Synaptic plasticity is considered to be the biological substrate of learning and memory. In this document we review phenomenological models of short-term and long-term synaptic plasticity, in particular spike-timing dependent plasticity (STDP). The aim of the document is to provide a framework for classifying and evaluating different models of plasticity. We focus on phenomenological synaptic models that are compatible with integrate-and-fire type neuron models where each neuron is described by a small number of variables. This implies that synaptic update rules for short-term or long-term plasticity can only depend on spike timing and, potentially, on membrane potential, as well as on the value of the synaptic weight, or on low-pass filtered (temporally averaged) versions of the above variables. We examine the ability of the models to account for experimental data and to fulfill expectations derived from theoretical considerations. We further discuss their relations to teacher-based rules (supervised learning) and reward-based rules (reinforcement learning). All models discussed in this paper are suitable for large-scale network simulations.



Perinatal exposures to endocrine-disrupting chemicals, such as polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), can cause latent effects on reproductive function. Here, we tested whether PCBs administered during late pregnancy would compromise reproductive physiology in both the fetally exposed female offspring (F1 generation), as well as in their female offspring (F2 generation). Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with the PCB mixture, Aroclor 1221 (A1221; 0, 0.1, 1, or 10 mg/kg), on Embryonic Days 16 and 18. Somatic and reproductive development of F1 and their F2 female offspring were monitored, including ages of eye opening, pubertal landmarks, and serum reproductive hormones. The results showed that low doses of A1221 given during this critical period of neuroendocrine development caused differential effects of A1221 on F1 and F2 female rats. In both generations, litter sex ratio was skewed toward females. In the F1 generation, additional effects were found, including a significant alteration of serum LH in the 1 mg/kg A1221 group. The F2 generation showed more profound alterations, particularly with respect to fluctuations in hormones and reproductive tract tissues across the estrous cycle. On proestrus, the day of the preovulatory GnRH/gonadotropin surge, F2 females whose mothers had been exposed perinatally to A1221 exhibited substantially suppressed LH and progesterone concentrations, and correspondingly smaller uterine and ovarian weights on estrus, compared with F2 descendants of control rats. These latter changes suggest a dysregulation of reproductive physiology. Thus, low levels of exposure to PCBs during late fetal development cause significant effects on the maturation and physiology of two generations of female offspring. These findings have implications for reproductive health and fertility of wildlife and humans.
Lamotrigine (LTG), an antiepileptic drug, has been shown to be able to improve cerebral ischemic damage by limiting the presynaptic release of glutamate. The present study investigated further the neuroprotective effect of LTG on hypoxic-ischemic brain damage (HIBD) in neonatal rats and its relations to administration time and doses. The HIBD model was produced in 7-days old SD rats by left common carotid artery ligation followed by 2 h hypoxic exposure (8% oxygen). LTG was administered intraperitoneally with the doses of 5, 10, 20, and 40 mg/kg 3 h after operation and the dose of 20 mg/kg 1 h before and 3 h, 6 h after operation. Blood and brain were sampled 24 h after operation. Nissl staining, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase biotin-dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL), and neuron-specific enolase (NSE) immunohistochemical staining were used for morphological studies. Water content in left cortex and NSE concentration in serum were determined. LTG significantly reduced water content in the cerebral cortex, as well as the number of TUNEL staining neurons in the dentate gyrus and cortex in hypoxic-ischemia (HI) model. Furthermore, LTG significantly decreased the NSE level in serum and increased the number of NSE staining neurons in the cortex. These effects, except that on water content, were dose-dependent and were more remarkable in the pre-treated group than in the post-treated groups. These results demonstrate that LTG may have a neuroprotective effect on acute HIBD in neonates. The effect is more prominent when administrated with higher doses and before HI.
Axonal regeneration does not occur easily after an adult central nervous system (CNS) injury. Various attempts have partially succeeded in promoting axonal regeneration after the spinal cord injury (SCI). Interestingly, several recent therapeutic concepts have emerged from or been tightly linked to the researches on brain development. In a developing brain, remarkable and dynamic axonal elongation and sprouting occur even after the injury; this finding is essential to the development of a therapy for SCI. In this review, we overview the revealed mechanism of axonal tract formation and plasticity in the developing brain and compare the differences between a developing brain and a lesion site in an adult brain. One of the differences is that mature glial cells participate in the repair process in the case of adult injuries. Interestingly, these cells express inhibitory molecules that impede axonal regeneration such as myelin-associated proteins and the repulsive guidance molecules found originally in the developing brain for navigating axons to specific routes. Some reports have clearly elucidated that any treatment designed to suppress these inhibitory cues is beneficial for promoting regeneration and plasticity after an injury. Thus, understanding the developmental process will provide us with an important clue for designing therapeutic strategies for recovery from SCI.


Ferumoxtran-10 is an ultrasmall superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticle potentially useful as a contrast material in magnetic resonance imaging for the diagnosis of inflammatory and degenerative disorders associated with high macrophage activity. In clinical trials, it is currently applied to monitor the effect of atorvastatin therapy on macrophage activity in human carotid plaques. A recent study reported the inhibition of iron oxide nanoparticle uptake in macrophages by lovastatin, an effect which could compromise the suitability of Ferumoxtran-10 as an MRI contrast material in patients on statin therapy. Therefore, we examined the effect of atorvastatin on human monocyte-macrophage uptake of Ferumoxtran-10 in vitro using biochemical assays, magnetic resonance imaging and transmission electron microscopy. Our study showed that non-toxic concentrations of atorvastatin did not affect the amount of Ferumoxtran-10 taken up by HMMs. Furthermore, the intracellular distribution of iron oxide nanoparticles and the resulting MRI signal intensities remained unchanged by statin treatment. These results were obtained using atorvastatin concentrations probably vastly exceeding those reached in patient plasma in vivo. Atorvastatin therapy itself is therefore unlikely to affect Ferumoxtran-10 based macrophage detection by MRI, a prerequisite for the use of this contrast material to monitor lesion macrophage burden during lipid-lowering therapy.
The 'NMDA hypofunction hypothesis of schizophrenia' can be tested in a number of ways. DAO is the enzyme primarily responsible for the metabolism of d-serine, a co-agonist for the NMDA receptor. We identified novel DAO inhibitors, in particular, acid 1, which demonstrated moderate potency for DAO in vitro and ex vivo, and raised plasma d-serine levels after dosing ip to rats. In parallel, analogues were prepared to survey the SARs of 1.
The combined effects of cholesterol, a major cell membrane component, and the lipid second messenger diacylglycerol on the activity of protein kinase C (PK-C) and the structure of phosphatidylcholine/phosphatidylserine bilayers were investigated using specific PK-C assays and (2)H NMR. Whereas the classical activation of PK-C was observed as an effect of diacylglycerol, in the absence of this second messenger, cholesterol did not affect PK-C activity. A novel effect of amplified PK-C activation was observed in the presence of both cholesterol and diacylglycerol concentrations within the physiological range of each of these components. (2)H NMR results suggest that this phenomenon is due to cholesterol- and diacylglycerol-induced increased propensity of the lipids to adopt nonbilayer phases, effectively destabilizing the bilayer structure. The magnitude of the effect was a function of cholesterol concentration, implying that laterally separated cell membrane domains with distinct cholesterol concentrations have the capacity to differ in their sensitivity to extracellular stimuli.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation is a remarkable tool for neuroscience research, with a multitude of diagnostic and therapeutic applications. Surprisingly, application of the same magnetic stimulation directly to neurons that are dissected from the brain and grown in vitro was not reported to activate them to date. Here we report that central nervous system neurons patterned on large enough one-dimensional rings can be magnetically stimulated in vitro. In contrast, two-dimensional cultures with comparable size do not respond to excitation. This happens because the one-dimensional pattern enforces an ordering of the axons along the ring, which is designed to follow the lines of the magnetically induced electric field. A small group of sensitive (i.e., initiating) neurons respond even when the network is disconnected, and are presumed to excite the entire network when it is connected. This implies that morphological and electrophysiological properties of single neurons are crucial for magnetic stimulation. We conjecture that the existence of a select group of neurons with higher sensitivity may occur in the brain in vivo as well, with consequences for transcranial magnetic stimulation.
The mammalian protein deacetylase SIRT1 (sirtuin1) is widely recognized for its link to calorie restriction and longevity. SIRT1 not only modulates the function of protein targets such as p53 or NFkappaB, but it also affects gene transcription by causing hypoacetylation of associated nucleosomal histones. However, the identification of SIRT1-specific DNA targets that confer chromosomal stability and cell longevity have remained elusive. Here, we report the usefulness of a ChIP-cloning approach for the identification of an endogenous DNA target intimately linked with SIRT1 activity. Using the aforementioned technique, we identified a gene encoding the neuro-oncological ventral antigen2 (nova2) as a SIRT1 target. Nova2 regulates the alternative splicing of scn1a, which encodes the alpha-subunit of a neuronal sodium channel targeted by antiepileptic drugs. This finding demonstrates that ChIP-cloning is an innovative approach for the identification of SIRT1-specific DNA targets.
Mitochondrial components are continuously distributed throughout the whole chondriome of a cell by fusion and fission. Thus, a single mitochondrion represents a transient fraction of the chondriome. Mitochondrial dynamics are responsible for intracellular distribution and reaction of mitochondria to functional requirements. Dynamics occur on different levels: overall morphology, inner membrane-matrix compartment, turnover and rearrangements of mitochondrial proteins and DNA. Electron micrographs of serial sections of human umbilical vein endothelial cells reveal perinuclear mitochondria of extreme length and with branches in those cells that also have short peripheral mitochondria. Interactions of mitochondria with cytoskeletal elements are revealed in cells treated with cytochalasin D to destroy actin fibrillar structures or after disassembling microtubule by nocodazole. In the latter case mitochondria not only become immobilized, they also acquire a multiple ring structure. In F-actin-disturbed cells, motility (shape changes in particular) is increased and the mitochondria become elongated. Mechanisms of how F-actin might render mitochondria immobile may involve dynamin-related protein 1 (DRP1) or interaction with anion channels. This may be responsible for the lack of mitochondrial motility in senescent cells. Fusion between mitochondria revealed local fluctuations of mitochondrial red fluorescent protein (mtRFP), indicating novel fast inner membrane reorganizations. Mitochondrial dynamics result from a complex interplay between the molecular organization of the inner membrane-matrix complex and cytoskeletal elements outside.
Disorders caused by mitochondrial respiratory chain deficiency due to mutations in mitochondrial DNA have varied phenotypes but many involve neurological features often associated with cell loss within specific brain regions. These disorders, along with the increasing evidence of decline in mitochondrial function with ageing, have raised speculation that primary changes in mitochondria could have an important role in age-related neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease (PD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Evidence supporting a role for mitochondria in common neurodegenerative diseases comes from studies with the toxin MPP+ and familial PD, which has been shown to involve proteins such as DJ-1 and Pink1 (both of which are predicted to have a role in mitochondrial function and oxidative stress). Mutations within the mitochondrial genome have been shown to accumulate with age and in common neurodegenerative diseases. Mitochondrial DNA haplogroups have also been shown to be associated with certain neurodegenerative conditions. This review covers the primary mitochondrial diseases but also discuss the potential role of mitochondria and mitochondrial DNA mutations in mitochondrial and neurodegenerative diseases, in particular in PD and in AD.




We report the case of an adolescent with a thoracic spine astrocytoma whose initial presentation was communicating hydrocephalus. We speculate that the mechanism may be reduced meningeal compliance due to meningeal spread of the tumour. Craniospinal MR imaging should be considered as part of the routine work up for patients presenting with unexplained hydrocephalus, elevated CSF protein and/or long tract symptoms/signs.
It has been suggested that potential risk of hemiballismus after subthalamotomy makes DBS preferable to ablation for IPD treatment; however, cost and the need for regular electrode control have also been observed as disadvantages to stimulation. The objective was to compare efficacy and safety of different surgical approaches to STN, in a prospective randomized pilot study. Sixteen consecutive IPD patients randomized to receive either: bilateral STN-DBS, bilateral subthalamotomy or unilateral subthalamotomy plus contralateral STN-DBS implantation, and followed for 12 months after surgery. One patient died and was excluded from the analysis. Total and motor UPDRS scores, as well as drug-induced dyskinesias improved significantly at 1 year follow-up, regardless of the procedure administered and without statistically significant differences between treatment modalities. Discrete changes were observed on ACE and MMSE scores. Psychiatric examination of patients subjected to bilateral stimulation and lesion, revealed slight increment in apathy and irritability scores, coinciding with significant deterioration of mentation, behaviour and mood as measured using the UPDRS. One patient presented persistent hemiballismus and required ulterior posteroventral pallidotomy. In this small group of patients, overall motor performance significantly improved after all three procedures, without major differences in outcome. Adverse events were, nevertheless, observed after both ablation and stimulation. The role of bilateral subthalamotomy in patients unable to receive a DBS electrode-implant merits further exploration in a larger series of patients with longer follow-up.
Choroid plexus neoplasms are rare intracranial neoplasms. Significant differences exist in their presentation and management in paediatric and adult populations. The present study aims to study the differences among the paediatric and adult population, various factors affecting the outcome, and the clinical and histological correlation. This is a retrospective study of 47 patients with choroid plexus neoplasms managed at NIMHANS from 1984 to 2004. The case records and images were retrieved and reviewed. The various histopathological features were outlined and histopathology reviewed accordingly. For follow-up, patients were contacted by letter or telephone and the necessary information obtained. Follow-up was available in 41 out of 47 patients. Sixty per cent patients were in the paediatric age group and 40% were adults. Forty-three per cent of children with tumours were less than 1 year of age. The lateral ventricle was the most common site of involvement in the paediatric group compared with the fourth ventricle in adults. Calcification is seen on CT scan more often in papillomas and in adult tumours. Invasion of surrounding parenchyma may be seen in both papillomas and carcinomas. However, in papillomas it is by nests of tumour cells compared with carcinomas wherein invasion is by individual tumour cells. Hydrocephalus is present irrespective of location and size of the tumour. Gross total excision is more feasible in adults. Large tumour size, excessive blood loss, higher incidence of carcinomas result in partial excision of these tumours in the paediatric group. Subdural collections and tumour bed haematomas are more common complications in the paediatric group after resection of tumour. These tumours have significant differences among paediatric and adult groups. Carcinomas are predominantly seen in younger children. Invasion of brain parenchyma by nests of cells does not carry a poor prognosis. The outcomes are better in adults.
The objective of this study was to review the results of randomized Phase III controlled trials (RCTs) that involve initial treatments of malignant glioma and determine changes in median survival times (MST) over the last 40 years. An electronic database search identified RCTs for patients undergoing initial treatment for supratentorial high-grade malignant glioma. MSTs were analysed with respect to the date that patient accrual to the trial started, to identify the time course of changes in MST. Linear regression was used for statistical analysis. The review included 44 clinical trials that recruited patients between 1966 and 2004. Overall, there was a steady significant improvement in MST for the novel treatment cohorts over this period (r(2) = 0.43, p &lt; 0.001), with MST increasing from around 8 to 15 months. There was also consistent improvement in the MST of the control cohorts, from around 7 months to 14 months, that reached statistical significance (r(2) = 0.41, p &lt; 0.001). However, analysis including a quadratic term revealed a trend towards the rate of improvement in MST decreasing in the last two decades in the control, but not novel treatment, groups. The differences, either positive or negative, in MSTs between the control and novel treatment cohorts, and number of trials performed have all decreased with time. Subgroup analysis of the three most recent clinical trials report statistically significant better outcomes in MST after either &gt;90% or 'complete' tumour resection. Despite tremendous advances in both the understanding of the biology of malignant gliomas and treatments in neuro-oncology, the prognosis for patients with malignant gliomas, although improved, remains very poor. The limitations of this type of analysis, including how trial design can bias outcomes and militate against comparison of trials are discussed.
Some spectacular results from genetic manipulation of laboratory rodents and increasing developments in human gene therapy raise the spectre of genetic modification or 'gene doping' in sports. Candidate targets include the induction of muscle hypertrophy through overexpression of specific splice variants of insulin-like growth factor-1 or blockade of the action of myostatin, increasing oxygen delivery by raising the hematocrit through the use of erythropoietin, induction of angiogenesis with vascular endothelial growth factors or related molecules and changes in muscle phenotype through expression of peroxisome-proliferator-activated receptor- delta and associated molecules. Some of these potential genetic enhancements, particularly where the genetic modification and its action are confined to the muscles, may be undetectable using current tests. This had lead to exaggerated predictions that gene doping in athletics will be common within the next few years. However, a review of the methods of gene transfer and the current 'state of the art' in development of genetic treatments for human disease show that the prospects for gene doping remain essentially theoretical at present. Despite this conclusion, it will be important to continue to monitor improvements in the technology and to develop methods of detection, particularly those based on identifying patterns of changes in response to doping as opposed to the detection of specific agents.



Temporal lobe epilepsy remains amongst the most common and drug refractory of neurological disorders. Gene therapy may provide a realistic therapeutic approach alternative to surgery for intractable focal epilepsies. To test this hypothesis, we applied here a gene therapy approach, using a recombinant adeno-associated viral (rAAV) vector expressing the human neuropeptide Y (NPY) gene, to a progressive and spontaneous seizure model of temporal lobe epilepsy induced by electrical stimulation of the temporal pole of the hippocampus, which replicates many features of the human condition. rAAV-NPY or a control vector lacking the expression cassette (rAAV-Empty) was delivered into the epileptic rat hippocampi at an early progressive stage of the disease. Chronic epileptic rats were video-EEG monitored to establish pre-injection baseline recordings of spontaneous seizures and the effect of rAAV-NPY versus rAAV-Empty vector injection. Both non-injected stimulated controls and rAAV-empty injected rats showed a similar progressive increase of spontaneous seizure frequency consistent with epileptogenesis. The delivery of rAAV-NPY in epileptic rat brain leads to a remarkable decrease in the progression of seizures as compared to both control groups and this effect was correlated with the NPY over-expression in the hippocampus. Moreover, spontaneous seizure frequency was significantly reduced in 40% of treated animals as compared to their pre-injection baseline. Our data show that this gene therapy strategy decreases spontaneous seizures and suppresses their progression in chronic epileptic rats, thus representing a promising new therapeutic strategy.
The mechanisms underlying the right hemisphere's dominance for spatial and attentional functions lacks a comprehensively explanation. For example, perceptual biases, as observed in line bisection and related tasks, might be caused by an attentional asymmetry or by perceptual processes such as a specialization of the left and right hemisphere for high and low spatial frequencies (SFs), respectively. Here we used the gratingscales task to measure perceptual bias in SF judgements, and we cued participants' attention either to high or low SFs. Participants showed a leftward bias when comparing the high SF components of the stimulus, and a rightward bias when comparing the low SF components-opposite to what would be expected from a hemispheric lateralization for SFs. Two control experiments used different strategies to manipulate the width of the attentional window. However, we observed no influence on perceptual bias, thus ruling out the possibility that the results in Experiment 1 were due to differences in attentional window size. These data support the idea of an attentional asymmetry underlying perceptual bias. Our results provide novel support for the role of attentional asymmetry in perceptual biases.
When we move to music we feel the beat, and this feeling can shape the sound we hear. Previous studies have shown that when people listen to a metrically ambiguous rhythm pattern, moving the body on a certain beat--adults, by actively bouncing themselves in synchrony with the experimenter, and babies, by being bounced passively in the experimenter's arms--can bias their auditory metrical representation so that they interpret the pattern in a corresponding metrical form [Phillips-Silver, J., &amp; Trainor, L. J. (2005). Feeling the beat: Movement influences infant rhythm perception. Science, 308, 1430; Phillips-Silver, J., &amp; Trainor, L. J. (2007). Hearing what the body feels: Auditory encoding of rhythmic movement. Cognition, 105, 533-546]. The present studies show that in adults, as well as in infants, metrical encoding of rhythm can be biased by passive motion. Furthermore, because movement of the head alone affected auditory encoding whereas movement of the legs alone did not, we propose that vestibular input may play a key role in the effect of movement on auditory rhythm processing. We discuss possible cortical and subcortical sites for the integration of auditory and vestibular inputs that may underlie the interaction between movement and auditory metrical rhythm perception.
Interaction between the cerebral hemispheres may allow both hemispheres to contribute their processing resources in order to cope efficiently with complex tasks [Banich, M. (1998). The missing link: the role of interhemispheric interaction in attentional processing. Brain and Cognition, 36, 128-157]. The current study investigated whether the benefits of interhemispheric interaction arise because of top-down knowledge about the task built up over the course of a block of trials or because of the processing demands present in a single trial. Participants performed a less computationally complex physical identity task and a more complex adding task on within-visual field and across-visual field trials. Task differences in interhemispheric interaction were compared between the blocked and mixed conditions to investigate whether frequent task switches altered the pattern of interhemispheric resource recruitment. A similar interaction between task difficulty and trial type (across- or within-visual field presentation) was obtained for both the blocked and mixed conditions. The degree of task-dependency of interhemispheric interaction was not altered in the mixed condition. This finding supports the view that interhemispheric interaction becomes beneficial in response to the processing demands of an individual trial rather than as a result of top-down task knowledge.
Recent investigations have emphasized the involvement of fronto-subcortical networks to proverb comprehension. Although the prefrontal cortex is thought to be affected by normal aging, relatively little work has been carried out to investigate potential effects of aging on proverb comprehension. In the present investigation participants in three age groups were assessed on a proverb comprehension task and a range of executive function tasks. The older group showed impairment in selecting correct interpretations from alternatives. They also showed executive function deficits, as reflected by reduced working memory and deficient set shifting and inhibition abilities. The findings of the present investigation showed proverb comprehension deficits in normal aging which appeared to be related to reduced executive skills.
Previous research suggests that the left hemisphere (LH) focuses on strongly related word meanings; the right hemisphere (RH) may contribute uniquely to the processing of lexical ambiguity by activating and maintaining a wide range of meanings, including subordinate meanings. The present study used the word-lists false memory paradigm [Roediger, H. L. III., &amp; McDermott, K. B. (1995). Creating false memories: Remembering words not presented in lists. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 21, 803-814.] to examine whether these differences between the two cerebral hemispheres in semantic processing also affect memory representations for different meanings of ambiguous words. Specifically, we tested the differences between the LH and RH in recollecting unpresented, semantically related, ambiguous words following the presentation of lists of words all related to either the dominant or the subordinate meanings of these ambiguous words. Findings showed that for the unpresented ambiguous words, the LH made more false alarms than the RH for the dominant lists, whereas the opposite pattern emerged for subordinate lists. Moreover, d' analyses showed that, whereas the LH was more sensitive to subordinate than dominant meanings, the RH showed no differences in sensitivity for the two types of word-lists. Taken as a whole, these results support the RH coarse semantic coding theory [Beeman, M. (1998). Coarse semantic coding and discourse comprehension. In Beeman &amp; M., Chiarello, C. (Eds.), Right hemisphere language comprehension: Perspectives from cognitive neuroscience (pp. 255-284). Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum; Jung-Beeman, M. (2005). Bilateral brain processes for comprehending natural language. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 9, 512-518.] indicating that during word recognition, the RH activates and maintains a broader and less differentiated range of related meanings than the LH, including both dominant and subordinate meanings of ambiguous words. Furthermore, the findings suggest that hemispheric differences in ambiguity resolution during language processing extend also to verbal memory.
This study presents results from a sentence completion test that examines the production of finite main clauses and non-finite relative clauses in Turkish agrammatic speech. In main clauses, the verb is finite and all its constituents are in their base positions. In relative clauses, the verb is a participle and the NP undergoes overt movement to an A-bar position. The results show that non-finite relative clauses with overt movement as such are more difficult to produce than finite main clauses with a base order. The findings are discussed with respect to several hypotheses on finite verbs and syntactic complexity. The conclusion is that Turkish agrammatic speakers have more problems in producing structurally derived clauses and the production of verbs is influenced by linguistic factors such as the overt movement of the NP.
In 1906, Pierre Marie triggered a heated controversy and an exchange of articles with Jules Djerine over the localization of language functions in the human brain. The debate spread internationally. One of the timeliest responses, that appeared in print 1 month after Marie's paper, came from Christofredo Jakob, a Bavarian-born neuropathologist working in Buenos Aires. The present study comprises an English translation of Jakob's 1906 paper and a discussion of Jakob's ideas on the localizationist-holistic approach regarding the role of Broca's area. This issue is still at the core of scientific debate in the light of current neuropsychological and neuroimaging findings.
Recent progress in clinical genetics has explored various mutations or associated genes in both familial and sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Mutations in superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) account for 20% of familial ALS, and mutant SOD1 transgenic mice are still regarded as the best ALS model animals for the first step of therapeutic estimation. Emerging evidence indicates that SOD1 is secreted in spite of lacking translocation signal. We previously found chromogranins interact with ALS-linked SOD1 mutants, but not with wild-type, and promote the secretion SOD1 mutants. Moreover, extracellular SOD1 mutant activates microglia and kills motor neuron. This scenario may well explain non-cell-autonomous fashion of mutant SOD1-induced pathology in ALS. Accordingly, vaccination targeting extracellular SOD1 mutants significantly delays disease onset and prolongs lifespan of mutant SOD1 transgenic mice. Moreover, intraventricular application of ant-mutant SOD1 antibody also showed beneficial effect. In this review, the rationale between protein misfolding of mutant SOD1 and effect of immunization is delineated and further perspective of this non-invasive treatment not only for mutant SOD1 but also for sporadic ALS is discussed.
Although the exact mechanisms underlying peripheral neuropathy in Crow-Fukase syndrome (CFS), also known as POEMS syndrome, remain obscure, careful scrutiny of the pathological changes in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and systemic organs by using biopsy and autopsy materials may provide useful information regarding the pathogenesis and future therapeutics of the syndrome. In this review, previous biopsy/autopsy studies on CFS were systematically reviewed and the details of the pathological changes in the PNS and vascular system were noted. Most biopsied nerves revealed the characteristics of axonal degeneration and demyelination together; however, the nerve roots obtained at autopsy showed massive demyelination with few axonal changes. This morphological discrepancy can be interpreted as primary demyelination in the proximal PNS and secondary axonal degeneration in the distal PNS. Another histological hallmark of the syndrome is edema in the endoneurial space. Changes in the endoneurial and epineurial microvessels, including hyperplasia of endothelial cells, were occasionally observed. Endoneurial edema and microvascular changes can be attributed to the high serum concentration of vascular endothelial growth factor in this disorder, and the derangement in endoneurial homeostasis due to impaired blood-nerve barrier can be considered a possible pathomechanism underlying peripheral neuropathy in the CFS.
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), functional MRI (fMRI) and Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI) have been central to characterisation of abnormalities in brain structure and function in both clinical and preclinical Huntington's disease (HD). One current challenge in clinical HD research is the identification of sensitive and reliable biomarkers to detect progressive neurodegeneration and neural dysfunction, which could be used to assess the effect of therapeutic intervention on brain structure and function in a HD clinical trial. To this end, both established and novel neuroimaging approaches could potentially provide sensitive, reliable and non-invasive tools to assess long-term and dynamic effects of treatment on specific brain regions, including their microstructure and connectivity. This review examines contributions from structural MRI, fMRI and DTI studies to our current understanding of preclinical and clinical HD, and critically appraises MRI methods potentially suitable for both scientific characterisation and for use as biomarkers in HD clinical trials. A combined neuroimaging approach incorporating structural MRI, fMRI and DTI is yet to be realised in HD clinical trials, however if proven to be sensitive and reliable, these methods could potentially serve as biomarkers for use in future clinical drug trials in HD.
The nociceptive nervous system and the immune system serve to defend and alarm the host of imminent or actual damage. However, persistent or recurring exposure of neurons to activated immune cells is associated with an increase in painful behavior following experimental neuropathic injuries. Our understanding of the functional consequences of immune cell-neuron interaction is still incomplete. The purpose of this review is to focus on a seriously detrimental consequence of chronic activation of these two systems, by discussing the contributions of microglia and polymorphonuclear neutrophils to neuropathic pain following experimental spinal cord injury or peripheral nerve injury. Identification of molecules mediating pro-nociceptive signaling between immune cells and neurons, as well as the distinction between neuroprotective versus neuroexcitatory effects of activated immune cells, may be useful in the development of pharmacotherapy for the management of chronic pain and restoration of the beneficial alarm function of pain.
Substance abuse and addiction are the most costly of all the neuropsychiatric disorders. In the last decades, much progress has been achieved in understanding the effects of the drugs of abuse in the brain. However, efficient treatments that prevent relapse have not been developed. Drug addiction is now considered a brain disease, because the abuse of drugs affects several brain functions. Neurological impairments observed in drug addicts may reflect drug-induced neuronal dysfunction and neurotoxicity. The drugs of abuse directly or indirectly affect neurotransmitter systems, particularly dopaminergic and glutamatergic neurons. This review explores the literature reporting cellular and molecular alterations reflecting the cytotoxicity induced by amphetamines, cocaine and opiates in neuronal systems. The neurotoxic effects of drugs of abuse are often associated with oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, apoptosis and inhibition of neurogenesis, among other mechanisms. Understanding the mechanisms that underlie brain dysfunction observed in drug-addicted individuals may contribute to improve the treatment of drug addiction, which may have social and economic consequences.
Surprisingly effortless is the human capacity known as &quot;mentalizing&quot;, i.e., the ability to explain and predict the behavior of others by attributing to them independent mental states, such as beliefs, desires, emotions or intentions. This capacity is, among other factors, dependent on the correct anticipation of the dynamics of facially expressed emotions based on our beliefs and experience. Important information about the neural processes involved in mentalizing can be derived from dynamic recordings of neural activity such as the EEG. We here exemplify how the so-called Bayesian probabilistic models can help us to model the neural dynamic involved in the perception of clips that evolve from neutral to emotionally laden faces. Contrasting with conventional models, in Bayesian models, probabilities can be used to dynamically update beliefs based on new incoming information. Our results show that a reproducible model of the neural dynamic involved in the appraisal of facial expression can be derived from the grand mean ERP over five subjects. One of the two models used to predict the individual subject dynamic yield correct estimates for four of the five subjects analyzed. These results encourage the future use of Bayesian formalism to build more detailed models able to describe the single trial dynamic.
The investigation of perceptual and cognitive functions with non-invasive brain imaging methods critically depends on the careful selection of stimuli for use in experiments. For example, it must be verified that any observed effects follow from the parameter of interest (e.g. semantic category) rather than other low-level physical features (e.g. luminance, or spectral properties). Otherwise, interpretation of results is confounded. Often, researchers circumvent this issue by including additional control conditions or tasks, both of which are flawed and also prolong experiments. Here, we present some new approaches for controlling classes of stimuli intended for use in cognitive neuroscience, however these methods can be readily extrapolated to other applications and stimulus modalities. Our approach is comprised of two levels. The first level aims at equalizing individual stimuli in terms of their mean luminance. Each data point in the stimulus is adjusted to a standardized value based on a standard value across the stimulus battery. The second level analyzes two populations of stimuli along their spectral properties (i.e. spatial frequency) using a dissimilarity metric that equals the root mean square of the distance between two populations of objects as a function of spatial frequency along x- and y-dimensions of the image. Randomized permutations are used to obtain a minimal value between the populations to minimize, in a completely data-driven manner, the spectral differences between image sets. While another paper in this issue applies these methods in the case of acoustic stimuli (Aeschlimann et al., Brain Topogr 2008), we illustrate this approach here in detail for complex visual stimuli.
Recent technological advances with the scalp EEG methodology allow researchers to record electric fields generated in the human brain using a large number of electrodes or sensors (e.g. 64-256) distributed over the head surface (multi-channel recording). As a consequence, such high-density ERP mapping yields fairly dense ERP data sets that are often hard to analyze comprehensively or to relate straightforwardly to specific cognitive or emotional processes, because of the richness of the recorded signal in both the temporal (millisecond time-resolution) and spatial (multidimensional topographic information) domains. Principal component analyses (PCA) and topographic analyses (combined with distributed source localization algorithms) have been developed and successfully used to deal with this complexity, now offering powerful alternative strategies for data-driven analyses in complement to more traditional ERP analyses based on waveforms and peak measures. In this paper, we first briefly review the basic principles of these approaches, and then describe recent ERP studies that illustrate how they can inform about the precise spatio-temporal dynamic of emotion processing. These studies show that the perception of emotional visual stimuli may produce both quantitative and qualitative changes in the electric field configuration recorded at the scalp level, which are not apparent when using conventional ERP analyses. Additional information gained from these approaches include the identification of a sequence of successive processing stages that may not fully be reflected in ERP waveforms only, and the segregation of multiple or partly overlapping neural events that may be blended within a single ERP waveform. These findings highlight the added value of such alternative analyses when exploring the electrophysiological manifestations of complex and distributed mental functions, as for instance during emotion processing.
Recent findings from event-related potentials (ERPs) studies provided strong evidence that centrally presented emotional pictures could be used to assess affective processing. Moreover, several studies showed that emotionally charged stimuli may automatically attract attention even if these are not consciously identified. Indeed, such perceptive conditions can be compared to those typical of the peripheral vision, particularly known to have low spatial resolution capacities. The aim of the present study was to characterize at behavioral and neural levels the impact of emotional visual scenes presented in peripheral vision. Eighteen participants were asked to categorize neutral and unpleasant pictures presented at central (0 degrees ) and peripheral eccentricities (-30 and +30 degrees ) while ERPs were recorded from 63 electrodes. ERPs were analysed by means of spatio-temporal principal component analyses (PCA) in order to evaluate influences of the emotional content on ERP components for each spatial position (central vs. peripheral). Main results highlight that affective modulation of early ERP components exists for both centrally and peripherally presented pictures. These findings suggest that, for far peripheral eccentricities as for central vision, the brain engages specific resources to process emotional information.
Recent observations suggest that the vasoactive peptide endothelin-1 (ET-1) may be an important contributor to the etiology of glaucoma. ET-1 administration has been shown to produce optic nerve axonal loss and apoptosis of retinal ganglion cells. Ocular ET-1 levels are elevated in aqueous humor in response to elevated intraocular pressure both in glaucoma patients and in animal models of glaucoma; however, the precise mechanisms by which ET-1 mediates glaucomatous optic neuropathy are not clear. Presently we report that ET-1-mediated apoptosis was markedly attenuated in ETB receptor-deficient rats, suggesting a key role for ETB receptors in apoptosis of retinal ganglion cells by ET-1 treatment. Using virally transformed rat retinal ganglion cells (RGC-5 cells), we found that ET-1 (100 nmol/L) treatment produced apoptotic changes in these cells that was determined by flow cytometric analyses, release of mitochondrial cytochrome c to the cytosol, and increased phosphorylation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase. Pretreatment with the ETB-receptor antagonist BQ788 (1 micromol/L) was able to significantly attenuate ET-1-mediated apoptosis in RGC-5 cells. ET-1-mediated apoptotic changes in RGC-5 cells were associated with ETB-receptor activation and were accompanied by a significant upregulation of ETB-receptor expression. These studies suggest that ocular ET-1 acts through ETB receptors to mediate apoptosis of retinal ganglion cells, a key event in glaucoma and related optic neuropathies.
Caspase-3 is the executioner caspase of apoptosis whose activation in mammalian cells represents the last stage of the programmed cell death signaling pathway and the initiation of the lethal digestion of cell proteins. Active caspase-3 is a tetramer composed of two p12 and two p17 subunits derived from cleavage of procaspase-3 during activation. Here, we armed GFP-fusion proteins of both the caspase-3 p12 and p17 subunits with signals from Ig-kappa light chain that allows its efficient secretion from the cells (Sec) and from HIV-1 Tat that facilitates its uptake and nuclear translocation by other cells (NLS). We found that treatment of cells with conditioned media from cells expressing both Sec-GFP-p17-NLS and Sec-GFP-p12-NLS was able to transduce active caspase-3 with consequent cell death of treated cultures. Use of various combinations of constructs demonstrated that both subunits were required and that each one needed to possess both Sec and NLS. Our observations introduce a bidirectional protein transduction system with the ability to introduce active caspase-3 into cells and cause apoptosis. This system may have important therapeutic applications.
Endogenous formation of the mutagenic DNA adduct 1,N(6)-ethenoadenine (epsilon A) originates from lipid peroxidation. Elevated levels of epsilon A in cancer-prone tissues suggest a role for this adduct in the development of some cancers. The base excision repair pathway has been considered the principal repair system for epsilon A lesions until recently, when it was shown that the Escherichia coli AlkB dioxygenase could directly reverse the damage. We report here kinetic analysis of the recombinant human AlkB homologue 2 (hABH2), which is able to repair epsilon A lesions in DNA. Furthermore, cation exchange chromatography of nuclear extracts from wild-type and mABH2(-/-) mice indicates that mABH2 is the principal dioxygenase for epsilon A repair in vivo. This is further substantiated by experiments showing that hABH2, but not hABH3, is able to complement the E. coli alkB mutant with respect to its defective repair of etheno adducts. We conclude that ABH2 is active in the direct reversal of epsilon A lesions, and that ABH2, together with the alkyl-N-adenine-DNA glycosylase, which is the most effective enzyme for the repair of epsilon A, comprise the cellular defense against epsilon A lesions.
Essential hypertension has devastating effects on the brain, being the major cause of stroke and a leading cause of dementia. Hypertension alters the structure of cerebral blood vessels and disrupts intricate vasoregulatory mechanisms that assure an adequate blood supply to the brain. These alterations threaten the cerebral blood supply and increase the susceptibility of the brain to ischemic injury as well as Alzheimer's disease. This review focuses on the mechanisms by which hypertension disrupts cerebral blood vessels, highlighting recent advances and outstanding issues.

Galanin, a neuropeptide widely expressed in the central and peripheral nervous systems and in the endocrine system, has been shown to regulate numerous physiological and pathological processes through interactions with three G-protein-coupled receptors, GalR1 through GalR3. Over the past decade, some of the receptor subtype-specific effects have been elucidated through pharmacological studies using subtype selective ligands, as well as through molecular approaches involving knockout animals. In the present review, we summarize the current data which constitute the basis of targeting GalR1, GalR2 and GalR3 for the treatment of various human diseases and pathological conditions, including seizure, Alzheimer's disease, mood disorders, anxiety, alcohol intake in addiction, metabolic diseases, pain and solid tumors.
Since the discovery of galanin in 1983, one of the most frequently mentioned possible physiological functions for this peptide is spinal pain modulation. This notion, initially based on the preferential presence of galanin in dorsal spinal cord, has been supported by results from a large number of morphological, molecular and functional studies in the last 25 years. It is generally agreed that spinally applied galanin produces a biphasic dose-dependent effect on spinal nociception through activation of GalR1 (inhibitory) or GalR2 (excitatory) receptors. Galanin also appears to have an inhibitory role endogenously, particularly after peripheral nerve injury when the synthesis of galanin is increased in sensory neurons. In recent years, small-molecule ligands of galanin receptors have been developed, raising the hope that drugs affecting galaninergic transmission may be used as analgesics.
The neuropeptide galanin and its receptors are localized in brain pathways mediating learning and memory. Central microinjection of galanin impairs performance of a variety of cognitive tasks in rats. Transgenic mice overexpressing galanin display deficits in some learning and memory tests. The inhibitory role of galanin in cognitive processes, taken together with the overexpression of galanin in Alzheimer's disease, suggests that galanin antagonists may offer a novel therapeutic approach to treat memory loss in Alzheimer's patients.
The pathophysiology of depression remains unclear, but involves disturbances in brain monoaminergic transmission. Current antidepressant drugs, which act by enhancing this type of transmission, have limited therapeutic efficacy in a number of patients, and not rarely serious side-effects. Increasing evidence suggests that neuropeptides, including galanin, can be of relevance in mood disorders. Galanin is coexpressed with and modulates noradrenaline and serotonin systems, both implicated in depression. Pharmacological and genetic studies have suggested a role for galanin in depression-like behaviour in rodents, whereby the receptor subtype involved appears to play an important role. Thus, stimulation of GalR1 and/or GalR3 receptors results in depression-like phenotype, while activation of the GalR2 receptor attenuates depression-like behaviour. These findings suggest that galanin receptor subtypes represent targets for development of novel antidepressant drugs.
We investigated coupling of OX(1) receptors to phospholipase activation and diacylglycerol generation in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells using both biochemical and fluorescence &quot;real-time&quot; methods. The results indicate that at lowest orexin-A concentrations (highest potency), diacylglycerol generated results from phospholipase D activity. At 10-100-fold higher orexin-A concentrations, phospholipase C is activated, likely hydrolyzing phosphatidylinositol (PI) or phosphatidylinositol monophosphate (PIP) but not phosphatidylinositol bisphosphate (PIP(2)). At further 7-fold higher orexin-A concentrations, PIP(2) is hydrolyzed, releasing both diacylglycerol and inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate. Thus, OX(1) orexin receptors connect to multiple phospholipase activities, apparently composed of at least one phospholipase D and two different phospholipase C activities. At low agonist concentrations, diacylglycerol and phosphatidic acid are the preferred products, and interestingly, it seems that even the primarily activated phospholipase C mainly works to increase diacylglycerol and not inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate.
A modest reduction in body temperature prolongs longevity and may retard aging in both poikilotherm and homeotherm animals. Some of the possible mechanisms mediating these effects are considered here with respect to major aging models and theories.
Neuromelanin and lipofuscin are two pigments produced within the human brain that, until recently, were considered inert cellular waste products of little interest to neuroscience. Recent research has increased our understanding of the nature and interactions of these pigments with their cellular environment and suggests that these pigments may, indeed, influence cellular function. The physical appearance and distribution of the pigments within the human brain differ, but both accumulate in the aging brain and the pigments share some structural features. Lipofuscin accumulation has been implicated in postmitotic cell aging, while neuromelanin is suggested to function as an iron-regulatory molecule with possible protective functions within the cells which produce this pigment. This review presents comparative aspects of the biology of neuromelanin and lipofuscin, as well as a discussion of their hypothesized functions in brain and their possible roles in aging and neurodegenerative disease.
The use of human biological specimens in scientific research is the focus of current international public and professional concern and a major issue in bioethics in general. Brain/Tissue/Bio banks (BTB-banks) are a rapid developing sector; each of these banks acts locally as a steering unit for the establishment of the local Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and the legal regulations and ethical guidelines to be followed in the procurement and dissemination of research specimens. An appropriat Code of Conduct is crucial to a successful operation of the banks and the research application they handle. What are we still missing ? (1) Adequate funding for research BTB-banks. (2) Standard evaluation protocls for audit of BTB-bank performance. (3) Internationally accepted SOP's which will facilitate exchange and sharing of specimens and data with the scientific community. (4) Internationally accepted Code of Conduct. In the present paper we review the most pressing organizational, methodological, medico-legal and ethical issues involved in BTB-banking; funding, auditing, procurement, management/handling, dissemination and sharing of specimens, confidentiality and data protection, genetic testing, &quot;financial gain&quot; and safety measures. Taking into consideration the huge variety of the specimens stored in different repositories and the enormous differences in medico-legal systems and ethics regulations in different countries it is strongly recommend that the health-care systems and institutions who host BTB-Banks will put more efforts in getting adequate funding for the infrastructure and daily activities. The BTB-banks should define evaluation protocols, SOPs and their Code of Conduct. This in turn will enable the banks to share the collected specimens and data with the largest possible number of researchers and aim at a maximal scientific spin-off and advance in public health research.
Neuronal aromatase, the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of androgens to estrogens, is involved in brain sexual differentiation, the regulation of reproductive behavior, and gonadotropin secretion. We have previously reported that aromatase P450 (AromP450) protein expression is enhanced by both androgens and estrogens in the principal nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (prBST) and posterodorsal part of the medial amygdaloid nucleus (pdMAm) of the adult rat but is not altered in the central amygdaloid nucleus (CeAm) even after sex-steroid withdrawal or supplementation. Here, we have evaluated, via in situ hybridization with digoxigenin-labeled cRNA probes, the sex-steroidal regulation of brain AromP450 mRNA in the prBST, pdMAm, and CeAm of orchidectomized and adrenalectomized adult male rats treated with sesame oil, testosterone (1 mg/rat/day), dihydrotestosterone (1 mg/rat/day), or 17beta-estradiol (2 microg/rat/day) for 6 days. AromP450-mRNA expression in the prBST and pdMAm was markedly reduced in orchidectomized/adrenalectomized rats treated with sesame oil but strongly enhanced by testosterone or dihydrotestosterone and significantly reinstated by 17beta-estradiol. These results are essentially consistent with those of AromP450 protein expression and thus indicate that enhanced AromP450-protein expression in the prBST and pdMAm reflects transcriptional upregulation and/or post-transcriptional stabilization of its mRNA by sex steroids. In the CeAm, despite moderate AromP450-protein expression, the mRNA has never been detected with or without sex-steroidal manipulations, indicating that the putative sex-steroid-insensitive AromP450 mRNA in the CeAm may be distinct from that in the prBST and pdMAm or, if it occurs at all, expressed at much lower levels.
Transcription factor Pax6 plays an important role in fate determination of neural progenitor cells in animal models, yet, its distribution and role in the human developing brain have not been reported. Here we demonstrated that Pax6 was strongly expressed in dorsal and ventral proliferative zones, mainly in proliferating radial glia (RG) cells, some neuronal and intermediate progenitors, and sporadic deep cortical plate neurons. In contrast to reports in rodents, Pax6 in the human fetal brain occasionally colocalized with ventral transcription factor Olig2 in progenitor cells. Transfection with short interfering RNA abolished Pax6 expression in the cell cultures of human fetal RG, and significantly decreased the number of neurons generated from Pax6 knock-down cells. Hence, Pax6 has a critical role in neurogenic regulation of RG cells in the human forebrain, similar to reports in rodents. What is different in human forebrain is that Pax6 seems to regulate not only the genesis of cortical pyramidal neurons, but also a subpopulation of interneurons from both dorsal and ventral sources. Thus, regional distribution, colocalization with Olig2, and the role of Pax6 in neurogenesis of both projection and interneurons, suggest that developmental regulation by transcription factors may differ in primates and nonprimate mammals.
Information gleaned from learning and memory processes is essential in guiding behavior toward a specific goal. However, the neural mechanisms that determine how these processes are effectively utilized to guide goal-directed behavior are unknown. Here, we show that rats utilize retrospective and prospective memory and flexible switching between these 2 memory processes to guide behaviors to obtain rewards. We found that retrospective memory is mainly processed in the hippocampus (HPC) but that this retrospective information must be incorporated within the prefrontal cortex (PFC) to be used to switch to an anticipatory response strategy involving prospective memory. Furthermore, switching between memory processes is regulated by the mesocortical dopamine (DA) system. Thus, DA D1 and D2 receptor activation in the PFC differentially affects retrospective memory processing within the HPC via an indirect feedback pathway. In contrast, D1, but not D2, receptor activation is crucial for incorporation of HPC-based retrospective information into the PFC. However, once this takes place, D2 receptor activation is required for further processing of information to effect preparation of future actions. These results provide a unique perspective on the mechanism of memory-based goal-directed behavior.
In the present study we explored with a multidisciplinary approach, the role of anandamide (AEA) in the modulation of anxiety behavior at the level of the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Low doses of the metabolically stable AEA analog, methanandamide, microinjected into the PFC, produced an anxiolytic-like response in rats, whereas higher doses induced anxiety-like behaviors. Pretreatment with the selective antagonist of CB1 or TRPV1 receptors (AM251 and capsazepine, respectively) suggested that the anxiolytic effect evoked by AEA might be due to the interaction with the CB1 cannabinoid receptor, whereas vanilloid receptors seem to be involved in AEA anxiogenic action. When AEA contents in the PFC were increased by microinjecting the selective inhibitor of fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), URB597, we observed an anxiolytic response only at low doses of the compound and no effect or even an anxiogenic profile at higher doses. In line with this, a marked decrease of AEA levels in the PFC, achieved by lentivirus-mediated local overexpression of FAAH, produced an anxiogenic response. These findings support an anxiolytic role for physiological increases in AEA in the PFC, whereas more marked increases or decreases of this endocannabinoid might lead to an anxiogenic response due to TRPV1 stimulation or the lack of CB1 activation, respectively.
The role of the frontal lobe in cross-modal visual-auditory processing has been documented in experiments using incongruent/congruent paradigms. In this study, 4 patients with left frontal World Health Organization Grade II glioma were assessed during pre-, intra-, and postoperative sessions with picture-naming and verbal-visual task requiring judgment of congruence between pictures and words. During awake brain surgery, the naming and cross-modal tasks were coupled with electrical stimulation inactivating restricted specific regions. For all patients, focal brain stimulation in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex elicited picture-word matching disturbances but no naming impairment, and the elicited errors exclusively appeared in incongruent and not congruent conditions. The dissociation observed between correct picture naming and disturbed cross-modal judgment shows that electrical stimulation of a discrete cortical area within the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex can inhibit the simultaneous processing of visual-verbal information without disturbing larger networks involved in the naming process.
We use symbolic dynamics to describe Drosophila courtship communication. We posit that behavior should be defined in terms of irreducible periodic orbits of fundamental acts. This leads to a first operational definition of behavior, which allows for a fine grained quantitative analysis of behavior. We obtain evidence that during Drosophila courtship, individual characteristics of the protagonists are exchanged (predominantly from the male to the female) and that males in the presence of fruitless males perform a behavioral switch from male to female behavior.
Merkel cells are rare epidermal cells whose function in the skin is still debated. These cells localize to highly touch-sensitive areas of vertebrate epithelia, including palatine ridges, touch domes and finger tips. In most cases, Merkel cells complex with somatosensory afferents to form slowly adapting touch receptors; it is unclear, however, whether mechanosensory transduction occurs in the Merkel cell, the somatosensory afferent or both. Classic anatomical results suggests that Merkel cells are sensory cells that transduce mechanical stimuli and then communicate with sensory afferents via neurotransmission. This model is supported by recent molecular, immunohistochemical and physiological studies of Merkel cells in vitro and in intact tissues. For example, Merkel cells express essential components of presynaptic machinery, including molecules required for release of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate. Moreover, Merkel cells in vitro and in vivo are activated by mechanical stimuli, including hypotonic-induced cell swelling. Although these findings support the hypothesis that Merkel cells are sensory receptor cells, a definitive demonstration that Merkel cells are necessary and sufficient to transduce touch awaits future studies.






Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a widely recognized animal model of multiple sclerosis (MS), is highly useful for studying inflammation, demyelination, and neurodegeneration in the central nervous system (CNS). EAE exhibits many similarities with MS, which is a chronic inflammatory disease affecting CNS white matter in humans. Various studies have indicated that EAE is a particularly useful animal model for understanding both the mechanisms of immune-mediated CNS pathology and also the progressive clinical course of MS. Demyelination and axonal dysfunction have previously been shown in MS and EAE but current evidences indicate that axonal damage and neuron death also occur, demonstrating that these diseases harbor a neurodegenerative component. Recent studies also have shown that the activation of calpain and caspase pathways contribute to the apoptotic death of oligodendrocytes and neurons, promoting the pathological events leading to neurological deficits. Apoptosis is involved in the disease-regulating as well as in the disease-promoting processes in EAE. This review discusses the major involvement of calpain and caspase pathways in causing demyelination and neurodegeneration in EAE animals.
Pathophysiology of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with degeneration of dopaminergic neurons and inflammatory responses in the mid-brain substantia nigra (SN). However, central dopaminergic replenishment therapeutic strategy with L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), the precursor for dopamine synthesis, does not fully rescue these cells in SN or improve motor function. Besides, prolonged use of L-DOPA worsens the clinical symptoms in PD patients. Thus, there is a possibility that other areas of central nervous system may also be affected in this disease. Spinal cord, the final coordinator of movement in the central nervous system, may be one such site that is critically affected during pathogenesis of this complex movement disorder. In this review, we summarize the evidence in support of involvement of calpain, a Ca(2+)-activated non-lysosomal protease, in spinal cord degeneration in two models of experimental parkinsonism induced by the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl 1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine and also the environmental toxin rotenone. The key focus of this review is to discuss the role that calpain plays in disrupting the structural and functional integrity of the spinal cord in these experimental models of parkinsonism. A similar disruptive role of calpain has been reported earlier in SN of PD patients as well as in experimental PD animals. Studies in rodent and cell culture models of PD suggest that treatment with calpain inhibitors (e.g., calpeptin, MDL-28170) can prevent neuronal death and restore functions. Furthermore, the degradation of calpain substrates in both brain and spinal cord during pathogenesis of PD suggested a putative role of calpain, and calpain inhibition as a therapeutic strategy in PD.

Attention and awareness are closely related, but the nature of their relationship is unclear. The present study explores the timing and temporal evolution of their interaction with event-related potentials. The participants attended to specific conjunctions of spatial frequency and orientation in masked (unaware) and unmasked (aware) visual stimuli. A correlate of awareness appeared 100-200 msec from stimulus onset similarly to both attended and unattended features. Selection negativity (SN), a correlate of attentional selection, emerged in response to both masked and unmasked stimuli after 200 msec. This double dissociation between correlates of awareness and SN suggests that the electrophysiological processes associated with feature-based attentional selection and visual awareness of features can be dissociated from each other at early stages of processing. In a passive task, requiring no attention to the stimuli, early electrophysiological responses (before 200 msec) related to awareness were attenuated, suggesting that focal attention modulates visual awareness earlier than does selective feature-based attention.
The most prominent functional property of cortical neurons in sensory areas are their tuned receptive fields which provide specific responses of the neurons to external stimuli. Tuned neural firing indeed reflects the most basic and best worked out level of cognitive representations. Tuning properties can be dynamic on a short time-scale of fractions of a second. Such dynamic effects have been modeled by localised solutions (also called &quot;bumps&quot; or &quot;peaks&quot;) in dynamic neural fields. In the present work we develop an approximation method to reduce the dynamics of localised activation peaks in systems of n coupled nonlinear d-dimensional neural fields with transmission delays to a small set of delay differential equations for the peak amplitudes and widths only. The method considerably simplifies the analysis of peaked solutions as demonstrated for a two-dimensional example model of neural feature selectivity in the brain. The reduced equations describe the effective interaction between pools of local neurons of several (n) classes that participate in shaping the dynamic receptive field responses. To lowest order they resemble neural mass models as they often form the base of EEG-models. Thereby they provide a link between functional small-scale receptive field models and more coarse-grained EEG-models. More specifically, they connect the dynamics in feature-selective cortical microcircuits to the more abstract local elements used in coarse-grained models. However, beside amplitudes the reduced equations also reflect the sharpness of tuning of the activity in a d-dimensional feature space in response to localised stimuli.
In absence of all goal-directed behavior, a characteristic network of cortical regions involving prefrontal and cingulate cortices consistently shows temporally coherent fluctuations. The origin of these fluctuations is unknown, but has been hypothesized to be of stochastic nature. In the present paper we test the hypothesis that time delays in the network dynamics play a crucial role in the generation of these fluctuations. By tuning the propagation velocity in a network based on primate connectivity, we scale the time delays and demonstrate the emergence of the resting state networks for biophysically realistic parameters.
What is it like to have a body? The present study takes a psychometric approach to this question. We collected structured introspective reports of the rubber hand illusion, to systematically investigate the structure of bodily self-consciousness. Participants observed a rubber hand that was stroked either synchronously or asynchronously with their own hand and then made proprioceptive judgments of the location of their own hand and used Likert scales to rate their agreement or disagreement with 27 statements relating to their subjective experience of the illusion. Principal components analysis of this data revealed four major components of the experience across conditions, which we interpret as: embodiment of rubber hand, loss of own hand, movement, and affect. In the asynchronous condition, an additional fifth component, deafference, was found. Secondary analysis of the embodiment of runner hand component revealed three subcomponents in both conditions: ownership, location, and agency. The ownership and location components were independent significant predictors of proprioceptive biases induced by the illusion. These results suggest that psychometric tools may provide a rich method for studying the structure of conscious experience, and point the way towards an empirically rigorous phenomenology.
Harmonic priming studies have provided evidence that musical expectations influence sung phoneme monitoring, with facilitated processing for phonemes sung on tonally related (expected) chords in comparison to less-related (less-expected) chords [Bigand, Tillmann, Poulin, D'Adamo, and Madurell (2001). The effect of harmonic context on phoneme monitoring in vocal music. Cognition, 81, B11-B20]. This tonal relatedness effect has suggested two interpretations: (a) processing of music and language interact at some level of processing; and (b) tonal functions of chords influence task performance via listeners' attention. Our study investigated these hypotheses by exploring whether the effect of tonal relatedness extends to the processing of visually presented syllables (Experiments 1 and 2) and geometric forms (Experiments 3 and 4). For Experiments 1-4, visual target identification was faster when the musical background fulfilled listeners' expectations (i.e., a related chord was played simultaneously). In Experiment 4, the addition of a baseline condition (i.e., without an established tonal center) further showed that the observed difference was due to a facilitation linked to the related chord and not to an inhibition or disruption caused by the less-related chord. This outcome suggests the influence of musical structures on attentional mechanisms and that these mechanisms are shared between auditory and visual modalities. The implications for research investigating neural correlates shared by music and language processing are discussed.
Heterotrimeric G-proteins, comprising Galpha, Gbeta, and Ggamma subunits, are molecular switches that regulate numerous signaling pathways involved in cellular physiology. This characteristic is achieved by the adoption of two principal states: an inactive state in which GDP-bound Galpha is complexed with the Gbetagamma dimer, and an active state in which GTP-bound Galpha is freed of its Gbetagamma binding partner. Structural studies have illustrated the basis for the distinct conformations of these states which are regulated by alterations in three precise 'switch regions' of the Galpha subunit. Discrete differences in conformation between GDP- and GTP-bound Galpha underlie its nucleotide-dependent protein-protein interactions (e.g., with Gbetagamma/receptor and effectors, respectively) that are critical for maintaining their proper nucleotide cycling and signaling properties. Recently, several screening approaches have been used to identify peptide sequences capable of interacting with Galpha (and free Gbetagamma) in nucleotide-dependent fashions. These peptides have demonstrated applications in direct modulation of the nucleotide cycle, assessing the structural basis for aspects of Galpha and Gbetagamma signaling, and serving as biosensor tools in assays for Galpha activation including high throughput drug screening. In this review, we highlight some of the methods used for such discoveries and discuss the insights that can be gleaned from application of these identified peptides.

Social cognition, cognitive neuroscience, and neuroethics have reached a synthesis of late, but some troubling features are present. The neuroscience that currently dominates the study of social cognition is exclusively cognitive neuroscience, as contrasted with the cellular and increasingly molecular emphasis that has gripped mainstream neuroscience over the past three decades. Furthermore, the recent field of molecular and cellular cognition has begun to unravel some molecular mechanisms involved in social cognition, especially pertaining to the consolidation of memories of particular conspecific organisms. Some new experimental techniques for positive interventions into these hypothesized mechanisms offer opportunities for establishing direct causal linkages between intra-neuronal molecular events and the behaviors used to measure social cognitive phenomena. Predicted results from an experiment described below also cast doubt on the application of the &quot;extended mind&quot; approach from recent cognitive science to ground the neuroscience of social cognition. Since neuroethics relies heavily on our best neuroscience of social cognition, that field may soon need to extend its attention beyond cognitive neuroscience, and into neuroscience's cellular and molecular mainstream.
In this paper we discuss the issue of the processes potentially underlying the emergence of emotional consciousness in the light of theoretical considerations and empirical evidence. First, we argue that componential emotion models, and specifically the Component Process Model (CPM), may be better able to account for the emergence of feelings than basic emotion or dimensional models. Second, we advance the hypothesis that consciousness of emotional reactions emerges when lower levels of processing are not sufficient to cope with the event and regulate the emotional process, particularly when the degree of synchronization between the components reaches a critical level and duration. Third, we review recent neuroscience evidence that bolsters our claim of the central importance of the synchronization of neuronal assemblies at different levels of processing.
This paper, in opposition to the standard theories of social cognition found in psychology and cognitive science, defends the idea that direct perception plays an important role in social cognition. The two dominant theories, theory theory (TT) and simulation theory (ST), both posit something more than a perceptual element as necessary for our ability to understand others, i.e., to &quot;mindread&quot; or &quot;mentalize.&quot; In contrast, certain phenomenological approaches depend heavily on the concept of perception and the idea that we have a direct perceptual grasp of the other person's intentions, feelings, etc. This paper explains precisely what the notion of direct perception means, offers evidence from developmental studies, and proposes a non-simulationist interpretation of the neuroscience of mirror systems.
Insight is a cognitive feature that is usually regarded as being generated by the neocortex and being present only in humans and possibly some closely related primates. In this essay we show that especially corvids display behavioral skills within the domains of object permanence, episodic memory, theory of mind, and tool use/causal reasoning that are insightful. These similarities between humans and corvids at the behavioral level are probably the result of a convergent evolution. Similarly, the telencephalic structures involved in higher cognitive functions in both species show a high degree of similarity, although the forebrain of birds has no cortex-like lamination. The neural substrate for insight-related cognitive functions in mammals and birds is thus not necessarily based on a laminated cortical structure but can be generated by differently organized forebrains. Hence, neither is insight restricted to mammals, as predicted from a &quot;scala naturae&quot;, nor is the laminated cortex a prerequisite for the highest cognitive functions.
The neurocognitive structure of the acting self has recently been widely studied, yet is still perplexing and remains an often confounded issue in cognitive neuroscience, psychopathology and philosophy. We provide a new systematic account of two of its main features, the sense of agency and the sense of ownership, demonstrating that although both features appear as phenomenally uniform, they each in fact are complex crossmodal phenomena of largely heterogeneous functional and (self-)representational levels. These levels can be arranged within a gradually evolving, onto- and phylogenetically plausible framework which proceeds from basic non-conceptual sensorimotor processes to more complex conceptual and meta-representational processes of agency and ownership, respectively. In particular, three fundamental levels of agency and ownership processing have to be distinguished: The level of feeling, thinking and social interaction. This naturalistic account will not only allow to &quot;ground the self in action&quot;, but also provide an empirically testable taxonomy for cognitive neuroscience and a new tool for disentangling agency and ownership disturbances in psychopathology (e.g. alien hand, anarchic hand, anosognosia for one's own hemiparesis).
Confabulation, the pathological production of false memories, occurs following a variety of aetiologies involving the frontal lobes, and is frequently held to be underpinned by combined memory and executive deficits. However, the critical frontal regions and specific cognitive deficits involved are unclear. Studies in amnesic patients have associated confabulation with damage to the orbital and ventromedial prefrontal cortices. However, neuroimaging studies have associated memory-control processes which are assumed to underlie confabulation with the right lateral prefrontal cortex. We used a confabulation battery to investigate the occurrence and localisation of confabulation in an unselected series of 38 patients with focal frontal lesions. Twelve patients with posterior lesions and 50 healthy controls were included for comparison. Significantly higher levels of confabulation were found in the frontal group, confirming previous reports. More detailed grouping according to lesion location within the frontal lobe revealed that patients with orbital, medial and left lateral damage confabulated in response to questions probing personal episodic memory (PEM). Patients with orbital, medial and right lateral damage confabulated in response to questions probing orientation to time (OT). Performance-led analysis revealed that all patients who produced a total number of confabulations outside the normal range had a lesion affecting either the orbital region or inferior portion of the anterior cingulate. These data provide striking evidence that the critical deficit for confabulation has its anatomical location in the inferior medial frontal lobe. Performance on tests of memory and executive functioning showed considerable variability. Although a degree of memory impairment does seem necessary, performance on traditional executive tests is less helpful in explaining confabulation.
Fragile X syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder that is caused by the silencing of a single gene on the X chromosome, the fragile X mental retardation 1 (FMR1) gene. Affected individuals display a unique neurocognitive phenotype that includes significant impairment in inhibitory control, selective attention, working memory, and visual-spatial cognition. In contrast, little is known about the trajectory and specificity of any cognitive impairment associated with the fragile X premutation (i.e., &quot;carrier status&quot;) or its relationship with the recently identified neurodegenerative disorder, fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome (FXTAS). In the present study, we evaluated a broad sample of 40 premutation males (PM) aged 18-69 years matched on age and IQ to 67 unaffected comparison males (NC). Performance was compared across a range of cognitive domains known to be impaired in fragile X syndrome (i.e., &quot;full mutation&quot;). Tremor was also assessed using a self-report neurological questionnaire. PM displayed statistically significant deficits in their ability to inhibit prepotent responses, differentiating them from NC from age 30 onwards. With increasing age, the two groups follow different trajectories, with PM developing progressively more severe problems in inhibitory control. This deficit also has a strong co-occurrence in males displaying FXTAS-related symptomatology (p&lt;.001). Selective attention was also impaired in PM but did not show any disproportionate aging effect. No other cognitive deficits were observed. We conclude that an inhibitory deficit and its impact across the lifespan are specifically associated with the fragile X premutation status, and may be a precursor for development of a more severe form of cognitive impairment or dementia, which has been reported in patients with the diagnosis of FXTAS.
The genetics revolution has not evaded the neuroscience community. Neurologic diseases and injuries, particularly of the type seen in neurologic intensive care units, are difficult to treat and often have poor prognoses. Recent work has begun to identify genotype-specific influences on development and treatment of multiple sclerosis and stroke. Additionally, responses to diseases and injuries to the brain and spinal cord have genetic influences. This article informs nurses working with neurologically impaired patients in the intensive care unit of specific genes involved in patient response and potential future therapeutics.
Histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) belong to a novel class of drugs able to act on the epigenome, indirectly remodeling the spatial conformation of the chromatin: by increasing histone acetylation these drugs ultimately promote the detachment of the DNA from the nucleosome octamer, therefore allowing the access of transcription factors to the double helix. Such a mechanism of action is of particular interest in the field of cancer treatment, considering the reactivation of silenced tumor suppressor genes as an important target at which aiming; indeed, it is currently believed that dysregulation of the epigenome plays a major role in cancer. Interestingly, some of the compounds belonging to the HDACi family have also additional therapeutic properties, as in the case of valproate that may ameliorate neuropathic pain in animal models and in patients. Conceivably, this is a remarkable observation, since peripheral neuropathy is a potentially severe side effect of several classes of anticancer agents, such as platinum-derived drugs, antitubulins or protesome inhibitors, limiting an effective treatment of the underlying cancer. Based on these data, in this review we will argue that, with respect to other nowadays available anticancer agents, HDACi might offer the advantage not only to target the neoplastic disorder, but also to prevent peripheral neuropathies, possibly displaying a complementary mechanism of action.
The indirect dopamine (DA) agonist methamphetamine (MAP) is evaluated in terms of its impact on the speed of temporal processing across multiple time scales involving both interval and circadian timing. Behavioral and neuropharmacological aspects of drug abuse, habit formation, neurotoxicity, and the potential links between interval and circadian timing are reviewed. The view that emerges is one in which the full spectrum of MAP-induced effects on timing and time perception is both complex and dynamic in as much as it involves DA-glutamate interactions and gene expression within cortico-striatal circuitry spanning oscillation periods ranging from milliseconds to multiple hours. The conclusion is that the psychostimulant properties of MAP are very much embedded within the context of temporal prediction and the anticipation of reward.
Over the last decade there has been a steady increase in the prevalence of frequent cannabis use among teenagers, accompanied by a decrease in age of first use. Evidence from both animal and human studies suggests that the severity of the effects of cannabis use on cognitive development is dependent on the age when cannabis use begins. One possible explanation is that those who begin cannabis use early in adolescence are more likely to become heavily dependent. It is plausible that chronic cannabis abuse will then interfere with educational and vocational training. From a more biological perspective, however, use of cannabis during critical developmental periods in the still maturing brain may induce persistent alterations in brain structure and brain function. Therefore, the effects of frequent cannabis use during adolescence could be different from and more serious than during adulthood, an issue increasingly recognized in the field of cannabis research. In this paper we review the relevant animal and human literature on long-term effects of frequent exposure to cannabis during adolescence on the development of cognition, brain structure and function, and discuss implications, methodological and conceptual issues, and future prospects.

Inhibitory pathways in the neocortex display a variety of temporal and spatial patterns, maintaining a dynamic balance with excitatory synaptic activity. Recent studies have revealed prevalent polysynaptic subcircuits within the neocortical microcircuitry. These subcircuits involve excitatory and inhibitory connections that are activated by neurons both in supragranular and infragranular cortical layers and mediated by different mechanisms. Interestingly, in these subcircuits inhibition is induced by discharge of pyramidal cells, and excitation is caused by specific types of GABAergic interneurons. The different polysynaptic subcircuits are discussed with respect to their spatial and temporal properties and their possible functional role in cortical processing.
Action potential initiation, modulation, and duration in neurons depend on a variety of Na+ and K+ channels that are highly enriched at the axon initial segment (AIS). The AIS also has high densities of cell adhesion molecules (CAMs), modulatory proteins, and a unique extracellular matrix (ECM). In contrast to other functional domains of axons (e.g. the nodes of Ranvier and axon terminals) whose development depends on the interactions with different cells (e.g. myelinating glia and postsynaptic cells), the recruitment and retention of AIS proteins is intrinsically specified through axonal cytoskeletal and scaffolding proteins. We speculate that the AIS has previously unappreciated forms of plasticity that influence neuronal excitability, and that AIS plasticity is regulated by the developmental or activity-dependent modulation of scaffolding protein levels rather than directly altering ion channel expression.


Leptin and its actions in bone came to prominence in 2000, with the publication of two landmark articles identifying a novel interaction between energy and bone homeostasis, as well as a novel hypothalamic circuit to the skeleton. However, they also revealed the dichotomous nature of leptin's effect on the skeleton. Subsequent research has increased understanding of the factors critical to interpretation of the leptin-bone signaling. These include opposing effects in cortical and cancellous bone, central and peripheral effects, involvement of other neural and endocrine factors, and leptin receptor polymorphisms in human populations. It is clear that leptin can markedly influence the regulation of bone mass, and that study of this pathway continues to increase our knowledge of the biology of skeletal tissue and its interactions with other tissues. However, this relationship is complex and requires careful interpretation.
Described in this unit are the fear-potentiated startle (FPS) and light-enhanced startle (LES) tests. These protocols have proven reliable in detecting the anxiolytic properties of test compounds. The principle of these tests is that the magnitude of the acoustic startle reflex is an index of anxiety. The FPS test includes two training sessions in which an intrinsically aversive foot shock is paired with a neutral cue light. In the test session presentation of this cue light is subsequently used to elicit startle potentiation. In the LES test startle reactivity is increased by presentation of bright light. Because LES is based on the innate aversion of rodents for bright light it does not require training sessions. Although LES has been used less frequently than FPS for screening compounds, it has an advantage in that drug effects on startle potentiation are independent of memory retrieval. Further, the contextual anxiety measured in the LES test could be more relevant for pathological anxiety than the conditioned fear associated with the FPS test.
In the 2004 Olympic Games, opponents wearing red athletic uniforms were more likely to win against opponents wearing blue uniforms. To investigate whether this color bias extends to the world of virtual competition, we compared the performance of red and blue teams in a popular multiplayer first-person-shooter (FPS) computer game. For 3 consecutive months, we collected data from a publicly available global statistics server. Outcomes from 1,347 matches played by the top 10 players on the same virtual arena were included. Red teams won 54.9% of matches, and this effect was highly significant. Our data suggest that joining the red team may offer a slight advantage over the blue team in virtual competition, and this should be accounted for when designing FPS games. It is likely that &quot;seeing red&quot; may trigger a powerful psychological distractor signal in human aggressive competition that can affect the outcome of sports and virtual contests alike.
The function of local protein synthesis in synaptic plasticity and its dysregulation in fragile X syndrome (FXS) is well studied, however the contribution of regulated mRNA transport to this function remains unclear. We report a function for the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) in the rapid, activity-regulated transport of mRNAs important for synaptogenesis and plasticity. mRNAs were deficient in glutamatergic signaling-induced dendritic localization in neurons from Fmr1 KO mice, and single mRNA particle dynamics in live neurons revealed diminished kinesis. Motor-dependent translocation of FMRP and cognate mRNAs involved the C terminus of FMRP and kinesin light chain, and KO brain showed reduced kinesin-associated mRNAs. Acute suppression of FMRP and target mRNA transport in WT neurons resulted in altered filopodia-spine morphology that mimicked the FXS phenotype. These findings highlight a mechanism for stimulus-induced dendritic mRNA transport and link its impairment in a mouse model of FXS to altered developmental morphologic plasticity.
Variations in Hox protein sequences and functions have been proposed to contribute to evolutionary changes in appendage shape and number in crustaceans and insects. One model is that insect Hox proteins of the Ultrabithorax (UBX) ortholog class evolved increased abilities to repress Distal-less (Dll) transcription and appendage development in part through the loss of serine and threonine residues in casein kinase 2 (CK2) phosphorylation sites. To explore this possibility, we constructed and tested the appendage repression function of chimeric proteins with insertions of different CK2 consensus sites or phosphomimetics of CK2 sites in C-terminal regions of Drosophila melanogaster UBX. Our results indicate that CK2 sites C-terminal to the homeodomain can inhibit the appendage repression functions of UBX proteins, but only in the context of specific amino acid sequences. Our results, combined with previous findings on evolutionary changes in Hox protein, suggest how intra-protein regulatory changes can diversify Hox protein function, and thus animal morphology.
The autopod, including the mesopodium and the acropodium, is the most distal part of the tetrapod limb, and developmental mechanisms of autopod formation serve as a model system of pattern formation during development. Cartilage rudiments of the autopod develop after proximal elements have differentiated. The autopod region is marked by a change in the expression of two homeobox genes: future autopod cells are first Hoxa11/Hoxa13-double-positive and then Hoxa13-single-positive. The change in expression of these Hox genes is controlled by upstream mechanisms, including the retinoic acid pathway, and the expression of Hoxa13 is connected to downstream mechanisms, including the autopod-specific cell surface property mediated by molecules, including cadherins and ephrins/Ephs, for cell-to-cell communication and recognition. Comparative analyses of the expression of Hox genes in fish fins and tetrapod limb buds support the notion on the origin of the autopod in vertebrates. This review will focus on the cellular and molecular regulation of the formation of the autopod during development and evolutionary developmental aspects of the origin of the autopod.
We studied expressive and receptive language, oral motor ability, attention, memory, and intelligence in 20 6-year-old children with epilepsy (14 females, six males; mean age 6y 5mo, range 6y-6y 11mo) without learning disability, cerebral palsy (CP), and/or autism, and in 30 reference children without epilepsy (18 females, 12 males; mean age 6y 5mo, range 6y-6y 11mo). Ten children had partial, six primarily generalized, and four unclassified epilepsy. Fourteen were having monotherapy and six were taking two or more antiepileptic drugs; 13 children were free from seizures 3 months before the assessment. Results show no statistically significant difference between the groups concerning Verbal IQ, expressive and receptive grammar, and receptive vocabulary. The children with epilepsy had a significantly lower Performance IQ and lower scores in tests of oral motor ability, articulation, emerging literacy, auditory attention, short-term memory, and rapid word retrieval. Parent ratings revealed no significant difference in communicative ability. Polytherapy and early onset of epilepsy influenced some results. Preschool children with epilepsy without learning disability, CP, and/or autism may have receptive verbal ability within the normal range but visuoperceptual, auditory attentional, and speech-language difficulties that could affect school achievement. Careful testing of children with epilepsy who appear to be functioning within the normal range is needed because this may reveal specific impairments that require appropriate professional input.
In an attempt to determine whether the rescue of developing motoneurons (MNS) from programmed cell death (PCD) in the chick embryo following reductions in neuromuscular function involves muscle or neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), we have employed a novel cone snail toxin alphaA-OIVA that acts selectively to antagonize the embryonic/fetal form of muscle nAChRs. The results demonstrate that alphaA-OIVA is nearly as effective as curare or alpha-bungarotoxin (alpha-BTX) in reducing neuromuscular function and is equally effective in increasing MN survival and intramuscular axon branching. Together with previous reports, we also provide evidence consistent with a transition between the embryonic/fetal form to the adult form of muscle nAChRs in chicken that involves the loss of the gamma subunit in the adult receptor. We conclude that selective inhibition of the embryonic/fetal form of the chicken muscle nAChR is sufficient to rescue MNs from PCD without any involvement of neuronal nAChRs.
Social Hymenoptera are important models for analyzing functional brain plasticity. These insects provide the opportunity to learn how individuals' social roles are related to flexible investment in different brain regions. We assessed how age, sex, and individual behavior influence brain development in a primitively eusocial paper wasp, Mischocyttarus mastigophorus. Previous research in other species has demonstrated experience-dependent changes in central and primary sensory centers in the brain. The mushroom body (MB) calyx is a central processing region involved in sensory integration, learning and memory and may be particularly relevant to social behavior. We extend earlier cross-sectional studies of female brain/behavior associations by measuring sex- and age-related differences in MB calyx volume, and by quantifying optic lobe and antennal lobe development. Age did predict MB development: calyx neuropils increased in volume with age. We show that MB development differs between the sexes. Males, who frequently depart to seek mating opportunities, have larger MB calyx collars (which receive optic input) than females. In contrast, females have augmented predominantly antenna-innervated MB calyx lips, which may be useful for nestmate recognition and interactions on the nest. Sex differences in MB development increased with age. After accounting for age and sex effects, social aggression was positively correlated with MB calyx volume for both sexes. We found little evidence for relationships among sex, age, or behavior and the volumes of peripheral sensory processing structures. We discuss the implications of gender- and age-related effects on brain volume in relation to male and female life history and reproductive success.
Formation of the vertebrate neuromuscular junction (NMJ) takes place in a stereotypic pattern in which nerves terminate at select sarcolemmal sites often localized to the central region of the muscle fibers. Several lines of evidence indicate that the muscle fibers may initiate postsynaptic differentiation independent of the ingrowing nerves. For example, nascent acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) are pre-patterned at select regions of the muscle during the initial stage of neuromuscular synaptogenesis. It is not clear how these pre-patterned AChR clusters are assembled, and to what extent they contribute to pre- and post-synaptic differentiation during development. Here, we show that genetic deletion of the AChR gamma-subunit gene in mice leads to an absence of pre-patterned AChR clusters during initial stages of neuromuscular synaptogenesis. The absence of pre-patterned AChR clusters was associated with excessive nerve branching, increased motoneuron survival, as well as aberrant distribution of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and rapsyn. However, clustering of muscle specific kinase (MuSK) proceeded normally in the gamma-null muscles. AChR clusters emerged at later stages owing to the expression of the AChR epsilon-subunit, but these delayed AChR clusters were broadly distributed and appeared at lower level compared with the wild-type muscles. Interestingly, despite the abnormal pattern, synaptic vesicle proteins were progressively accumulated at individual nerve terminals, and neuromuscular synapses were ultimately established in gamma-null muscles. These results demonstrate that the gamma-subunit is required for the formation of pre-patterned AChR clusters, which in turn play an essential role in determining the subsequent pattern of neuromuscular synaptogenesis.

The capacity for DNA repair is likely to be one of the factors that determine the vulnerability of neurons to ischemic stress and may influence the pathological outcome of stroke. In this report, initiation of base excision repair (BER) was assessed by analysis of enzyme activity and gene expression level of DNA glycosylases and AP-endonucleases in rat organotypic hippocampal slice cultures exposed to oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD) - an in vitro model of stroke. Under basal conditions, AP-endonuclease activity and base removal of ethenoadenine and 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG) were higher (by approximately 20-35 %) in CA3/fascia dentata (FD) than in CA1. Base removal of uracil did not differ between the two hippocampal regions, while removal of 5-hydroxyuracil (5-OHU) was slightly less efficient in CA3/FD than in CA1. Analyses performed immediately after 30 min of OGD revealed a decreased AP-endonuclease activity (by approximately 20%) in CA1 as well as CA3/FD, and an increased ethenoadenine activity (by approximately 25%) in CA1. Activities for 8-oxoG, 5-OHU and uracil showed no significant changes at this time point. At 8h after OGD, none of the enzyme activities differed from control values. Real-time RT-PCR showed that transcription of DNA glycosylases, including Ogg1, Nth1, Ung, Aag, Neil1 and Neil2 were not changed in response to OGD treatment (t=0 h). The hippocampal expression of Neil2 was low compared with the other DNA glycosylases. These data indicate that CA1 has a lower capacity than CA3/FD for removal of base lesions under basal conditions. The relatively low capacity for BER in basal conditions and the apparent failure to upregulate repair of oxidative damage after OGD might contribute to the high vulnerability of CA1 to ischemic injury.
The GABA(B) receptor agonist, baclofen, suppressed alcohol deprivation effect (a proposed experimental model of alcohol relapse) in Sardinian alcohol-preferring rats. The present study was designed to extend the characterization of the &quot;anti-relapse&quot; properties of baclofen to the reinstatement of alcohol-seeking behavior (another proposed model of alcohol relapse). Rats of the sP line were first trained to lever press for alcohol under a fixed ratio 4 schedule of reinforcement. Subsequently, rats were exposed to two within-session 70-min extinction/reinstatement tests with saline or baclofen administered in a counterbalanced, within-subject design. After a 60-min extinction phase, an alcohol-associated stimulus complex was presented (reinstatement phase). Saline or baclofen (3 mg/kg) were administered via a permanent intraperitoneal catheter, 30 min before the reinstatement phase. During the reinstatement phase, baclofen administration: (a) reduced by approximately 60% responses on the previously active lever, (b) increased latency to the first response and (c) decreased the response rate. These results indicate that baclofen reduced cue-induced reinstatement of alcohol-seeking behavior in sP rats.

BACKGROUND: Developmental dyscalculia is a heterogeneous disorder with largely dissociable performance profiles. Though our current understanding of the neurofunctional foundations of (adult) numerical cognition has increased considerably during the past two decades, there are still many unanswered questions regarding the developmental pathways of numerical cognition. Most studies on developmental dyscalculia are based upon adult calculation models which may not provide an adequate theoretical framework for understanding and investigating developing calculation systems. Furthermore, the applicability of neuroscience research to pedagogy has, so far, been limited. PURPOSE: After providing an overview of current conceptualisations of numerical cognition and developmental dyscalculia, the present paper (1) reviews recent research findings that are suggestive of a neurofunctional link between fingers (finger gnosis, finger-based counting and calculation) and number processing, and (2) takes the latter findings as an example to discuss how neuroscience findings may impact on educational understanding and classroom interventions. SOURCES OF EVIDENCE: Finger-based number representations and finger-based calculation have deep roots in human ontology and phylogeny. Recently, accumulating empirical evidence supporting the hypothesis of a neurofunctional link between fingers and numbers has emerged from both behavioural and brain imaging studies. MAIN ARGUMENT: Preliminary but converging research supports the notion that finger gnosis and finger use seem to be related to calculation proficiency in elementary school children. Finger-based counting and calculation may facilitate the establishment of mental number representations (possibly by fostering the mapping from concrete non-symbolic to abstract symbolic number magnitudes), which in turn seem to be the foundations for successful arithmetic achievement. CONCLUSIONS: Based on the findings illustrated here, it is plausible to assume that finger use might be an important and complementary aid (to more traditional pedagogical methods) to establish mental number representations and/or to facilitate learning to count and calculate. Clearly, future prospective studies are needed to investigate whether the explicit use of fingers in early mathematics teaching might prove to be beneficial for typically developing children and/or might support the mapping from concrete to abstract number representations in children with and without developmental dyscalculia.


A surge of GnRH release signals the LH surge that triggers ovulation. The GnRH surge is dependent on a switch in estradiol feedback from negative to positive and, in rodents, a daily neural signal, likely from the suprachiasmatic nuclei. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) may be involved in suprachiasmatic nuclei-GnRH neuron communication. Here we assessed the effects of acute VIP (5 min treatment) on GnRH neuron function using targeted extracellular recordings of firing activity of GnRH neurons in brain slices. We examined the effect of VIP on firing rate at different times of day using an established ovariectomized, estradiol-treated (OVX+E) mouse model that exhibits daily LH surges timed to the late afternoon. Cells from OVX animals (no estradiol) did not respond to VIP, regardless of time of day. With estradiol, the effect of VIP on GnRH neurons was dependent on the time of recording. During negative feedback, OVX+E cells did not respond. VIP increased firing in cells recorded during surge onset, but this excitatory response was reduced at surge peak. Acute treatment of OVX+E cells during surge peak with a VIP receptor antagonist decreased GnRH neuron firing. This suggests endogenous VIP may both increase GnRH neuron firing during the surge and occlude response to exogenous VIP. These data provide functional evidence for VIP effects on GnRH neurons and indicate that both estradiol and time of day gate the GnRH neuron response to this peptide. VIP may provide an excitatory signal from the circadian clock that helps time the GnRH surge.
Despite a recent increase in the clinical use of progesterone in pregnant women and premature neonates, very little is understood about the potential role of this hormone and its receptors in neural development. Findings from rodent models indicate that the brain is indeed sensitive to progesterone during critical periods of development and maturation. Dramatic sex differences in progesterone receptor (PR) expression, in which males express higher levels of PR than females in specific regions, suggest that PR may play an important role in the sexual differentiation of brain and behavior and that the expression of PR may be one mechanism by which testicular hormones masculinize the brain. PR is also transiently expressed during fetal and neonatal development in areas of the brain associated with cognitive behaviors. PR protein and mRNA are expressed in pyramidal cell layers of perinatal cortex in an anatomically and developmentally specific manner, generating the intriguing hypothesis that progesterone is essential for normal cortical development. Basic research elucidating a potential role for progesterone and PR in developing brain is reviewed in light of the clinical use of this hormone. The necessity for future research integrating findings from the bench and the bedside is evident.
Wind turbines are known to produce shadow flicker by interruption of sunlight by the turbine blades. Known parameters of the seizure provoking effect of flicker, i.e., contrast, frequency, mark-space ratio, retinal area stimulated and percentage of visual cortex involved were applied to wind turbine features. The proportion of patients affected by viewing wind turbines expressed as distance in multiples of the hub height of the turbine showed that seizure risk does not decrease significantly until the distance exceeds 100 times the hub height. Since risk does not diminish with viewing distance, flash frequency is therefore the critical factor and should be kept to a maximum of three per second, i.e., sixty revolutions per minute for a three-bladed turbine. On wind farms the shadows cast by one turbine on another should not be viewable by the public if the cumulative flash rate exceeds three per second. Turbine blades should not be reflective.


Singing is a rare ictal symptom of focal epilepsy. We report a case of a left-handed woman, with no musical education, experiencing refractory seizures consisting of the singing of a popular Portuguese folksong, with simultaneous, rhythmic hand clapping. A left mesial temporal sclerosis was successfully treated by selective amygdalohippocampectomy. As in most previously reported cases, the epileptogenic zone was located in the left hemisphere, although the ictal onset zone could not be lateralized on scalp EEG. This clinical case supports the evidence that cerebral music production seems to require both hemispheres, in accordance to the concept that brain specializations for music is associated with a dynamic, well-orchestrated interaction of music-specific neural networks. [Published with video sequences].
Glascher and Adolph (2003) proposed that both amydalae are specialized for fear, but that the right one is a fast, short, and relatively automatic fear processor, whereas the left one is more detail-oriented and perceptual-cognitive. According to this model, early ictal fear should occur more often in cases with a right temporal lobe epileptic focus. Several authors have tried to find a hemispheric specialization for ictal fear, but have not reached the power to attain a statistically significant effect of focus side. In this study, using previously published cases of unilateral epileptic focus causing early ictal symptoms of fear, we found 144 cases, of which 98 had a right hemisphere focus (68%) and 46 having left hemisphere focus (32%, p &lt; 0.0005). Several control variables were assembled to verify possible alternative explanations of the main effect.

Kraepelin's dichotomy, manic-depressive insanity and dementia praecox, are contrasting and true endogenous disease entities which affect excitability, the fundamental property of the CNS. Kraepelin wanted to establish a valid classification and hit the extremes in brain structure and function at a time when we had no knowledge of brain dysfunction in &quot;functional&quot; psychoses. The aetiology is now known: the psychoses are part of human growth and maturation and might be classified according to their brain dysfunction, which is exactly what Kraepelin wanted. However, presumably to reduce the stigma attached to the word &quot;psychosis&quot;, there is currently a strong initiative to eliminate the concept. But knowledge of what is happening in the brain in a psychosis might be more helpful in reducing stigma. It is suggested that psychosis is due to an affection of the supplementary motor area (SMA), located at the centre of the Medial Frontal Lobe network. The SMA is one of the rare universally connected areas of the brain, as should be the case for such a key structure that makes decisions as to the right moment for action. This important network, which partly has continuous neurogenesis, has sufficiently widespread connections. The SMA, a premotor area located on the medial side of the frontal lobes, is one of the last regions to reach a concurrence of synaptogenesis. An affection of the SMA, a deficient or abolished Delayed Response Task, seriously disturbs our relation and adaptation to the surroundings. We usually master the Delayed Response Task around the age of 7 months, a time at which the second CNS regressive event takes place, which proceeds from the posterior to the anterior of the brain. In very late maturation, a persistent affection of the SMA might occur. We experience a chronic psychosis: infantile autism (IA), a chronic inability to act consciously, which contrasts with the episodic SMA affection post-puberty, when excitation is reduced due to excessive pruning of excitatory synapses. Silent spots are the result of insufficient fill-in mechanisms following a breakdown of circuitry. They may affect the SMA in the case of very late puberty. An acute reduction in excitation and concomitantly a marked increase in silent spots might lead to an acute psychosis. A frontal preference is likely, given that a reduction might occur anywhere in the cortex, but particularly in the areas maturing latest. The varying localisations probably explain the difficulty in accepting schizophrenia as a disease entity. The multifactorial inheritance of the dichotomy implies that the genetics are not fate, a psychotic development might be prevented given enough epigenetic factors: brain food (omega 3). Might the present dietary adversity, with its lack of brain food, be responsible for a rising incidence in psychosis? A psychosis is an understandable and preventable dysfunction of the brain, and its mechanisms are known. Primarily a disorder of reduced excitation in an attenuated CNS, this explains why all the neuroleptics are convulsants, raising excitation, in contrast to all antidepressives, which are anti-epileptic.
This paper describes basic principles of systematics for psychiatric disorders such as the categorical and dimensional approach. It summarises validity aspects of the traditional psychiatric nosology and syndromatology. The importance and limitations of the dichotomy of schizophrenia and affective disorders, first suggested by Kraepelin, is reviewed in the light of results from modern research in the field of classification, follow-up and neurobiological studies, especially neurochemical, neurogenetic and neuroimaging studies. Current developments towards DSM-V and ICD-11 are critically reflected. The conclusion is reached that there might be insufficient data to establish a new systematics of psychoses. Therefore it might be premature to leave the Kraepelinian dichotomy totally although it has to be modified in the light of new research.
This paper reviews aspects of Letten F. Saugstad's Maturation Theory in relation to the Kraepelinian dichotomy and psychiatric classification. The maturation theory is based on existing neuroscience, cross-national and mental health case register data and offers an innovative alternative to current etiological formulations. The maturational theory holds (1) that manic depressive illness relates to early maturation and (2) the schizophrenic syndrome relates to late maturation. The foundation of these processes lies in cerebral pruning of excitatory synapses particularly at puberty but also at a number of earlier crucial periods in development. The process of synaptic pruning has by puberty eliminated some 40% of the synapses, leading to the disappearance of glutematergic excitatory synapses without apparently appreciably influencing inhibitory GABAergic neurons. As a consequence, early maturation is related to the manic-depressive syndrome and characterized by increased neural excitability. Conversely, late maturation is related to schizophrenia characterized by diminished neural activity. Saugstad demonstrates using cross-national and neuroscience studies the multifactoral and environmental influences on rates of maturation and thereby mental illness. Using these data Saugstad reasons her agreement with the Kraepelinian dichotomy based on the existence of two extremes in brain structure and function developed through interactions between the person and the environment.
Emil Kraepelin's contribution to the clinical and scientific field of psychiatry is recognized world-wide. In recent years, however, there have been a number of critical remarks on his acceptance of degeneration theory in particular and on his political opinion in general, which was said to have carried &quot;overtones of proto-fascism&quot; by Michael Shepherd [28]. The present paper discusses the theoretical cornerstones of Kraepelinian psychiatry with regard to their relevance for Kraepelin's attitude towards degeneration theory. This theory had gained wide influence not only in scientific, but also in philosophical and political circles in the last decades of the nineteenth century. There is no doubt that Kraepelin, on the one hand, accepted and implemented degeneration theory into the debate on etiology and pathogenesis of mental disorders. On the other hand, it is not appropriate to draw a simple and direct line from early versions of degeneration theory to the crimes of psychiatrists and politicians during the rule of national socialism. What we need, is a differentiated view, since this will be the only scientific one. Much research needs to be done here in the future, and such research will surely have a significant impact not only on the historical field, but also on the continuous debate about psychiatry, neuroscience and neurophilosophy.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP)-1, which plays a key role in DNA repair, inflammation and transcription, has recently been shown to be involved in angiogenesis. The aim of this study was to investigate PARP-1 role in melanoma aggressiveness and chemoresistance in vivo using clones stably silenced for PARP-1 expression. Whilst the growth characteristics of PARP-1-deficient melanoma cells were comparable to those of PARP-1-proficient cells in vitro, their tumourigenic potential in vivo was significantly compromised. In fact, mice challenged intra-muscle with PARP-1-deficient cells showed a delayed development of measurable tumour nodules, which were also significantly reduced in size with respect to those of mice inoculated with PARP-1-proficient cells. Moreover, animals challenged intra-cranially with PARP-1-deficient cells, a model that mimics CNS localisation of melanoma, showed an increased survival. Immunohistochemical analyses of PARP-1-depleted melanoma grafts indicated a reduced expression of the angiogenesis marker PECAM-1/CD31 and of the pro-inflammatory mediators TNF-alpha and GITR. Notably, PARP-1-silenced melanoma was extremely sensitive to temozolomide, an anticancer agent used for the treatment of metastatic melanoma. These results provide novel evidence for a direct role of PARP-1 in tumour aggressiveness and chemoresistance.


Though the role of the hippocampus in processes of learning and memory is well established, the role of new neurons generated there is less understood. Training on some associative learning tasks increases the likelihood that new cells in the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus will survive. In the rat, an effective training procedure is trace eyeblink conditioning, in which a conditioned stimulus (CS) is paired with an aversive stimulation to the eyelid (unconditioned stimulus; US), but the stimuli are separated by a temporal gap. Here, we manipulated the asymptote or rate of acquisition during trace conditioning, and examined survival of cells generated 1 week before training. Acquisition was disrupted by decreasing associative strength by insertion of unpredicted USs or slowed with latent inhibition. The number of cells was increased in animals that were trained with trace conditioning, irrespective of the decrease in associative strength or slowed acquisition. Disrupting acquisition with unsignaled USs still increased cell numbers, suggesting that the learning effect on cell survival is not dependent on reliable expression of the conditioned response. Further, animals in the latent inhibition conditions that learned but required more trials also retained more of the new cells than animals requiring fewer trials. The number of cells that survived after the effective training procedures was similar to the number of cells that were available for rescue at the beginning of training. Thus, learning can rescue the majority of cells expressed at the beginning of training, and does so most effectively when acquisition requires many trials.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is the principal circadian pacemaker in mammals. A salient feature of the SCN is that cells of a particular phenotype are topographically organized; this organization defines functionally distinct subregions that interact to generate coherent rhythmicity. In Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus), a dense population of directly retinorecipient calbindin D(28K) (CalB) neurons in the caudal SCN marks a subregion critical for circadian rhythmicity. In mouse SCN, a dense cluster of CalB neurons occurs during early postnatal development, but in the adult CalB neurons are dispersed through the SCN. In the adult retina CalB colocalizes with melanopsin-expressing ganglion cells. In the present study, we explored the role of CalB in modulating circadian function and photic entrainment by investigating mice with a targeted mutation of the CalB gene (CalB-/- mice). In constant darkness (DD), CalB-/- animals either become arrhythmic (40%) or exhibit low-amplitude locomotor rhythms with marked activity during subjective day (60%). Rhythmic clock gene expression is blunted in these latter animals. Importantly, CalB-/- mice exhibit anomalies in entrainment revealed following transfer from a light : dark cycle to DD. Paradoxically, responses to acute light pulses measured by behavioral phase shifts, SCN FOS protein and Period1 mRNA expression are normal. Together, the developmental pattern of CalB expression in mouse SCN, the presence of CalB in photoresponsive ganglion cells and the abnormalities seen in CalB-/- mice suggest an important role for CalB in mouse circadian function.
The neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) plays a crucial role during development and regeneration of the nervous system, mediating neuronal differentiation, survival and plasticity. Moreover, NCAM regulates learning and memory. A peptide termed P2, corresponding to a 12-amino-acid sequence in the second immunoglobulin (Ig)-like module of NCAM, represents the natural cis-binding site for the first NCAM Ig module. The P2 peptide targets NCAM, thereby inducing a number of intracellular signaling events leading to the stimulation of neurite outgrowth and promotion of neuronal survival in vitro. The present study evaluated the effect of the P2 peptide on functional and histological outcomes following traumatic brain injury inflicted by a cortical cryogenic lesion. Lesioned rats were injected subcutaneously with P2 peptide, 5 mg/kg daily for 15 days beginning 2 h after injury. This treatment significantly improved postlesion recovery of motor and cognitive function, reduced neuronal degeneration, protected cells against oxidative stress, and increased reactive astrogliosis and neuronal plasticity in the sublesional area. P2 appeared rapidly in blood and cerebrospinal fluid after subcutaneous administration and remained detectable in blood for up to 5 h. The results suggest that P2 has therapeutic potential for the treatment of traumatic brain injury.
The objectives of this research were to investigate the role played by the enzyme cyclooxygenase (COX) in learning and memory, synaptic plasticity and synaptic transmission in the rat brain in vivo. Male Wistar rats were treated with isoform-selective inhibitors for COX-1 and COX-2, either chronically and tested in the watermaze or acutely before electrophysiological recordings were made. We found a significant impairment in acquisition of the watermaze with inhibition of COX-2. Furthermore, we found COX-2 but not COX-1 inhibition significantly blocked long-term potentiation (LTP) induction but had no effect on already established LTP. Moreover, exogenous replacement of the main metabolite of COX-2 activity, PGE(2), was sufficient to restore LTP induction and for normal downstream signalling to ensue, namely extracellular signalling-regulated kinase (ERK)-phosphorylation and c-FOS expression. We conclude that endogenous basal levels of PGE(2) resulting from COX-2 but not COX-1 activity are necessary for synaptic plasticity and memory acquisition.
Recent proposals of classification for cerebral palsy (CP), mainly revised for epidemiological purposes, suggest to abandon the use of the term diplegia. Conversely, in this paper data are presented to support the proposal to maintain the distinction between spastic tetraplegia and diplegia, and to subdivide this latter according to four main clinical patterns of walking observable in these children. This proposal of classification was validated by testing a group of 467 subjects with CP, of whom 213 with diplegia and 115 with tetraplegia, consecutively admitted between January 2005 and December 2006 to two national reference centers for this disability. The results were compared with findings obtained by other methods of classifying gross and fine motor function and associated disorders. The subjects with tetraplegia strongly differ from those of diplegia, both for motor functions and for other disabilities. The four main walking patterns of spastic diplegia were easily recognizable and observers were able to assign most of the subjects to one form of the classification. Significant correlations between walking forms of diplegia and distribution of Gross Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS) levels were found. Some of the forms significantly differ also for fine motor and mental disability. These findings suggest that in clinical practice the category of diplegia not only can be kept as a separate form of CP, but it may be enhanced, through the identification of different subcategories of children, divided according to their walking patterns.
The classification systems for cerebral palsy (CP) need to be continuously updated, according to specific aims and to significant changes observed over the years in the panorama of CP. A simplification of CP categories, abandoning the use of the term diplegia, has been recently suggested. Conversely, in this paper a new proposal for classification of CP is briefly presented, where special attention is given to diplegia which is suggested to be divided into four main clinical forms, according to the patterns of walking observable in these subjects. The proposed classification was applied to a large population of 213 subjects with diplegia, among 467 cases of CP admitted to two reference centres for this disorder. The relative incidence of the four forms is reported. The adopted classification criteria, based on a primary ability of professionals working in rehabilitation, i.e. observation capacity, makes this approach simple and easy to use at all levels of the rehabilitation services for CP.
Accumulating evidence suggests that the serotonin 5-HT(1A) receptor may play a role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. The present study was undertaken to examine the effects of perospirone, an atypical antipsychotic drug with 5-HT(1A) receptor agonism, on cognitive deficits in mice after repeated administration of the NMDA receptor antagonist phencyclidine (PCP). Subsequent subchronic (14 days) administration of perospirone (1.0, 3.0, or 10 mg/kg) significantly attenuated PCP (10 mg/kg)-induced cognitive deficits in mice, in a dose-dependent manner. The effects of perospirone (10 mg/kg) were significantly antagonized by co-administration of the selective 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY100635 (1.0 mg/kg). Furthermore, hypothermia by the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-OH DPAT (0.25 mg/kg) was significantly attenuated in mice treated with PCP. Moreover, a receptor binding assay using [(3)H]WAY100635 revealed that levels of 5-HT(1A) receptors in the hippocampus, but not in the frontal cortex, of PCP-treated mice were significantly lower than those of saline-treated mice. These findings suggest that repeated PCP administration alters 5-HT(1A) receptor function in the mouse brain, and that subsequent subchronic administration of perospirone ameliorates PCP-induced cognitive deficits via 5-HT(1A) receptors. Therefore, perospirone could be a potential therapy for the cognitive deficits observed in schizophrenic patients.
Accumulating evidence suggests that the glycine modulatory site on the NMDA receptor could be potential therapeutic target for cognitive deficits in schizophrenia. The present study was undertaken to examine the effects of the glycine transporter-1 (GlyT-1) inhibitor, (R)-(N-[3-(4'-fluorophenyl)-3-(4'-phenylphenoxy)propyl])sarcosine (NFPS), on cognitive deficits in mice after repeated administration of the NMDA receptor antagonist phencyclidine (PCP). PCP (10 mg/kg/day for 10 days)-induced cognitive deficits were significantly improved by subsequent subchronic (2-week) administration of NFPS (1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg/day) or D-serine (600 mg/kg/day). However, PCP-induced cognitive deficits were not improved by a single administration of NFPS (3.0 mg/kg). Furthermore, Western blot analysis revealed that levels of GlyT-1 in the hippocampus, but not frontal cortex, of the PCP (10 mg/kg/day for 10 days)-treated mice were significantly higher than those of saline-treated mice. An in vivo microdialysis study revealed that repeated PCP administration significantly decreased the extracellular levels of glycine in the hippocampus, but not frontal cortex, of mice. These findings suggest that repeated PCP administration increased the density of GlyT-1 in the hippocampus of mouse brain, and that the GlyT-1 inhibitor NFPS could ameliorate cognitive deficits in mice after repeated administration of PCP.
There is convincing evidence that schizophrenia is characterized by abnormalities in brain volume. At the Department of Psychiatry of the University Medical Centre Utrecht, Netherlands, we have been carrying out neuroimaging studies in schizophrenia since 1995. We focused our research on three main questions. First, are brain volume abnormalities static or progressive in nature? Secondly, can brain volume abnormalities in schizophrenia be explained (in part) by genetic influences? Finally, what environmental factors are associated with the brain volume abnormalities in schizophrenia? Based on our findings we suggest that schizophrenia is a progressive brain disease. We showed different age-related trajectories of brain tissue loss suggesting that brain maturation that occurs in the third and fourth decade of life is abnormal in schizophrenia. Moreover, brain volume has been shown to be a useful phenotype for studying schizophrenia. Brain volume is highly heritable and twin and family studies show that unaffected relatives show abnormalities that are similar, but usually present to a lesser extent, to those found in the patients. However, also environmental factors play a role. Medication intake is indeed a confounding factor when interpreting brain volume (change) abnormalities, while independent of antipsychotic medication intake brain volume abnormalities appear influenced by the outcome of the illness. In conclusion, schizophrenia can be considered as a progressive brain disease with brain volume abnormalities that are for a large part influenced by genetic factors. Whether the progressive volume change is also mediated by genes awaits the results of longitudinal twin analyses. One of the main challenges for the coming years, however, will be the search for gene-by-environment interactions on the progressive brain changes in schizophrenia.
We investigated the effects of social content of gestures on brain activation patterns. We used a 3 x 3 x 3 factorial design in an event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging experiment with participants observing gestures varied by type (fascist salute, wave, or arm lift), number of images shown at a time, and face frequency. We sought to determine whether increasing the social content of the gesture spreads activation from traditional sensorimotor regions engaged in mirror neuron activity to prefrontal regions concerned with social behavior. Results indicate that viewing a highly provocative gesture (fascist salute) compared to a less provocative but still socially meaningful gesture (wave) reveals activation in prefrontal and limbic areas. In addition, as expected there was more inferior frontal gyrus activation when participants observed a greater number of gesturing actors. Additionally, the psychological characteristics of shame and defeat affected activation in the inferior parietal lobe, which is part of the mirror neuron system, for the fascist salute compared to the wave contrast. We conclude that observing social gestures activates social- and emotion-processing areas of the brain, and the activation varies depending on the observer's psychological characteristics.
There is evidence that the mid-ventrolateral prefrontal cortex is involved in control processing necessary for the active retrieval of mnemonic information when retrieval cannot be triggered automatically by unique/constant associations within memory. We hypothesized that this process is initiated as soon as an instructional cue to retrieve a particular aspect of an encoded stimulus is presented prior to the appearance of the test stimulus that prompts the subjects' response. To test this hypothesis, we provided the subjects with a delay period following the presentation of the instructional cue. Across delays, the subjects took longer to respond during the active retrieval compared with the automatic retrieval trials. Importantly, for both trial types, delays of up to 300 ms improved the subjects' reaction times during the test period by an average of 101 ms. Retrieval mechanisms, therefore, are initiated early during the post-instruction delay period prior to the presentation of the test stimulus needed for the decision.
The brain uses gaze orientation to organize myriad spatial tasks including hand movements. However, the neural correlates of gaze signals and their interaction with brain systems for arm movement control remain unresolved. Many studies have shown that gaze orientation modifies neuronal spike discharge in monkeys and activation in humans related to reaching and finger movements in parietal and frontal areas. To continue earlier studies that addressed interaction of horizontal gaze and hand movements in humans (Baker et al. 1999), we assessed how horizontal and vertical gaze deviations modified finger-related activation, hypothesizing that areas throughout the brain would exhibit movement-related activation that depended on gaze angle. The results indicated finger movement-related activation related to combinations of horizontal, vertical, and diagonal gaze deviations. We extended our prior findings to observation of these gaze-dependent effects in visual cortex, parietal cortex, motor, supplementary motor area, putamen, and cerebellum. Most significantly, we found a modulation bias for increased activation toward rightward, upper-right and vertically upward gaze deviations. Our results indicate that gaze modulation of finger movement-related regions in the human brain is spatially organized and could subserve sensorimotor transformations.
This paper contrasts responses in the soleus muscle of normal human subjects to two major inputs: the tibial nerve (TN) and the corticospinal tract. Paired transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the motor cortex at intervals of 10-25 ms strongly facilitated the motor evoked potential (MEP) produced by the second stimulus. In contrast, paired TN stimulation produced a depression of the reflex response to the second stimulus. Direct activation of the pyramidal tract did not facilitate a second response, suggesting that the MEP facilitation observed using paired TMS occurred in the cortex. A TN stimulus also depressed a subsequent MEP. Since the TN stimulus depressed both inputs, the mechanism is probably post-synaptic, such as afterhyperpolarization of motor neurons. Presynaptic mechanisms, such as homosynaptic depression, would only affect the pathway used as a conditioning stimulus. When TN and TMS pulses were paired, the largest facilitation occurred when TMS preceded TN by about 5 ms, which is optimal for summation of the two pathways at the level of the spinal motor neurons. A later, smaller facilitation occurred when a single TN stimulus preceded TMS by 50-60 ms, an interval that allows enough time for the sensory afferent input to reach the sensory cortex and be relayed to the motor cortex. Other work indicates that repetitively pairing nerve stimuli and TMS at these intervals, known as paired associative stimulation, produces long-term increases in the MEP and may be useful in strengthening residual pathways after damage to the central nervous system.
Attention is often regarded as a mechanism by which attended objects become perceptually more salient, akin to increasing their contrast. We demonstrate that attention is better described as a mechanism by which task relevant information impacts on ongoing processing, while excluding task irrelevant information. We asked subjects to judge the orientation of a target relative to a reference, in a single and dual task setting. The target orientation percept was systematically influenced by the presentation of prior spatio-temporal context. We found that the sign of the context influence depended on target contrast, but its strength depended on the level of attention devoted to the task. Thus the effects of attention and contrast were fundamentally different; contrast influenced the sign of contextual interactions, while attention suppressed these interactions irrespective of their sign.
Endothelin-1 (ET-1), a potent vaso-active peptide, mediates extracellular matrix regulation resulting in an increase in collagen deposition in various cell types and tissues and has been proposed to play a key role in glaucoma pathology. The role of ET-1 in the regulation of extracellular matrix collagens at the level of optic nerve head is not known. In this study we have examined the role of ET-1 in extracellular matrix collagen regulation in primary cultures of human lamina cribrosa cells. Our hypothesis is that ET-1 increases remodeling of the ECM of cells of the lamina cribrosa. Such actions could contribute to the development of optic neuropathy. QPCR analysis revealed that ET-1 mediated an increase in mRNA levels of collagen type I alpha1 and collagen type VI alpha1 chains at all doses of ET-1 with a significant increase at 1nM and 10nM concentration in LC cells. A dose-dependent increase in collagen type I and type VI protein deposition and secretion was also observed by Western blot in response to ET-1 and was significant at 10nM and 100nM concentrations of ET-1. ET-1 increased the [3H] proline uptake in LC cells suggesting that ET-1 contributed to an increase in total collagen synthesis in LC cells. ET-1-mediated increase in collagen type I, type VI and total collagen synthesis was significantly blocked by the ET(A) receptor antagonist, BQ610, as well as with the ET(B) receptor antagonist, BQ788, suggesting the involvement of both receptor subtypes in ET-1 mediated collagen synthesis in LC cells. These results suggest that ET-1 regulates extracellular matrix collagen synthesis in LC cells and may contribute to ECM remodeling at the level of LC of POAG subjects who have elevated plasma and aqueous humor levels of endothelin-1.
In this paper we present two new assays of rat motor behavior which can be used to assess function linked to postural stability in each forelimb independently. Postural instability is a major deficit in Parkinson's disease that is resistant to levodopa therapy and contributes to the risk of falling. We applied both tests, one forelimb at a time, to normal rats as well as rats extensively depleted of dopamine by unilateral infusion of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA, given in the medial forebrain bundle) to produce a hemi-parkinsonian syndrome. The 6-OHDA rats showed severe postural instability in the impaired forelimb, but unexpectedly showed enhanced function in the non-impaired forelimb. The data suggest that the intact hemisphere may undergo rapid reorganization subsequent to unilateral dopamine depletion, which allows for compensatory function of the &quot;intact&quot; limb. Measurements of amphetamine-induced striatal c-fos expression, as well as behavior results gathered when animals were under the influence of apomorphine or haloperidol, indicate that this potential reorganization may require non-dopaminergic neural plasticity. The relevance of these findings for unilateral rat models of neurological disease is discussed.

The immature brain is exceptionally susceptible to seizures. However, it remains unclear whether seizures occurring during development affect critical processes underlying neural circuit formation, leading to long-term functional consequences. Here we characterize a novel in vivo model system of developmental seizures based on the transparent albino Xenopus laevis tadpole, which allows direct examination of seizure activity, and seizure-induced effects on neuronal development within the intact unanesthetized brain. Pentylenetetrazol (PTZ), kainic acid, bicuculline, picrotoxin, 4-aminopyridine, and pilocarpine were tested for their ability to induce behavioral seizures in freely swimming tadpoles when bath applied. All six chemoconvulsants consistently induced similar patterns of abnormal behavior in a dose-dependent manner, characterized by convulsive clonus-like motor patterns with periods of behavioral arrest. Extracellular field recordings demonstrated rhythmic synchronous epileptiform electrographic responses induced by convulsants irrespective of mechanism of action, that could be terminated by the anti-epileptic drug valproate. PTZ-induced seizures were further characterized using in vivo two-photon fluorescence imaging of neuronal calcium dynamics, in unanesthetized immobilized tadpoles. Imaging of calcium dynamics during PTZ-induced seizures revealed waves of neural activity propagating through large populations of neurons within the brain. Analysis of single-cell responses demonstrated distinct synchronized high-amplitude calcium spikes not observed under baseline conditions. Similar to other developmental seizure models, prolonged seizures failed to induce marked neuronal death within the brain, detected by cellular propidium iodide incorporation in vivo or TUNEL labeling. This novel developmental seizure model system has distinct advantages for controlled seizure induction, and direct visualization of both seizure activity and seizure-induced effects on individual developing neurons within the intact unanesthetized brain. Such a system is necessary to address important questions relating to the long-term impact of common perinatal seizures on developing neural circuits.
Fetal asphyxic insults in the brain are known to be associated with developmental neurological problems like neuromotor disorders. However, little is known about the long-term consequences of fetal asphyxia (FA). For that reason, the present study investigated the long-term effects of FA on motor behavior and dopaminergic circuitry. FA was induced at embryonic day 17 by 75-minute clamping of the uterine circulation. SHAM animals underwent the same procedure except for the clamping. This was followed by full-term vaginal delivery of animals in all groups (FA, SHAM and untreated controls). At 6 months, basal and amphetamine-induced locomotor activity was measured during open field testing. Brain sections were stained for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). TH-positive cells and GFAP-positive cells in substantia nigra pars compacta (SN(C)) and striatum were counted using design-based stereology. Moreover, TH-immunoreactivity in the striatum was assessed by grey value measurements. Behavioral analysis demonstrated that SHAM and FA showed less basal and amphetamine-induced activity than controls. Histochemically, FA decreased the number of TH-positive neurons in the SN(C) and lowered TH-positive in the striatum. Furthermore, more GFAP-positive cells were found in the SN(C) and striatum in FA than in either control and SHAM groups. Additionally, FA animals showed ventriculomegaly associated with smaller white matter as well as grey matter volumes. The data show that FA was associated with deficits in both dopamine-related motor behavior and biochemistry. These alterations were associated with nigrostriatal astrogliosis. The present study demonstrates the sensitivity of the dopaminergic system towards FA.
The neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCLs or Batten disease) are a group of at least nine autosomal recessively inherited monogenetic storage disorders. Because there are no effective therapies available, all forms of NCL invariably prove fatal after a prolonged period of disability. Indeed, for the forms of NCL that are the result of mutations in transmembrane proteins, the therapeutic outlook remains uniformly bleak. This includes juvenile NCL (JNCL); the most prevalent form of Batten disease that is the result of mutations in the CLN3 gene. Characterizing Cln3 deficient mice is now revealing important clues about the pathogenesis of JNCL. This includes evidence for elevated levels of glutamate within the JNCL CNS and cell type selective sensitivity to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) type glutamate receptor overactivation. These findings raise the possibility that AMPA-receptor blockade may potentially be beneficial in JNCL. This possibility has now begun to be tested in Cln3 mutant mice using a single intraperitoneal injection of the non-competitive AMPA antagonist EGIS-8332 by Kovcs and Pearce [Kovcs, A.D., Pearce, D.A., 2008. Attenuation of AMPA receptor activity improves motor skills in a mouse model of juvenile Batten disease. Exp. Neurol. 209, 288-291.]. Although a positive effect of upon motor coordination deficits in this mouse model of JNCL is reported in this acute study, it remains unclear whether EGIS-8332 provides any lasting benefit or effects upon other aspects of their disease phenotype. Although supplying the first evidence for any form of improvement in a disease-relevant phenotype in Cln3 mutant mice, more detailed studies will be needed to determine whether these preliminary findings will translate into a successful therapy for either murine or human JNCL.
Substantial progress has been made towards understanding the molecular basis for limited endogenous central nervous system (CNS) axonal growth after injuries such as spinal cord trauma. Realization of the potential benefit of therapeutic interventions requires methods to assess axonal growth and functional reorganization over time after neurological damage. Here, we discuss the technical challenges of analyzing and interpreting the effects of various interventions on CNS repair, specifically in the context of spinal cord injury. Evolving technologies such as functional magnetic resonance imaging and other non-invasive imaging techniques will be reviewed. These technologies should revolutionize our ability to track changes in both CNS structure and function.
Although evidence of damage-directed neural stem cell (NSC) migration has been well-documented in the rodent, to our knowledge it has never been confirmed or quantified using human NSC (hNSC) in an adult non-human primate modeling a human neurodegenerative disease state. In this report, we attempt to provide that confirmation, potentially advancing basic stem cell concepts toward clinical relevance. hNSCs were implanted into the caudate nucleus (bilaterally) and substantia nigra (unilaterally) of 7, adult St. Kitts African green monkeys (Chlorocebus sabaeus) with previous exposure to systemic 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), a neurotoxin that disrupts the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway. A detailed quantitative analysis of hNSC migration patterns at two time points (4 and 7 months) following transplantation was performed. Density contour mapping of hNSCs along the dorsal-ventral and medial-lateral axes of the brain suggested that &gt;80% of hNSCs migrated from the point of implantation to and along the impaired nigrostriatal pathway. Although 2/3 of hNSCs were transplanted within the caudate, &lt;1% of 3x10(6) total injected donor cells were identified at this site. The migrating hNSC did not appear to be pursuing a neuronal lineage. In the striatum and nigrostriatal pathway, but not in the substantia nigra, some hNSCs were found to have taken a glial lineage. The property of neural stem cells to align themselves along a neural pathway rendered dysfunctional by a given disease is potentially a valuable clinical tool.

Background: The 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, a ligand-gated ion channel, is an attractive drug discovery target in schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease. Objective: We have evaluated the various approaches to discovering ligands targeting the 7 nicotinic receptor to define the current paradigm driving drug discovery efforts in this area. Methods: Assays using functional read-outs as a consequence of 7 nicotinic receptor activation have been reviewed. Conclusion: Functional assays using fluorescence-based optical methods in combination with direct electrophysiological recordings of channel function currently provide an integrated approach to the discovery of 7 nicotinic receptor targeted ligands.



When treating patients harboring a brain tumor, it is mandatory to integrate the dogmas of epilepsy into a neuro-oncological viewpoint. The frequency of seizures differs widely between low- and high-grade tumors because of different mechanisms of epileptogenesis. The modern theories of pathological neural networks, especially in low-grade gliomas, can provide the key for an in-depth understanding of the principles of connectionism that underline both seizures, cognitive impairment and plasticity. It is a consuetude that principles of general management of patients with nontumor-related epilepsy are applied to neuro-oncology. Nevertheless, since tumors are complex evolving lesions requiring a multidisciplinary treatment approach (surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy), it is mandatory to have a comprehensive view of the natural history of each lesion when choosing the best antiepileptic drug. More than two thirds of patients with brain tumors and medically intractable epilepsy benefit from (sub)total surgical resection. Therefore, these patients are good surgical candidates both for oncological and epileptological considerations, in order to change the natural history of the lesion and to improve the quality of life at the same time. However, 15% of patients still have intractable medical seizures after surgery. Moreover, the insula may participate more often than usually considered in (intractable) seizures. Therefore, in these patients, invasive EEG recordings and eventually a second epilepsy surgery might be proposed.
Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) has made it possible to study the individual variations in drug utilization, to reveal noncompliance in patients and for quality assurance aspects. Even if there is a shortage of data from randomized controlled studies concerning the effectiveness of using TDM as an aid to dosage adjustment, experience from nonrandomized investigations and long-lasting clinical experience have shown that TDM of both older and newer AEDs may be of clinical benefit if used appropriately. The main situations for TDM include: after starting treatment to provide a baseline steady-state concentration for further evaluation of an individual therapeutic concentration; after change in drug dosage, in particular when nonlinear kinetics apply; at therapeutic failure to sort out a pharmacokinetic explanation for uncontrolled seizures or side effects; in case of drug interactions; and when pharmacokinetic changes due to physiological or pathological changes are foreseen (e.g., age-dependent conditions [children, elderly], pregnancy, hepatic disease, renal disease or gastrointestinal conditions potentially affecting drug absorption) and change in drug formulation (brand name/generic). Recently, new terminology and definitions have been suggested by the International League Against Epilepsy. The reference range is a range of drug concentrations quoted by laboratories and is not a therapeutic range. Emphasis should be placed on the concept of an individual therapeutic concentration.
Synaptic plasticity is the dynamic regulation of the strength of synaptic communication between nerve cells. It is central to neuronal development as well as experience-dependent remodeling of the adult nervous system as occurs during memory formation. Aberrant forms of synaptic plasticity also accompany a variety of neurological and psychiatric diseases, and unraveling the biological basis of synaptic plasticity has been a major goal in neurobiology research. The biochemical and structural mechanisms underlying different forms of synaptic plasticity are complex, involving multiple signaling cascades, reconfigurations of structural proteins and the trafficking of synaptic proteins. As such, proteomics should be a valuable tool in dissecting the molecular events underlying normal and disease-related forms of plasticity. In fact, progress in this area has been disappointingly slow. We discuss the particular challenges associated with proteomic interrogation of synaptic plasticity processes and outline ways in which we believe proteomics may advance the field over the next few years. We pay particular attention to technical advances being made in small sample proteomics and the advent of proteomic imaging in studying brain plasticity.


The ability of a species to reproduce successfully requires the careful orchestration of developmental processes during critical time points, particularly the late embryonic and early postnatal periods. This article begins with a brief presentation of the evidence for how gonadal steroid hormones exert these imprinting effects upon the morphology of sexually differentiated hypothalamic brain regions, the mechanisms underlying these effects, and their implications in adulthood. Then, I review the evidence that aberrant exposure to hormonally-active substances such as exogenous endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs), may result in improper hypothalamic programming, thereby decreasing reproductive success in adulthood. The field of endocrine disruption has shed new light on the discipline of basic reproductive neuroendocrinology through studies on how early life exposures to EDCs may alter gene expression via non-genomic, epigenetic mechanisms, including DNA methylation and histone acetylation. Importantly, these effects may be transmitted to future generations if the germline is affected via transgenerational, epigenetic actions. By understanding the mechanisms by which natural hormones and xenobiotics affect reproductive neuroendocrine systems, we will gain a better understanding of normal developmental processes, as well as develop the potential ability to intervene when development is disrupted.
Individuals vary in their sociosexual behaviors and reactivity. How the organism interacts with the environment to produce this variation has been a focus in psychology since its inception as a scientific discipline. There is now no question that cumulative experiences throughout life history interact with genetic predispositions to shape the individual's behavior. Recent evidence suggests that events in past generations may also influence how an individual responds to events in their own life history. Epigenetics is the study of how the environment can affect the genome of the individual during its development as well as the development of its descendants, all without changing the DNA sequence. Several distinctions must be made if this research is to become a staple in behavioral neuroendocrinology. The first distinction concerns perspective, and the need to distinguish and appreciate, the differences between Molecular versus Molar epigenetics. Each has its own lineage of investigation, yet both appear to be unaware of one another. Second, it is important to distinguish the difference between Context-Dependent versus Germline-Dependent epigenetic modifications. In essence the difference is one of the mechanism of heritability or transmission within, as apposed to across, generations. This review illustrates these distinctions while describing several rodent models that have shown particular promise for unraveling the contribution of genetics and the environment on sociosexual behavior. The first focuses on genetically-modified mice and makes the point that the early litter environment alters subsequent brain activity and behavior. This work emphasizes the need to understand behavioral development when doing research with such animals. The second focuses on a new rat model in which the epigenome is permanently imprinted, an effect that crosses generations to impact the descendants without further exposure to the precipitating agent. This work raises the question of how events in generations past can have consequences at both the mechanistic, behavioral, and ultimately evolutionary levels.

The extracellular calcium-sensing receptor (CaR) is expressed in various types of endocrine pituitary cell, but the intracellular mechanism this G protein-coupled receptor uses in these cells is not known. In the present study we investigated possible intracellular signal transduction pathway(s) utilized by the CaR of the endocrine melanotrope cells in the intermediate pituitary lobe of the South African-clawed toad Xenopus laevis. For this purpose, the effects of various pharmacological agents on CaR-evoked secretion of radiolabeled secretory peptides from cultured melanotrope cells were assessed. CaR-evoked secretion, induced by the potent CaR agonist L-phenylalanine (L-Phe), could not be inhibited by cholera toxin, nor by NPC-15437 and PMA, indicating that neither G(s)/PKA nor G(q)/PKC pathways are involved. However, pertussis toxin (G(i/o) protein inhibitor), genistein (inhibitor of PTKs), wortmannin/LY-294002 (PI3-K inhibitor) and U-0126 (inhibitor of extracellular signal-regulated kinase, ERK) all substantially inhibited CaR-evoked secretion, indicating that the Xenopus melanotrope cell possesses a PI3-K/MAPK system that plays some role in CaR-signaling. Since no direct effect of L-Phe on ERK phosphorylation could be shown it is concluded that CaR must act primarily through another, still unknown, signaling pathway in Xenopus melanotropes. Our results indicate that the PI3-K/MAPK system has a facilitating effect on CaR-induced secretion, possibly by sensitizing the CaR.
The literature surrounding rodent models of human anxiety disorders is discrepant concerning which models reflect anxiety-like behavior distinct from general activity and whether different models are measuring the same underlying constructs. This experiment compared the responses of 15 inbred mouse strains (129S1/SvlmJ, A/J, AKR/J, BALB/cByJ, C3H/HeJ, C57BL/6J, C57L/J, CBA/J, CE/J, DBA/2J, FVB/NJ, NZB/B1NJ, PL/J, SJL/J and SWR/J) in three anxiety-like behavioral tasks (light/dark test, elevated zero-maze and open field) to examine whether responses were phenotypically and/or genetically correlated across tasks. Significant strain differences were found for all variables examined. Principal components analyses showed that variables associated with both activity and anxiety-like behaviors loaded onto one factor, while urination and defecation loaded onto another factor. Our findings differ from previous research by suggesting that general activity and anxiety-related behaviors are linked, negatively correlated and cannot easily be dissociated in these assays. However, these findings may not necessarily generalize to other unconditioned anxiety-like behavioral tests.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal progressive neuropathy associated with the degeneration of spinal and brainstem motor neurons. Although ALS is essentially considered as a lower motor neuron disease, prefrontal cortex atrophy underlying executive function deficits have been extensively reported in ALS patients. Here, we examine whether prefrontal cortex neuronal abnormalities and related cognitive impairments are present in presymptomatic G93A Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase mice, a mouse model for familial ALS. Structural characteristics of prelimbic/infralimbic (PL/IL) medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) neurons were studied in 3-month-old G93A and wild-type mice with the Golgi-Cox method, while mPFC-related cognitive operations were assessed using the conditioned fear extinction paradigm. Sholl analysis performed on the dendritic material showed a reduction in dendrite length and branch nodes on basal dendrites of PL/IL neurons in G93A mice. Spine density was also decreased on basal dendrite segments of branch order five. Consistent with the altered morphology of PL/IL cortical regions, G93A mice showed impaired extinction of conditioned fear. Our findings indicate that abnormal prefrontal cortex connectivity and function are appreciable before the onset of motor disturbances in this model.
Cell adhesion molecules, such as neuronal cell adhesion molecule (Nr-CAM), mediate cell-cell interactions in both the developing and mature nervous system. Neuronal cell adhesion molecule is believed to play a critical role in cell adhesion and migration, axonal growth, guidance, target recognition and synapse formation. Here, wild-type, heterozygous and Nr-CAM null mice were assessed on a battery of five learning tasks (Lashley maze, odor discrimination, passive avoidance, spatial water maze and fear conditioning) previously developed to characterize the general learning abilities of laboratory mice. Additionally, all animals were tested on 10 measures of sensory/motor function, emotionality and stress reactivity. We report that the Nr-CAM deletion had no impact on four of the learning tasks (fear conditioning, spatial water maze, Lashley maze and odor discrimination). However, Nr-CAM null mice exhibited impaired performance on a task that required animals to suppress movement (passive avoidance). Although Nr-CAM mutants expressed normal levels of general activity and body weights, they did exhibit an increased propensity to enter stressful areas of novel environments (the center of an open field and the lighted side of a dark/light box), exhibited higher sensitivity to pain (hot plate) and were more sensitive to the aversive effects of foot shock (shock-induced freezing). This behavioral phenotype suggests that Nr-CAM does not play a central role in the regulation of general cognitive abilities but may have a critical function in regulating impulsivity and possibly an animal's susceptibility to drug abuse and addiction.
A key translational issue for neuroscience is to understand how genes affect individual differences in brain function. Although it is reasonable to suppose that genetic effects on specific learning abilities, such as reading and mathematics, as well as general cognitive ability (g), will overlap very little, the counterintuitive finding emerging from multivariate genetic studies is that the same genes affect these diverse learning abilities: a Generalist Genes hypothesis. To conclusively test this hypothesis, we exploited the widespread access to inexpensive and fast Internet connections in the UK to assess 2541 pairs of 10-year-old twins for reading, mathematics and g, using a web-based test battery. Heritabilities were 0.38 for reading, 0.49 for mathematics and 0.44 for g. Multivariate genetic analysis showed substantial genetic correlations between learning abilities: 0.57 between reading and mathematics, 0.61 between reading and g, and 0.75 between mathematics and g, providing strong support for the Generalist Genes hypothesis. If genetic effects on cognition are so general, the effects of these genes on the brain are also likely to be general. In this way, generalist genes may prove invaluable in integrating top-down and bottom-up approaches to the systems biology of the brain.
Mice in which netrin-G2 has been genetically inhibited do not startle to an acoustic stimulus, but otherwise perform normally through a behavioral test battery. Light microscopic examination of the inner ear showed no obvious structural abnormalities. Brainstem responses to acoustic stimuli (auditory brainstem responses, ABR) were also present, confirming the lack of any overarching defects in the inner ear or auditory nerve. Genetic inhibition of netrin-G2 ligand produced a nearly identical phenotype, that is, no startle with ABR present, and otherwise normal. This similarity confirms that these two proteins act in the same biological pathway. We have also determined that the affinity between the two proteins is strong, around 2.5 nM, similar to that observed between netrin-G1 and netrin-G1 ligand - 2.3 nM in our hands. The combination of equivalent phenotypes when genetically inhibited coupled with evidence of a strong biochemical interaction supports the notion of a receptor-ligand interaction between these two proteins in vivo. This interaction is critical for auditory synaptic responsiveness in the brain.
Circadian clocks regulate many different physiological processes and synchronize these to environmental light:dark cycles. In Drosophila, light is transmitted to the clock by a circadian blue light photoreceptor CRYPTOCHROME (CRY). In response to light, CRY promotes the degradation of the circadian clock protein TIMELESS (TIM) and then is itself degraded. To identify novel genes involved in circadian entrainment, we performed an unbiased genome-wide screen in Drosophila cells using a sensitive and quantitative assay that measures light-induced degradation of CRY. We systematically knocked down the expression of approximately 21,000 genes and identified those that regulate CRY stability. These genes include ubiquitin ligases, signal transduction molecules, and redox molecules. Many of the genes identified in the screen are specific for CRY degradation and do not affect degradation of the TIM protein in response to light, suggesting that, for the most part, these two pathways are distinct. We further validated the effect of three candidate genes on CRY stability in vivo by assaying flies mutant for each of these genes. This work identifies a novel regulatory network involved in light-dependent CRY degradation and demonstrates the power of a genome-wide RNAi approach for understanding circadian biology.
To generate temporally controlled inactivation or activation of interested genes in Pitx3-expressing cells, the tamoxifen-inducible form of Cre, CreER(T2), was inserted into the Pitx3 locus of a mouse BAC clone. Following a single dose of tamoxifen, Cre activity in Pitx3-CreER(T2) transgenic mice was observed in the ocular lens and skeletal muscles but not in the central nervous system at various embryonic stages. This mouse line provides a reagent for driving inducible Cre-dependent recombination in the lens and skeletal muscles during embryonic development.
The Italian External Quality Assessment scheme for fragile X syndrome started in 2001 as an activity funded by the National Health System and coordinated by the National Institute of Public Health. The aim of this work is to present the data of 5 years (2001--2004 and 2006) of survey. The External Quality Assessment scheme was designed to cover the following points: (a) genotyping and (b) interpretation and reporting of results. Overall, the scheme covered about 65% of all Italian public laboratories. The average reporting of results was 91.6%, with an overall success rate of 76%. The rate of diagnostic errors observed was on average 5%. Inaccuracy in sizing of CGG repeats of normal and premutated alleles was reported. During the survey the proportion of laboratories using a Southern blotting, polymerase chain reaction, and ABI sizing kit in combination rose from 36.8% to 70.6%. The reports from laboratories showed incompleteness and considerable variations in expected outcomes. For this reason, in 2004 a model for written reports was introduced. In conclusion, these data underscore the need to participate in External Quality Assessment schemes as an educational resource to ensure quality in molecular genetic testing.
Understanding how neurons adopt particular fates is a fundamental challenge in developmental neurobiology. To address this issue, we have been studying a Caenorhabditis elegans lineage that produces the HSN motor neuron and the PHB sensory neuron, sister cells produced by the HSN/PHB precursor. We have previously shown that the novel protein HAM-1 controls the asymmetric neuroblast division in this lineage. In this study we examine tbx-2 and egl-5, genes that act in concert with ham-1 to regulate HSN and PHB fate. In screens for mutants with abnormal HSN development, we identified the T-box protein TBX-2 as being important for both HSN and PHB differentiation. TBX-2, along with HAM-1, regulates the migrations of the HSNs and prevents the PHB neurons from adopting an apoptotic fate. The homeobox gene egl-5 has been shown to regulate the migration and later differentiation of the HSN. While mutations that disrupt its function show no obvious role for EGL-5 in PHB development, loss of egl-5 in a ham-1 mutant background leads to PHB differentiation defects. Expression of EGL-5 in the HSN/PHB precursor but not in the PHB neuron suggests that EGL-5 specifies precursor fate. These observations reveal a role for both EGL-5 and TBX-2 in neural fate specification in the HSN/PHB lineage.
It has been suggested that astrocytic glutamate release or perturbed glutamate metabolism contributes to the proneness to epileptic seizures. Here we investigated whether astrocytic contents of the major glutamate degrading enzymes glutamine synthetase (GS) and glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) decreases on moving from the latent phase (prior to seizures) to the chronic phase (after onset of seizures) in the kainate (KA) model of temporal lobe epilepsy. Western blotting and immunogold analysis of hippocampal formation indicated similar levels of GDH in the latent and chronic phases of KA injected rats and in corresponding controls. In contrast, the level of GS was increased in the latent phase compared with controls, as assessed by Western blots of whole hippocampal formation and subregions. The increase in GS paralleled that of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Compared with the latent phase, the chronic phase revealed a lower level of GS (approaching control levels) but an unchanged GFAP content. The decrease in GS from latent to chronic phase was significant in whole hippocampal formation, dentate gyrus and CA3. It is concluded that kainate treated rats show an initial increase in GS, pari passu with the increase in GFAP, and a secondary decrease in GS that is not accompanied by a similar loss of GFAP. In a situation where glutamate catabolism is in high demand the secondary reduction in GS level may be sufficient to contribute to the seizure proneness that develops between the latent and chronic phases.
Intractable pain, headache or otherwise, is a devastating and life-controlling experience. The need to effectively and aggressively control pain is a fundamental tenet of clinical care. In the past several years, increasing advocacy for continuous opioid therapy has become an important, if not controversial, theme in the development of treatment guidelines and teaching programs. Ironically, the increasing willingness of physicians to prescribe scheduled opioids for their headache and pain patients has occurred in the absence of compelling data demonstrating efficacy or long-term safety. To the contrary, two meta-analyses on chronic noncancer pain (CNCP) and one long-term uncontrolled study on headache patients demonstrate a relatively small number of patients benefiting from the treatment. Recent neuroscience data on the effects of opioids on the brain raise serious concern for long-term safety and also provide the basis for the mechanism by which chronic opioid use might induce progression of headache frequency and severity. Significant adverse effects, including influence on sexual hormonal balances, physical and psychological dependence, the development of opioid-induced hyperalgesia, and cardiac arrhythmia and sudden death that can be seen with standard dosages of methadone, make a strong argument against widespread use of continuous opioid therapy (COT) in otherwise healthy young and middle-aged headache patients. We believe that COT should be used in rare circumstances for chronic headache patients, and propose initial guidelines for selecting patients and monitoring treatment. The physician should be well versed in the details of opioid prescribing, administration, and monitoring, and should be prepared to discontinue opioids when clinical justification, patient behavior, or failure to achieve therapeutic goals make discontinuance necessary.
We describe two memory-retrieval systems in absolute-pitch (AP) processing and propose existence of a universal internal pitch template to which subpopulations of musicians selectively gain access through the two systems. In Experiment I, AP and control musicians adjusted the frequency of a pure tone to match the pitch of a visually displayed randomly selected musical note. In Experiment II the same subjects vocally produced within 2s the pitch associated with a randomly selected musical note label. AP musicians, but not controls, were highly accurate in frequency matching. Surprisingly, both AP and non-AP groups were extremely accurate in voicing the target pitch as determined from an FFT of the recorded voiced notes (i.e., sigma=0.97, 0.90 semitones, respectively). Spectrogram analysis showed that notes voiced by non-AP musicians are accurate from onset of voicing suggesting that pitch accuracy does not result from an auditory-motor feedback loop. Findings support existence of two memory-retrieval systems for musical pitch: a semantic associative form of memory used by AP musicians, and a more widespread form of procedural memory which allows precise access to internal pitch representations through the vocal-motor system.
In January 2008, Duke University and the Japan Science and Technology Agency (JST) publicized their successful control of a brain-machine interface for a humanoid robot by a monkey brain across the Pacific Ocean. The activities of a few hundred neurons were recorded from a monkey's motor cortex in Miguel Nicolelis's lab at Duke University, and the kinematic features of monkey locomotion on a treadmill were decoded from neural firing rates in real time. The decoded information was sent to a humanoid robot, CB-i, in ATR Computational Neuroscience Laboratories located in Kyoto, Japan. This robot was developed by the JST International Collaborative Research Project (ICORP) as the &quot;Computational Brain Project.&quot; CB-i's locomotion-like movement was video-recorded and projected on a screen in front of the monkey. Although the bidirectional communication used a conventional Internet connection, its delay was suppressed below one over several seconds, partly due to a video-streaming technique, and this encouraged the monkey's voluntary locomotion and influenced its brain activity. This commentary introduces the background and future directions of the brain-controlled robot.
Numerous studies have suggested that estradiol (E) improves spatial memory as female rats with E perform better than those without E. However there is an inverse relationship between E and luteinizing hormone (LH) levels and LH could play a role. We examined whether treatment with the LH homologue human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), would impair spatial memory of adult E-treated female rats. In the object location memory task, ovariectomized (ovxed) rats treated with E and either a single high dose (400 IU/kg) or a lower repeated dose of hCG (75 IU/kg hourly for 8 h) showed spatial memory disruption compared to ovxed rats treated with estradiol alone. Impairment was attributed to memory disruption as performance improved with shortened delay between task exposure and testing. Tests on another spatial memory task, the Barnes maze, confirmed that hCG (400 IU/kg) can impair memory: although E+veh treated animals made significantly fewer hole errors across time, E+hCG-treated did not. In humans, high LH levels have been correlated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Because brain amyloid-beta (Abeta) species have been implicated as a toxic factor thought to cause memory loss in AD, we analyzed whether hCG-treated animals had increased Abeta levels. Levels of Abeta from whole brains or hippocampi were assessed by Western blot. hCG treatment to E-implanted females significantly increased soluble Abeta40 and Abeta42 levels. These results indicate that high levels of LH/hCG can impair spatial memory, and an increase in brain Abeta species may account for the memory impairment in hCG-treated rats.
Non-sexual social bonding between adult mammals is poorly understood, despite its importance in many species. Female meadow voles are territorial and nest alone in long summer day lengths when circulating estradiol concentrations are high, but cohabit in groups in short winter photoperiods when estradiol secretion is low. The influence of day length and estradiol on same-sex huddling behavior was assessed in adult female pairs housed together in long day lengths (LDs) or short day lengths (SDs) from weaning. The behavior of intact, ovariectomized, and estradiol-treated ovariectomized females from each photoperiod was assessed during 3 h partner-preference tests. Intact SD voles, unlike intact LD voles, spent the majority of the test in proximity to their cage-mates. Estradiol treatment of SD voles significantly reduced time spent huddling with the partner. Neither ovariectomy nor estradiol treatment significantly affected the amount of time LD females spent in contact with their partners. Low estradiol availability is therefore a necessary but not sufficient condition for maintenance of high levels of huddling. These results establish that ovarian hormones interact with photoperiod to affect same-sex social behavior.
Copulatory behaviors in most rodents are highly sexually dimorphic, even when circulating hormones are equated between the sexes. Prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster) are monomorphic in their display of some social behaviors, including partner preferences and parenting, but differences between the sexes in their masculine and feminine copulatory behavior potentials have not been studied in detail. Furthermore, the role of neonatal aromatization of testosterone to estradiol on the development of prairie vole sexual behavior potentials or their brain is unknown. To address these issues, prairie vole pups were injected daily for the first week after birth with 0.5 mg of the aromatase inhibitor 1,4,6-androstatriene-3,17-dione (ATD) or oil. Masculine and feminine copulatory behaviors in response to testosterone or estradiol were later examined in both sexes. Males and females showed high mounting and thrusting in response to testosterone, but only males reliably showed ejaculatory behavior. Conversely, males never showed feminine copulatory behaviors in response to estradiol. Sex differences in these behaviors were not affected by neonatal ATD, but ATD-treated females received fewer mounts and thrusts than controls, possibly indicating reduced attractiveness to males. In other groups of subjects, neonatal ATD demasculinized males' tyrosine hydroxylase expression in the anteroventral periventricular preoptic area, and estrogen receptor alpha expression in the medial preoptic area. Thus, although sexual behavior in both sexes of prairie voles is highly masculinized, aromatase during neonatal life is necessary only for females' femininity. Furthermore, copulatory behavior potentials and at least some aspects of brain development in male prairie voles are dissociable by their requirement for neonatal aromatase.

Gonadotropic hormones play an important role in the regulation of emotion. Previous studies have demonstrated that estrogen can modulate appetitive (approach/positive) and aversive (avoidance/negative) affective behaviors during the menstrual cycle. Frontal alpha asymmetry (a measure of relative difference of the alpha power between the two anterior hemispheres) has been associated with the trait and state reactivity of different affective styles. We studied the pattern change of frontal alpha asymmetry across the menstrual cycle. 16 healthy women participated in this resting magneto-encephalographic (MEG) study during the peri-ovulatory (OV) and menstrual (MC) phases. Our results showed significant interaction of resting MEG alpha activity between hemispheric side and menstrual phases. Difference in spontaneous frontal alpha asymmetry pattern across the menstrual cycle was also noted. Relatively higher right frontal activity was found during the OV phase; relatively higher left frontal activity was noted during the MC phase. The alteration of frontal alpha asymmetry might serve a sub-clinical correlate for hormonal modulation effect on dynamic brain organization for the predisposition and conceptualization of different affective styles across the menstrual cycle.
Numerous data show that malnutrition during early life programs chronic diseases in adulthood. Many of these disorders may result from alterations in the development of neuroendocrine systems, such as the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis and the sympathoadrenal system. We have previously reported that maternal 50% food restriction during late pregnancy and lactation reduces adrenal weight and impairs chromaffin cell differentiation in male rats at weaning. In addition, maternal undernutrition modifies the expression of several genes involved in proliferation and apoptosis. This study therefore investigated the impact of maternal food restriction on adrenal cell growth in the late postnatal rat. Histological analysis showed that the number of proliferating chromaffin cells assessed by nuclear labelling with BrdU was reduced by 45%, whereas the level of apoptosis visualised by caspase-3 immunoreactivity was increased by 340% in adrenal medulla of offspring from undernourished mothers. In contrast, maternal food restriction did not affect proliferation and apoptosis in cortical cells of rats. These developmental changes were associated with overexpression of TGFbeta2. These data show that perinatal undernutrition impairs the balance between chromaffin cell proliferation and apoptosis. These modifications may lead to &quot;malprogramming&quot; of adrenal medulla development, which could contribute to the pathogenesis of chronic diseases in adulthood.
A mis-sense point mutation in the human VAPB gene is associated with a familial form of motor neuron disease that has been classified as Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis type VIII. Affected individuals suffer from a spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) or an atypical slowly progressing form of ALS. Mammals have two homologous VAP genes, vapA and vapB. VAPA and VAPB share 76% similar or identical amino acid residues; both are COOH-terminally anchored membrane proteins enriched on the endoplasmic reticulum. Several functions have been ascribed to VAP proteins including membrane trafficking, cytoskeleton association and membrane docking interactions for cytoplasmic factors. It is shown here that VAPA and VAPB are expressed in tissues throughout the body but at different levels, and that they are present in overlapping but distinct regions of the endoplasmic reticulum. The disease-associated mutation in VAPB, VAPB(P56S), lies within a highly conserved N-terminal region of the protein that shares extensive structural homology with the major sperm protein (MSP) from nematodes. The MSP domain of VAPA and VAPB is found to interact with the ER-localized transcription factor ATF6. Over expression of VAPB or VAPB(P56S) attenuates the activity of ATF6-regulated transcription and the mutant protein VAPB(P56S) appears to be a more potent inhibitor of ATF6 activity. These data indicate that VAP proteins interact directly with components of ER homeostatic and stress signalling systems and may therefore be parts of a previously unidentified regulatory pathway. The mis-function of such regulatory systems may contribute to the pathological mechanisms of degenerative motor neuron disease.
Dynamic pattern analysis and motion extraction can be efficiently addressed using optical flow techniques. This article presents a generalization of these questions to non-flat surfaces, where optical flow is tackled through the problem of evolution processes on non-Euclidian domains. The classical equations of optical flow in the Euclidian case are transposed to the theoretical framework of differential geometry. We adopt this formulation for the regularized optical flow problem, prove its mathematical well-posedness and combine it with the advection equation. The optical flow and advection problems are dual: a motion field may be retrieved from some scalar evolution using optical flow; conversely, a scalar field may be deduced from a velocity field using advection. These principles are illustrated with qualitative and quantitative evaluations from numerical simulations bridging both approaches. The proof-of-concept is further demonstrated with preliminary results from time-resolved functional brain imaging data, where organized propagations of cortical activation patterns are evidenced using our approach.

Lyme disease affects the nervous system in about 10% to 15% of infected individuals, most commonly causing lymphocytic meningitis. Cranial neuropathies, particularly facial nerve palsy, also occur frequently. Figuring prominently in the European literature, but less emphasized in the United States, is painful radiculitis, radicular pain involving a limb or trunk dermatome. Treatment of neuroborreliosis is usually straightforward; oral antibiotics may suffice in many patients. In severe cases, 2 to 4 weeks of parenteral therapy is necessary. All available evidence indicates that treatment of more than 4 weeks' duration carries substantial risk but minimal if any additional benefit.

A Dutch sentence test (LIST) and a Dutch number test (LINT) have been developed and validated for the accurate measurement of speech reception thresholds (SRT) in quiet and in noise with severely hearing-impaired individuals and cochlear implant recipients in Flanders and the Netherlands. The LIST consists of 35 lists of 10 sentences of equal known difficulty uttered by a female speaker; while the LINT consists of 400 numbers (1-100) by two male and two female speakers. Normative values were determined at fixed S/N ratios and using the adaptive method (Plomp &amp; Mimpen, 1979), yielding identical results for SRT and slope. For the LIST, average fitted SRTs were 27.1 (0.9) dB SPL in quiet and -7.8 dB (0.2) SNR in noise. In addition, the LIST in noise displayed a steep discrimination function (17%/dB) and good reliability (within-subject standard deviation=1.2 dB). For the LINT average fitted SRTs in quiet were 20.7 (0.9) dB SPL and about -9.0 dB SNR in noise. Again, the slopes of the performance intensity functions were relatively steep, i.e. 8.5%/dB in quiet and 15.2%/dB in noise, suggesting that the LINT is accurate and efficient and thus capable of reflecting subtle changes in performance. First data with cochlear implanted subjects show that both LIST and LINT are feasible and are capable of mapping a large range of hearing disabilities.



The intellectual development of scientists normally traverses several different phases as they mature in their professions. In many cases, strong support of certain ideas and theories gives way to more critical, productive views that set the stage for major theories and discoveries. This appears to have been the case of Santiago Ramn y Cajal (1852-1934). In his youth, he supported the protoplasmic theory of life, and as he matured he maintained a critical, yet open view of the cell theory, which postulated that life phenomena could not take place below the cellular level. In later years, however, an older and wiser Ramn y Cajal abandoned all traces of dissent and joined in fully supporting a refined version of cell theory, to which his own discoveries significantly contributed.
Most of the tissue used for penetrating keratoplasty is issued through eye banks that store the corneoscleral button either in hypothermic storage at 2-6 degrees C or in organ culture at 31-37 degrees C. These two preservation techniques differ in technical aspects, tissue evaluation possibilities, storage time and microbiological safety. Hypothermic storage is simple and requires little expensive equipment. In general a pre-storage evaluation of the endothelium is performed by specular microscopy and storage time is usually around 7-10 days. Organ culture is a relatively complicated technique requiring more expertise and well-equipped facilities. Evaluation of the endothelium is not only performed before storage, but is routinely performed after storage through the use of light microscopy. With organ culture the allowed storage period is longer, up to four weeks. The vulnerability of organ culture to microbial contamination can be turned into an advantage because it allows the detection of residual micro-organisms on the cornea before surgery. Both preservation techniques seem to result in similar graft survival. The method of choice for preservation of the donor cornea is dictated by a number of factors mentioned in this review and this helps to explain the geographical differences in the use of the different techniques.
The emergence of the Cognitive Sciences, in the middle of the 20th Century, was initially based on an abstract model of the mind: the computer metaphor. The human mind was understood in analogy to the digital computer, as a rule-based, symbol processor. As a consequence, the human being was envisioned as logically-rationally guided, radically disembodied and isolated from culture. Over the last few decades, several disciplines, such as Biology, Mathematics, Philosophy, Psychology and Neuroscience, have begun to address the study of intentionality, intersubjectivity and natural cognition. Searching for a better understanding of these complex issues, a number of approaches have been developed with the promise of capturing the specific qualities of human cognition, radically omitted from a computationalist view of mind. Nevertheless, since these research programs are rather recent, concrete methodological designs and empirical approaches in the form of experimentally testable hypotheses are still scarce. This special issue brings together several perspectives in order to propose alternative research approaches in the topics of Intentionality, Intersubjectivity and Ecology of Mind. We believe it is necessary to discuss and advance towards explicit empirical frames in the form of actual experiments, specific predictions and formal models. The essays presented here constitute an attempt to move in this direction, with the specific aim of reconsidering the study of some forgotten properties of brain and mind.
The majority of the existing theories explaining deductive reasoning could be included in a classic computationalist approach of the cognitive processes. In fact, deductive reasoning could be seen to be the pinnacle of the symbolic computationalism, its last fortress to be defended in the face of new, dynamic, and ecological perspectives over cognition. But are there weak points in that position regarding deductive reasoning? What would be the reasons for which new perspectives could gain in credibility? What could be their most important tenets? The answers given to those questions in the paper include two main points. The first one is that the present empirical data could not sustain unambiguously one view over the other, that they are obtained in artificial experimental conditions, and that there are data that are not easily explainable using the traditional computationalist paradigm. The second one is that approaching the deductive reasoning from dynamic and ecological perspectives could have significant advantages. The most obvious one is the possibility to integrate more easily the research regarding the deductive reasoning with the results obtained in other domains of the psychology (especially in what respects the lower cognitive processes), in artificial intelligence or in neurophysiology. The reasons for that would be that such perspectives, as they are sketched in the paper, would imply, essentially, processes of second-order pattern formation and recognition (as it is the case for perception), embodied cognition, and dynamic processes as the brain ones are.

Big brown bats were trained in a two-choice task to locate a two-cylinder dipole object with a constant 5 cm spacing in the presence of either a one-cylinder monopole or another two-cylinder dipole with a shorter spacing. For the dipole versus monopole task, the objects were either stationary or in motion during each trial. The dipole and monopole objects varied from trial to trial in the left-right position while also roving in range (10-40 cm), cross range separation (15-40 cm), and dipole aspect angle (0 degrees -90 degrees ). These manipulations prevented any single feature of the acoustic stimuli from being a stable indicator of which object was the correct choice. After accounting for effects of masking between echoes from pairs of cylinders at similar distances, the bats discriminated the 5 cm dipole from both the monopole and dipole alternatives with performance independent of aspect angle, implying a distal, spatial object representation rather than a proximal, acoustic object representation.
When listening selectively to one talker in a two-talker environment, performance generally improves with spatial separation of the sources. The current study explores the role of spatial separation in divided listening, when listeners reported both of two simultaneous messages processed to have little spectral overlap (limiting &quot;energetic masking&quot; between the messages). One message was presented at a fixed level, while the other message level varied from equal to 40 dB less than that of the fixed-level message. Results demonstrate that spatial separation of the competing messages improved divided-listening performance. Most errors occurred because listeners failed to report the content of the less-intense talker. Moreover, performance generally improved as the broadband energy ratio of the variable-level to the fixed-level talker increased. The error patterns suggest that spatial separation improves the intelligibility of the less-intense talker by improving the ability to (1) hear portions of the signal that would otherwise be masked, (2) segregate the two talkers properly into separate perceptual streams, and (3) selectively focus attention on the less-intense talker. Spatial configuration did not noticeably affect the ability to report the more-intense talker, suggesting that it was processed differently than the less-intense talker, which was actively attended.
A masker can reduce target intelligibility both by interfering with the target's peripheral representation (&quot;energetic masking&quot;) and/or by causing more central interference (&quot;informational masking&quot;). Intelligibility generally improves with increasing spatial separation between two sources, an effect known as spatial release from masking (SRM). Here, SRM was measured using two concurrent sine-vocoded talkers. Target and masker were each composed of eight different narrowbands of speech (with little spectral overlap). The broadband target-to-masker energy ratio (TMR) was varied, and response errors were used to assess the relative importance of energetic and informational masking. Performance improved with increasing TMR. SRM occurred at all TMRs; however, the pattern of errors suggests that spatial separation affected performance differently, depending on the dominant type of masking. Detailed error analysis suggests that informational masking occurred due to failures in either across-time linkage of target segments (streaming) or top-down selection of the target. Specifically, differences in the spatial cues in target and masker improved streaming and target selection. In contrast, level differences helped listeners select the target, but had little influence on streaming. These results demonstrate that at least two mechanisms (differentially affected by spatial and level cues) influence informational masking.


Cerebral inflammation as well as systemic immunological alterations has been reported in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We aimed to determine whether spontaneous and mitogen stimulated production of peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) cytokines, chemokines and chemokine receptors in clinically diagnosed patients with AD were unregulated. PBMC were purified from AD patients and from healthy controls. Supernatants were analyzed for cytokine levels by ELISA methods. mRNA expression was determined by RT-PCR. Expression of chemokine receptors CCR2 and CCR5 was determined by cytofluorimetric analysis. Both CCR5 and CCR2 expression were increased in AD patients respect to control subjects and the expression of CCR2 and CCR5 was more frequent on CD4+ and less frequent on CD8+ cells. Levels of Th1-type cytokine IFNgamma and chemokine RANTES were increased and levels of Th2-type cytokine IL-4 and chemokine MCP-1 were reduced in AD patients compared with those of control subjects. Acetylcholinesterase inhibitor pyridostigmine bromide (AChEI)-therapy reduced CCR2, CCR5, RANTES and IFNgamma expression and production in AD patients. CCR5, CCL5/RANTES, CCL2/MCP-1 and IFNgamma expression and production were increased in PBMC treated with amyloid-beta1-42. Addition of AChEI to PBMC suppresses CCL5/RANTES and IFNgamma. The observed patterns of cyto-chemokine involvement strengthen the questions regarding the inflammatory theory in AD, and raise a pathophysiologic role for selective alteration of cyto-chemokine network.
Diets rich in cholesterol and/or saturated fats have been shown to be detrimental to cognitive performance. Therefore, we fed a cholesterol (2%) and saturated fat (hydrogenated coconut oil, Sat Fat 10%) diet to 16-month old rats for 8 weeks to explore the effects on the working memory performance of middle-aged rats. Lipid profiles revealed elevated plasma triglycerides, total cholesterol, HDL, and LDL for the Sat-Fat group as compared to an iso-caloric control diet (12% soybean oil). Weight gain and food consumption were similar in both groups. Sat-Fat treated rats committed more working memory errors in the water radial arm maze, especially at higher memory loads. Cholesterol, amyloid-beta peptide of 40 (Abeta40) or 42 (Abeta42) residues, and nerve growth factor in cortical regions was unaffected, but hippocampal Map-2 staining was reduced in rats fed a Sat-Fat diet, indicating a loss of dendritic integrity. Map-2 reduction correlated with memory errors. Microglial activation, indicating inflammation and/or gliosis, was also observed in the hippocampus of Sat-Fat fed rats. These data suggest that saturated fat, hydrogenated fat and cholesterol can profoundly impair memory and hippocampal morphology.
Most contemporary cochlear implants (CIs) stimulate the auditory nerve with trains of amplitude-modulated, symmetric biphasic pulses. Although both polarities of a pulse can depolarize the nerve fibers and generate action potentials, it remains unknown which of the two (positive or negative) phases has the stronger effect. Understanding the effects of pulse polarity will help to optimize the stimulation protocols and to deliver the most relevant information to the implant listeners. Animal experiments have shown that cathodic (negative) current flows are more effective than anodic (positive) ones in eliciting neural responses, and this finding has motivated the development of novel speech-processing algorithms. In this study, we show electrophysiologically and psychophysically that the human auditory system exhibits the opposite pattern, being more sensitive to anodic stimulation. We measured electrically evoked compound action potentials in CI listeners for phase-separated pulses, allowing us to tease out the responses to each of the two opposite-polarity phases. At an equal stimulus level, the anodic phase yielded the larger response. Furthermore, a measure of psychophysical masking patterns revealed that this polarity difference was still present at higher levels of the auditory system and was therefore not solely due to antidromic propagation of the neural response. This finding may relate to a particular orientation of the nerve fibers relative to the electrode or to a substantial degeneration and demyelination of the peripheral processes. Potential applications to improve CI speech-processing strategies are discussed.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus exhibits circadian rhythmicity in fetal and infant rats, but little is known about the consequences of this rhythmicity for infant behavior. Here, in experiment 1, the authors measured sleep and wakefulness in rats during the day and night in postnatal day (P)2, P8, P15, and P21 subjects. As early as P2, day-night differences in sleep-wake activity were detected. Nocturnal wakefulness began to emerge around P15 and was reliably expressed by P21. The authors hypothesized that the process of photic entrainment over the 1st postnatal week, which depends on the development of connectivity between the retinohypothalamic tract (RHT) and the SCN, influences the later emergence of nocturnal wakefulness. To test this hypothesis, in experiment 2 infant rats were enucleated bilaterally at P3 and P11, that is, before and after photic entrainment. Whereas pups enucleated at P11 and tested at P21 exhibited increased wakefulness at night, identical to sham controls, pups enucleated at P3 and tested at P21 exhibited the opposite pattern of increased wakefulness during the day. Pups tested at P28 and P35 exhibited this same pattern of increased daytime wakefulness. All together, these results suggest that prenatal and postnatal experience modulates the development of species-typical circadian sleep-wake patterns. Moreover, the authors suggest that visual system stimulation, via the RHT's connections with the SCN, exerts an organizational influence on the developing circadian system and, consequently, contributes to the emergence of nocturnality in this species.

Stem cells hold promise to treat diseases currently unapproachable, including Parkinson's disease, liver disease and diabetes. Seminal research has demonstrated the ability of embryonic and adult stem cells to differentiate into clinically useful cell types in vitro and in vivo. More recently, the potential of fetal stem cells derived from extra-embryonic tissues has been investigated. Fetal stem cells are particularly appealing for clinical applications. The cells are readily isolated from tissues normally discarded at birth, avoiding ethical concerns that plague the isolation embryonic stem cells. Extra-embryonic tissues are large, potentially increasing the number of stem cells that can be extracted. Lastly, the generation and sequestration of cells that form extra-embryonic tissues occurs early in development and may endow resident stem cell populations with enhanced potency. In this review we summarize recent work examining the plasticity and clinical potential of fetal stem cells isolated from extra-embryonic tissues.
Uncoupling protein 2 (UCP2) is upregulated in the brain after sublethal ischemia, and overexpression of UCP2 is neuroprotective in several models of neurodegenerative disease. We investigated if increased levels of UCP2 diminished neuronal damage after global brain ischemia by subjecting mice overexpressing UCP2 (UCP2/3tg) and wild-type littermates (wt) to a 12-min global ischemia. The histopathological outcome in the cortex, hippocampus, striatum, and thalamus was evaluated at 4 days of recovery, allowing maturation of the selective neuronal death. Global ischemia led to extensive cell death in the striatum, thalamus, and in the CA1 and CA2, and less-pronounced cell death in the CA3 and dentate gyrus (DG) hippocampal subfields. Histologic damage was significantly lower in the ventral posterolateral VPL and medial VPM thalamic nuclei in UCP2/3tg animals compared with wt. These thalamic regions showed a larger increase in UCP2 expression in UCP2/3tg compared with wt animals relative to the nonprotected DG. In the other regions studied, the histologic damage was lower or equal in UCP2/3tg animals compared with wt. Consequently, neuroprotection in the thalamus correlated with a high expression of UCP2, which is neuroprotective in a number of models of neurodegenerative diseases.
Transplantation of neural tissue has been attempted as a treatment method for neurodegenerative disorders. Grafted neurons survive to a lesser extent into middle-aged or aged hosts, and survival rates of &lt;10% of grafted neurons is common. Antioxidant diets, such as blueberry, can exert powerful effects on developing neurons and blood vessels in vitro, but studies are lacking that examine the effects of these diets on transplanted tissues. In this study, we examined the effects of a blueberry diet on survival, growth, and vascularization of fetal hippocampal tissue to the anterior chamber of the eye of young or middle-aged female rats. Previous work from our group showed significant increase in neuronal survival and development with blueberry diet in grafts. However, the effects of antioxidant diet on vascular development in grafts have not been explored previously. The age of the host affected individual vessel morphology in that aged hosts contained grafts with thick, undeveloped walls, and wider lumen. The blood-brain barrier also appeared to be affected by the age of the host. The blueberry diet did not affect vessel morphology or density of vessel-associated protein markers but gave rise to significantly increased growth capacity, cytoarchitecture, and the final size of hippocampal grafts.
A 15-year-old girl presented to our emergency department with dizziness, anorexia, nausea, and malaise. Clinical examination and magnetic resonance imaging studies showed characteristic features of multiple sclerosis. Surprisingly, a diagnostic lumbar puncture showed significant intracranial hypertension in addition to numerous oligoclonal bands, elevated immunoglobulin G index and immunoglobulin G/albumin ratio in the cerebrospinal fluid. It is proposed that a large burden of active demyelinating disease may cause increased intracranial pressure, thus providing an additional sound rationale for prompt therapeutic administration of intravenous high-dose steroids.
Nemaline myopathy is defined by the presence of nemaline bodies, or rods, on muscle biopsy. Facial and bulbar weakness in nemaline myopathy cause chewing and swallowing difficulties, recurrent aspiration, and poor control of oral secretions. This article discusses 5 patients (4 infants and 1 adolescent) with nemaline myopathy who received dietary supplementation with L-tyrosine (250 to 3000 mg/day). All 4 infants were reported to have an initial decrease in sialorrhoea and an increase in energy levels. The adolescent showed improved strength and exercise tolerance. No adverse effects of treatment were observed. Dietary tyrosine supplementation may improve bulbar function, activity levels, and exercise tolerance in nemaline myopathy.
The serine/threonine protein kinase AKT (also known as PKB) signaling pathway has been associated with several human diseases, including schizophrenia. Studies in preclinical models have demonstrated that impaired AKT signaling affects neuronal connectivity and neuromodulation and have identified AKT as a key signaling intermediary downstream of dopamine (DA) receptor 2 (DRD2), the best-established target of antipsychotic drugs. A study by Tan et al. in this issue of the JCI strengthens links among AKT signaling, DA transmission, and cognition in healthy individuals and offers potential avenues to explore in an effort to find more effective pharmacotherapies for schizophrenia and related disorders (see the related article beginning on page 2200).

Damage and/or disconnection of the primary somatosensory cortex (SI) after stroke leads to deficits in touch perception. We used magnetoencephalography to test whether specific patterns of functionality of the somatosensory cortex are associated with different degrees of postacute somatosensory deficit. Nineteen postacute unilateral stroke patients suffering different degrees of somatosensory deficit (six nonexistent, six moderate, and seven severe) and eight aged-matched controls underwent high-resolution MRI and whole-head magnetoencephalography recordings of somatosensory-evoked fields and of spontaneous slow oscillatory activity. Amplitude of SI activation after tactile stimulation in the affected and nonaffected hemispheres and delta dipole density (DDD) in the postcentral areas were estimated and compared across the four groups. Severe postacute somatosensory deficit was accompanied, in all cases, with absence of SI responses to stimulation in the affected hand and a significant asymmetry in postcentral DDD toward the affected hemisphere. Patients with moderate sensory loss showed asymmetry in their postcentral DDD (four cases toward the affected hemisphere and two toward the unaffected) but no atypical amplitudes in SI activation. Recordings in stroke patients without somatosensory deficit did not differ from those obtained in controls for SI amplitude or postcentral DDD. In stroke patients, amplitude of SI responses and postcentral DDD show a negative correlation. Lack of activation of SI cortex after stimulation of the affected hand and spontaneous slow oscillatory activity in postcentral areas are neurophysiological correlates of somatosensory deficit in the postacute phase of stroke.
We sought to find evidence for generalizability of a game and team oriented educational intervention in clinical neurophysiology in a neurology residency program. A prospective educational intervention was studied in a single neurology residency program and compared with a historical control. Seventeen PGY 2-4 residents studied neurophysiology in 2004-2005. The historical control was 20 PGY 2-4 residents from 1998 to 2002. The neurophysiology educational intervention consisted of weekly presentations, followed by a game show-type oral quiz which was team-based and required all residents to participate. The control group attended faculty-prepared didactic lectures. Outcome measures were percent correct subset neurophysiology Residency Inservice Training Examination scores. United States Medical Licensing Examination step 1 scores were also compared between the groups. Data were analyzed with analysis of variance methods accounting for multiple measurements. The mean+/-standard error neurophysiology subset percent correct Residency Inservice Training Examination score was 63.6+/-4.12 for the intervention group and 49.4+/-2.35 for the control (P=0.002). There was no difference in United States Medical Licensing Examination step 1 scores between the two groups (P=0.11). We found evidence for generalizability of the effectiveness of a team-oriented educational intervention in clinical neurophysiology with gaming and oral quizzing in improving subset Residency Inservice Training Examination performance compared with faculty prepared didactics.
To determine the presence of perceptual sensitization and related brain responses we examined 15 patients with fibromyalgia syndrome and 15 healthy controls comparable in age and sex. Multichannel EEG recordings and pain ratings were obtained during the presentation of 800 painful electrical intramuscular and intracutaneous stimuli to the left m. erector spinae and the left m. extensor digitorum. The stimulus intensity was adjusted to 50% between pain threshold and tolerance. Detection and pain thresholds were significantly lower in the fibromyalgia syndrome group. Sensitization occurred for both groups during intramuscular stimulation. In the EEG data the fibromyalgia syndrome patients showed higher N80 amplitudes compared with the healthy controls. Arm stimulation and intramuscular stimulation yielded higher N80 and N150 amplitudes compared with intracutaneous stimulation or stimulation of the back. These results indicate lower pain thresholds in the fibromyalgia syndrome patients after electrical stimulation and a higher N80 amplitude both indicative of enhanced sensory processing in this group.
Choroid plexus papillomas (CPP) are rare, benign tumors of the central nervous system. They usually occur in the lateral ventricles in children and the fourth ventricle in adults. Extensive seeding along the neural axis is usually associated with malignant transformation of the tumor. We report a rare case of a 74-year-old patient with a fourth ventricle CPP associated with diffuse spinal deposits. Radiological and histological findings are presented and the relevant literature is discussed.
Howard Florey is best known as the scientist who developed penicillin and ushered in the modern antibiotic era. As an experimental pathologist he founded one of the leading schools of experimental pathology at Oxford and his achievements established him as one of the foremost medical scientists of the twentieth century. Florey's ambition and drive toward medical research commenced in the years 1922-1925 when he was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford. His mentor was the neurophysiologist and Nobel Laureate, Sir Charles Sherrington who directed him in neuroscience research. Florey's initial studies on the cerebral circulation represent an original contribution to medical knowledge and highlight his remarkable scientific method. The mentorship and close personal relationship with Sherrington was a crucial factor in Florey's early research career.



Neuropsychological work is the historical foundation of cognitive neuroscience and continues to be an important method in the study of the neural basis of human behavior, complementing newer techniques for investigating brain structure-function relationships in human subjects. Recent advances in neuroimaging, statistics and information management provide powerful tools to support neuropsychological research. At the same time, changing ethical requirements and privacy concerns impose increasingly high standards on the procedures used to recruit research participants, and on subsequent data management. Shared, centrally managed research registries provide a framework for facilitating access to this method for nonclinicians, addressing ethical concerns, streamlining recruitment and screening procedures, and coordinating subsequent research contacts and data storage. We report the experience of two such registries: the patient database of the Center for Cognitive Neuroscience at the University of Pennsylvania, and the Cognitive Neuroscience Research Registry at McGill University.
The current study examined the neural substrates of facial attractiveness judgments. Based on the extant behavioral literature, it was hypothesized that brain regions involved in identifying the potential reward value of a stimulus would be more active when men viewed attractive women than when women viewed attractive men. To test this hypothesis, we conducted an event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging experiment during which participants provided explicit attractiveness judgments for faces of the opposite sex. These individual ratings were subsequently used to perform analyses aimed at identifying the brain regions preferentially responsive to attractive faces for both sex groups. The results revealed that brain regions comprising the putative reward circuitry (e.g., nucleus accumbens [NAcc], orbito-frontal cortex [OFC]) showed a linear increase in activation with increased judgments of attractiveness. However, further analysis also revealed sex differences in the recruitment of OFC, which distinguished attractive and unattractive faces only for male participants.
The performance of patients with lesions involving the basal ganglia (BG) was compared to that of patients with prefrontal (PFC) lesions, thalamic (TH) lesions, and age-matched controls in order to examine the specific role of the BG within the frontal-subcortical circuits (FSCC) in task switching. All the BG patients and none of the other participants showed a marked increase in error rate in incongruent trials where correct responses depended upon the choice of the correct task rule. Some BG patients erred in failing to switch tasks and others failed despite their attempt to switch tasks. Additionally, reaction time results indicate abnormal response repetition effects among the BG patients; failure in benefiting from advance task information among all the patients; and increased task mixing costs following PFC lesions. The authors conclude that although the frontal-subcortical circuits jointly determine some behaviors (such as benefiting from preparation), the BG play a unique role within the FSCC in action selection and/or the inhibition of irrelevant information.
The recent upsurge of interest in brain mechanisms of time perception is beginning to converge on some new starting points for investigating this long under studied aspect of our experience. In four experiments, we asked whether disruption of normal activity in human MT/V5 would interfere with temporal discrimination. Although clearly associated with both spatial and motion processing, MT/V5 has not yet been implicated in temporal processes. Following predictions from brain imaging studies that have shown the parietal cortex to be important in human time perception, we also asked whether disruption of either the left or right parietal cortex would interfere with time perception preferentially in the auditory or visual domain. The results show that the right posterior parietal cortex is important for timing of auditory and visual stimuli and that MT/V5 is necessary for timing only of visual events.
The interaction between the stress axis and endogenous opioid systems has gained substantial attention, because it is increasingly recognized that stress alters individual sensitivity to opiates. One site at which opiates and stress substrates may interact to have global effects on behavior is within the locus coeruleus (LC). We have previously described interactions of several opioid peptides [e.g., proopiomelanocortin, enkephalin (ENK)] with the stress-related peptide corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) in the LC. To examine further the interactions among dynorphin (DYN), ENK, and CRF in the LC, sections were processed for detection of DYN and CRF or DYN and ENK in rat brain. DYN- and CRF-containing axon terminals overlapped noradrenergic dendrites in this region. Dual immunoelectron microscopy showed coexistence of DYN and CRF; 35% of axon terminals containing DYN were also immunoreactive for CRF. In contrast, few axon terminals contained both DYN and ENK. A potential DYN/CRF afferent is the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA). Dual in situ hybridization showed that, in CeA neurons, 31% of DYN mRNA-positive cells colocalized with CRF mRNA, whereas 53% of CRF mRNA-containing cells colocalized with DYN mRNA. Finally, to determine whether limbic DYN afferents target the LC, the CeA was electrolytically lesioned. Light-level densitometry of DYN labeling in the LC showed a significant decrease in immunoreactivity on the side of the lesion. Taken together, these data indicate that DYN- and CRF-labeled axon terminals, most likely arising from amygdalar sources, are positioned dually to affect LC function, whereas DYN and ENK function in parallel.
It has been reported that mu-opioid agonists depress glutamate release in some neurons but the specific receptor subtype mediating this effect is unclear. The purpose of the present study was to examine whether a particular mu-opioid receptor (MOR) splice-variant, MOR(1C), is expressed in rat central nervous system (CNS) by terminals expressing the vesicular glutamate transporter2 (VGLUT2), a marker of glutamatergic neurons. Several MOR splice variants have been identified in mice and MOR(1C) appears mainly to be localized to fibers and terminals, from which most neurotransmitter release would be expected. In addition, VGLUT2 has been found in the CNS and antibodies to it are reliable markers for glutamatergic terminals. Using fluorescence immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy to examine spatial relationships between MOR(1C) and VGLUT2, we found that MOR(1C) and VGLUT2 puncta were widely distributed throughout the rat CNS; moreover, many regions contained terminals that expressed both. Thus, it appears that coexpression of MOR(1C) and VGLUT2 is common in the rat CNS. We hypothesize that activation of MOR(1C) by mu-opioid agonists at some glutamatergic terminals may be a mechanism by which glutamate release is inhibited.
We describe a new molecular mechanism of dopamine-induced membrane protein modulation that can tune neuronal oscillation frequency to attention-related gamma rhythm. This mechanism is based on the unique ability of D4 dopamine receptors (D4R) to carry out phospholipid methylation (PLM) that may affect the kinetics of ion channels. We show that by deceasing the inertia of the delayed rectifier potassium channel, a transition to 40 Hz oscillations can be achieved. Decreased potassium channel inertia shortens spike duration and decreases the interspike interval via its influence on the calcium-dependent potassium current. This mechanism leads to a transition to attention-related gamma oscillations in a pyramidal cell-interneuron network. The higher frequency and better synchronization is observed with PLM affecting pyramidal neurons only, and recurrent excitation between pyramidal neurons is important for synchronization. Thus dopamine-stimulated methylation of membrane phospholipids may be an important mechanism for modulating firing activity, while impaired methylation can contribute to disorders of attention.
Categorical perception is a process by which a continuous stimulus space is partitioned to represent discrete sensory events. Early experience has been shown to shape categorical perception and enlarge cortical representations of experienced stimuli in the sensory cortex. The present study examines the hypothesis that enlargement in cortical stimulus representations is a mechanism of categorical perception. Perceptual discrimination and identification behaviors were analyzed in model auditory cortices that incorporated sound exposure-induced plasticity effects. The model auditory cortex with over-representations of specific stimuli exhibited categorical perception behaviors for those specific stimuli. These results indicate that enlarged stimulus representations in the sensory cortex may be a mechanism for categorical perceptual learning.

Robot-assisted radical prostatectomy is an option for surgical management of clinically localized prostate cancer. There have been theoretical concerns, however, regarding lack of anatomic data with specific relevance to robot-assisted prostatectomy, use of thermal or electrical energy during nerve sparing, and lack of tactile feedback. To address these concerns, we have revisited anatomic foundations and have incorporated a few modifications and strategies in the technique of robot-assisted prostatectomy to maximize cancer control, preserve neurovascular tissue, and emulate time-tested steps of anatomic radical prostatectomy. We present our findings about neural anatomy, modified technique, and oncologic and functional outcomes from patients who have undergone this procedure at our institution.
Mechanosensory hair cells in the ear are exquisitely responsive to minute sensory inputs, nearly to the point of instability. Active mechanisms bias the transduction apparatus and subsequent electrical amplification away from saturation in either the negative or positive direction, to an operating point where the response to small signals is approximately linear. An active force generator coupled directly to the transducer enhances sensitivity and frequency selectivity, and counteracts energy loss to viscous drag. Active electrical amplification further enhances gain and frequency selectivity. In both cases, nonlinear properties may maintain the system close to instability, as evidenced by small spontaneous oscillations, while providing a compressive nonlinearity that increases the cell's operating range. Transmitter release also appears to be frequency selective and biased to operate most effectively near the resting potential. This brief overview will consider the resting stability of hair cells, and their responses to small perturbations that correspond to soft sounds or small accelerations.

This study demonstrates the use of multilevel modeling to examine influences on ratings of whole family functioning collected from multiple family members (N=26,614) living in 11,023 families with 1 or more dependent children aged 0 to 24 years. Results indicate that 45.7% of the variance in ratings of whole family functioning was shared among family members, whereas 54.3% was nonshared. Family-level characteristics, such as socioeconomic status (SES), family structure and composition, and family well-being, accounted for 30.6% of between-family variation (i.e., shared perceptions). Individual-level characteristics, such as sex, age, dependent child status, education, and well-being, accounted for 5.6% of within-family variance (i.e., unique perceptions). There was significant between-family variation in the relationship between dependent child status and ratings of family functioning, and increased rating discrepancies among members of the same family were linked with higher levels of family SES. The findings attest to the validity of measuring whole family functioning directly from self-report ratings provided from multiple family members. However, caution is warranted when assessments are available only from single respondents.
JC virus (JCV) DNA replication occurs in the nuclei of infected cells. The level of JCV genome expression depends on nucleotide sequences in the viral regulatory region and their interaction with host-cell nuclear transcription factors. Our previous studies showed a higher level of NF-1X in JCV-permissive cells compared with the other members of the NF-1 family, NF-1A, B and C, which suggests that NF-1X plays a positive role in JCV multiplication. It remained unclear whether a reduction in the level of NF-1A, which is expressed abundantly in JCV-non-permissive cell types, leads to an increase in JCV multiplication. In this study, we show that downregulation of NF-1A expression in JCV-non-susceptible progenitor and HeLa cells results in a reversion to susceptibility for JCV multiplication. These data demonstrate that a higher level of NF-1A protein in JCV-non-permissive cell types, compared with the level of NF-1X, may be acting as a negative regulator at the JCV promoter to control JCV multiplication.

A recent health economic survey in Europe has suggested that migraine is the costliest among the neurological disorders. According to many studies, migraine and other disorders lead to widespread suffering, reduction of quality of life, and marked impairment of participation, both in work and social activities. The present literature survey was made in order to summarize what is known on the subject, as a preparation for a EU-supported study to assess the impact in several EU countries with similar methodology and the same research instrument. Previous studies have yielded relatively reliable data only for migraine, whereas the impact of tension-type headache is virtually unknown or only very incompletely known for most dimensions of headache impact. Some data do suggest, however, that this headache may be as important from a health economic and a public health perspective as migraine. In future studies it is important to get population-based data from various countries relevant for estimation of indirect (mostly absenteeism from work and reduced working efficiency when having headache) and direct costs (related to medication, consultations, investigations and hospitalisations). Also, the impact on ability to get education and participate in the workforce is very relevant, as is the impact on love life and family planning. The quality of life of headache patients should be measured by validated instruments. To get a complete picture, one should also ask about the effect on the life of partners and children, and on the possible impact even when headache-free (e.g. fear of the next attack).
One common feature of chronic musculoskeletal pain and headaches are that they are both influenced by stress. Among these, tension-type headache (TTH), fibromyalgia (FMS) and chronic shoulder/neck pain (SNP) appear to have several similarities, both with regard to pathophysiology, clinical features and demographics. The main hypothesis of the present study was that patients with chronic pain (TTH, FMS and SNP) had stress-induced features distinguishing them from migraine patients and healthy controls. We measured pain, blood pressure, heart rate (HR) and skin blood flow (BF) during (1 h) and after (30 min) controlled low-grade cognitive stressor in 22 migraine patients, 18 TTH patients, 23 FMS patients, 29 SNP patients and 44 healthy controls. FMS patients had a lower early HR response to stress than migraine patients, but no differences were found among FMS, TTH and SNP patients. Finger skin BF decreased more in FMS patients compared to migraine patients, both during and after the test. When comparing chronic pain patients (chronic TTH, FMS and SNP) with those with episodic pain (episodic TTH and migraine patients) or little or no pain (healthy controls), different adaptation profiles were found during the test for systolic and diastolic blood pressure, HR and skin BF in the chronic group. In conclusion, these results suggest that TTH, FMS and SNP patients may share common pathophysiological mechanisms regarding the physiological responses to and recovery from low-grade cognitive stress, differentiating them from episodic pain conditions such as migraine.

In people infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), the accumulation of macrophages in the brain correlates with encephalitis and dementia. We hypothesized that a pattern of surface marker expression in blood monocytes may serve as a marker for central nervous system (CNS) disease. Using the simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-rhesus monkey model, we analyzed functionally relevant surface markers on monocytes and macrophages from the blood and brain in animals that did or did not develop SIV encephalitis. At necropsy, multiple markers (CD44v6, CCR2, and CCR5 on blood monocytes and brain microglia and/or macrophages, and CX3CR1 on blood monocytes) allowed us to distinguish animals with encephalitis from those without. Furthermore, the level of expression of CD44v6 on the 2 main populations of blood monocytes--those that express either low or high levels of CD16--was significantly increased in animals with encephalitis. A longitudinal analysis of blood monocyte markers revealed that as early as 28 days after inoculation, CD44v6 staining could distinguish the 2 groups. This provides a potential peripheral biomarker to identify individuals who may develop the HIV-induced CNS disease. Furthermore, given its role in cellular adhesion and as an osteopontin receptor, CD44v6 upregulation on monocytes offers functional clues to the pathogenesis of such complications, and provides a target for preventative and therapeutic measures.
The prevalent theory in learning and memory processes is that they are underlain by short and long-term changes in synaptic weight, which continuously modulates neural networks during acquisition and recall. This synaptic plasticity has been revealed by recording extracellular field potentials. The enhancement of synaptic transmission was primarily noted in the hippocampus and was named long-term potentiation (LTP). The opposite mechanism, long-term depression (LTD), a reduction of synaptic transmission, was first discovered in the cerebellum. Since then, the LTP-model has been studied mainly using in vitro and acute anesthetized in vivo preparations. This approach has led to remarkable progress in the comprehension of intracellular molecular processes during LTP and LTD. In this review, we focus mainly on what we can learn about molecular events using extracellular field potential recordings with a more ecological model, i.e., studies using the freely behaving animal, with animals that are genetically modified or not, in several behavioral paradigms aimed at gaining insight into some of the conflicting results obtained with in vitro and in vivo preparations.

Fragile X syndrome is the world's most common hereditary cause of intellectual disability in men and to a lesser extent in women. The disorder is caused by the silencing of a single gene on the X chromosome, the Fragile X Mental Retardation Gene-1. A substantial body of research across the disciplines of molecular genetics, child psychiatry and developmental neuroscience bears testament to a decade of exciting and innovative science that has advanced our knowledge about the fragile X 'signature' or influence across cognitive and social development. The core aims of this review are to first discuss fragile X syndrome and premutation involvement in the context of current advances that demonstrate the dynamic nature of the genotype on phenotypic outcomes. Second, to discuss the implications of these recent advances for the development of clinical and educational interventions and resource tools that target specific phenotypic 'signatures' within the fragile X continuum.
Sphingolipids are most prominently expressed in the plasma membrane, but recent studies have pointed to important signaling and regulatory roles in the nucleus. The most abundant nuclear sphingolipid is sphingomyelin (SM), which occurs in the nuclear envelope (NE) as well as intranuclear sites. The major metabolic product of SM is ceramide, which is generated by nuclear sphingomyelinase and triggers apoptosis and other metabolic changes. Ceramide is further hydrolyzed to free fatty acid and sphingosine, the latter undergoing conversion to sphingosine phosphate by action of a specific nuclear kinase. Gangliosides are another type of sphingolipid found in the nucleus, members of the a-series of gangliotetraose gangliosides (GM1, GD1a) occurring in the NE and endonuclear compartments. GM1 in the inner membrane of the NE is tightly associated with a Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger whose activity it potentiates, thereby contributing to regulation of Ca(2+) homeostasis in the nucleus. This was shown to exert a cytoprotective role as absence or inactivation of this nuclear complex rendered cells vulnerable to apoptosis. This was demonstrated in the greatly enhanced kainite-induced seizure activity in knockout mice lacking gangliotetraose gangliosides. The pathology included apoptotic destruction of neurons in the CA3 region of the hippocampus. Ca(2+) homeostasis was restored in these animals with LIGA-20, a membrane-permeant derivative of GM1 that entered the NE and activated the nuclear Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger. Some evidence suggests the presence of uncharged glycosphingolipids in the nucleus.



A brain renin angiotensin system (RAS) and its role in cardiovascular control and fluid homeostasis was at first controversial. This was because a circulating kidney-derived renin angiotensin system was so similar and well established. But, the pursuit of brain RAS has proven to be correct. In the course of accepting brain RAS, high standards of proof attracted state of the art techniques in all the new developments of biology. Consequently, brain RAS is a robust concept that has enlightened neuroscience as well as cardiovascular physiology and is a model neuropeptide system. Molecular biology confirmed the components of brain RAS and their location in the brain. Transgenic mice and rats bearing renin and extra copies of angiotensinogen genes revealed the importance of brain RAS. Cre-lox delivery in vectors has enabled pinpoint gene deletion of brain RAS in discrete brain nuclei. The new concept of brain RAS includes ACE-2, Ang1-7, and prorenin and Mas receptors. Angiotensin II (ANG II) generated in the brain by brain renin has many neural effects. It activates behavioral effects by selective activation of ANG II receptor subtypes in different locations. It regulates sympathetic activity and baroreflexes and contributes to neurogenic hypertension. New findings implicate brain RAS in a much wider range of neural effects. We review brain RAS involvement in Alzheimer's disease, stroke memory, and learning alcoholism stress depression. There is growing evidence to consider developing treatment strategies for a variety of neurological disease states based on brain RAS.
Members of the solute carrier families (SLC) 32, 36, and 38, together also designated the beta-group of SLCs, are known to transport neutral amino acids. In this paper, we show that these three families were present before the split of the animal lineage and that they are likely to share a common decent. We also show that the APF transporters found in plants are most likely homologous to the mammalian beta-group, suggesting that this type of transporters arouse early in the evolution of eukaryotes. We performed detailed tissue expression analysis of all the members of the beta-group in rat and found several examples of highly specific expression patterns, with SLC38A7 being exclusively found in liver, SLC38A5 in blood, and SLC38A4 in muscle and liver. Moreover, we found that SLC38A10 is expressed in several endocrine organs. We also found that SLC38A1 is highly up regulated in the cortex from rats treated with diazepam and that SLC38A2 is significantly down regulated in the same tissue. In addition, we performed a detailed expression analysis of SLC38A1 and SLC38A6 in mouse brain using in situ hybridization, which showed that both these transporters are widely expressed in the brain.
Variation in pacifier stiffness on non-nutritive suck (NNS) dynamics was examined among infants born prematurely with a history of respiratory distress syndrome. Three types of silicone pacifiers used in the NICU were tested for stiffness, revealing the Super Soothie nipple is 7 times stiffer than the Wee or Soothie pacifiers even though shape and displaced volume are identical. Suck dynamics among 20 preterm infants were subsequently sampled using the Soothie and Super Soothie pacifiers during follow-up at approximately 3 months of age. ANOVA revealed significant differences in NNS cycles/min, NNS amplitude, NNS cycles/burst, and NNS cycle periods as a function of pacifier stiffness. Infants modify the spatiotemporal output of their suck central pattern generator when presented with pacifiers with significantly different mechanical properties. Infants show a non-preference to suck due to high stiffness in the selected pacifier. Therefore, excessive pacifier stiffness may decrease ororhythmic patterning and impact feeding outcomes.
Improving our ability to localize bioelectric sources within a peripheral nerve would help us to monitor the control signals flowing to and from any limb or organ. This technology would provide a useful neuroscience tool, and could perhaps be incorporated into a neuroprosthesis interface. We propose to use measurements from a multi-contact nerve cuff to solve an inverse problem of bioelectric source localization within the peripheral nerve. Before the inverse problem can be addressed, the forward problem is solved using finite element modeling. A fine mesh improves the accuracy of the forward problem solution, but increases the number of variables to be solved for in the inverse problem. To alleviate this problem, variables corresponding to mesh elements that are not distinguishable by the measurement setup are grouped together, thus reducing the dimension of the inverse problem without impacting on the forward problem accuracy. A quantitative criterion for element distinguishability is derived using the columns of the leadfield matrix and information about the uncertainty in the measurements. Our results indicate that the number of variables in the inverse problem can be reduced by more than half using the proposed method, without having a detrimental impact on the quality of the localization.
Dopaminergic stabilizers can be defined as drugs that stimulate or inhibit dopaminergic signalling depending on the dopaminergic tone. (-)-OSU6162 and ACR16 appear to possess such a profile. They have been proposed to act as partial dopamine receptor agonists or as antagonists with preferential action on dopaminergic autoreceptors. Previous studies have shown either stimulation or inhibition of behaviour in response to (-)-OSU6162 and ACR16, which has been suggested to reflect their dual effects on dopaminergic signalling. The aims of the present work are to (1) examine the relation between behavioural response to these drugs and activity baseline, and (2) test the suggested mechanisms of action by means of close comparisons with the known partial D2-receptor agonists (-)-3-PPP and aripiprazole, and the D2 autoreceptor preferring antagonist amisulpride with respect to effects on behaviour. From the results of these experiments it can be concluded that: (1) The direction of the response to (-)-OSU6162 and ACR16 is dependent on activity baseline, which in turn, under physiological conditions, is determined primarily by test arena size of and degree of habituation to the environment. (2) The effects of (-)-OSU6162 and ACR16 cannot be explained on the basis of either partial dopamine receptor agonism or preferential dopamine autoreceptor antagonism. Nevertheless, the current data suggest at least two different D2-receptor-associated targets which mediate opposite effects on activity. This result fits in with a mechanism proposed from a recent in vitro study, according to which (-)-OSU6162 has a dual action on dopamine D2 receptors, (a) an allosteric effect causing an enhanced response to dopamine, and (b) the previously proposed orthosteric effect antagonizing the action of dopamine.
This was a retrospective pooled analysis of data from four comparably designed, double-blind, placebo-controlled, Phase III studies and their long-term open-label extensions. Patients on levodopa and a dopa decarboxylase inhibitor (DDCI) were randomized to entacapone or to placebo in the 6-month, double-blind phase, with all patients subsequently receiving entacapone in the extension phase. UPDRS III motor scores improved by -2.1 points during the first 6 months of levodopa/DDCI and entacapone therapy, and remained below baseline for up to 2 years. Increased daily 'ON' time, together with response duration to a single morning dose of levodopa and clinical global evaluation, also supported the long-term efficacy of levodopa/DDCI and entacapone. The mean daily dose of levodopa did not increase over the 5-year follow-up period. Long-term therapy with levodopa/DDCI and entacapone was well-tolerated.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by selective depletion of nigral dopamine (DA) neurons containing neuromelanin (NM), suggesting the involvement of NM in the pathogenesis. This study reports induction of apoptosis by NM in SH-SY5Y cells, whereas protease-K-treated NM, synthesized DA- and cysteinyl dopamine melanin showed much less cytotoxicity. Cell death was mediated by mitochondria-mediated apoptotic pathway, namely collapse of mitochondrial membrane potential, release of cytochrome c, and activation of caspase 3, but Bcl-2 over-expression did not suppress apoptosis. NM increased sulfhydryl content in mitochondria, and a major part of it was identified as GSH, whereas dopamine melanin significantly reduced sulfhydryl levels. Western blot analysis for protein-bound GSH demonstrated that only NM reduced S-glutathionylated proteins in mitochondria and dissociated macromolecular structure of complex I. Reactive oxygen and nitrogen species were required for the deglutathionylation by NM, which antioxidants reduced significantly with prevention of apoptosis. These results suggest that NM may be related to cell death of DA neurons in PD and aging through regulation of mitochondrial redox state and S-glutathionylation, for which NM-associated protein is absolutely required. The novel function of NM is discussed in relation to the pathogenesis of PD.
Hormone exposure, including testosterone and its metabolite estradiol, induces a myriad of effects during a critical period of brain development that are necessary for brain sexual differentiation. Nuclear volume, neuronal morphology, and astrocyte complexity are examples of the wide range of effects by which testosterone and estradiol can induce permanent changes in the function of neurons for the purpose of reproduction in adulthood. This review will examine the multitude of mechanisms by which steroid hormones induce these permanent changes in brain structure and function. Elucidating how steroids alter brain development sheds light on how individual variation in neuronal phenotype is established during a critical period.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) play an essential role in innate immune responses and in the initiation of adaptive immune responses. Microglia, the resident innate immune cells in the CNS, express TLRs. In this study, we show that TLR3 is crucial for spinal cord glial activation and tactile allodynia after peripheral nerve injury. Intrathecal administration of TLR3 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide suppressed nerve injury-induced tactile allodynia, and decreased the phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, but not extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases 1/2, in spinal glial cells. Antisense knockdown of TLR3 also attenuated the activation of spinal microglia, but not astrocytes, caused by nerve injury. Furthermore, down-regulation of TLR3 inhibited nerve injury-induced up-regulation of spinal pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha. Conversely, intrathecal injection of the TLR3 agonist polyinosine-polycytidylic acid induced behavioral, morphological, and biochemical changes similar to those observed after nerve injury. Indeed, TLR3-deficient mice did not develop tactile allodynia after nerve injury or polyinosine-polycytidylic acid injection. Our results indicate that TLR3 has a substantial role in the activation of spinal glial cells and the development of tactile allodynia after nerve injury. Thus, blocking TLR3 in the spinal glial cells might provide a fruitful strategy for treating neuropathic pain.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is a 36 amino acid peptide widely present in the CNS, including the retina. Previous studies have demonstrated that NPY promotes cell proliferation of rat post-natal hippocampal and olfactory epithelium precursor cells. The aim of this work was to investigate the role of NPY on cell proliferation of rat retinal neural cells. For this purpose, primary retinal cell cultures expressing NPY, and NPY Y(1), Y(2), Y(4) and Y(5) receptors [Alvaro et al., (2007) Neurochem. Int., 50, 757] were used. NPY (10-1000 nM) stimulated cell proliferation through the activation of NPY Y(1), Y(2) and Y(5) receptors. NPY also increased the number of proliferating neuronal progenitor cells (BrdU(+)/nestin(+) cells). The intracellular mechanisms coupled to NPY receptors activation that mediate the increase in cell proliferation were also investigated. The stimulatory effect of NPY on cell proliferation was reduced by L-nitroarginine-methyl-esther (L-NAME; 500 microM), a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo-[4, 3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ; 20 microM), a soluble guanylyl cyclase inhibitor or U0126 (1 microM), an inhibitor of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK 1/2). In conclusion, NPY stimulates retinal neural cell proliferation, and this effect is mediated through nitric oxide-cyclic GMP and ERK 1/2 pathways.
One role of the actin cytoskeleton is to maintain the structural morphology and activity of the pre-synaptic terminal. We sought to determine if the actin cytoskeleton plays a role in regulating interactions between the norepinephrine transporter (NET) and alpha-Synuclein (alpha-Syn), two proteins expressed in the pre-synaptic terminal. In cells transfected with either 0.5 microg/mL or 3 microg/mL of alpha-Syn and 1 microg/mL of NET DNA, treatment with cytochalasin D, an actin depolymerizing agent, caused a dose-dependent decrease and increase, respectively, in [3H]-NE uptake. Protein interactions between NET, beta-actin, and alpha-Syn were modified, along with levels of surface transporters. Treatment of primary brainstem neurons and frontal cortex synaptosomes with cytochalasin D caused a 115% and 28% increase, respectively, in NET activity. Depolymerization of both actin and microtubules did not alter NET activity in cells with 0.5 microg/mL alpha-Syn, but caused an increase in [3H]-NE uptake in cells transfected with 3 microg/mL of alpha-Syn and primary neurons. This is the first direct demonstration of NET activity being regulated via actin and modulated by interactions with alpha-Syn.
Cocaine (COC) inhibits the re-uptake of dopamine. However, the dopamine response to COC also depends on dopamine inside storage vesicles. The aim of this study was to investigate whether rats that differentially respond to COC differ in their dopaminergic storage capacity of the nucleus accumbens. Total and vesicular levels of accumbal dopamine as well as accumbal vesicular monoamine transporter-2 levels were established in high (HR) and low responders (LR) to novelty rats. Moreover, the effects of reserpine (RES) on the COC-induced increase of extracellular accumbal dopamine were investigated. HR displayed higher accumbal levels of total and vesicular dopamine than LR. Moreover, HR displayed more accumbal vesicular monoamine transporters-2 than LR. COC increased extracellular accumbal dopamine more strongly in HR than in LR. A low dose of RES prevented the COC-induced increase of accumbal dopamine in LR, but not in HR. A higher dose of RES was required to inhibit the COC-induced increase of accumbal dopamine in HR. These data demonstrate that HR were marked by a larger accumbal dopaminergic storage pool than LR. It is hypothesized that HR are more sensitive to COC than LR, because COC can release more dopamine from accumbal storage vesicles in HR than in LR.
Volume-regulated anion channels (VRACs) are activated by cell swelling and are permeable to inorganic and small organic anions, including the excitatory amino acids glutamate and aspartate. In astrocytes, ATP potently enhances VRAC activity and glutamate release via a P2Y receptor-dependent mechanism. Our previous pharmacological study identified protein kinase C (PKC) as a major signaling enzyme in VRAC regulation by ATP. However, conflicting results obtained with potent PKC blockers prompted us to re-evaluate the involvement of PKC in regulation of astrocytic VRACs by using small interfering RNA (siRNA) and pharmacological inhibitors that selectively target individual PKC isoforms. In primary rat astrocyte cultures, application of hypoosmotic medium (30% reduction in osmolarity) and 20 microM ATP synergistically increased the release of excitatory amino acids, measured with a non-metabolized analog of L-glutamate, D-[(3)H]aspartate. Both Go6976, the selective inhibitor of Ca(2+)-sensitive PKCalpha, betaI/II, and gamma, and MP-20-28, a cell permeable pseudosubstrate inhibitory peptide of PKCalpha and betaI/II, reduced the effects of ATP on D-[(3)H]aspartate release by approximately 45-55%. Similar results were obtained with a mixture of siRNAs targeting rat PKCalpha and betaI. Surprisingly, down-regulation of individual alpha and betaI PKC isozymes by siRNA was completely ineffective. These data suggest that ATP regulates VRAC activity and volume-sensitive excitatory amino acid release via cooperative activation of PKCalpha and betaI.
Similarity in structure and sequence homology has led to the identification of new members of the interleukin-1 (IL-1) ligand and receptor superfamilies. IL-1F6, IL-1F8 and IL-1F9 have been shown to signal through IL-1R-related protein 2 and IL-1 receptor accessory protein leading to activation of NFkappaB, while IL-1F7 and IL-1F10 interact with the IL-18 receptor and the soluble IL-1 receptor type I respectively. In contrast, identification of a biological role for IL-1F5 has remained elusive, with conflicting data relating to its possible ability to antagonize IL-1F9-stimulated activation of NFkappaB in Jurkat cells transfected with IL-1R-related protein 2. In this study, we set out to investigate a possible role for IL-1F5 in the brain and report that it antagonizes the inflammatory effects of IL-1beta and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in vivo and in vitro including the inhibitory effect on long-term potentiation (LTP) in rat hippocampus. We demonstrate that IL-1F5 induces IL-4 mRNA and protein expression in glia in vitro and enhances hippocampal expression of IL-4 following intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection. The inhibitory effect of IL-1F5 on LPS-induced IL-1beta is attenuated in cells from IL-4-defective (IL-4-/- mice). Our findings suggest that IL-1F5 mediates anti-inflammatory effects through its ability to induce IL-4 production and that this is a consequence of its interaction with the orphan receptor, single Ig IL-1R-related molecule (SIGIRR)/TIR8, as the effects were not observed in SIGIRR-/- mice. In contrast to its effects in brain tissue, IL-1F5 did not attenuate LPS-induced changes, or up-regulated IL-4 in macrophages or dendritic cells, suggesting that the effect is confined to the brain.
The trafficking of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) to distinct subcellular locations is essential for the specificity and fidelity of signal transduction and biological responses. This is particularly important in the PNS and CNS in which RTKs mediate key events in the development and maintenance of neurons and glia through a wide range of neural processes, including survival, proliferation, differentiation, neurite outgrowth, and synaptogenesis. The mechanisms that regulate the targeting of RTKs to their subcellular destinations for appropriate signal transduction, however, are still elusive. In this review, we discuss evidence for the spatial organization of signaling machinery into distinct subcellular compartments, as well as the role for ligand specificity, receptor sorting signals, and lipid raft microdomains in RTK targeting and the resultant cellular responses in neural cells.
Densin is a member of the leucine-rich repeat (LRR) and PDZ domain (LAP) protein family that binds several signaling molecules via its C-terminal domains, including calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII). In this study, we identify several novel mRNA splice variants of densin that are differentially expressed during development. The novel variants share the LRR domain but are either prematurely truncated or contain internal deletions relative to mature variants of the protein (180 kDa), thus removing key protein-protein interaction domains. For example, CaMKIIalpha coimmunoprecipitates with densin splice variants containing an intact C-terminal domain from lysates of transfected HEK293 cells, but not with variants that only contain N-terminal domains. Immunoblot analyses using antibodies to peptide epitopes in the N- and C- terminal domains of densin are consistent with developmental regulation of splice variant expression in brain. Moreover, putative splice variants display different subcellular fractionation patterns in brain extracts. Expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP)-fused densin splice variants in HEK293 cells shows that the LRR domain can target densin to a plasma membrane-associated compartment, but that the splice variants are differentially localized and have potentially distinct effects on cell morphology. In combination, these data show that densin splice variants have distinct functional characteristics suggesting multiple roles during neuronal development.
Aggregation of alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) is believed to play a critical role in the pathogenesis of disorders such as dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson's disease. The function of alpha-syn remains unclear, although several lines of evidence suggest that alpha-syn is involved in synaptic vesicle trafficking probably via lipid binding. Moreover, interactions with cholesterol and lipids have been shown to be involved in alpha-syn aggregation. In this context, the main objective of this study was to determine if statins--cholesterol synthesis inhibitors--might interfere with alpha-syn accumulation in cellular models. For this purpose, we studied the effects of lovastatin, simvastatin, and pravastatin on the accumulation of alpha-syn in a stably transfected neuronal cell line and in primary human neurons. Statins reduced the levels of alpha-syn accumulation in the detergent insoluble fraction of the transfected cells. This was accompanied by a redistribution of alpha-syn in caveolar fractions, a reduction in oxidized alpha-syn, and enhanced neurite outgrowth. In contrast, supplementation of the media with cholesterol increased alpha-syn aggregation in detergent insoluble fractions of transfected cells and was accompanied by reduced neurite outgrowth. Taken together, these results suggest that regulation of cholesterol levels with cholesterol inhibitors might be a novel approach for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Evolutionary success depends on our ability to adapt to changing circumstances. The neuroendocrine response to stress is an excellent example of a plastic system that responds to threats to homeostasis and alters its output to meet current and expected future demands. At the level of the hypothalamus, the corticotroph secretagogues corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) and arginine vasopressin (AVP) respond rapidly to an acute stressor but, following chronic stress, they adapt with a reduction of CRH but a major increase in AVP. The release of CRH and AVP activates pro-opiomelanocortin in anterior pituitary corticotroph cells and the release of adrenocorticotrophic hormone into peripheral blood from where it targets receptors in the adrenal cortex to release glucocorticoid hormones. These hormones (i.e. corticosterone in the rat and cortisol in man) are released in a pulsatile ultradian pattern which defines the normal circadian rhythm. The frequency of the pulses is increased under states of chronic stress, and in rats with genetically determined hyper-responsiveness of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. Interestingly, neonatal influences can also programme alterations in ultradian rhythmicity, implicating epigenetic factors in its regulation. At the level of tissue receptors, the alteration in pattern of glucocorticoid ultradian rhythm has differential effects on mineralocorticoid receptor and glucocorticoid receptor (GR) binding to DNA and offers a mechanism for tissue specific responses to altered glucocorticoid dynamics. The effects of neonatal experience are not only seen at the level of CRH and GR regulation, but also are evident in behavioural responses to stress and in the responsiveness of brain stem serotonergic pathways, as measured by tryptophan hydroxylase mRNA in the brain stem.
Oestrogen receptor beta (ERbeta) was discovered more than 10 years ago. It is widely distributed in the brain. In some areas, such as the entorhinal cortex, it is present as the only ER, whereas in other regions, such as the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and preoptic area, it can be found co-expressed with ERalpha, often within the same neurones. These ERs share ligands, and there are several complex relationships between the two receptors. Initially, the relationship between them was labelled as 'yin/yang', meaning that the actions of each complemented those of the other, but now, years later, other relationships have been described. Based on evidence from neuroendocrine and behavioural studies, three types of interactions between the two oestrogen receptors are described in this review. The first relationship is antagonistic; this is evident from studies on the role of oestrogen in spatial learning. When oestradiol is given in a high, chronic dose, spatial learning is impaired. This action of oestradiol requires ERalpha, and when ERbeta is not functional, lower doses of oestradiol have this negative effect on behaviour. The second relationship between the two receptors is one that is synergistic, and this is illustrated in the combined effects of the two receptors on the production of the neuropeptide oxytocin and its receptor. The third relationship is sequential; separate actions of the two receptors are postulated in activation and organisation of sexually dimorphic reproductive behaviours. Future studies on all of these topics will inform us about how ER selective ligands might affect oestrogen functions at the organismal level.
Seasonal rhythms of body weight, reflecting altered food intake, energy storage and expenditure, are a common feature of mammals inhabiting temperate and arctic latitudes. They have evolved so that predictable annual changes in the external environment can be anticipated and animals can adjust their physiology and behaviour in preparation for the changing demands of the seasons. These long-term changes in energy balance are not simply effected by the brain centres and peptidergic pathways known to underlie short-term homeostatic regulation. Screens of altered gene expression in Siberian hamsters comparing the anabolic summer state in long photoperiods and the catabolic 'winter' state in short photoperiods have identified differential gene expression in the hypothalamus. The majority of gene expression changes are confined to two restricted areas: the dorsomedial posterior arcuate nucleus, and the ventral ependymal layer of the third ventricle. Functions encoded by these 'seasonal' genes include thyroid hormone metabolism, retinoic acid and histaminergic signalling, and VGF and secretogranin production. The changes in thyroid hormone availability that are brought about by differential activity of deiodinase enzymes are of particular importance because experimental manipulation of central thyroid levels can prevent seasonal cyclicity. Given the importance of thyroid hormone in the initial development of the brain, we hypothesise that thyroid hormone-dependent plasticity of hypothalamic connections and neurogenesis underlie seasonal cycles of food intake and body weight.
This short review goes back to early discoveries concerning the neuroendocrinology of aging, discussing the Brown-Sequard experiment on rejuvenation at the end of the 19th century and Steinach's subsequent experiments in the early 20th century. It also considers the seminal experiments of Pierre Ascheim, Ming Tsung Peng and Joseph Meites in the 1960s on the aging of the gonadotrophic axis. Major age-associated changes in neuroendocrine regulatory processes involved in the menopausal transition, andropause, somatopause and adrenopause are also reviewed. Finally, some views on future directions of research into the neuroendocrinology of aging are proposed, based on the pleiotropy of neuroendocrine messengers and functions.
The brain has been known to be a sensitive target organ for the permanent organisational effects of gonadal steroids for close to 50 years. Recent advances have revealed a variety of unexpected cellular mechanisms by which steroids impact on the synaptic profile of hypothalamic nuclei critical to the control of reproduction. This review focuses on three in particular: 1) prostaglandins in the masculinisation of the preoptic area and control of male sexual behaviour; 2) GABA in the arcuate nucleus and potential control of the anterior pituitary; and 3) non-genomic activation of phosphotydolinositol 3 (PI3) kinase and glutamate in the ventromedial nucleus, which is relevant to the control of female reproductive behaviour. The importance of cell-to-cell communication, be it between neurones or between neurones and astrocytes, is highlighted as an essential principle for expanding the impact of steroids beyond those cells that express nuclear receptors.
A wealth of information now exists showing that glial cells are actively involved in the cell-cell communication process generating and disseminating information within the central nervous system. In the hypothalamus, two types of glial cells, astrocytes and ependymal cells lining the latero-ventral portion of the third ventricle (known as tanycytes), regulate the secretory activity of neuroendocrine neurones. This function, initially described for astrocytes apposing magnocellular neurones, has been more recently characterised for neurones secreting gonadotrophin hormone-releasing hormone (GnRH). The available evidence suggests that glial cells of the median eminence regulate GnRH secretion via two related mechanisms. One involves the production of growth factors acting via receptors with tyrosine kinase activity. The other involves plastic rearrangements of glia-GnRH neurone adhesiveness. GnRH axons reach the median eminence, at least in part, directed by basic fibroblast growth factor. Their secretory activity is facilitated by insulin-like growth factor 1 and members of the epidermal growth factor family. A structural complement to these soluble molecules is provided by at least three cell-cell adhesion systems endowed with signalling capabilities. One of them uses the neuronal cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), another employs the synaptic cell adhesion molecule (SynCAM), and the third one consists of neuronal contactin interacting with glial receptor-like protein tyrosine phosphatase-beta. It is envisioned that, within the median eminence, soluble factors and adhesion molecules work coordinately to control delivery of GnRH to the portal vasculature.
This review provides a brief historical background to the foundation of primate reproductive neuroendocrinology that was laid by Ernst Knobil during the late 1960s and early 1970s. This is followed by a discussion of studies conducted over the last two decades that I view as having contributed to the current understanding of the field of primate reproductive neuroendocrinology. The review concludes with a short summary of key questions that remain to be addressed.

Neuroendocrinology links experience and behaviour to the action of hormones. This review focusses on the corticosteroids, released in hourly pulses and after stress, to illustrate the integration of body, brain and mind achieved by these hormones. Corticosteroids coordinate cell and organ function in concert with other mediators of the stress response over time spans from seconds to hours, days, weeks, or even permanently. The actions exerted by these stress hormones are mediated by two receptor types that control initial stress reactions and manage the later adaptive phases. How the balance between the stress and adaptive responses contributes to resilience and health is a conundrum to be resolved during the next two decades of the existence of the Journal of Neuroendocrinology.
In neuroendocrinology, mathematical modelling is about formalising our understanding of the behaviour of the complex biological systems with which we deal. Formulating our explanations mathematically ensures their logical consistency, and makes them open to structured analysis; it is a stringent test of their intellectual coherence. In addition, however, modellers are seeking to extend our understanding in new ways, by seeking novel, simple explanations for complex behaviour. Here we discuss some styles of modelling as they have been applied to neuroendocrine systems, and discuss some of their strengths and limitations.
Removal of apoptotic cells is an essential process for normal development and tissue maintenance. Importantly, apoptotic cells stimulate their phagocytosis by macrophages while actively suppressing inflammatory responses. Growth arrest specific gene 6 (Gas6) is involved in this process, bridging phosphatidylserine residues on the surface of apoptotic cells to the Axl/Mer family of tyrosine kinases which stimulate phagocytosis. Animals with mutations or loss of these receptors exhibit phenotypes reflective of impaired phagocytosis and a hyperactive immune response. We report that Gas6 induces phagocytosis in microglia through a novel non-classical phagocytic mechanism. Gas6 stimulates a type-II-related phagocytic response, but requires Vav phosphorylation and Rac activation, distinguishing it from the classical type II mechanism. Importantly, Gas6 suppressed lipopolysaccharide-induced expression of the inflammatory molecules IL-1beta and iNOS. Gas6 inhibited iNOS expression through suppression of promoter activity. The present data provide direct evidence for the role of Gas6 receptors in mediating an anti-inflammatory response to ligands found on apoptotic cells with the simultaneous stimulation of phagocytosis. These data provide a mechanistic explanation for the phenotype observed in animals lacking Axl/Mer receptors.
Neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and stroke are rapidly increasing as population ages. The field of nanomedicine is rapidly expanding and promises revolutionary advances to the diagnosis and treatment of devastating human diseases. This paper provides an overview of novel nanomaterials that have potential to improve diagnosis and therapy of neurodegenerative disorders. Examples include liposomes, nanoparticles, polymeric micelles, block ionomer complexes, nanogels, and dendrimers that have been tested clinically or in experimental models for delivery of drugs, genes, and imaging agents. More recently discovered nanotubes and nanofibers are evaluated as promising scaffolds for neuroregeneration. Novel experimental neuroprotective strategies also include nanomaterials, such as fullerenes, which have antioxidant properties to eliminate reactive oxygen species in the brain to mitigate oxidative stress. Novel technologies to enable these materials to cross the blood brain barrier will allow efficient systemic delivery of therapeutic and diagnostic agents to the brain. Furthermore, by combining such nanomaterials with cell-based delivery strategies, the outcomes of neurodegenerative disorders can be greatly improved.







To elucidate the role of innate immunity in susceptibility to the animal model of multiple sclerosis, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), we induced EAE by immunization with spinal cord homogenate (SCH) plus complete Freund adjuvant or carbonyl iron in 3 inbred rat strains. Lewis are considered &quot;susceptible,&quot; PVG/c-Rt7a (PVG) as &quot;semisusceptible,&quot; and Brown Norway (BN) as &quot;resistant&quot; to EAE. Immunization with SCH-carbonyl iron resulted in clinical disease in all 3 strains, but the pathologic features of EAE in the resistant BN and the semisusceptible PVG rats differed from those in the Lewis and PVG model of EAE induced with SCH-complete Freund adjuvant. In BN and PVG rats, there were numerous inflammatory lesions with prominent involvement of microglia and, to a lesser extent, perivascular macrophages. These data suggest that different levels of activation of the innate immune system by different adjuvants determine whether EAE will or will not develop. Accordingly, the widely accepted scale of susceptibility to EAE development (Lewis &gt; PVG &gt; BN) should be revised because it does not take into account the important contribution of the composition of the adjuvant to the quality and quantity of the innate immune response and, consequently, to the generation and extent of the pathogenic T-cell-mediated, that is, adaptive, autoimmune disease.
Evidence has accumulated suggesting that the median raphe (MR) mediates hippocampal theta desynchronization. However, few studies have evaluated theta-related neural circuitry during MR manipulation. In urethane-anesthetized rats, we investigated the effects of MR stimulation on hippocampal field and cell activity using high-frequency (100 Hz), theta burst (TBS), and slow-frequency electrical stimulation (0.5 Hz). We demonstrated that high-frequency stimulation of the MR did not elicit deactivated patterns in the forebrain, but rather elicited low-voltage activity in the neocortex and small-amplitude irregular activity (SIA) in the hippocampus. Both hippocampal phasic theta-on and -off cells were inhibited by high-frequency MR stimulation, although MR stimulation failed to affect cells that had neither state or phase relationships with theta field activity. TBS of the MR-induced theta field activity phase locked to the stimulation. Slow-frequency stimulation elicited a state-dependent reset of theta phase through a short-latency inhibition (5 ms) in phasic theta-on cells. Subpopulations of phasic theta-on cells responded in either oscillatory or nonoscillatory patterns to MR pulses, depending on their intraburst interval. off cells exhibited a state-dependent modulation of cell firing occurring preferentially during nontheta. The magnitude of MR-induced reset varied as a function of the phase of the theta oscillation when the pulse was administered. Therefore high-frequency stimulation of the MR appears to disrupt hippocampal theta through a state-dependent, short-latency inhibition of rhythmic cell populations in the hippocampus functioning to switch theta oscillations to an activated SIA field state.
GABA(A) receptor (GABA-AR)-mediated inhibition is critical for proper operation of neuronal networks. Synaptic inhibition either shifts the membrane potential farther away from the action potential firing threshold (hyperpolarizing inhibition) or via increase in the membrane conductance shunts the excitatory currents. However, the relative importance of these different forms of inhibition on the hippocampal function is unclear. To study the functional consequences of the absence of hyperpolarizing inhibition, we have used KCC2-deficient mice (KCC2hy/null) maintaining only 15-20% of the neuron-specific K-Cl-cotransporter. Gramicidin-perforated patch-clamp recordings in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells revealed that the reversal potential of the GABA-AR-mediated postsynaptic currents (E(GABA-A)) was approximately 20 mV more positive in KCC2hy/null mice than in wild-type (WT) animals. The basic glutamatergic transmission appeared unaltered in the KCC2hy/null mice, yet they displayed lowered threshold for stimulation-induced synchronous afterdischarges in the CA1 area. Also fatigue of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials/excitatory postsynaptic currents in response to repetitious stimulation was smaller in KCC2hy/null mice, indicating altered synaptic dynamics. Interestingly, this effect was present also under blockade of GABA-ARs and was dependent on the extracellular K+ concentration. Moreover, there were no differences in the levels of either long-term potentiation or long-term depression between the genotypes. The local hippocampal CA1 network can in several aspects maintain its functional viability even in the absence of hyperpolarizing inhibition in pyramidal cells. Our results underscore the central role of shunting type of inhibition in controlling the neuronal excitation/inhibition balance. Moreover, our data demonstrate a novel, unexpected role for the KCC2, namely the modulation of properties of glutamatergic transmission during repetitious afferent activity.
A frequent goal of hand movement is to touch a moving target or to make contact with a stationary object that is in motion relative to the moving head and body. This process requires a prediction of the target's motion, since the initial direction of the hand movement anticipates target motion. This experiment was designed to define the visual motion parameters that are incorporated in this prediction of target motion. On seeing a go signal (a change in target color), human subjects slid the right index finger along a touch-sensitive computer monitor to intercept a target moving along an unseen circular or oval path. The analysis focused on the initial direction of the interception movement, which was found to be influenced by the time required to intercept the target and the target's distance from the finger's starting location. Initial direction also depended on the curvature of the target's trajectory in a manner that suggested that this parameter was underestimated during the process of extrapolation. The pattern of smooth pursuit eye movements suggests that the extrapolation of visual target motion was based on local motion cues around the time of the onset of hand movement, rather than on a cognitive synthesis of the target's pattern of motion.
We recently showed that cutaneous reflexes evoked by stimulating the superficial peroneal (SP; innervates foot dorsum) nerve are modulated according to the level of postural threat. Context-related modulation was observed mainly in contralateral (c) responses but not in the ipsilateral responses. This lack of effect on ipsilateral (i) cutaneous reflexes might have been caused by the general nature of the whole body perturbation. We therefore hypothesized that context-relevant mechanical perturbations applied to the dorsum of the foot by an instrumented rod at early swing during walking would produce differences in ipsilateral cutaneous reflex amplitudes, consistent with the functional relevance of the SP nerve in stumble correction responses. Subjects walked on a motorized treadmill under four conditions: 1) normal, 2) normal with mechanical perturbations at the foot dorsum, 3) arms crossed, and 4) arms crossed with mechanical perturbations at the foot dorsum. Electrical stimulation of the SP nerve was delivered at five phases of the step cycle, and cutaneous reflexes were compared between all conditions for each phase of the step cycle. Reflex responses were generally found to be modulated in amplitude during walking conditions in which mechanical perturbations were delivered, particularly in ipsilateral tibialis anterior (iTA), which showed a marked reduction in inhibition. The results indicated cutaneous reflexes in iTA and contralateral medial gastrocnemius (cMG) were influenced by the threat of a trip, induced by applying mechanical perturbations to the foot dorsum during walking. This task-related gating of cutaneous reflexes was not generalized to all muscles, thus suggesting a functional role in the maintenance of stability during locomotion.
Regulation of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) activity by desensitization is important in physiological and pathological states; NMDAR desensitization contributes in shaping synaptic responses and may be protective by limiting calcium influx during sustained glutamate insults. We previously reported that glycine-independent desensitization decreases during hippocampal neuronal development, correlating with NMDAR synaptic localization and association with postsynaptic density 95 (PSD-95). PSD-95/Discs large/zona occludens (PDZ)-1,2 domains of PSD-95 bind to the C-terminus of NMDAR NR2 subunits. The role of PSD-95 in anchoring signaling proteins near NMDARs is well documented. To determine if PSD-95-induced changes in NMDAR desensitization occur because of direct binding to NR2 or due to recruitment of regulatory proteins, we tested the effects of various PSD-95 constructs on NMDAR currents in human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK293) cells and neurons. In HEK cells, wild-type PSD-95 significantly reduced wild-type NMDAR desensitization without altering currents of NMDARs containing NR2A-S1462A, a mutation that abolishes PSD-95 binding. The PSD-95 N-terminus truncated after the PDZ1-2 domains was sufficient for this effect in neurons with low endogenous PSD-95 levels; in NMDAR-expressing HEK cells, the effect persisted when PSD-95 multimerization was eliminated. Moreover other PSD-95 family members with highly homologous PDZ1-2 domains significantly reduced NMDAR desensitization. In mature neurons, disruption of PSD-95/NMDAR interaction through protein kinase C (PKC) activation increased desensitization to levels found in immature neurons, and this effect was not due to PKC direct regulation of NMDAR activity. We conclude that direct binding of PSD-95 increases stability of NMDAR responses to agonist exposure in neuronal and nonneuronal cells.
The smooth pursuit eye movement (SPEM) system is much more sensitive to target motion perturbations during pursuit than during fixation. This sensitivity is commonly attributed to a dynamic gain control mechanism. Neither the neural substrate nor the functional architecture for this gain control has been fully revealed. There are at least two cortical areas that crucially contribute to smooth pursuit and are therefore eligible sites for dynamic gain control: the medial superior temporal area (MST) and the pursuit area of the frontal eye fields (FEFs), which both project to brain stem premotor structures via parallel pathways. The aim of this study was to develop a model of smooth pursuit based on behavioral, anatomical, and neurophysiological results to account for nonlinear dynamic gain control. Using a behavioral paradigm in humans consisting of a sinusoidal oscillation (4 Hz, +/-8 degrees/s) superimposed on a constant velocity target motion (0-24 degrees/s), we were able to identify relevant gain control parameters in the model. A salient feature of our model is the emergence of two parallel pathways from higher visual cortical to lower motor areas in the brain stem that correspond to the MST and FEF pathways. Detailed analysis of the model revealed that one pathway mainly carries eye velocity related signals, whereas the other is associated mostly with eye acceleration. From comparison with known neurophysiological results we conclude that the dynamic gain control can be attributed to the FEF pathway, whereas the MST pathway serves as the basic circuit for maintaining an ongoing SPEM.
The lateral facial nucleus is the sole output structure whose neuronal activity leads to whisker movements. To understand how single facial nucleus neurons contribute to whisker movement we combined single-cell stimulation and high-precision whisker tracking. Half of the 44 stimulated neurons gave rise to fast whisker protraction or retraction movement, whereas no stimulation-evoked movements could be detected for the remainder. Direction, speed, and amplitude of evoked movements varied across neurons. Protraction movements were more common than retraction movements (n = 16 vs. n = 4), had larger amplitudes (1.8 vs. 0.3 degrees for single spike events), and most protraction movements involved only a single whisker, whereas most retraction movements involved multiple whiskers. We found a large range in the amplitude of single spike-evoked whisker movements (0.06-5.6 degrees ). Onset of the movement occurred at 7.6 (SD 2.5) ms after the spike and the time to peak deflection was 18.2 (SD 4.3) ms. Each spike reliably evoked a stereotyped movement. In two of five cases peak whisker deflection resulting from consecutive spikes was larger than expected when based on linear summation of single spike-evoked movement profiles. Our data suggest the following coding scheme for whisker movements in the facial nucleus. 1) Evoked movement characteristics depend on the identity of the stimulated neuron (a labeled line code). 2) The facial nucleus neurons are heterogeneous with respect to the movement properties they encode. 3) Facial nucleus spikes are translated in a one-to-one manner into whisker movements.
With a nervous system of only 302 neurons, the free-living nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is a powerful experimental organism for neurobiology. However, the laboratory substrate commonly used in C. elegans research, a planar agarose surface, fails to reflect the complexity of this organism's natural environment, complicates stimulus delivery, and is incompatible with high-resolution optophysiology experiments. Here we present a new class of microfluidic devices for C. elegans neurobiology and behavior: agarose-free, micron-scale chambers and channels that allow the animals to crawl as they would on agarose. One such device mimics a moist soil matrix and facilitates rapid delivery of fluid-borne stimuli. A second device consists of sinusoidal channels that can be used to regulate the waveform and trajectory of crawling worms. Both devices are thin and transparent, rendering them compatible with high-resolution microscope objectives for neuronal imaging and optical recording. Together, the new devices are likely to accelerate studies of the neuronal basis of behavior in C. elegans.

The goals of this study were to describe the ways in which patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) manage chronic sorrow and to apply this information to the theoretical model of chronic sorrow. This descriptive study involved 38 participants with MS who were experiencing chronic sorrow. Using the theoretical model of chronic sorrow, we applied content analysis to participants' accounts of how they attempted to manage this sorrow. The findings showed that discomfort resulted from ineffective management of chronic sorrow, reflecting the vulnerability these patients experience and the lack of understanding of their needs and appropriate support from family, friends, and healthcare personnel. In some cases, however, the losses and emotional distress caused by MS were managed effectively, which led to increased comfort through personal growth and a greater appreciation of life, greater confidence, and hope for the future. The theoretical model was valuable in helping to describe participants' patterns of managing chronic sorrow. Healthcare personnel should acknowledge chronic sorrow as one aspect of psychological distress in MS. Knowledge of patients' experiences of chronic sorrow should be included in the education for neuroscience nurses. Furthermore, it is necessary to develop support interventions for patients with chronic sorrow and their families.

The excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate can accumulate in the brain and is thought to be involved in the etiology of many neurodegenerative disorders, including ischemia and Alzheimer disease. Therefore, it is important to search for compounds that reduce glutamate neurotoxicity. This glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity is caused by intracellular Ca2+ overload via the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor NMDAR), reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, and caspase-3 activation. Here we show that the natural flavonoid myricetin inhibited glutamate-induced excitotoxicity and protected neurons by multiple, distinct pathways. First, myricetin affected modulation of the NMDAR by phosphorylation, causing a subsequent reduction in glutamate-induced intracellular Ca2+ overload. Second, myricetin inhibited the ROS production caused by glutamate. Finally, glutamate-induced activation of caspase-3 was reduced by myricetin treatment. Moreover, myricetin directly interacted with the active site of caspase-3 via three hydrogen bonds and inhibited its activity. We conclude that myricetin inhibited glutamate-induced neuronal toxicity by multiple biochemical pathways. These results show that myricetin is a potent antineurodegenerative compound and may contribute to the discovery of a drug with which to combat neurodegeneration.
Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome (BWS) is a rare congenital syndrome characterized by gigantism, macroglossia, exophthalmos, postpartum hypoglycemia, and multiple midline defects such as omphalocele. The authors describe, to the best of their knowledge, the first case of a child in whom BWS was diagnosed and who was subsequently treated for a nasal encephalocele. Because the authors believe that this feature might not be an incidental finding in patients with BWS, intranasal masses in these patients should be carefully differentiated, as complications might be severe.
The authors describe a 65-year-old man who, after 7 years of complete remission from lung cancer, was found on routine oncologic follow imaging to have lesions on several vertebral bodies. Open biopsy of the affected thoracic vertebrae and surrounding soft tissue were negative for neoplasia. Bacteriology cultures revealed colonies of aspergillus fumigatus in all bone samples. Unlike most reported cases in which vertebral compromise rarely extends to more than two adjacent vertebrae, our patient had extensive compromise of the thoracic spine. This infection progressed despite treatment with antifungal regimens known to be effective, even in immunocompromised patients. Invasive aspergillosis of the spine is a rare and typically occurred in terminal patients. However, the spectrum of hosts and clinical presentations of invasive aspergillosis are increasing, due in part to better medical treatments that prolong the survival of patients with cancer, severe infections, and organ failure. In reviewing the literature, the authors discuss the currently available therapies for such infections of the spine, and highlight the growing incidence these and other formerly rare infections.
The authors report a case of acute subarachnoid hemorrhage due to the rupture of multiple anterior spinal artery aneurysms. In view of the clinical and radiological findings, surgery was excluded and a wait-and-see policy was followed. A magnetic resonance imaging study performed 3 months after presentation and an angiographic study performed 6 months after presentation confirmed spontaneous regression of the aneurysms and preservation of blood flow through the anterior spinal artery.
Osteochondromas are the most common benign bone tumor. Although the metaphysial region of long bones is the usual site of these tumors, the vertebrae may be infrequently affected. The presentation may vary from typical compressive myelopathy to radiculopathy or radiculomyelopathy, depending on the site of involvement. The authors present 3 consecutive cases of cervical spine osteochondromas encountered over 3 years at their institution, each different in its site of involvement, presentation, and chosen treatment. The patient in Case 1 had the typical presentation and lesion site, and was treated with a conventional laminectomy. The patient in Case 2 presented with an extensive disease that required complex, staged surgery with spinal fusion and instrumentation. The patient in Case 3 presented with monoradiculopathy and had a facet joint osteochondroma that was successfully treated with a simple partial facetectomy, without laminectomy.
ABSTRACT Preliminary evidence has shown that intracerebral hemorrhages, either spontaneous (sICH) or traumatic (tICH) often expand over time. An association between hemorrhage expansion and clinical outcomes has been described for sICH. The intent of this prospective, observational study was to characterize the temporal profile of hemorrhage progression, as measured by serial computed tomography (CT) scanning, with the aim of better understanding the natural course of hemorrhage progression in tICH. There was also a desire to document the baseline adverse event (AE) profile in this patient group. An important motive for performing this study was to set the stage for subsequent studies that will examine the role of a new systemic hemostatic agent in tICH. Subjects were enrolled if they had tICH lesions of at least 2 mL on a baseline CT scan obtained within 6 h of a head injury. CT scans were repeated at 24 and 72 h. Clinical outcomes and pre-defined AEs were documented. The data showed that 51% of the subjects demonstrated an increase in tICH volume, and that most of the increase occurred early. In addition, larger hematomas exhibited the greatest expansion. Thromboembolic complications were identified in 13% of subjects. This study demonstrates that tICH expansion between the baseline and 24-h CT scans occurred in approximately half of the subjects. The earlier after injury that the initial CT scan is obtained, the greater is the likelihood that the hematoma will expand on subsequent scans. The time frame during which hemorrhagic expansion occurs provides an opportunity for early intervention to limit a process with adverse prognostic implications.
The aim of this study was to investigate the underlying mechanisms of the increased gains of the cervico-ocular reflex (COR) and the lack of synergy between the COR and the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) that have been previously observed in patients with whiplash-associated disorders (WAD). Eye movements during COR or VOR stimulation were recorded in four different experiments. The effect of restricted neck motion and the relationship between muscle activity and COR gain was examined in healthy controls. The adaptive ability of the COR and the VOR was tested in WAD patients and healthy controls. Reduced neck mobility yielded an increase in COR gain. No correlation between COR gain and muscle activity was observed. Adaptation of both the COR and VOR was observed in healthy controls, but not in WAD patients. The increased COR gain of WAD patients may stem from a reduced neck mobility. The lack of adaptation of the two stabilization reflexes may result in a lack of synergy between them. These abnormalities may underlie several of the symptoms frequently observed in WAD, such as vertigo and dizziness.
We investigate color constancy for real 2D paper samples using a successive matching paradigm in which the observer memorizes a reference surface color under neutral illumination and after a temporal interval selects a matching test surface under the same or different illumination. We find significant effects of the illumination, reference surface, and their interaction on the matching error. We characterize the matching error in the absence of illumination change as the &quot;pure color memory shift&quot; and introduce a new index for successive color constancy that compares this shift against the matching error under changing illumination. The index also incorporates the vector direction of the matching errors in chromaticity space, unlike the traditional constancy index. With this index, we find that color constancy is nearly perfect.
The process of proving that new treatments for peripheral nerve diseases work has often been slow and inefficient. The lack of adequate evidence for some existing treatments has been highlighted by Cochrane systematic reviews. This article uses four different conditions to illustrate the need for more research. Both corticosteroid injections and surgical decompression of the median nerve are efficacious in carpal tunnel syndrome, but whether corticosteroid injections avoid the need for operation needs to be discovered. Corticosteroids are efficacious for Bell's palsy, but the role of antiviral agents needs clarification, which should come from ongoing trials. Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) and plasma exchange are both efficacious in Guillain-Barr syndrome, but corticosteroids are not. More trials are needed to discover the best dose of IVIg in severe cases and whether mild cases need treatment. In chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy, corticosteroids, IVIg and plasma exchange are all efficacious, at least in the short term, but trials are needed to discover whether and which other immunosuppressive agents help. The Peripheral Nerve Society has formed a standing committee, the Inflammatory Neuropathy Consortium (http://pns.ucsd.edu/INC.htm), to facilitate the trials needed to answer the remaining questions in the inflammatory neuropathies.
A partial recovery of locomotor functions has been shown in spinal cord-transected (Tx) cats after regular treadmill training and repeated administration of clonidine, an alpha(2)-adrenoreceptor agonist. However, clonidine has generally failed to show prolocomotor effects in other models (e.g., rat or mudpuppy in vitro-isolated spinal cord preparations). The reasons for this discrepancy remain unclear, but they may suggest condition- or species-specific effects induced by clonidine. This study is aimed at examining both the acute (at 6 or 41 days post-Tx) and chronic effects of repeated (once a week for one month) clonidine administration (0.25-5.0 mg/kg i.p.) on hindlimb movement generation in Tx mice (thoracic segment9/10). Locomotor-like (LM) and nonlocomotor movements (NLM) were assessed both in open-field and treadmill conditions. The results show that clonidine consistently failed, in both conditions, to induce LM and NLM at all time points even though control experiments revealed hindlimb movements steadily induced by 8-hydroxy-2-(di-N-propylamino)-tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), a serotonin receptor agonist. In turn, clonidine acutely suppressed (I(1)-imidazoline receptor-mediated) the frequency of spontaneously occurring LM and NLM but apparently increased spinal excitability over time, because the frequency of spontaneous LM and NLM was significantly greater in clonidine-treated (before an injection) than vehicle-treated animals after repeated administration for a few weeks. The results clearly show that clonidine can not acutely induce hindlimb movements in untrained and otherwise nonstimulated (e.g., no tail or perineal pinching) Tx mice, although repeated administration may progressively facilitate the expression of spontaneous hindlimb movements.
Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) are important mediators of lung cell function and lung diseases. We showed previously that LPA decreases epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) binding rapidly in BEAS-2B airway epithelial cells, and this decrease is sustained to at least 18 h. The current studies investigate which LPA signaling pathways mediate the rapid versus sustained decreases in EGFR binding in BEAS-2B cells. The G(i/o) inhibitor pertussis toxin and the Rho kinase inhibitor Y-27632 [(R)-(+)-trans-N-(4-pyridyl)-4-(1-aminoethyl)-cyclohexanecarboxamide] had no effect on the rapid or sustained decreases. However, the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) inhibitor U0126 [1,4-diamino-2,3-dicyano-1,4-bis(o-aminophenylmercapto)-butadiene ethanolate] decreased extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 phosphorylation, completely inhibited the rapid decrease in binding, and partially inhibited the sustained decrease. The direct Ca2+- and phospholipid-dependent protein kinase (PKC) activator phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate stimulated ERK1/2 phosphorylation and decreased EGFR binding at both 15 min and 18 h. Furthermore, inhibitors of PKC partially inhibited ERK1/2 phosphorylation and the 15-min decrease but completely inhibited the 18-h decrease. Inhibitor time course studies showed that PKC induction of the 18-h decrease occurred during the first 3 h of treatment. We showed previously that LPA-stimulated EGFR transactivation contributes to the rapid decrease. Two transactivation inhibitors partially inhibited ERK1/2 phosphorylation, and U0126 partially inhibited EGFR transactivation, indicating that MEK may be involved both upstream and downstream of EGFR activation. Together, the data presented here indicate that LPA mediates the rapid decrease in EGFR binding via EGFR transactivation, MEK/ERK, and PKC, whereas the sustained decrease is regulated primarily by PKC.
Distinct functional roles in learning and memory are attributed to certain areas of the hippocampus and the parahippocampal region. The subiculum as a part of the hippocampal formation is the principal target of CA1 pyramidal cell axons and serves as an interface in the information processing between the hippocampus and the neocortex. Subicular pyramidal cells have been classified as bursting and regular firing cells. Here we report fundamental differences in long-term potentiation (LTP) between both cell types. Prolonged high-frequency stimulation induced NMDA receptor-dependent LTP in both cell types. While LTP relied on postsynaptic calcium in regular firing neurons, no increase in postsynaptic calcium was required in bursting cells. Furthermore, paired-pulse facilitation revealed that the site of LTP expression was postsynaptic in regular firing neurons, while presynaptic in burst firing neurons. Our findings on synaptic plasticity in the subiculum indicate that regular firing and bursting cells represent two functional units with distinct physiological roles in processing hippocampal output.
This literature review explores the findings of studies that adopted semi-structured interviewing methods to assess the impact of life events on the course of psychotic illness. It begins by discussing the historical context and theoretical underpinnings of the use of semi-structured approaches to measure the role and impact of life events in the onset and course of psychotic illness. The review then focuses on the main findings of the studies commencing by focusing on causality by specifically discussing the time frame from life event to relapse and whether life events have a triggering role or cumulative effect in onset. The review examines the sample populations studied and asks whether they are homogenous and comparable or heterogeneous, therefore making comparisons between studies less valid. Issues concerning the number of episodes of illness and sensitivity to relapse are explored. The review concludes that despite a general acceptance in the literature that life events have an impact on psychotic illness the findings of life events studies provide contradictory and inconclusive results and that this is at least partly attributable to the differing methodologies utilized. Continued methodological refinements may generate a 'gold standard' methodology that with repeated use will provide consistency in findings.
The present study is a non-inferiority comparison of duloxetine 60-120 mg/day and venlafaxine extended-release (XR) 75-225 mg/day for the treatment of adults with generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). The non-inferiority test was a prespecified plan to pool data from two nearly identical 10-week, multicentre, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind studies of duloxetine 60-120 mg/day and venlafaxine 75-225 mg/ day for the treatment of GAD. An independent expert consensus panel provided six statistical and clinical criteria for determining non-inferiority between treatments. Response was defined as &gt; or =50% reduction in Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAMA) total score. In the pooled sample, patients were randomly assigned to duloxetine (n = 320), venlafaxine XR (n = 333) or placebo (n = 331). For the non-inferiority analysis, the per-protocol patients who were treated with duloxetine (n = 239) or venlafaxine XR (n = 262) improved significantly more (mean HAMA reductions were -15.4 and -15.2, respectively) than placebo-treated patients (n = 267; -11.6, P &lt; or = 0.001, both comparisons). Response rates were 56%, 58% and 40%, respectively. Discontinuation rate because of AEs was significantly higher for duloxetine (13.4%, P &lt; or = 0.001) and venlafaxine XR (11.4%, P &lt; or = 0.01) groups compared with placebo (5.4%). Duloxetine 60-120 mg/day met all statistical and clinical criteria for non-inferiority and exhibited a similar tolerability profile compared with venlafaxine XR 75-225 mg/day for the treatment of adults with GAD.
A revision of the 2000 British Association for Psychopharmacology evidence-based guidelines for treating depressive disorders with antidepressants was undertaken to incorporate new evidence and to update the recommendations where appropriate. A consensus meeting involving experts in depressive disorders and their management was held in May 2006. Key areas in treating depression were reviewed, and the strength of evidence and clinical implications were considered. The guidelines were drawn up after extensive feedback from participants and interested parties. A literature review is provided, which identifies the quality of evidence to inform the recommendations, the strength of which are based on the level of evidence. These guidelines cover the nature and detection of depressive disorders, acute treatment with antidepressant drugs, choice of drug versus alternative treatment, practical issues in prescribing and management, next-step treatment, relapse prevention, treatment of relapse, and stopping treatment.
Early intervention is a popular idea for helping people with schizophrenia. There are two major approaches: intervening when the first symptoms of psychosis are expressed during adolescence and treating individuals at high risk during adolescence before psychotic symptoms become apparent. The risks and benefits of each approach are discussed.
Placebo and nocebo effects are interesting and complex phenomena. In this article, I discuss some findings about the psychological and neurobiological processes that may underlie these effects on the basis of studies of pain, Parkinson's disease, and depression. From a psychological perspective, expectancy and conditioning theories have been used to explain placebo and nocebo effects. These psychological processes may be translated into physiological effects through overlapping brain circuits that are important for cognitive information processing, analgesia, and reward expectations. These brain circuits may represent a fundamentally important common underlying pathway that mediates placebo and nocebo effects in many conditions. Understanding these effects is important for designing clinical treatment studies and interpreting their results and is highly relevant for clinical practices.




The cellular proprotein convertase site 1 protease (S1P) has been implicated in the proteolytic processing of the glycoproteins (GPs) of Old World arenaviruses. Here we report that S1P is also involved in the processing of the GPs of the genetically more-distant South American hemorrhagic fever viruses Guanarito, Machupo, and Junin. Efficient cleavage of Guanarito virus GP, whose protease recognition sites deviate from the reported S1P consensus sequence, indicates a broader specificity of S1P than anticipated. Lack of GP processing of Junin virus dramatically reduced production of infectious virus and prevented cell-to-cell propagation. Infection of S1P-deficient cells resulted in viral persistence over several weeks without the emergence of escape variants able to use other cellular proteases for GP processing.
Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronavirus infection and growth are dependent on initiating signaling and enzyme actions upon viral entry into the host cell. Proteins packaged during virus assembly may subsequently form the first line of attack and host manipulation upon infection. A complete characterization of virion components is therefore important to understanding the dynamics of early stages of infection. Mass spectrometry and kinase profiling techniques identified nearly 200 incorporated host and viral proteins. We used published interaction data to identify hubs of connectivity with potential significance for virion formation. Surprisingly, the hub with the most potential connections was not the viral M protein but the nonstructural protein 3 (nsp3), which is one of the novel virion components identified by mass spectrometry. Based on new experimental data and a bioinformatics analysis across the Coronaviridae, we propose a higher-resolution functional domain architecture for nsp3 that determines the interaction capacity of this protein. Using recombinant protein domains expressed in Escherichia coli, we identified two additional RNA-binding domains of nsp3. One of these domains is located within the previously described SARS-unique domain, and there is a nucleic acid chaperone-like domain located immediately downstream of the papain-like proteinase domain. We also identified a novel cysteine-coordinated metal ion-binding domain. Analyses of interdomain interactions and provisional functional annotation of the remaining, so-far-uncharacterized domains are presented. Overall, the ensemble of data surveyed here paint a more complete picture of nsp3 as a conserved component of the viral protein processing machinery, which is intimately associated with viral RNA in its role as a virion component.
Humans and other animals are idiosyncratically sensitive to risk, either preferring or avoiding options having the same value but differing in uncertainty. Many explanations for risk sensitivity rely on the non-linear shape of a hypothesized utility curve. Because such models do not place any importance on uncertainty per se, utility curve-based accounts predict indifference between risky and riskless options that offer the same distribution of rewards. Here we show that monkeys strongly prefer uncertain gambles to alternating rewards with the same payoffs, demonstrating that uncertainty itself contributes to the appeal of risky options. Based on prior observations, we hypothesized that the appeal of the risky option is enhanced by the salience of the potential jackpot. To test this, we subtly manipulated payoffs in a second gambling task. We found that monkeys are more sensitive to small changes in the size of the large reward than to equivalent changes in the size of the small reward, indicating that they attend preferentially to the jackpots. Together, these results challenge utility curve-based accounts of risk sensitivity, and suggest that psychological factors, such as outcome salience and uncertainty itself, contribute to risky decision-making.
Peroneal neuropathy is one of the common focal mononeuropathies in the lower extremities occurring in both adults and children. Foot drop due to weakness of ankle dorsiflexion is the most common presentation of a peroneal neuropathy. It may also result from other causes involving the upper or lower motor neurons. Disorders that must be distinguished from peroneal neuropathy include sciatic mononeuropathy, lumbosacral plexopathy, motor neuron disease, polyneuropathy, and an L5 radiculopathy. To establish a diagnosis, electrodiagnostic studies have been used to localize the level of the abnormality and to establish prognosis. The most common site of injury is the fibular head, but focal neuropathies have also been reported at the level of the calf, ankle, and foot. In this article, we overviewed the peroneal nerve palsy, and its diagnosis by neurophysiologic evaluation, conduction study and needle EMG. The neurophysiologic information gives us the underlying pathophysiology and its prognosis. Therefore the neurophysiologic evaluation must be performed not only for the differential diagnosis, but also for planning the treatment strategy.
Increased life expectancy in patients with brain tumours has led to a greater risk of cognitive deficits, particularly during disease-free periods. Here, we review the empirical studies that have been done to treat or to prevent cognitive impairment in patients with brain tumours. Both pharmacological interventions and cognitive rehabilitation programmes have been used. Although both types of study have reported some successes, these are often difficult to interpret owing to limitations in the methods used. Most of the studies reviewed did not use a randomised group design to control for possible confounding factors such as placebo and practice effects. Investigations of newer, targeted therapies have reported delays in cognitive deterioration, but these need to be confirmed in future studies. Neuroprotection represents another potentially promising, novel approach to prevention of cognitive impairment in this vulnerable population of patients. Finally, we describe studies in patients with cancers outside the CNS, to highlight further possibilities for the prevention and treatment of cognitive deficits.
Auditory functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) requires quantification of sound stimuli in the magnetic environment and adequate isolation of background noise. We report the development of two novel sound measurement systems that accurately measure the sound intensity inside the ear, which can simultaneously provide the similar or greater amount of scanner- noise protection than ear-muffs. First, we placed a 2.6 x 2.6-mm microphone in an insert phone that was connected to a headphone [microphone-integrated, foam-tipped insert-phone with a headphone (MIHP)]. This attenuated scanner noise by 37.8+/-4.6 dB, a level better than the reference amount obtained using earmuffs. The nonmetallic optical microphone was integrated with a headphone [optical microphone in a headphone (OMHP)] and it effectively detected the change of sound intensity caused by variable compression on the cushions of the headphone. Wearing the OMHP reduced the noise by 28.5+/-5.9 dB and did not affect echoplanar magnetic resonance images. We also performed an auditory fMRI study using the MIHP system and presented increase in the auditory cortical activation following 10-dB increment in the intensity of sound stimulation. These two newly developed sound measurement systems successfully achieved the accurate quantification of sound stimuli with maintaining the similar level of noise protection of wearing earmuffs in the auditory fMRI experiment.
In this article the reliability and usefulness of Hare's Psychopathy Checklist Revised (PCL-R) and the conclusions on basis of the scores are examined. It was concluded that, a) this checklist is a not a reliable tool, b) the conclusions that are linked to these PCL-R scores with regard to the treatability of psychopaths are incorrect, harmful and unethical, c) can easily be misused in legal systems and forensic psychiatric settings to dispose of problematic psychopaths, and d) the diagnostic category psychopathy should be rejected firmly because some items are subjective, vague, judgmental and practically unmeasurable, and the term psychopathy itself seems to be judgmental. Suggestions are made in order to prevent misuse of such assessment and prediction tools.


Recognition models often assume that subjects use specific evidence values (decision criteria) to adaptively parse continuous memory evidence into response categories (e.g., &quot;old,&quot; &quot;new&quot;). Although explicit pretest instructions influence criterion placement, these criteria appear extremely resistant to change once testing begins. We tested criterion sensitivity to local feedback using a novel biased-feedback technique designed to tacitly encourage certain errors by indicating they are the correct choices. Experiment 1 demonstrated that fully correct feedback had little effect on criterion placement, whereas biased feedback during Experiments 2 and 3 yielded prominent, durable, and adaptive criterion shifts, with observers reporting that they were unaware of the manipulation in Experiment 3. These data suggest that recognition criteria can be easily modified during testing through a form of feedback learning that operates independently of stimulus characteristics and observers' awareness of the nature of the manipulation. This mechanism may be fundamentally different from criterion shifts following explicit instructions and warnings, or shifts linked to manipulations of stimulus characteristics combined with feedback highlighting those manipulations.
Thiamine deficiency (TD) in both humans and experimental animals results in severe mitochondrial dysfunction and leads to selective neuronal cell death in diencephalic and cerebellar structures. We have investigated cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression in vulnerable (medial thalamus, inferior colliculus) and spared (frontal cortex) regions of rats with thiamine deficiency. Expression of COX-2 mRNA was selectively increased (twofold, p &lt; 0.001) in vulnerable regions at symptomatic stages of encephalopathy (14 days) of TD compared to pair-fed controls or presymptomatic (days 12) rats. Induction of COX-2 expression was accompanied by a significant increase (two- to threefold, p &lt; 0.001) in prostanglandin E2 (PGE2) synthesis in vulnerable regions at symptomatic stages of TD. COX-2 immunolabeling revealed a neuronal localization and COX-2 immunoreactive neurons were significantly increased at symptomatic stages of encephalopathy. Administration of nimesulide, a highly specific COX-2 inhibitor, significantly reduced PGE-2 levels in vulnerable regions but, rather than being neuroprotective, precipitated encephalopathy and exacerbated neuronal cell death due to TD. These findings suggest that newly synthesized prostanoids exert a neuroprotective role in TD.
This review focuses on the potential application of hypothermia in adults suffering traumatic brain injury (TBI). Hypothermia is neuroprotective, reducing the damaging effects of trauma to the brain in a variety of experimental situations, such as brain ischemia and brain injury, but it has failed to demonstrate outcome improvement in a major controlled, randomized trial. The evidence for the use of hypothermia as a protective procedure is scarce and contradictory. However, evidence does suggest that hypothermia is effective in reducing intracranial hypertension after head injury. Since hypothermia has important side effects, further work is necessary before introducing this procedure into clinical practice for TBI.
Intraoperative brain mapping has the goal of aiding with maximal surgical resection of brain tumors while minimizing functional sequelae. Retrospective randomized studies on large populations have shown that this technique can optimize the surgical approach while reducing postoperative morbidity. During direct electrical stimulation of the language areas adjacent to the tumor, the patient should be collaborative and be able to speak to participate in language testing. Different anesthesiological protocols have been proposed to allow intraoperative brain mapping, which range from local anesthesia to conscious sedation or general anesthesia, with or without airway instrumentation. The most common intraoperative complications are seizure, respiratory depression, and patients' stress and discomfort. Since awake craniotomy carries both benefits and potential risks, the following factors are crucial in the management of patients: 1) careful selection of the patients and 2) communication between the anesthesiological and surgical teams. To date, there remains no consensus about the optimal anesthesiological regimen to use. Only prospective, multicentre randomized studies focused on evaluating the role of different anesthesiological techniques on intraoperative monitoring, postoperative deficits, and intraoperative complications can answer the question of which anesthesiological approach should be chosen when intraoperative brain mapping is requested.
In this study, we report that the partitioning between mitochondria and cytoplasm of two variants, mCherry and DsRed Express (DRE), of the red fluorescent protein, DsRed, fused to one of the six matrix targeting sequences (MTSs) can be affected by both MTS and amino acid substitutions in DsRed. Of the six MTSs tested, MTSs from superoxide dismutase and DNA polymerase gamma failed to direct mCherry, but not DRE to mitochondria. By evaluating a series of chimeras between mCherry and DRE fused to the MTS of superoxide dismutase, we attribute the differences in the mitochondrial partitioning to differences in the primary amino acid sequence of the passenger polypeptide. The impairment of mitochondrial partitioning closely parallels the number of mCherry-specific mutations, and is not specific to mutations located in any particular region of the polypeptide. These observations suggest that both MTS and the passenger polypeptide affect the efficiency of mitochondrial import and provide a rationale for the observed diversity in the primary amino acid sequences of natural MTSs.
Mammalian SVZ progenitors continuously generate new neurons in the olfactory bulb. After injury, changes in SVZ cell number suggest injury-induced migration. Studies that trace the migration of SVZ precursors into neurodegenerating areas are lacking. Previously, we showed a decrease in BrdU+SVZ cells following excitotoxic damage to the immature rat cortex. Here, we demonstrate that NMDA-induced injury forces endogenous Cell Tracker Green (CTG) labeled VZ/SVZ precursors out of the SVZ into the neurodegenerating cortex. CTG+/Nestin+/Filamin A+ precursors are closely associated with vimentin+/GFAP+/GLAST+ filaments and express both chemokine receptor CXCR4 and Robo1. In the cortex, SVZ-derived progenitors show a progressive expression of developing, migrating and mature neurons and glial markers. CTG+/GFAP+ astrocytes greatly outnumber CTG+/MAP2+/NeuN+ neurons. SVZ-derived progenitors differentiate into both tbr1+ cortical glutamatergic neurons and calretinin+ interneurons. But, there is little integration of these neurons into the existing circuitry, as seen by Fluorogold retrograde tracing from the internal capsule.
The neuronal nicotinic synapse plays a central role in normal cognitive and autonomic function. Molecular mechanisms that direct the assembly of this synapse remain poorly defined, however. We show here that adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) organizes a multi-molecular complex that is essential for targeting alpha3(*)nAChRs to synapses. APC interaction with microtubule plus-end binding protein EB1 is required for alpha3(*)nAChR surface membrane insertion and stabilization. APC brings together EB1, the key cytoskeletal regulators macrophin and IQGAP1, and 14-3-3 adapter protein at nicotinic synapses. 14-3-3, in turn, links the alpha3-subunit to APC. This multi-molecular APC complex stabilizes the local microtubule and F-actin cytoskeleton and links postsynaptic components to the cytoskeleton--essential functions for controlling the molecular composition and stability of synapses. This work identifies macrophin, IQGAP1 and 14-3-3 as novel nicotinic synapse components and defines a new role for APC as an in vivo coordinator of nicotinic postsynaptic assembly in vertebrate neurons.
Small GTPase Rab is generally thought to control intracellular membrane trafficking through interaction with specific effector molecules. Because of the large number of Rab isoforms in mammals, however, the effectors of most of the mammalian Rabs have never been identified, and the Rab binding specificity of the Rab effectors previously reported has never been thoroughly investigated. In this study we systematically screened for novel Rab effectors by a yeast two-hybrid assay with 28 different mouse or human Rabs (Rab1-30) as bait and identified 27 Rab-binding proteins, including 19 novel ones. We further investigated their Rab binding specificity by a yeast two-hybrid assay with a panel of 60 different GTP-locked mouse or human Rabs. Unexpectedly most (17 of 27) of the Rab-binding proteins we identified exhibited broad Rab binding specificity and bound multiple Rab isoforms. As an example, inositol-polyphosphate 5-phosphatase OCRL (oculocerebrorenal syndrome of Lowe) bound the greatest number of Rabs (i.e. 16 distinct Rabs). Others, however, specifically recognized only a single Rab isoform or only two closely related Rab isoforms. The interaction of eight of the novel Rab-binding proteins identified (e.g. INPP5E and Cog4) with a specific Rab isoform was confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation assay and/or colocalization analysis in mammalian cell cultures, and the novel Rab2B-binding domain of Golgi-associated Rab2B interactor (GARI) and GARI-like proteins was identified by deletion and homology search analyses. The findings suggest that most Rab effectors (or Rab-binding proteins) regulate intracellular membrane trafficking through interaction with several Rab isoforms rather than through a single Rab isoform.

The neurotrophic peptide PACAP (pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide) elevates cAMP in PC12 cells. Forskolin and dibutyryl cAMP mimic PACAP's neuritogenic and cell morphological effects, suggesting that they are driven by cAMP. Comparison of microarray expression profiles after exposure of PC12 cells to either forskolin, dibutyryl cAMP, or PACAP revealed a small group of cAMP-dependent target genes. Neuritogenesis induced by all three agents is protein kinase A (PKA)-independent [not blocked by N-[2-(4-bromocinnamylamino)ethyl]-5-isoquinoline (H89)] and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)-dependent [blocked by 1,4-diamino-2,3-dicyano-1,4-bis(methylthio) butadiene (U0126)], and therefore cAMP-dependent target genes potentially mediating neuritogenesis were selected for further analysis based on the pharmacological profile of their induction by PACAP (i.e., mimicking that of neuritogenesis). Small interfering RNA (siRNA) targeting one of these genes, Egr1, blocked PACAP-induced neuritogenesis, and siRNA targeting another, Vil2, blocked a component of the cell size increase elicited by PACAP. Neither siRNA blocked PACAP's PKA-dependent antiproliferative effects. PACAP signaling to neuritogenesis was also impaired by dominant-negative Rap1 expression but was not affected by inhibition of protein kinase C (PKC), indicating a G-protein-coupled receptor-mediated differentiation pathway distinct from the one activated by receptor tyrosine kinase ligands such as nerve growth factor (NGF), that involves both Rap1 and PKC. We have thus identified a cAMP-dependent, PKA-independent pathway proceeding through ERK that functions to up-regulate the transcription of two genes, Egr1 and Vil2, required for PACAP-dependent neuritogenesis and increased cell size, respectively. Dominant-negative Rap1 expression impairs both PACAP-induced neuritogenesis and Egr1 activation by PACAP, suggesting that cAMP elevation and ERK activation by PACAP are linked through Rap1.
Alpha4 and beta2 nicotinic cholinergic receptor (nAChR) subunits can assemble in heterologous expression systems as pentameric receptors with different subunit stoichiometries that exhibit differential sensitivity to activation by acetylcholine, yielding biphasic concentration-effect curves. nAChR-mediated (86)Rb(+) efflux in mouse brain synaptosomes also displays biphasic acetylcholine (ACh) concentration-response curves. Both phases are mediated primarily by alpha4beta2(*)-nAChR, because deletion of either the alpha4 or beta2 subunit reduces response at least 90%. A relatively larger decrease in the component of (86)Rb(+) efflux with lower ACh sensitivity occurred with partial deletion of alpha4 (alpha4(+/-)), whereas a larger decrease in the component with higher ACh sensitivity was elicited by partial deletion of beta2 (beta2(+/-)). Immunoprecipitation with selective antibodies demonstrated that more than 70% of [(3)H]epibatidine binding sites in both regions contained only alpha4 and beta2 subunits. Subsequently, alpha4 and beta2 subunit content in the cortex and thalamus of alpha4 and beta2 wild types and heterozygotes was analyzed with Western blots. Partial deletion of alpha4 decreased and partial deletion of beta2 increased the relative proportion of the alpha4 subunit in assembled receptors. Although these methods do not allow exact identification of stoichiometry of the subtypes present in wild-type cortex and thalamus, they do demonstrate that cortical and thalamic nAChRs of the alpha4(+/-) and beta2(+/-) genotypes differ in relative expression of alpha4 and beta2 subunits a result that corresponds to the relative functional changes observed after partial gene deletion. These results strongly suggest that alpha4beta2-nAChR with different stoichiometry are expressed in native tissue.
There is growing evidence implicating dysfunctional glutamatergic neurotransmission and abnormal interactions between the glutamate and dopamine (DA) systems in the pathophysiology of various neuropsychiatric disorders including schizophrenia. The present study evaluated knockout (KO) mice lacking the L-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) GluR1 receptor subunit for a range of behaviors considered relevant to certain symptoms of schizophrenia. KO showed locomotor hyperactivity during exposure to open field and in response to a novel object, but normal activity in a familiar home cage. Open field locomotor hyperactivity in KO was effectively normalized to WT levels by treatment with the DA antagonist and neuroleptic haloperidol, while locomotor stimulant effects of the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 were absent in KO. Social behaviors during a dyadic conspecific encounter were disorganized in KO. KO showed deficits in prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle response. In vivo chronoamperometric measurement of extracellular DA clearance in striatum demonstrated retarded clearance in KO. These data demonstrate behavioral abnormalities potentially pertinent to schizophrenia in GluR1 KO, together with evidence of dysregulated DA function. Present findings provide novel insight into the potential role of GluR1, AMPA receptors and glutamate x DA interactions in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and other neuropsychiatric conditions.

The introduction of two microbial opsin-based tools, channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) and halorhodopsin (NpHR), to neuroscience has generated interest in fast, multimodal, cell type-specific neural circuit control. Here we describe a cation-conducting channelrhodopsin (VChR1) from Volvox carteri that can drive spiking at 589 nm, with excitation maximum red-shifted approximately 70 nm compared with ChR2. These results demonstrate fast photostimulation with yellow light, thereby defining a functionally distinct third category of microbial rhodopsin proteins.
Glutamate acts on postsynaptic glutamate receptors to mediate excitatory communication between neurons. The discovery that additional presynaptic glutamate receptors can modulate neurotransmitter release has added complexity to the way we view glutamatergic synaptic transmission. Here we review evidence of a physiological role for presynaptic glutamate receptors in neurotransmitter release. We compare the physiological roles of ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors in short- and long-term regulation of synaptic transmission. Furthermore, we discuss the physiological conditions that are necessary for their activation, the source of the glutamate that activates them, their mechanisms of action and their involvement in higher brain function.
A central aim of neuroscience is to map neural circuits, in order to learn how they account for mental activities and behaviours and how alterations in them lead to neurological and psychiatric disorders. However, the methods that are currently available for visualizing circuits have severe limitations that make it extremely difficult to extract precise wiring diagrams from histological images. Here we review recent advances in this area, along with some of the opportunities that these advances present and the obstacles that remain.
After stroke or traumatic damages, both necrotic and apoptotic neuronal death cause a loss of functions including memory, sensory perception, and motor skills. From the fact that necrosis has a nature to expand, while apoptosis to cease the cell death cascade in the brain, it is considered that the promising target for the rapid treatment for stroke is the necrosis. In this study, I introduce the discovery of prothymosin alpha (ProTalpha), which inhibits neuronal necrosis, and propose its potentiality of clinical use for stroke. First of all, it should be noted that ProTalpha inhibits the neuronal necrosis induced by serum-free starvation or ischemia-reperfusion stress, which causes a rapid internalization of GLUT1/4, leading a decrease in glucose uptake and cellular ATP levels. Underlying mechanisms are determined to be through an activation of Gi/o, phospholipase C and PKCbetaII. ProTalpha also causes apoptosis later through a similar mechanism. However, we found that ProTalpha-induced apoptosis is completely inhibited by the concomitant treatment with neurotrophins, which are up-regulated by ischemic stress in the brain. Of most importance is the finding that the systemic injection of ProTalpha completely inhibits the brain damages, motor dysfunction and learning memory defect induced by cerebral ischemia-reperfusion stress. As ProTalpha almost entirely prevents the focal ischemia-induced motor dysfunction 4 h after the start of ischemia, this protein seems to have a promising potentiality for clinical use.
Genetic and biological studies provide evidence that the production and deposition of amyloid-beta peptides (Abeta) contribute to the etiology of Alzheimer's disease. beta- and gamma-secretases, which are responsible for the generation of Abeta, are plausible molecular targets for Alzheimer's disease treatment. gamma-Secretase is an unusual aspartic protease that cleaves the scissile bond within the transmembrane domain. This unusual enzyme is composed of a high molecular weight membrane protein complex containing presenilin, nicastrin, Aph-1 and Pen-2. Drugs that regulate the production of Abeta by inhibiting or modulating gamma-secretase activity could provide a disease-modifying effect on Alzheimer's disease, although recent studies suggest that gamma-secretase plays important roles in cellular signaling including Notch. Thus, understanding the molecular mechanism whereby gamma-secretase recognizes and cleaves its substrate is a critical issue for the development of compounds that specifically regulate Abeta-generating gamma-secretase activity. This review focuses on the structure and function relationship of gamma-secretase complex and the mode of action of the gamma-secretase inhibitors.
Five reconstructed alpha-motoneurons (MNs) are simulated under physiological and morphological realistic parameters. We compare the resulting excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) of models, containing voltage-dependent channels on the dendrites, with the EPSP of a passive MN and an active soma and axon model. In our simulations, we apply three different distribution functions of the voltage-dependent channels on the dendrites: a step function (ST) with uniform spatial dispersion; an exponential decay (ED) function, with proximal to the soma high-density location; and an exponential rise (ER) with distally located conductance density. In all cases, the synaptic inputs are located as a gaussian function on the dendrites. Our simulations lead to eight key observations. (1) The presence of the voltage-dependent channels conductance (g(Active)) in the dendrites is vital for obtaining EPSP peak boosting. (2) The mean EPSP peaks of the ST, ER, and ED distributions are similar when the ranges of G (total conductance) are equal. (3) EPSP peak increases monotonically when the magnitude of g(Na_step) (maximal g(Na) at a particular run) is increased. (4) EPSP kinetics parameters were differentially affected; time integral was decreased monotonically with increased g(Na_step), but the rate of rise (the decay time was not analyzed) does not show clear relations. (5) The total G can be elevated by increasing the number of active dendrites; however, only a small active area of the dendritic tree is sufficient to get the maximal boosting. (6) The sometimes large variations in the parameters values for identical G depend on the g(Na_step) and active dendritic area. (7) High g(Na_step) in a few dendrites is more efficient in amplifying the EPSP peak than low g(Na_step) in many dendrites. (8) The EPSP peak is approximately linear with respect to the MNs' R(N) (input resistance).
The suprathreshold electrophysiological responses of pyramidal cells have been grouped into large classes such as bursting and spiking. However, it is not known whether, within a class, response variability ranges uniformly across all cells or whether each cell has a unique and consistent profile that can be differentiated. A major difficulty when comparing suprathreshold responses is that slight variations in spike timing in otherwise very similar traces render traditional metrics ineffective. To address these issues, we developed a novel distance measure based on fiducial points to quantify the similarity among traces with trains of action potentials and applied it together with classification techniques to a set of in vitro patch clamp recordings from CA1 pyramidal cells. We tested if responses to repeated current stimulation of a given cell would cluster together yet remain distinct from those of other cells. We found that depolarizing and hyperpolarizing current pulses elicited responses in each cell that clustered and were systematically distinguishable from responses in other cells. The fiducial-point distance measure was more effective than other methods based on spike times and voltage-gradient phase planes. Depolarizing traces were more reliably differentiated than hyperpolarizing traces, and combining both scores was even more effective. These results suggest that each CA1 pyramidal cell has unique properties that can be detected and quantified with methods discussed here. This uniqueness may be due to slight variations in morphology or membrane channel densities and kinetics, or to large, coordinated variations in these elements. Ascertaining the actual sources and their degree of variability is important when constructing network models of neural function to ensure that key mechanisms are robust in the face of variations within these ranges. The analytical tools presented here can assist in constructing detailed cell models to match experimental records to elucidate the sources of electrophysiological variability in neurons.
Accumulation of cerebral amyloid-beta (Abeta) has been implicated as a putative causal factor in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Transgenic mice like the PDAPP line overexpress human mutant Amyloid Precursor Protein (hAPP) and recapitulate many features of AD, including amyloid neuropathology and cognitive deficits. Inhibition of the beta-site aspartyl cleaving enzyme (BACE1) enzyme responsible for the first proteolytic cleavage that ultimately generates Abeta has been proposed as a strategy for AD therapy. To assess the theoretical repercussions of beta-secretase activity reduction in an in vivo model of AD, BACE1(-/-) mice bred to the PDAPP line were examined in a series of behavioral tasks. Although BACE1 gene ablation abolished hAbeta accumulation, BACE1(-/-) mice had unexpected sensorimotor impairments, spatial memory deficits, and displayed seizures, phenotypes which were severe on the PDAPP background. These results suggest that while excess Abeta is functionally pathological, BACE1-mediated processing of APP and other substrates play a role in &quot;normal&quot; learning, memory and sensorimotor processes.
In order to understand how plasticity is related to neurodegeneration, we studied synaptic proteins with quantitative immunohistochemistry in the entorhinal cortex from Alzheimer patients and age-matched controls. We observed a significant decrease in presynaptic synaptophysin and an increase in postsynaptic density protein PSD-95, positively correlated with beta amyloid and phosphorylated Tau proteins in Alzheimer cases. Furthermore, Alzheimer-like neuritic retraction was generated in okadaic acid (OA) treated SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells with no decrease in PSD-95 expression. However, in a SH-SY5Y clone with decreased expression of transcription regulator LMO4 (as observed in Alzheimer's disease) and increased neuritic length, PSD-95 expression was enhanced but did not change with OA treatment. Therefore, increased PSD-95 immunoreactivity in the entorhinal cortex might result from compensatory mechanisms, as in the SH-SY5Y clone, whereas increased Alzheimer-like Tau phosphorylation is not related to PSD-95 expression, as suggested by the OA-treated cell models.
In this study, we analyzed whether ER Ca2+ release, induced by amyloid-beta (Abeta) and prion (PrP) peptides activates the mitochondrial-mediated apoptotic pathway. In cortical neurons, addition of the synthetic Abeta1-40 or PrP106-126 peptides depletes ER Ca2+ content, leading to cytosolic Ca2+ overload. The Ca2+ released through ryanodine (RyR) and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3R) receptors was shown to be involved in the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, Bax translocation to mitochondria and apoptotic death. Our data further demonstrate that Ca2+ released from the ER leads to the depletion of endogenous GSH levels and accumulation of reactive oxygen species, which were also involved in the depolarization of the mitochondrial membrane. These results illustrate that the early Abeta- and PrP -induced perturbation of ER Ca2+ homeostasis affects mitochondrial function, activating the mitochondrial-mediated apoptotic pathway and help to clarify the mechanism implicated in neuronal death that occurs in AD and PrD.
The degeneration of neurons in the mammalian brain is commonly associated with the division of cells located in the damaged area. The aim of the present study has been to characterise the phenotype of newly born cells in the striatum of adult rats following 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the nigro-striatal pathway. Newborn cells were identified through labelling with either bromodeoxyuridine or retrovirus encoding green fluorescence protein. We report here that the overwhelming majority of these cells have glial characteristics. In order to promote the generation of new neurons we retrovirally introduced either the noggin or neurogenin2 genes into newborn cells following the 6-hydroxydopamine lesion. Transduction with neurogenin2 resulted in the production of cells resembling neuroblasts, however these cells did not appear to survive. Noggin transduction did not result in the generation of new neurons, but interestingly, greatly increased the number of oligodendrocytes generated from newborn cells.
Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) peptide is widely expressed in the hypothalamus and is involved in the central regulation of energy balance. Using in situ hybridization, this study examined the roles of CART peptide in the hypothalamus of diet-induced obese (DIO) or diet-resistant (DR) mice under different dietary interventions including high-fat (HF), low-fat (LF) and pair-feeding (PF) diet for 6 weeks. Pair feeding the energy intake of the DIO and DR mice was used to determine whether there is an inherent difference in baseline CART expression that may cause the DIO and DR phenotypes. The results demonstrated that CART mRNA expression in the hypothalamus of the DIO mice responded differently on the high-fat diet compared to DR mice. The arcuate nucleus and paraventricular nucleus showed a significant reduction in CART mRNA expression in DIO mice compared to DR mice on the HF diet (-19.6%, p=0.019; -26.1%, p=0.003); whilst a profound increase in CART mRNA expression was observed in the dorsomedial nucleus and lateral hypothalamic area (+44.5%, p=0.007; +37.4%, p=0.033). Our study suggests that the decrease of CART mRNA expression in Arc and PVN regions of DIO mice may contribute to the development of high-fat diet-induced obesity. In addition, CART in the dorsomedial nucleus (DM) of hypothalamus and lateral hypothalamus (LH) may be involved in the activation of an orexigenic effect. Since pair feeding of the high-fat diet eliminated both the body weight and CART mRNA differences between the DIO and DR mice, it is likely that their alterations in gene expression were a consequence of their dissimilar body weight levels.
The striatum is the biggest nucleus of the basal ganglia and receives input from almost all cortical regions, substantia nigra and the thalamus. Striatal neuronal circuitry is well characterized, but less is known about glial physiology. To this end, we evaluated astrocyte electrophysiological properties using whole-cell patch-clamp recording in dorsal striatal brain slices from P15 to P21 rat. The majority of cells (95%) were passive astrocytes that do not express any detectable voltage-gated channels. Passive astrocytes were subcategorized into three groups based on time-dependent current properties. The observed proportion of the different astrocyte subtypes did not change within the age range evaluated here, but was modulated during reduction of specific conductances and gap junction coupling. Striatal astrocytes were extensively interconnected and closure of gap junctions with octanol (1mM), carbenoxolone (100 microM) or increased intracellular calcium (2mM), significantly altered intrinsic properties. When simultaneously blocking potassium channels and gap junction coupling almost no passive conductance was detected, implying that the major currents in striatal astrocytes derive from potassium and gap junction conductance. Uncoupling of the syncytium reduced currents activated in response to a hyperpolarizing pulse, suggesting that changes in gap junction coupling alters astrocyte electrophysiological responses. Our findings indicate that the prevalent gap junction coupling is vital for astrocyte function in the striatum, and that whole-cell recordings will be distorted by currents activated in neighboring cells.
Previous experiments demonstrated that second-based transient increases in choline concentrations measured by electrodes coated with choline oxidase (ChOx) and the amperometric detection of hydrogen peroxide validly indicate the depolarization-dependent release of acetylcholine (ACh) and its hydrolysis by endogenous acetylcholinesterase (AChE). Therefore, choline-sensitive microelectrodes have become valuable tools in neuropharmacological and behavioral research. The present experiments were designed to test the possibility that co-immobilization of ChOx plus AChE on recording sites increases the level of detection for evoked ACh release in the brain. If newly released ACh is not completely hydrolyzed by endogenous AChE and capable of reaching the extracellular space, currents recorded via sites equipped with both enzymes should be greater when compared with sites coated with ChOx only. Pairs of platinum-recording sites were coated either with AChE plus ChOx or ChOx alone. Potassium or nicotine-evoked currents were recorded throughout the entire dorsal-ventral extent of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). The amplitudes of evoked cholinergic signals did not differ significantly between AChE+ChOx and ChOx-only coated recording sites. Additional experiments controlling for several potential confounds suggested that, in vivo, ACh levels &gt; or =150fmol were detected by recordings sites featuring dual enzyme coating. Collectively, these results indicate that co-coating of microelectrodes with AChE does not enhance the detection of cholinergic activity in the cortex compared with measurements via recording sites coated only with ChOx.
In the present study we provide evidence for hydroxyl radical (*OH) scavenging action of nitric oxide (NO*), and subsequent dopaminergic neuroprotection in a hemiparkinsonian rat model. Reactive oxygen species are strongly implicated in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurotoxicity caused by the parkinsonian neurotoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+). Since the role of this free radical as a neurotoxicant or neuroprotectant is debatable, we investigated the effects of some of the NO* donors such as S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP), 3-morpholinosydnonimine hydrochloride (SIN-1), sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and nitroglycerin (NG) on in vitro *OH generation in a Fenton-like reaction involving ferrous citrate, as well as in MPP+-induced *OH production in the mitochondria. We also tested whether co-administration of NO* donor and MPP+ could protect against MPP+-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity in rats. While NG, SNAP and SIN-1 attenuated MPP+-induced *OH generation in the mitochondria, and in a Fenton-like reaction, SNP caused up to 18-fold increase in *OH production in the latter reaction. Striatal dopaminergic depletion following intranigral infusion of MPP+ in rats was significantly attenuated by NG, SNAP and SIN-1, but not by SNP. Solutions of NG, SNAP and SIN-1, exposed to air for 48 h to remove NO*, when administered similarly failed to attenuate MPP+-induced neurotoxicity in vivo. Conversely, long-time air-exposed SNP solution when administered in rats intranigrally, caused a dose-dependent depletion of the striatal dopamine. These results confirm the involvement of *OH in the nigrostriatal degeneration caused by MPP+, indicate the *OH scavenging ability of NO*, and demonstrate protection by NO* donors against MPP+-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity in rats.
Clinical trials and observations suggest that constipation is an uncommon side effect of treating overactive bladder with the muscarinic receptor antagonist tolterodine. Because muscarinic antagonism inhibits gastrointestinal motor activity, we evaluated the effects of tolterodine on bowel habits, gastrointestinal and colonic transit in healthy subjects. In this double-blind study, 36 healthy subjects were randomized to tolterodine extended release (ER, 4 mg daily) or placebo for 6 days. Gastric emptying (GE), small bowel and colonic transit were assessed on days 4-6 by scintigraphy. Bowel habits were recorded by diaries. Tolterodine did not significantly affect half-time for GE (GE t(half)) [116 +/- 6 min (mean +/- SEM) for placebo vs 126 +/- 7 min for tolterodine], small bowel transit measured by colonic filling at 6 h (45 +/- 6% for placebo vs 36 +/- 6% for tolterodine) or the geometric center of colonic transit at 24 h (2.9 +/- 0.2 for placebo vs 2.6 +/- 0.3 for tolterodine). Subjects who received tolterodine had slightly fewer bowel movements (i.e. 1.34 +/- 0.1 stools per day for placebo vs 1.0 +/- 0.1 for tolterodine; P = 0.02 for treatment effect). Tolterodine did not significantly affect stool consistency or ease of defecation. At the therapeutic dose used to treat overactive bladder, tolterodine did not significantly affect gastrointestinal or colonic transit and had minor effects on bowel habits in healthy subjects. Further studies are necessary to elucidate whether these observations are explained by tolterodine effects at muscarinic receptors which stimulate and inhibit gastrointestinal motility.
We investigated the distribution and density of perivascular nerves in human mesenteric arteries and veins and their responses to noradrenaline (NA), ATP and neuropeptide Y (NPY) in control (non-inflamed) and inflamed bowel, using confocal microscopy and in vitro pharmacology. The density of innervation at the adventitial-medial border of arteries and within the medial muscle coat of veins was increased in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Expression of markers for both sympathetic nerves and sensory-motor nerves was significantly increased in IBD. Calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing sensory-motor nerves were present in control arteries and IBD, but not in control veins. The density of 5-hydroxytryptamine-containing nerves was variable in controls, but consistently increased (three to four times) in IBD. Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) expression increased (doubled) in arteries and veins. Arteries and veins contracted to NA and ATP, but only veins constricted to NPY. ATP contractions were reduced in arteries and veins in IBD, while contractions to NA were only slightly reduced. Neuropeptide Y induced significantly greater (20%) contractions of IBD veins. In summary, the density of sympathetic and sensory-motor innervation of both mesenteric arteries and veins was increased in IBD. Both 5-hydroxytryptamine and VIP immunoreactivity were also increased. The responses of both arteries and veins to ATP, and to a lesser extent NA, were reduced in IBD while responses to NPY were greater in veins. Decreased responses to ATP indicate changes in purinergic-mediated transmission in the pathological state.
Fatigue is one of the most common non-specific symptoms associated with several disease states including liver diseases. Recently, it was reported that levels of progesterone metabolites such as allopregnanolone (3alpha,5alpha-tetrahydroprogesterone; 3alpha,5alpha-THP) and isopregnanolone (3beta,5alpha-THP) were increased in plasma of patients with chronic fatigue syndrome. We hypothesize that THP metabolites might be associated with fatigue commonly observed in chronic liver diseases. We evaluated fatigue scores and plasma levels of five progesterone metabolites in 16 patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC), 12 patients with chronic hepatitis C (CHC) and 11 age-matched controls. The fatigue impact scale (FIS) ratio was significantly increased (P &lt; 0.01) in patients with PBC and CHC compared to controls. Plasma levels of 3alpha,5alpha-THP and pregnanolone (3alpha,5beta-THP) were significantly increased in PBC and CHC patients. The other progesterone metabolites, i.e. 3beta,5alpha-THP, 3beta,5beta-THP and 3alpha,5alpha-tetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone were either undetectable or detected only in some patients. Plasma levels of 3alpha,5alpha-THP and 3alpha,5beta-THP were found to be significantly higher in patients with fatigue (P &lt; 0.05), while those of patients without fatigue were not significantly different from controls. Both 3alpha,5alpha-THP and 3alpha,5beta-THP are positive allosteric modulators of the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA-A) receptor and readily cross the blood-brain barrier. The present preliminary findings suggest that increased inhibition through GABA-A receptors due to the accumulation of neuroinhibitory steroids may represent an important pathophysiological mechanism of fatigue in chronic liver diseases.
A disproportionate increase in cerebral blood flow (CBF) relative to the cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO(2)), in response to neuronal activation, results in a decreased oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) and hence local 'hyperoxygenation'. The mismatch is the key 'physiological substrate' for blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) fMRI. The mismatch may reflect inefficient O(2) diffusion in the brain tissue, a factor requiring maintenance of a steep [O(2)] gradient between capillary bed and neural cell mitochondria. The aim of this study was to assess vascular responsiveness to reduced blood oxygen saturation, using both BOLD fMRI and the CBV-weighted vascular space occupancy (VASO)-dependent fMRI technique, during visual activation in hypoxic hypoxia. Our fMRI results show decreased amplitude and absence of initial sharp overshoot in the BOLD response, while VASO signal was not influenced by decreasing oxygen saturation down to 0.85. The results suggest that the OEF during visual activation may be different in hypoxia relative to normoxia, due to a more efficient oxygen extraction under compromised oxygen availability. The data also indicate that vascular reactivity to brain activation is not affected by mild hypoxia.
We set out to determine whether changes in resting-state cortico-cortical functional connectivity are a feature of early-stage Parkinson's disease (PD), explore how functional coupling might evolve over the course of the disease and establish its relationship with clinical deficits. Whole-head magnetoencephalography was performed in an eyes-closed resting-state condition in 70 PD patients with varying disease duration (including 18 recently diagnosed, drug-naive patients) in an &quot;OFF&quot; medication state and 21 controls. Neuropsychological testing was performed in all subjects. Data analysis involved calculation of three synchronization likelihood (SL, a general measure of linear and non-linear temporal correlations between time series) measures which reflect functional connectivity within (local) and between (intrahemispheric and interhemispheric) ten major cortical regions in five frequency bands. Recently diagnosed, drug-naive patients showed an overall increase in alpha1 SL relative to controls. Cross-sectional analysis in all patients revealed that disease duration was positively associated with alpha2 and beta SL measures, while severity of parkinsonism was positively associated with theta and beta SL measures. Moderately advanced patients had increases in theta, alpha1, alpha2 and beta SL, particularly with regard to local SL. In recently diagnosed patients, cognitive perseveration was associated with increased interhemispheric alpha1 SL. Increased resting-state cortico-cortical functional connectivity in the 8-10 Hz alpha range is a feature of PD from the earliest clinical stages onward. With disease progression, neighboring frequency bands become increasingly involved. These findings suggest that changes in functional coupling over the course of PD may be linked to the topographical progression of pathology over the brain.
Multielectrode neurophysiological recording and high-resolution neuroimaging generate multivariate data that are the basis for understanding the patterns of neural interactions. How to extract directions of information flow in brain networks from these data remains a key challenge. Research over the last few years has identified Granger causality as a statistically principled technique to furnish this capability. The estimation of Granger causality currently requires autoregressive modeling of neural data. Here, we propose a nonparametric approach based on widely used Fourier and wavelet transforms to estimate both pairwise and conditional measures of Granger causality, eliminating the need of explicit autoregressive data modeling. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach by applying it to synthetic data generated by network models with known connectivity and to local field potentials recorded from monkeys performing a sensorimotor task.
Silver syndrome (SPG17) is a rare form of hereditary spastic paraparesis. Its relationship to distal hereditary motor neuropathy (dHMN) type V is underlined by the recent discovery of causative mutation in BSCL2 gene coding for a protein termed seipin, an integral membrane protein of endoplasmic reticulum, with unknown function. Here we report the third Italian family with dHMN and SPG17 in which two affected members harbor the heterozygous N88S mutation in the BSCL2 gene. The proband developed a severe paraparetic spastic gait, while, in the other Italian families reported so far, no signs of upper motor neuron involvement were observed. This family confirms the clinical heterogeneity associated with this specific mutation. Moreover, this is the first report in which neuroimaging seems to confirm the pyramidal alterations in dHMN associated to SPG17.
Acute akinesia (AA) is a rare but serious complication of Parkinson's Disease (PD) 0,3% of all patients with PD). It can be related to infectious condition, surgery, or treatment changes. AA can completely recover or result in some motor deficits, and, in the most severe forms, it may lead to untreatable complications and death. Here we report the case of a 67-year-old man with PD who rapidly developed a severe akinetic state with rise of temperature (39 degrees C) and creatine phosphokinase concentration (up to 5000 mg/dL). After excluding infection diseases and other pathologies, we suspected AA and added apomorphine 50mg/die s.c. and ondansetron 8 mg i.v. The patient responded to treatment and ameliorated in few weeks.
MtDNA instability is associated with a wide spectrum of clinical presentations, from dominant or recessive progressive external ophthalmoplegia (PEO) to juvenile-onset spino-cerebellar ataxia and epilepsy (SCAE) or infantile Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome. We present here the clinical and molecular features of a patient with a clinical presentation characterized initially by PEO with mtDNA multiple deletions lately evolving into a severe neurological syndrome, which included sensory and cerebellar ataxia, peripheral neuropathy, parkinsonism, and depression. This complex phenotype is the result of mutations in two distinct proteins, ANT1 and PolgammaA, which cause additive, deleterious effects on mtDNA maintenance and integrity.

The pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN), which is located in the upper brainstem, contains cholinergic and non-cholinergic neurons, and has afferent and efferent connections to the basal ganglia and spinal cord. The PPN is known to be affected in adult-onset basal ganglia diseases, and we speculated that the PPN might be similarly insulted in developmental basal ganglia disorders. We immunohistochemically examined the expression patterns of acetylcholine esterase and tyrosine hydroxylase, markers of acetylcholinergic and catecholaminergic neurons, respectively, in the PPN pars dissipata (PPNd) of controls and patients with bilirubin encephalopathy (BE) and perinatal hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy with localized basal ganglia lesion (HIEbg). Controls showed an age-dependent change in the percentages of acetylcholinergic and catecholaminergic neurons. Three out of six BE cases and three out of six HIEbg cases showed a reduction in the percentage of acetylcholinergic neurons in the PPNd. Additionally, three BE cases demonstrated an increase in the percentage of catecholaminergic neurons. It is likely that the relative proportions of acetylcholinergic and catecholaminergic neurons in the PPN can be altered in developmental basal ganglia disorders.
We describe a 52-year-old man with body weight loss and bulbar palsy, who exhibited muscle atrophy and weakness with fasciculation especially in the respiratory muscles 4 years prior to death, necessitating respiratory support for 4 years, but who was able to walk until the end-stage. He had no significant family history. Neuropathological examination revealed severe loss of motor neurons in the spinal cord and brainstem, and ubiquitin-positive skein-like inclusions and Bunina bodies in the remaining neurons. In addition, prominent degeneration of the anterolateral funiculus and severe loss of neurons in the intermediate zone of the spinal cord were evident, without marked alteration of the corticospinal tracts. Degeneration of the subthalamic nucleus, increased iron deposition in the substantia nigra, and axonal swelling, residual nodules and acidophilic granules in the spinal ganglia were found. The patient's condition was considered to have been a forme fruste or incipient form of widespread-type amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) or motor neuron disease (MND) with pallido-nigro-luysian atrophy (PNLA). The neuropathological features of the present case appear to be important for understanding the nature of widespread-type ALS and MND with PNLA.
Right-hemispheric organisation of language has been observed following early left-sided brain lesions. The role of the site of damage is still controversial, as other aspects influence the pattern of speech organisation including timing of the lesion and the presence of epilepsy. We studied a group of 10 term-born children homogeneous for timing/type of lesion and clinical picture. All subjects had left perinatal arterial stroke, right hemiplegia, normal cognitive functions and no or easily controlled epileptic seizures. In half the patients, the lesion clearly involved Broca's area, in the other half it was remote from it. Language lateralization was explored by an fMRI covert rhyme generation task. Eight of 10 subjects showed a right lateralisation of language, including all five patients with a damaged left Broca and 3/5 of those without it. Group analysis in patients with right hemispheric organisation showed brain activations homotopic to those found in the left hemisphere of a matched control group. Our findings confirm that, at the end of gestation, the human brain exhibits extraordinary (re-)organisational capabilities. Language organisation in the right hemisphere is favoured by the presence of destructive lesions of the left Broca's area at birth, and occurs in brain regions homotopic to those usually involved in language processing.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP) exhibits a protective effect against neural injury in vitro and in vivo. However, it has not been reported whether peripheral intravenous administration of PACAP could confer benefits in animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD). Furthermore, the underlying molecular mechanisms responsible for these effects are poorly understood. In the present experiments, we determined the effects and mechanism of action of intravenously administered PACAP27 in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated mice. Our results indicate that intravenous injection of PACAP27 offers neuroprotective effects in the MPTP-induced PD mouse model which may not be directly associated with the expression levels of the monoamine transporters. However, this effect may be correlated with its ability to selectively regulate not only K(ATP) subunits, but D2 receptors in the striatum. Our findings suggest that the benefit of PACAP may accompany with changes not only in dopaminergic neurotransmission, but also in cholinergic neurotransmission that are relatively associated with the K(ATP) subunits and D2 receptors in the striatum.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is an important central regulator of food consumption and energy expenditure via the hypothalamus. NPY containing neurons have a broad central distribution and are often colocalized with norepinephrine (NE). However, NPY deficient mice do not exhibit any substantial changes in food consumption, body weight or body composition when compared to wild type mice. Since NE and serotonin (5HT) are also important regulators of appetite and metabolism, we evaluated these systems in NPY deficient mice. Brain sections from NPY deficient and wild type mice were labeled with either (3)H-nisoxetine for the NE transporter (NET) or (3)H-citalopram for the 5HT transporter (SERT). Tyrosine hydroxylase expression was evaluated by radioimmunohistochemistry. Brain monoamines and metabolites were evaluated using HPLC. NPY deficient mice exhibited a substantial decrease in NET binding in most brain regions examined. NET binding was less than 50% of control binding in the cerebral cortex and subregions of the thalamus with the greatest decrease seen in the hypothalamus. In contrast, more modest and regionally variable changes were observed in the SERT binding with decreases in regions such as the accessory olfactory nucleus, glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb and the CA1 region of the hippocampus. Measurement of NE and 5HT content as well as the primary metabolites revealed increased NE turnover and decreased 5HT content in the hypothalamus. Therefore, developmental compensation by the NE and 5HT systems may contribute to the absence of a body weight phenotype in NPY deficient mice.
In order to further test whether or not psychostimulant drugs activate CART peptide-containing cells in the nucleus accumbens, we examined the fraction of CART positive cells that co-immunostained for c-Fos after administration of saline or cocaine (10 and 25 mg/kg i.p.). There was about a 45% increase in the fraction of cells that stained for both CART and c-Fos after administration of cocaine, but there was no change in the fraction after administration of saline. Moreover, the increase was not found 24h after injection and is therefore reversible. These results support the notion that psychostimulant drugs activate CART cells in the nucleus accumbens, even under conditions where it is difficult to show a change in CART levels.
Allosteric modulation of ligand-gated ion channels can play important roles in shaping synaptic transmission. The function of the 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) type 3 (5-HT(3)) receptor, a member of the Cys-loop ligand-gated ion channel superfamily, is modulated by a variety of compounds such as alcohols, anesthetics and 5-hydroxyindole (5-HI). In this study, the molecular determinants of allosteric modulation by 5-HI were explored in N1E-115 neuroblastoma cells expressing the native 5-HT(3) receptor and HEK 293 cells transfected with the recombinant 5-HT(3A) receptor using molecular biology and whole-cell patch-clamp techniques. 5-HI potentiated 5-HT-activated currents in both N1E-115 cells and HEK 293 cells, and significantly decreased current desensitization and deactivation. Substitution of Leu293 (L293, L15') in the second transmembrane domain (TM2) with cysteine (L293C) or serine (L293S) abolished 5-HI modulation. Other mutations in the TM2 domain, such as D298A and T284F, failed to alter 5-HI modulation. The L293S mutation enhanced dopamine efficacy and converted 5-HI into a partial agonist at the mutant receptor. These data suggest that 5-HI stabilizes the 5-HT(3A) receptor in the open state by decreasing both desensitization and 5-HT unbinding/channel closing; and L293 is a common site for both channel gating and allosteric modulation by 5-HI. Our observations also indicate existence of a second 5-HI recognition site on the 5-HT(3A) receptor, which may overlap with the 5-HT binding site and is not involved in the positive modulation by 5-HI. These findings support the idea that there are two discrete sites for 5-HI allosteric modulation and direct activation in the 5-HT(3A) receptor.
The prevalence of smoking in schizophrenia patients far exceeds that in the general population. Increased vulnerability to nicotine and other drug addictions in schizophrenia may reflect the impact of developmental limbic abnormalities on cortical-striatal mediation of behavioral changes associated with drug use. Rats with neonatal ventral hippocampal lesions (NVHLs), a neurodevelopmental model of schizophrenia, have previously been shown to exhibit altered patterns of behavioral sensitization to both cocaine and ethanol. This study explored nicotine sensitization in NVHLs by testing locomotor activity of NVHL vs. SHAM-operated controls over 3 weeks in response to nicotine (0.5 mg/kg) or saline injections (s.c.) followed by a nicotine challenge delivered to all rats 2 weeks later. At the beginning of the initial injection series, post-injection locomotor activation was indistinguishable among all treatment groups. However, nicotine but not saline injections produced a progressive sensitization effect that was greater in NVHLs compared to SHAMs. In the challenge session, rats with previous nicotine history showed enhanced locomotor activation to nicotine when compared to drug nave rats, with NVHL-nicotine rats showing the greatest degree of activity overall. These results demonstrate that NVHLs exhibit altered short- and long-term sensitization profiles to nicotine, similar to altered long-term sensitization profiles produced by cocaine and ethanol. Collectively, these findings suggest the neurodevelopmental underpinnings of schizophrenia produce enhanced behavioral sensitization to addictive drugs as an involuntary and progressive neurobehavioral process, independent of the acute psychoactive properties uniquely attributed to nicotine, cocaine, or alcohol.
Recent studies have reported that estrogen has antidepressant-like effects in animal models. In this study we used the highly selective ER beta agonist, WAY-200070, to examine the role of ER beta activation on brain neurochemistry and activity in antidepressant and anxiolytic models in male mice. Within 15 min of administration, WAY-200070 (30 mg/kg s.c.) caused the nuclear translocation of striatal ER beta receptors from the cytosol. WAY-200070 also increased c-fos activation 4h, but not 15 min after administration. Both nuclear translocation and c-fos induction effects of WAY-200070 demonstrate that WAY-200070 has bound to estrogen receptors and triggered downstream events. The absence of these effects in the ER beta KO mice confirms that WAY-200070 was targeting ER beta. Administration of WAY-200070 (30 mg/kg s.c.) produced a delayed approximately 50% increase in dopamine in the striatum of wild type mice. The effect was significant and maintained from 90 to 240 min. This increase was absent in ER beta KO mice. In wild type mice, WAY-200070 (30 mg/kg s.c.) also produced a delayed and transient approximately 100% increase in 5-HT. To further investigate the role of ER beta receptors on serotonergic function, 5-HTP accumulation was measured. ER beta KO mice were found to have reduced frontal cortex levels of 5-HTP, indicating reduced tryptophan hydroxylase activity. WAY-200070 (3-30 mg/kg s.c.) was also tested in behavioural models. WAY-200070 (30 mg/kg s.c.) reduced immobility time in the mouse tail suspension test indicating an antidepressant-like effect. WAY-200070 (30 mg/kg) showed anxiolytic-like effects in the four-plate test (increased punished crossings) and stress-induced hyperthermia (attenuation of hyperthermic response). The effects of the selective ER beta agonist, WAY-200070, on dopamine and serotonin, the anxiolytic-like and antidepressant-like effects as well as the genotype specific effects on neurochemistry support that positive modulation of ER beta function may provide a novel treatment for affective disorders.
Serotonergic (5-HT) neurotransmission plays a role in learning and memory processes, but the physiological role of various receptor subtypes is not well characterised. Among these, 5-HT(1B) receptors are located as autoreceptors on 5-HT axons and heteroreceptors on non-serotonergic terminals. This study examined the role of the 5-HT(1B) receptor in one-trial aversive contextual learning using the passive avoidance (PA) task in NMRI mice. Subcutaneous administration of the 5-HT(1B) receptor agonist anpirtoline (0.1-1.0mg/kg) before PA training impaired retention performance 24h later. Combined administration of anpirtoline with the selective 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonist NAS-181 (0.1-1.0mg/kg) fully blocked the impairments. Administration of NAS-181 alone dose-dependently improved PA retention performance. This facilitatory effect was blocked by subthreshold doses of both the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine (0.03 mg/kg) and the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 (0.03 mg/kg). NAS-181 also fully blocked the PA impairments induced by an amnesic dose of scopolamine (0.1mg/kg), when administered prior to, but not after, scopolamine. In addition, NAS-181 attenuated PA impairments induced by MK-801 (0.3mg/kg). These findings indicate that 5-HT(1B) receptors are activated at basal levels of 5-HT transmission. The facilitatory effect of NAS-181 involved alleviation of an inhibitory 5-HT tone mediated via 5-HT(1B) receptors on cholinergic and glutamatergic transmission. This disinhibition is expected to occur in neuronal circuits involved in contextual learning including the hippocampus and interconnected cortico-limbic regions. Blockade of brain 5-HT(1B) heteroreceptors may represent a novel therapeutic strategy for restoration of deficient cholinergic and glutamatergic neurotransmission contributing to memory disorders.
Others' gaze constitutes a rich and essential social signal, which is decoded by taking into account other aspects of the face as well as the social context. Since the perception of averted gaze and that of direct gaze trigger distinct cognitive processes, the studies on gaze perception have focused separately on these two gaze directions. The perception of averted gaze induces orienting of spatial attention in the gazed-at direction as well as joint attention processes while direct gaze or gaze contact signals interest directed at the observer's self and is often the preliminary to interindividual interactions. Studies in cognitive neuroscience have focused first on averted gaze perception. However, recent studies have emphasised the asymmetries in the processing of direct versus averted gaze. This has led to a growing interest in the neural substrates of direct gaze perception. This issue has recently started to be actively addressed in our group using fMRI, MEG, EEG and source reconstruction methods. These studies emphasise that the perception of direct gaze elicits early processes that are related to face and eye movement encoding as well as to emotion and theory-of-mind.
Recent advances in functional brain imaging offer unique opportunities to explore the neurofunctional basis of tools used to assess personality differences which have proven their clinical usefulness. In this functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study, the focus was on the amygdala activation and we investigated whether individual differences in activity of the amygdala following presentation of emotional expressions in the face and the whole body may be systematically related to the presence of Type D (distressed) personality or to its constituting factors, Negative Affectivity (NA) and Social Inhibition (SI). Our results show that the observed difference in amygdala activity between fearful and neutral expressions was present in participants that did not meet the criteria for Type D personality, while this effect was absent in participants that could be classified as Type D personality. Our correlation analyses further showed that the activation in the left amygdala elicited by fearful versus neutral bodily expressions correlated negatively with the Negative Affectivity score. The same pattern was observed for the right amygdala for fearful facial and bodily expressions when contrasted with neutral facial and bodily expressions.
Body ownership and embodiment are two fundamental mechanisms of self-consciousness. The present article reviews neurological data about paroxysmal illusions during which body ownership and embodiment are affected differentially: autoscopic phenomena (out-of-body experience, heautoscopy, autoscopic hallucination, feeling-of-a-presence) and the room tilt illusion. We suggest that autoscopic phenomena and room tilt illusion are related to different types of failures to integrate body-related information (vestibular, proprioceptive and tactile cues) in addition to a mismatch between vestibular and visual references. In these patients, altered body ownership and embodiment has been shown to occur due to pathological activity at the temporoparietal junction and other vestibular-related areas arguing for a key importance of vestibular processing. We also review the possibilities of manipulating body ownership and embodiment in healthy subjects through exposition to weightlessness as well as caloric and galvanic stimulation of the peripheral vestibular apparatus. In healthy subjects, disturbed self-processing might be related to interference of vestibular stimulation with vestibular cortex leading to disintegration of bodily information and altered body ownership and embodiment. We finally propose a differential contribution of the vestibular cortical areas to the different forms of altered body ownership and embodiment.
The effects of combat-related posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) on heart rate (HR) responding associated with a discriminative delay eyeblink (EB) conditioning paradigm are reported. Combat PTSD+, Combat PTSD-, and Noncombat PTSD- veterans were assessed with psychometric self-report measures, and baseline heart rate variability (HRV) was measured before receiving a 72-trial session of discriminative EB classical conditioning. Two types (red or green light) of conditioned stimuli (CS) were used: one (CS+) predicted a tone, followed immediately by an aversive stimulus (corneal airpuff); the other (CS-) predicted a tone alone, not followed by the airpuff. The light signal was presented for 5 seconds, during which HR was measured. On all psychometric measures, the PTSD+ subgroup was significantly different from the PTSD- subgroups (Combat + Noncombat), and the PTSD- subgroups did not significantly differ from each other. A linear deceleration in HR to CS+ and CS- signals was found in the combined PTSD- subgroup and on CS- trials in the PTSD+ subgroup, but was not present on CS+ trials in the PTSD+ subgroup. Results are interpreted with respect to a behavioral stages model of conditioned bradycardia and in terms of neural substrates which are both critical to HR conditioning and known to be abnormal in PTSD.
In this manuscript, we review literature describing the neuropsychological and brain imaging characteristics of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients. The findings are compared and contrasted with multiple sclerosis (MS) studies, revealing similarities and differences of interest to clinicians and researchers. While cognitive impairment is somewhat less common in SLE than MS, the diseases share a similar cognitive profile with deficits most prominent on tests emphasizing the speed of information processing, working memory, and visual/spatial learning, and memory. In early or more mildly affected patients, diffuse white matter damage, which may not be apparent on conventional brain imaging, plays a major role in clinical presentation and cognitive testing. The causes of white matter damage are very different, however, and in later stages of the disease MS and SLE appear to give rise to different forms of cerebral pathology. MS may be characterized by increasing brain atrophy affecting especially the cortical and deep gray matter, at least after conversion to secondary progressive course. There is less evidence for neurodegenerative changes in SLE, but patients are increasingly at risk for cerebrovascular disease. We conclude by offering some suggestions for future clinical and imaging research.
Psychopharmacology was born some 50 years ago as a relatively narrow clinical discipline with LSD-25 and chlorpromazine, among a few others, being the early prototypes. In the course of its development, psychopharmacology grew into a wider scientific discipline as psychoactive drugs were assumed to interact with biochemical processes at the synapses to influence transmission of activities among neurons in producing their effects. Thus biochemistry and neuropharmacology have been adopted as collaborative disciplines and this larger field was named neuropsychopharmacology. More recently it has been recognized that, at the clinical level, neuropsychopharmacology has also extensive contact with social issues so that there is an increasing emphasis on translational research in recent announcements from the National Institute of Mental Health in the USA to facilitate and encourage collaboration among clinicians, basic science and social science researchers. To help the process of translational research in mental health, a new organizing principle is proposed based on a novel concept of Psychonucleotides (PNs). There are two types of PNs: Simple PNs (SPN) and Complex ones (CPN) and they are seen as temporary modules mediating meaning between the linguistic and neuronal levels in the brain. As the proposed mediating takes the integrative processes of the whole brain into consideration the development of large scale neuronal theories for translational research should became easier and more comprehensive by going beyond the focus on the cognitive cortex and taking also emotional and social processes into consideration.
Both mu-opioid receptors (MORs) and delta-opioid receptors (DORs) are expressed in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and are thought to be involved in the addictive properties of opiates. However, their respective contributions to opiate reward remain unclear. We used intracranial self-administration (ICSA) to study the rewarding effects of morphine microinjections into the VTA of male and female MOR-/- and DOR-/- mice. In brains of mice tested for intra-VTA morphine self-administration, we analyzed regional Fos protein expression to investigate the neural circuitry underlying this behavior. Male and female WT and DOR-/- mice exhibited similar self-administration performances, whereas knockout of the MOR gene abolished intra-VTA morphine self-administration at all doses tested. Naloxone (4 mg/kg) disrupted this behavior in WT and DOR mutants, without triggering physical signs of withdrawal. Morphine ICSA was associated with an increase in Fos within the nucleus accumbens, striatum, limbic cortices, amygdala, hippocampus, the lateral mammillary nucleus (LM), and the ventral posteromedial thalamus (VPM). This latter structure was found to express high levels of Fos exclusively in self-administering WT and DOR-/- mice. Abolition of morphine reward in MOR-/- mice was associated with a decrease in Fos-positive neurons in the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system, amygdala, hippocampus (CA1), LM, and a complete absence within the VPM. We conclude that (i) VTA MORs, but not DORs, are critical for morphine reward and (ii) the role of VTA-thalamic projections in opiate reward deserves to be further explored.
Schizophrenia is associated with impairments of sensorimotor and sensory gating as measured by prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle response and P50 suppression of the auditory event-related potential respectively. While serotonin and dopamine play an important role in the pathophysiology and treatment of schizophrenia, their role in modulating PPI and P50 suppression in humans is yet to be fully clarified. To further explore the role of serotonin and dopamine in PPI and P50 suppression, we examined the effects of acute tryptophan depletion (to decrease serotonin) and acute tyrosine/phenylalanine depletion (to decrease dopamine) on PPI and P50 suppression in healthy human participants. In addition, we also examined for the first time, the effects of simultaneous serotonin and dopamine depletion (ie combined monoamine depletion) on PPI and P50 suppression. The study was a double-blind, placebo-controlled cross-over design in which 16 healthy male participants completed the PPI and P50 paradigms under four acute treatment conditions: (a) balanced/placebo control, (b) acute tryptophan depletion, (c) acute tyrosine/phenylalanine depletion, and (d) acute tyrosine/phenylalanine/tryptophan depletion (combined monoamine depletion). Selective depletion of dopamine had no significant effect on either PPI or P50 suppression, whereas selective serotonin depletion significantly disrupted PPI, but not P50 suppression. Finally, the simultaneous depletion of both serotonin and dopamine resulted in significant reduction of both PPI and P50 suppression. We suggest these results can be explained by theories relating to optimal levels of monoaminergic neurotransmission and synergistic interactions between serotonergic and dopaminergic systems for normal 'gating' function. These findings suggest that a dysfunction in both serotonin and dopamine neurotransmission may, in part, be responsible for the gating deficits observed in schizophrenia, and their normalization following administration of atypical antipsychotic drugs.
Women are more likely than men to suffer from stress-related mental disorders, such as depression. In the present experiments, we identified sex differences in one of the most common animal models of depression, that of learned helplessness. Male and female rats were trained to escape a mild footshock each day for 7 days (controllable stress). Each rat was yoked to another rat that could not escape (uncontrollable stress), but was exposed to the same amount of shock. One day later, all stressed rats and unstressed controls were tested on a more difficult escape task in a different context. Most males exposed to uncontrollable stress did not learn to escape and were therefore helpless. In contrast, most females did learn to escape on the more difficult escape task, irrespective of whether they had been exposed to controllable or uncontrollable stress. The sex differences in helplessness behavior were not dependent on the presence of sex hormones in adulthood, because neither ovariectomy of females nor castration of males abolished them. The absence of helplessness in females was neither dependent on organizational effects of testosterone during the day of birth, because masculinized females did not express helplessness as adults. Thus, sex differences in helplessness behavior are independent of gonadal hormones in adulthood and testosterone exposure during perinatal development. Learned helplessness may not constitute a valid model for depressive behavior in women, at least as reflected by the response of female rats to operant conditioning procedures after stressful experience.
Differences in the rates of affective disorders between women and men may relate to gender differences in gonadal steroid levels such as estrogen that have effects on brain monoamines important to mood regulation. Changes in estrogen secretion patterns during the perimenopause and menopause may be relevant to the increased risk for affective symptoms at that time. This study examined whether 17beta-estradiol (E2) administration can modify the mood effects of experimental psychosocial stress following acute monoamine depletion in postmenopausal women. Subjects consisted of 15 normal postmenopausal women (PMW) (ages 67.1+/-11.2 years) blindly placed on either oral placebo or E2 (1 mg/day for 1 month, then 2 mg/day for 2 months). At the end of the 3-month treatment phase, subjects participated in three blinded depletion challenges in which they ingested each of three amino-acid mixtures: deficient in tryptophan, deficient in phenylalanine/tyrosine, or nutritionally balanced. After 5 h, subjects performed the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST), followed by mood and anxiety ratings. E2-treated subjects exhibited a significant increase in negative mood and anxiety after the TSST compared to placebo-treated women. These effects were independent of monoamine depletion and were not manifest before the TSST or at baseline. Exogenous estrogen administration in PMW may alter or modulate emotional reactivity to stressful events and may alter the sensitivity of emotional regulation. This modulation appears to be independent of alterations in monoaminergic neurotransmission. The dose of estrogen used after menopause may be important in determining the effects of gonadal steroids on emotional regulation.
gamma -aminobutyric acid (GABA) is an inhibitory neurotransmitter in adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS). During CNS development, the role of GABA is switched from an excitatory transmitter to an inhibitory transmitter, which is caused by an inhibition of calcium influx into postsynaptic neuron derived from release of GABA. The switch is influenced by the neuronal chloride concentration. When the neuronal chloride concentration is at a high level, GABA acts as an excitatory neurotransmitter. When neuronal chloride concentration decreases to some degree, GABA acts as an inhibitory neurotransmitter. The neuronal chloride concentration is increased by Na+-K+-Cl(-)-Cl(-) cotransporters 1 (NKCC1), and decreased by K+-Cl(-) cotransporter 2 (KCC2).

In the rat, a number of sensory modalities converge in the perirhinal cortex (PC). The neural pathway from the perirhinal cortex to the entorhinal cortex (EC) is considered one of the main routes into the entorhinal-hippocampal network. Evidence accumulated recently suggests that EC and PC, far from being passive relay stations, actively gate impulse traffic between neocortex and hippocampus. Using slice preparation maintaining the neurocircuit connecting PC, EC, hippocampal formation and amygdala, we investigated the associative function of PC and EC with respect to sensory and motivational stimuli and the influence of the association on the neurocircuit. In horizontal slices located ventrally to the rhinal sulcus, where we stimulated area 35 and the lateral amygdala, both inputs can be independently conveyed to the dentate gyrus. In slightly more dorsal slices where we stimulated area 36 and the lateral amygdala, the coincidence of the two inputs was needed to activate the hippocampus. This need for association of the two inputs was apparently mediated by the deep layer of EC. In all instances activation of the deep layers of EC was sufficient to activate the dentate gyrus, suggesting the relevance of the deep layers in cortico-hippocampal interactions.
High-frequency stimulation (HFS) induces long-term potentiation (LTP) at inhibitory synapses of layer 5 pyramidal neurons in developing rat visual cortex. This LTP requires postsynaptic Ca2+ rise for induction, while the maintenance mechanism is present at the presynaptic site, suggesting presynaptic LTP expression and the necessity of retrograde signaling. We investigated whether the supposed signal is mediated by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), which is expressed in pyramidal neurons but not inhibitory interneurons. LTP did not occur when HFS was applied in the presence of the Trk receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor K252a in the perfusion medium. HFS produced LTP when bath application of K252a was started after HFS or when K252a was loaded into postsynaptic cells. LTP did not occur in the presence of TrkB-IgG scavenging BDNF or function-blocking anti-BDNF antibody in the medium. In cells loaded with the Ca2+ chelator BAPTA, the addition of BDNF to the medium enabled HFS to induce LTP without affecting baseline synaptic transmission. These results suggest that BDNF released from postsynaptic cells activates presynaptic TrkB, leading to LTP. Because BDNF, expressed activity dependently, regulates the maturation of cortical inhibition, inhibitory LTP may contribute to this developmental process, and hence experience-dependent functional maturation of visual cortex.
One of the major issues for modern neuroscience research concerns the molecular and cellular mechanisms that underlie the acquisition, storage, and recollection of memories by the brain. Regulation of the strength of individual synaptic inputs (synaptic plasticity) has, for decades, been the front-running candidate mechanism for cellular information storage, with some direct supporting evidence recently obtained. Research into the molecular mechanisms responsible for changing synaptic strength has, to date, primarily focused on trafficking and properties of the neurotransmitter receptors themselves (AMPARs and NMDARs). However, recent evidence indicates that, subsequent to receptor activation, synaptic inputs are subject to regulation by synaptically located K+ channels. It is therefore critical to understand the biophysical properties and subcellular localization (density and distribution) of these channels and how their properties are modulated. Here we will review recent findings showing that two different classes of K+ channels (A-type and small conductance, Ca2+ -activated K+ channels), beyond their traditional role in regulating action potential firing, contribute to the regulation of synaptic strength in the hippocampus. In addition, we discuss how modulation of these channels' properties and expression might contribute to synaptic plasticity.
From prehistoric times, man has been aware that injury to the spine may result in paralysis of the limbs; this is reflected in bas-relief figures found at Nineweh in ancient Mesopotamia, in a hunting scene that depicts a lioness wounded by King Ashurbanipal. The Edwin Smith papyrus gives many case illustrations of spinal cord injury resulting in paralysis, yet early physicians were unaware of the anatomy of the spinal cord. Galen performed prospective studies in animals by sectioning the spinal cord at varying levels and observing the commensurate paralysis and sensory loss. Real advances in the understanding of spinal cord anatomy did not occur until human cadaveric dissections were undertaken; even then, the knowledge of the anatomy of the spinal cord lagged behind that of other body structures. Johann Jacob Huber appears to be the first anatomist to focus on the spinal cord almost exclusively. His descriptions, and especially his illustrations that depict spinal cord surface anatomy, are impressive with regard to their accuracy and their sense of photorealism. Indeed, his illustrations seem to compare well with the anatomic drawings in contemporary anatomic texts. Yet, we were unable to find a single article in the entire English-language literature depicting his illustrations. We conclude that the description and anatomic illustrations by Johann Jacob Huber remain a hidden gem in the history of human spinal anatomy.


Neurosurgeons, working as surgical scientists, can have a prominent role in developing and implementing genetic and cellular therapies for cerebral ischemia. The rapid emergence of both genetic and cellular therapies for neural regeneration warrants a careful analysis before implementation of human studies to understand the pitfalls and promises of this strategy. In this article, we review the topic of genetic and cellular therapy for stroke to provide a foundation for practicing neurosurgeons and clinical scientists who may become involved in this type of work. In Part 1, we review preclinical approaches with gene transfer, such as 1) improved energy delivery, 2) reduction of intracellular calcium availability, 3) abrogation of effects of reactive oxygen species, 4) reduction of proinflammatory cytokine signaling, 5) inhibition of apoptosis mediators, and 6) restorative gene therapy, that are paving the way to develop new strategies to treat cerebral infarction. In Part 2, we discuss the results of studies that address the possibility of using cellular therapies for stroke in animal models and in human trials by reviewing 1) the basics of stem cell biology, 2) exogenous and 3) and endogenous cell sources for therapy, and 4) clinical considerations in cell therapy applications. These emerging technologies based on the advancements made in recent years in the fields of genetics, therapeutic cloning, neuroscience, stem cell biology, and gene therapy provide significant potential for new therapies for stroke.

Because of the complex structure of the cranial base and its close proximity to cranial nerves and vessels, surgery in this area is associated with considerable risk of morbidity and mortality. Multiple approaches to each part of the cranial base have been developed over the past few decades, ranging from small modifications of more traditional approaches to complex and sophisticated new techniques. However, experience has shown that optimal outcome is achieved if the selected approach is not associated with significant approach-related morbidity. Furthermore, not all cranial base tumors can be cured by surgery. The selection of operative approach and the goal of surgery should be part of the whole treatment strategy. The attempt to achieve complete resection can, therefore, be justified only if the associated long-term morbidity is minimal. Refinements of the traditional retrosigmoid suboccipital approach have made it the most effective and safe approach, the &quot;gold standard&quot; for lesions in the cerebellopontine angle. On the other hand, in some basal tumors, e.g., chordomas and chondrosarcomas, the approach has to be selected individually and must always be tailored to the characteristics of the particular tumor, its location, and the patient's expectations. The expertise of the surgeon is not reflected in his or her ability to perform the most complex approaches but in the ability to select the approach that affords both removal of the tumor and preservation of patient's neurological function and quality of life.


Therapeutic algorism for myasthenia gravis (MG) and myasthenic syndrome are described. For adult MG patients, thymectomy is basically recommended as an essential therapy. However, drug therapy or surgical treatment may be chosen for child MG patients depending on their age of onset. As for Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS), lung cancer and other malignancy may be treated first especially in male patients, and then drug therapy may be considered.
Interferon-beta (IFNbeta) is the most widely prescribed disease-modifying therapy for multiple sclerosis (MS) today. Large-scale clinical trials have established the clinical efficacy of IFNbeta in reducing relapses and slowing disease progression in relapsing-remitting MS. IFNbeta therapy was shown to be comparably beneficial for opticospinal MS (OSMS) and conventional MS in Japanese. IFNbeta is effective in reducing relapses in secondary progressive MS and may have a modest effect in slowing disability progression. Clinically isolated syndrome (CIS) refers to an initial demyelinating event that is suggestive of MS. Treatment for CIS with IFNbeta is effective in delaying conversion to clinically definite multiple sclerosis. Since neutralizing antibodies (NAbs) can reduce the clinical efficacy of IFNbeta in patients with MS, clinicians should consider the possible development of NAbs in patients demonstrating disease progression while receiving IFNbeta treatment. In some patients with neuromyelitis optica (NMO)/OSMS patients with anti-aquaporin-4 (APQ4) antibody or longitudinally extensive spinal cord lesions (LESCLs) extending over three vertebral segments as well as in patients with collagen disease, IFNbeta has been found to be ineffective or detrimental. In NMO/OSMS patients with LESCLs or patients with collagen disease, measurement of anti-APQ4 antibody is recommended. In these patients with anti-APQ4 antibody, careful consideration is necessary before initiating IFNbeta treatment.
The pathogenesis of autoimmunity has been studied extensively using animal models and genome-wide genetic analysis. Moreover, recent advance in the therapy for the autoimmune diseases using molecular-targeted drugs has provided us a lot of information in the pathogenesis of human autoimmune diseases. In this review, we overviewed the recent progress in the study of autoimmunity including central tolerance, regulatory cells and cytokines. Finally, we discuss the relationship of innate immunity and adoptive immunity in the context of autoimmunity.
The prepulse inhibition (PPI) is a phenomenon in which a weak prepulse attenuates the response to a subsequent startling stimulus. The PPI, a model of sensorimotor gating, is deficient in patients with schizophrenia and some other psychiatric disorders. In rodents, PPI can be disrupted by methamphetamine or phencyclidine, which causes psychotomimetic symptoms, and the dopaminergic agonist-induced PPI is reversed by dopamine D2 receptor antagonists and a dopaminergic partial agonist aripiprazole. However, in general, the glutamate receptor antagonist-induced PPI is reversed by atypical antipsychotics such as clozapine, but not by typical antipsychotics such as haloperidol. Therefore, PPI is believed to have face, construct, and predictive validity for the PPI disruption in schizophrenia, and it is widely used as a model to study the neurobiology of this disorder and for screening antipsychotics. Recently, various inbred mouse strains and genetically modified mouse lines have been examined and the studies using PPI indicated the involvement of various neurotransmitters such as dopamine, glutamate, serotonin, GABA and neuropeptide in the biological basis of sensorimotor gating. In addtition, mood stabilizers such as valproate and lamotrigine or alpha7 nicotinic receptor agonists have reported to reverse the PPI disruption.
This symposium examined current trends in neuroscience and developmental psychology as they apply to assessing the effects of nutrients on brain and behavioral development of 0-6-year-olds. Although the spectrum of nutrients with brain effects has not changed much in the last 25 years, there has been an explosion in new knowledge about the genetics, structure and function of the brain. This has helped to link the brain mechanistic pathway by which these nutrients act with cognitive functions. A clear example of this is linking of brain structural changes due to hypoglycemia versus hyperglycemia with cognitive functions by using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to assess changes in brain-region volumes in combination with cognitive test of intelligence, memory and processing speed. Another example is the use of event-related potential (ERP) studies to show that infants of diabetic mothers have impairments in memory from birth through 8 months of age that are consistent with alterations in mechanistic pathways of memory observed in animal models of perinatal iron deficiency. However, gaps remain in the understanding of how nutrients and neurotrophic factors interact with each other in optimizing brain development and function.
Recurrent abdominal pain (RAP) is a common gastrointestinal problem during childhood. It is not only a pediatric health problem, but may represent a risk factor for chronic pain, psychosomatic symptoms, and psychopathological problems later in life. Alterations in central pain processing and an attentional bias to potentially aversive somatic sensations could contribute to the unfavorable outcome of RAP during childhood. Fourteen children with RAP and 15 control children (age: 10-15 year) participated in an attentional task. Children had to respond to rare targets (tones) and ignore frequent either painful (pain threshold) or non-painful mechanical stimuli delivered at the hand. Event-related cortical potentials in response to the somatic stimuli and the tones were measured and stimulus intensity ratings, reaction time and number of errors were obtained. Painful as compared to non-painful stimuli elicited significantly larger N1, P2 and P3 components of the somatosensory-evoked potential (SEP) in all children. The RAP children responded with a significantly larger P3 to both painful and non-painful stimuli. No group differences were found for the auditory-evoked potentials. Perceived stimulus and pain intensity, reaction time and number of errors did not differ between groups. Similar to findings in adults with functional gastrointestinal disorders (FGIDs), children with RAP did not show somatic hyperalgesia as revealed by unaltered pain thresholds and middle latency pain-evoked SEPs. However, they displayed an attentional bias to painful and non-painful (innocuous) somatic stimuli as indicated by an enhanced P3. This may represent an important mechanism not only for the maintenance of RAP, but also for the development of psychosomatic symptoms.
Neuropathic pain is a common consequence of damage to the nervous system. We here report a genetic analysis of development of neuropathic pain-like behaviors after unilateral photochemically-induced ischemic sciatic nerve injury in a panel of inbred rat strains known to display different susceptibility to autoimmune neuroinflammation. Pain behavior was initially characterized in Dark-Agouti (DA; RT1(av1)), Piebald Virol Glaxo (PVG; RT1(c)), and in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-congenic strain PVG-RT1(av1). All strains developed mechanical hypersensitivity (allodynia) following nerve injury. However, the extent and duration of allodynia varied significantly among the strains, with PVG displaying more severe allodynia compared to DA rats. Interestingly, the response of PVG-RT1(avRT1) was similar to that of DA, suggesting regulation by the MHC locus. This notion was subsequently confirmed in an F2 cohort derived from crossing of the PVG and PVG-RT1(av1)strains, where allodynia was reduced in homozygous or heterozygous carriers of the RT1(av1) allele in comparison to rats homozygous for the RT1(c) allele. These results indicate that certain allelic variants of the MHC could influence susceptibility to develop and maintain neuropathic pain-like behavior following peripheral nerve injury in rats.
Brief psychotherapy is gaining interest worldwide, because of its good cost/effectiveness ratio and proved efficacy. The aim of the paper was to describe the brief Adlerian psychodynamic psychotherapy (B-APP): a brief, psychodynamically oriented psychotherapy referring to the individual psychology (IP). The B-APP theory refers to the following paradigms: 1) the individual represents a psychosomatic unity integrated in the social context; 2) the individual needs to build and regulate the image of the self; 3) bond patterns regulate human relationships and represent the symbolic ''fil rouge'' connecting the elements of the life-style. Its objectives are: 1) an at least partial resolution of the focus problem; 2) a decrease or a non-increase of symptoms; 3) a global increase of quality of life. The results depend on intrapsychic and relational changes. Indications are more relative than absolute. The possibility of identifying a meaningful focus is fundamental. The treatment scheme includes 15 sessions subdivided into 5 phases. B-APP offers a technical approach to brief psychotherapy which is suitable in many fields of psychiatry and liaison medicine such as preventive interventions in at-risk subjects, somatopsychic disorders and liaison psychiatry, personality and eating disorders, and treatment of emotionally disturbed children. It was applied as psychotherapeutic approach in some clinical outcome studies about eating disorders and severe personality disorders displaying a good efficacy.
Microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type II is a specific disorder characterized by severe intrauterine and postnatal growth retardation, acquired microcephaly, cerebrovascular abnormalities, progressive bone dysplasia, and a characteristic face. Whereas the diagnostic features of this syndrome are well-recognized, the neurologic aspects have not been clearly defined. We report on a detailed neurodevelopmental follow-up study of a new case of microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type II, followed from the first years of life to adolescence, and we discuss the neurocognitive features of our patient. We also review the neurologic aspects of this disorder compared with syndromes with overlapping phenotypes, such as microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism types I and III and Seckel syndrome.
Autism spectrum disorder is a complex developmental disorder that dramatically affects the lives of patients and their families and the broader community. The causes of autism are unknown; however, evidence increasingly suggests that a complex interplay among environmental stressors, genetic mutations, and other biological factors likely plays a significant role in the development and/or progression of autism spectrum disorder. On April 18 and 19, 2007, the Institute of Medicine's Forum on Neuroscience and Nervous System Disorders hosted a workshop to provide a venue to bring together scientists; major sponsors of autism-related research; and members of the autism patient, family, and advocacy community to discuss the most promising and urgent scientific questions and opportunities. Broad participation by the autism community enriched the meeting significantly by contributing a valuable and personal perspective that is often missing from scientific meetings. It also began a much improved public-private partnership in which all stakeholders are represented. On the basis of the presentations and the discussions that followed, an array of important scientific opportunities were identified in 5 general categories: (1) opportunities to advance clinical research; (2) opportunities to enhance epidemiologic studies; (3) opportunities to improve the understanding of autism's pathology and etiology; (4) tools and infrastructure needs; and (5) opportunities for public-private partnerships. This workshop demonstrated that full public engagement can greatly enhance activities such as this workshop and its outcomes. Furthermore, we expect that this listing of scientific challenges, needs, and opportunities will help to frame a more comprehensive research agenda.
Fixation-identification algorithms, needed for analyses of eye movements, may typically be separated into three categories, viz. (i) velocity-based algorithms, (ii) area-based algorithms, and (iii) dispersion-based algorithms. Dispersion-based algorithms are commonly used but this application introduces some difficulties, one being optimization. Basically, there are two modes to reach this goal of optimization, viz., the start-point mode and the centroid mode. The aim of the present study was to compare and evaluate these two dispersion-based algorithms. Manual inspections were made of 1,400 fixations in each mode. Odds ratios showed that by using the centroid mode for fixation detection, a valid fixation is 2.86 times more likely to be identified than by using the start-point mode. Moreover, the algorithm based on centroid mode dispersion showed a good interpretation speed, accuracy, robustness, and ease of implementation, as well as adequate parameter settings.
beta-Adrenoceptor blocking agents (beta-blockers) that at low concentrations antagonize cardiostimulant effects of catecholamines, but at high concentrations also cause cardiostimulation, have been appearing since the late 1960s. These cardiostimulant beta-blockers, coined non-conventional partial agonists, antagonize the effects of catecholamines through a high-affinity site (beta(1H)AR), but cause cardiostimulation mainly through a low-affinity site (beta(1L)AR) of the myocardial beta(1)-adrenoceptor. The experimental non-conventional partial agonist (-)-CGP12177 increases cardiac L-type Ca(2+) current density and Ca(2+) transients, shortens action potential duration but augments action potential plateau, increases heart rate and force, as well as causes arrhythmic Ca(2+) transients and arrhythmic cardiocyte contractions. Other beta-blockers, which do not cause cardiostimulation, consistently have lower affinity for beta(1L)AR than beta(1H)AR. These sites were verified and the cardiac pharmacology of non-conventional partial agonists confirmed on recombinant beta(1)-adrenoceptors and on beta(1)-adrenoceptors overexpressed into the heart. A targeted mutation of Asp138 to Glu138 virtually abolished the pharmacology of beta(1H)AR but left intact the pharmacology of beta(1L)AR. Non-conventional partial agonists may be beneficial for the treatment of peripheral autonomic neuropathy but probably due to their arrhythmic propensities, may be harmful for the treatment of chronic heart failure.
Synchrotron stereotactic radiotherapy (SSR) is a treatment that involves selective accumulation of high-Z elements in tumours followed by stereotactic irradiation, in CT mode, with monochromatic X-rays from a synchrotron source, tuned at an optimal energy. The irradiation geometry, characteristic X-rays, photoelectrons, and Auger electrons generated on high-Z atoms by kilovoltage X-rays produce a localized dose enhancement. Two complimentary SSR approaches have been successfully developed in the past 5 years in our team, and may be promising in high-grade glioma management: iodine-enhanced SSR, with an iodinated contrast agent; and Pt-enhanced SSR; a concomitant radio-chemotherapy treatment with locoregional injection of platinated chemotherapy drugs. The results for iodine-enhanced SSR using contrast agents are presented in this paper. IUdR-enhanced SSR was also tested in this study. Up to 15 Gy, intracarotid infusion of iodine significantly improved the rats' survival compared to irradiation alone. SSR provides the most protracted survivals of F98 glioma-bearing rats. The technique is currently transferred to clinical trials. Iodine-enhanced SSR will be implemented first, because of its simplicity; and pave the way for Pt-enhanced SSR, the most efficient technique, but still needing to be improved in terms of intrinsic toxicity.

An herbal mixture prepared with Cinnamomi Ramulus, Anemarrhenae Rhizoma and Alpiniae Officinari Rhizoma (CAA) is used in oriental medicine for treating several ailments. The purpose of this study was to determine the mechanisms by which CAA elicits an antiinflammatory effect on nitric oxide (NO) production in the mouse macrophage cell line RAW 264.7 cells. The results indicated that lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced NO production was inhibited by CAA in a dose-dependent manner. Western blotting and RT-PCR analysis demonstrated that CAA decreased LPS-induced inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) protein and gene expression in RAW 264.7 cells. Furthermore, CAA inhibited the LPS-induced DNA binding activity of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) and this effect was mediated through inhibiting the degradation of inhibitory factor-kappaBalpha (IkappaBalpha). Therefore, the results demonstrate that CAA inhibits LPS-induced production of NO and expression of iNOS by blocking NF-kappaB activation. CAA might be a potential therapeutic candidate for treating inflammatory diseases such as arthritis.
Channelrhodopsins (CHR1 and CHR2) are light-gated ion channels acting as sensory photoreceptors in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. In neuroscience, they are used to trigger action potentials by light in neuronal cells, tissues, or living animals. Here, we demonstrate that Chlamydomonas cells with low CHR2 content exhibit photophobic and phototactic responses that strictly depend on the availability of CHR1. Since CHR1 was described as a H+-channel, the ion specificity of CHR1 was reinvestigated in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Our experiments show that, in addition to H+, CHR1 also conducts Na+, K+, and Ca2+. The kinetic selectivity analysis demonstrates that H+ selectivity is not due to specific translocation but due to selective ion binding. Purified recombinant CHR1 consists of two isoforms with different absorption maxima, CHR1505 and CHR1463, that are in pH-dependent equilibrium. Thus, CHR1 is a photochromic and protochromic sensory photoreceptor that functions as a light-activated cation channel mediating phototactic and photophobic responses via depolarizing currents in a wide range of ionic conditions.
Store-operated Ca2+ influx represents a major route by which cytosolic Ca2+ can be elevated during platelet activation, yet its molecular identity in this cell type remains highly controversial. Using quantitative RT-PCR analysis of candidate receptor-operated cation entry pathways in human platelets, we show a &gt;30-fold higher expression of message for the recently discovered Orai1 store-operated Ca2+ channel, and also the store Ca2+ sensor STIM1, when compared to the non-selective cation channels TRPC1, TRPC6 and TRPM2. Orai1 and STIM1 gene transcripts were also detected at higher levels than TRPC1, TRPC6 and TRPM2 in primary murine megakaryocytes and human megakaryocytic cell lines. In direct electrophysiological recordings from murine megakaryocytes, Ca2+ ionophore-induced store depletion stimulated CRAC currents, which are known to require Orai1, and these overlapped with TRPC6-like currents following P2Y receptor activation. Together with recent transgenic studies, these data provide evidence for STIM1:Orai1 as a primary pathway for agonist-evoked Ca2+ influx in the platelet and megakaryocyte.
After a stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA) there is a high risk of stroke, particularly in the early days and weeks, and of other serious vascular events. Several preventive medical treatments can reduce these risks; starting them as early as possible will maximise the absolute risk reduction, as long as the diagnosis is secure, there is no known or suspected net harm from treatment, and they are acceptable to the patient. Medical treatments with clear evidence of benefit include: lowering blood pressure after all types of stroke or TIA; lowering blood cholesterol with a statin after ischaemic stroke or TIA; antiplatelet treatment after ischaemic stroke or TIA; and warfarin instead of antiplatelet treatment in patients with ischaemic stroke or TIA who have atrial fibrillation and no contraindications to anticoagulation. Lifestyle changes (for example, stopping smoking, reducing excess alcohol intake, adopting a healthy diet) and careful management of diabetes are also important.
The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) is the main intracellular pathway for regulated protein turnover. This system is of vital importance for maintaining cellular homeostasis and is essential for neuronal functioning. It is therefore not surprising that impairment of this system is implicated in the pathogenesis of a variety of diseases, including neurological disorders, which are pathologically characterized by the presence of ubiquitin-positive protein aggregates. A direct correlation between intact neuronal functioning and the UPS is exemplified by a range of transgenic mouse models wherein mutations in components of the UPS lead to a neurodegenerative or neurological phenotype. These models have been proven useful in determining the role of the UPS in the nervous system in health and disease. Furthermore, recently developed in vivo models harboring reporter systems to measure UPS activity could also substantially contribute to understanding the effect of neurodegeneration on UPS function. The role of the UPS in neurodegeneration in vivo is reviewed by discussing the currently available murine models showing a neurological phenotype induced by genetic manipulation of the UPS.
The great repertoire of movements in higher order mammals comes courtesy of the corticospinal tract (CST) which is able to initiate precise movement of the entire musculature of the axial and limb muscle groups. It forms the longest axonal trajectory in the mammalian central nervous system and its axons must navigate the entire length of the central nervous system--from its origins in the deeper layers of the cerebral cortex down through the cerebral peduncles and brainstem and along the entire length of the spinal cord. This period of navigation is incredibly complex, and relies upon the coordinated regulation of a collection of molecular guidance cues - coming from all of the known major families of guidance cues - the ephrins, slits, Netrins and Semaphorins - that work together to steer the growing axonal tips through the brain and spinal cord. As such a long tract, the CST forms an excellent experimental model to investigate the nature of molecular cues that sequentially guide axons through the central nervous system. Using the rodent as a model system, this review discusses each step of axonal guidance through the major brain regions--starting from the decision to grow ventrally out of the cortical plate to the eventual activity-dependent refinement of circuitry in the spinal grey matter. In recent years, the identification of these guidance cues and their proposed mode of action is beginning to give us a picture at a molecular level of how the CST is guided so accurately over such a long distance.


Sixteen healthy young adults (ages 18-32) and 16 healthy older adults (ages 67-81) completed a delayed response task in which they saw the following visual sequence: memory stimuli (2 abstract shapes; 3,000 ms), a blank delay (5,000 ms), a probe stimulus of variable duration (one abstract shape; 125, 250, 500, 1,000, or 2,000 ms), and a mask (500 ms). Subjects decided whether the probe stimulus matched either of the memory stimuli; they were instructed to respond during the mask, placing greater emphasis on speed than accuracy. The authors used D. L. Hintzman &amp; T. Curran's (1994) 3-parameter compound bounded exponential model of speed-accuracy tradeoff to describe changes in discriminability associated with total processing time. Group-level analysis revealed a higher rate parameter and a higher asymptote parameter for the young adult group, but no difference across groups in x-intercept. Proxy measures of cognitive reserve (Y. Stern et al., 2005) predicted the rate parameter value, particularly in older adults. Results suggest that in working memory, aging impairs both the maximum capacity for discriminability and the rate of information accumulation, but not the temporal threshold for discriminability.


The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) plays a prominent role in brain integration of acute responses to stressful stimuli. This study tests the hypothesis that the BST plays a complementary role in regulation of physiological changes associated with chronic stress exposure. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received bilateral ibotenate lesions or sham lesions of the posterior medial region of the BST (BSTpm), an area known to be involved in inhibition of HPA axis responses to acute stress. Chronic stress was induced by 14-day exposure to twice daily stressors in an unpredictable sequence (chronic variable stress, CVS). In the morning after the end of CVS, stressed and non-stressed controls were exposed to a novel restraint stress challenge. As previously documented, CVS caused adrenal hypertrophy, thymic involution, and attenuated body weight gain. None of these endpoints were affected by BSTpm lesions. Chronic stress exposure facilitated plasma corticosterone responses to the novel restraint stress and elevated CRH mRNA. Lesions of the BSTpm increased novel stressor-induced plasma ACTH and corticosterone secretion and enhanced c-fos mRNA induction in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). In addition, lesion of the BSTpm resulted in an additive increase in CVS-induced facilitation of corticosterone responses and PVN CRH expression. Collectively these data confirm that the BSTpm markedly inhibits HPA responses to acute stress, but do not strongly support an additional role for this region in limiting HPA axis responses to chronic drive. The data further suggest that acute versus chronic stress integration are subserved by different brain circuitry.
The present study investigated body weight gain, food intake, open-field activity and brain histamine H1 receptor mRNA and protein expression in rats treated with three types of antipsychotics. Rats were divided into eight groups and treated with aripiprazole (2.25mg/kg/day), olanzapine (1.5mg/kg/day), haloperidol (0.3mg/kg/day) or vehicle (as control) for 1 or 12 weeks. Administration of olanzapine for 1 week led to a threefold increase in body weight gain and a 35% increase in fat deposits compared to controls (p&lt;0.05). In the 12-week olanzapine treatment group, accumulative food intake was significantly higher in the first 7 weeks of treatment compared to controls (p&lt;0.018), while body weight gain was significantly greater in the first 8 weeks compared to controls (p&lt;0.045). Using in situ hybridization, we found that olanzapine treatment, but not aripiprazole or haloperidol treatment, significantly reduced H1 receptor mRNA expression in the arcuate hypothalamic nucleus (Arc: -18%, p=0.006, 1 week; -20%, p=0.008, 12 weeks) and ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus (VMH: -22%, p=0.006, 1 week; -19%, p=0.042, 12 weeks) compared to controls. The quantitative autoradiography data showed a reduction in VMH H1 receptor binding density after 1 (-12%, p=0.040) and 12 (-10%, p=0.094) weeks of olanzapine treatment. There were significant negative correlations between the levels of H1 receptor mRNA expression, and body weight gain and energy efficiency in the Arc and VMH after 1- and 12-week antipsychotic treatments in all groups. In addition, H1 receptor mRNA expression in the Arc showed a significant negative correlation with food intake and fat mass in all groups. Furthermore, there were negative correlations between H1 receptor binding density in the VMH and total fat mass and body weight gain after 1 week of antipsychotic treatment. The present study suggests that downregulated VMH and Arc H1 receptor expression may be a key factor contributing to olanzapine-induced obesity.
Long-term potentiation and long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic efficacy, two major forms of synaptic plasticity, are believed to underlie learning processes and memory storage. We have recently shown that acute stress, through corticosterone release and stimulation of glucocorticoid receptors (GRs), facilitates the LTD elicited by the group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonist (R,S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) in hippocampal CA1 neurons. However, it is unknown whether sustained corticosterone release, per se, is also able to facilitate DHPG-elicited LTD in control (i.e. unstressed) conditions, and if so, whether it acts on local (i.e. hippocampal) or distant GRs. Here, we show that a brief application of 100 nM corticosterone to rat hippocampal slices lowers the threshold for DHPG-elicited LTD, an effect mimicked by the local application of the GR agonist dexamethasone. These results show that high corticosterone release facilitates hippocampal CA1 mGluR-dependent LTD, and does so through local GRs.
We examined the influence of gender and smoking status on reactivity in two human laboratory stress paradigms. Participants were 46 (21 men, 25 women) healthy individuals who completed the Trier Social Stress Task (i.e., performed speech and math calculations in front of an audience) and a pharmacological stress provocation (i.e., administration of corticotrophin releasing hormone (CRH)) after an overnight hospital stay. Approximately half (53%) of the participants were smokers. Cortisol, adrenocorticotrophin hormone (ACTH), physiologic measures (heart rate, blood pressure), and subjective stress were assessed at baseline and at several time points post-task. Men demonstrated higher baseline ACTH and blood pressure as compared to women; however, ACTH and blood pressure responses were more pronounced in women. Women smokers evidenced a more blunted cortisol response as compared to non-smoking women, whereas smoking status did not affect the cortisol response in men. Finally, there was a more robust cardiovascular and subjective response to the Trier as compared to the CRH. Although preliminary, the findings suggest that women may be more sensitive than men to the impact of cigarette smoking on cortisol response. In addition, there is some evidence for a more robust neuroendocrine and physiologic response to acute laboratory stress in women as compared to men.






Over the past decade, a tremendous amount of consistent data have accumulated showing reduced levels of the 42 amino acid isoform of amyloid-beta (Abeta(42)) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from patients with mature as well as incipient Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, as CSF analyses necessitate a spinal tap, which some consider hard to implement in the clinical routine and in clinical trials, there is a strong interest in the possible association of Abeta levels in plasma with AD. This review provides an update on the current status of research on plasma Abeta as a biomarker for AD in the context of recent patents in the field.
The presence and function of muscarinic receptor subtypes both in neuronal and non-neuronal cells have been demonstrated using extensive pharmacological data emerging from studies on transgenic mice. Acetylcholine, in fact is synthesized not only in the nervous system but also in other tissues where its local action contributes to the modulation of various cell functions (e.g. survival, proliferation). The possible involvement of acetylcholine and muscarinic receptors in different pathologies has been proposed in recent years and is becoming an important area of study. Although the lack of selective muscarinic receptor ligands has for a long time limited the definition of therapeutic treatment based on muscarinic receptors as targets, some muscarinic ligands such as cevimeline (patents US4855290; US5571918) or xanomeline (patent, US5980933) have been developed and used in pre-clinical or in clinical studies for the treatment of nervous system diseases (Alzheimer and Sjogren's diseases). This review will focus on the potential implications of muscarinic receptors in tumour progression and in nociception and the future use of muscarinic ligands in therapeutic protocols in cancer therapy will be discussed, considering that some muscarinic antagonists currently used in the treatment of genitourinary disease (e.g. darifenacin,; patent, US5096890; US6106864 ) have also been demonstrated to arrest tumour progression in nude mice. Moreover muscarinic agonists such as vedaclidine, CMI- 936 and CMI-1145 have been demonstrated to have analgesic effects, in animal models comparable or more pronounced to those produced by morphine or opiates.


The human scavenger decapping enzyme, DcpS, functions to hydrolyze the resulting cap structure following cytoplasmic mRNA decay yet is, surprisingly, a nuclear protein by immunofluorescence. Here, we show that DcpS is a nucleocytoplasmic shuttling protein that contains separable nuclear import and Crm-1-dependent export signals. We postulated that the presence of DcpS in both cellular compartments and its ability to hydrolyze cap structure may impact other cellular events dependent on cap-binding proteins. An shRNA-engineered cell line with markedly diminished DcpS levels led to a corresponding reduction in cap-proximal intron splicing of a reporter minigene and endogenous genes. The impaired cap catabolism and resultant imbalanced cap concentrations were postulated to sequester the cap-binding complex (CBC) from its normal splicing function. In support of this explanation, DcpS efficiently displaced the nuclear cap-binding protein Cbp20 from cap structure, and complementation with Cbp20 reversed the reduced splicing, indicating that modulation of splicing by DcpS is mediated through Cbp20. Our studies demonstrate that the significance of DcpS extends beyond its well-characterized role in mRNA decay and involves a broader range of functions in RNA processing including nuclear pre-mRNA splicing.


The pre-surgical work-up of patients with medically refractory epilepsy changes with the availability of new diagnostic procedures. New diagnostic investigations may also open up prospects for patients rejected in the past. A cohort of 71 Dutch patients rejected for epilepsy surgery 0.5-5 years earlier were approached to evaluate their willingness to undergo novel techniques. 64 (90%) responded to a questionnaire evaluating social and medical status, quality of life (QoL) and motivation to be reconsidered for epilepsy surgery. Four patients (6%) did not have seizures during the last 6 months. 56 patients (88%) were highly motivated to undergo new diagnostic procedures. Inability to localize the seizure focus had been the reason for rejection in 70% of these. We conclude that most patients once rejected for epilepsy surgery would like to benefit from novel techniques.
Growing evidence supports the notion that pharmaceutical targeting of the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and dopamine (DA) systems offers the potential to treat human immune system disorders. This review describes this emerging area of research, which has the benefit of being supported by a relatively detailed understanding of these monoamine systems within other tissues of the body. Furthermore, the availability of a number of pharmaceutical agents originally developed to manipulate central monoamine function, offer many suitable drug candidates to test their therapeutic potential in the immune pathology arena.
Cancer is a simplistic, yet complicated, process that promotes uncontrolled growth. In this regard, this unconstrained proliferation may represent primitive phenomena whereby cellular regulation is suspended or compromised. Given the new empirical evidence for a morphinergic presence and its profound modulatory actions on several cellular processes it is not an overstatement to hypothesize that morphine may represent a key chemical messenger in the process of modulating proliferation of diverse cells. This has been recently demonstrated by the finding of a novel opiate-alkaloid selective receptor subtype in human multilineage progenitor cells (MLPC). Adding to the significance of morphinergic signaling are the findings of its presence in plant, invertebrate and vertebrate cells, which also have been shown to synthesize this messenger as well. Interestingly, we and others have shown that some cancerous tissues contain morphine. Furthermore, in medullary histolytic reticulosis, which is exemplified by cells having hyperactivity, the mu3 (mu3) opiate select receptor was not present. Thus, it would appear that morphinergic signaling has inserted itself in many processes taking a long time to evolve, including those regulating the proliferation of cells across diverse phyla.
Recent empirical data have elucidated a compelling physiological basis for endogenously expressed, chemically authentic, morphine and its cognate mu3 and mu4 opiate receptors. Cellular &quot;morphinergic&quot; signaling is predominantly targeted to autocrine/paracrine regulatory processes and is reciprocally linked to stimulated production and release of the free radical gas nitric oxide (NO). Additionally, we have recently described a functionally coupled mu4 opiate receptor/NO regulatory pathway in human multi-lineage progenitor cells in the absence of traditional opioid, neuropeptide, or catecholamine G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). These accumulated data not only suggest an evolutionary primacy for morphinergic signaling as a fundamental regulatory mechanism, but identify mu3 and mu4 opiate receptors as candidate primordial GPCRs that may have served as prototypic models for diverse families of GPCRs. The present review focuses on the parallel roles of morphinergic signaling and endogenous opioid peptide-mediated regulatory processes in immune function and the development of defensive integrated behaviors including nociception from rudimentary cellular responses to chemical/environmental challenges. Finally, structural similarities between the intracellular domains of mu3 opiate receptors and chemokine receptors CCR2 and CCR5 provide an additional chemical basis for these contentions.
By genetic recombinant technique, the rat GDNF cDNA was recombinated to the retroviral vector pLXSN. The recombinant plasmid pLXSN-GDNF was verified by digestion with restriction endonucleases and PCR. Then neural stem cells (NSCs) were infected with pLXSN-GDNF. Immunocytochemistry, RT-PCR and western-blot were used to detect the transfection effect. Results showed that GDNF cDNA was cloned into retroviral vector pLXSN correctly, and the pLXSN-GDNF can infect NSCs efficiently. These results provide the possibility for transplantation and gene therapy with GDNF of nervous system diseases and injury.
Frequently disrupted and restricted sleep is a common problem for many people in our modern around-the-clock society. In this context, it is an important question how sleep loss affects the stress systems in our bodies since these systems enable us to deal with everyday challenges. Altered activity and reactivity of these systems following insufficient sleep might have serious repercussions for health and well-being. Studies on both humans and rodents have shown that sleep deprivation and sleep restriction are conditions often associated with mild, temporary increases in the activity of the major neuroendocrine stress systems, i.e., the autonomic sympatho-adrenal system and the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. Sleep deprivation may not only have a direct activating effect by itself but, in the long run, it may also affect the reactivity of these systems to other stressors and challenges. Although the first signs of alterations in the way people deal with challenges under conditions of restricted sleep appear to be on the level of emotional perception, chronic sleep restriction may ultimately change the fundamental properties of neuroendocrine stress systems as well. Understandably, few controlled studies in humans have been devoted to this topic. Yet, experimental studies in rodents show that chronic sleep restriction may gradually alter neuroendocrine stress responses as well as the central mechanisms involved in the regulation of these responses. Importantly, the available data from studies in laboratory animals suggest that sleep restriction may gradually change certain brain systems and neuroendocrine systems in a manner that is similar to what is seen in stress-related disorders such as depression (e.g., reduced serotonin receptor sensitivity and altered regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis). Such data support the view that insufficient sleep, by acting on stress systems, may sensitize individuals to stress-related disorders. Indeed, epidemiological studies suggest that sleep complaints and sleep restriction may be important risk factors for a variety of diseases that are often linked to stress, including cardiovascular diseases and mood disorders.
Recent studies of autism have identified functional abnormalities of the default network during a passive resting state. Since the default network is also typically engaged during social, emotional and introspective processing, dysfunction of this network may underlie some of the difficulties individuals with autism exhibit in these broad domains. In the present experiment, we attempted to further delineate the nature of default network abnormality in autism using experimentally constrained social and introspective tasks. Thirteen autism and 12 control participants were scanned while making true/false judgments for various statements about themselves (SELF condition) or a close other person (OTHER), and pertaining to either psychological personality traits (INTERNAL) or observable characteristics and behaviors (EXTERNAL). In the ventral medial prefrontal cortex/ventral anterior cingulate cortex, activity was reduced in the autism group across all judgment conditions and also during a resting condition, suggestive of task-independent dysfunction of this region. In other default network regions, overall levels of activity were not different between groups. Furthermore, in several of these regions, we found group by condition interactions only for INTERNAL/EXTERNAL judgments, and not SELF/OTHER judgments, suggestive of task-specific dysfunction. Overall, these results provide a more detailed view of default network functionality and abnormality in autism.
Humans possess a remarkable capacity to understand the suffering of others. Cognitive neuroscience theories of empathy suggest that this capacity is supported by 'shared representations' of self and other. Consistent with this notion, a number of studies have found that perceiving others in pain and experiencing pain oneself recruit overlapping neural systems. Perception of pain in each of these conditions, however, may also cause unique patterns of activation, that may reveal more about the processing steps involved in each type of pain. To address this issue, we examined neural activity while participants experienced heat pain and watched videos of other individuals experiencing injuries. Results demonstrated (i) that both tasks activated anterior cingulate cortex and anterior insula, consistent with prior work; (ii) whereas self-pain activated anterior and mid insula regions implicated in interoception and nociception, other pain activated frontal, premotor, parietal and amygdala regions implicated in emotional learning and processing social cues; and (iii) that levels of trait anxiety correlated with activity in rostral lateral prefrontal cortex during perception of other pain but not during self-pain. Taken together, these data support the hypothesis that perception of pain in self and other, while sharing some neural commonalities, differ in their recruitment of systems specifically associated with decoding and learning about internal or external cues.
Several recent studies suggest that autism may result from abnormal communication between brain regions. We directly assessed this hypothesis by testing the presence of abnormalities in a model of the functional cerebral network engaged during explicit emotion processing in adults with high functioning autism or Asperger syndrome. Comparison of structural equation models revealed abnormal patterns of effective connectivity, with the prefrontal cortex as a key site of dysfunction. These findings provide evidence that abnormal long-range connectivity between structures of the 'social brain' could explain the socio-emotional troubles that characterize the autistic pathology.

Stem cells of the subventricular zone (SVZ) represent a reliable source of neurons for cell replacement. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) promotes neurogenesis in the hippocampal subgranular layer and the olfactory epithelium and may be useful for the stimulation of SVZ dynamic in brain repair purposes. We describe that NPY promotes SVZ neurogenesis. NPY (1 microM) treatments increased proliferation at 48 hours and neuronal differentiation at 7 days in SVZ cell cultures. NPY proneurogenic properties are mediated via the Y1 receptor. Accordingly, Y1 receptor is a major active NPY receptor in the mouse SVZ, as shown by functional autoradiography. Moreover, short exposure to NPY increased immunoreactivity for the phosphorylated form of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 in the nucleus, compatible with a trigger for proliferation, whereas 6 hours of treatment amplified the phosphorylated form of c-Jun-NH(2)-terminal kinase signal in growing axons, consistent with axonogenesis. NPY, as a promoter of SVZ neurogenesis, is a crucial factor for future development of cell-based brain therapy. Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article.
Several reports have shown that human mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are capable of differentiating outside the mesenchymal lineage. We sought to induce MSCs to differentiate into dopamine-producing cells for potential use in autologous transplantation in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Following cell culture with various combinations of differentiation agents under serum-free defined conditions, different levels of up-regulation were observed in the protein expression of tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme in dopamine synthesis. Further analysis of selected differentiation protocols revealed that the induced cells displayed a neuron-like morphology and expressed markers suggesting neuronal differentiation. In addition, there was an increase in Nurr 1, the dopaminergic transcription factor gene, concomitant with a decrease gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic marker expression, suggesting a specific dopaminergic direction. Moreover, the induced cells secreted dopamine in response to depolarization. These results demonstrate the great therapeutic potential of human MSCs in PD.



The dopamine D2 receptor plays a critical role in activity-dependent synaptic plasticity in the striatum, and regulates the transitions between different states of electrical activity. The D2 receptor is the main target for antipsychotics, and its affinity towards dopamine has been shown to be increased in psychotic patients. Recently, voltage-sensitivity has been reported for the ligand binding and G protein-coupling properties of some neurotransmitter receptors, raising the question whether the D2 receptor is also regulated by voltage. Our present electrophysiology data from Xenopus oocytes indicate that the D2 receptor is indeed voltage-sensitive. Comparing concentration-response relationships for the activation of G protein-coupled inward rectifier potassium (GIRK) channels via D2 receptor stimulation by quinpirole or dopamine at -80 and at +40 mV revealed rightward shifts upon depolarisation of nearly tenfold, for both agonists. Our results are likely to bear relevance to the function of the D2 receptor in gating synaptic input and in regulating plasticity.
Within the striatum, the gaseous neurotransmitter nitric oxide (NO) is produced by a subclass of interneurons containing the neuronal NO synthase (nNOS). NO promotes the second messenger cGMP through the activation of the soluble guanyl cyclase (sGC) and plays a crucial role in the integration of glutamate (GLU) and DA transmission. The aim of this study was to characterize the impact of 6-hydroxyDA (6-OHDA) lesion of the rat nigrostriatal pathway on NO/cGMP system. In vivo extracellular single units recordings were performed under urethane anesthesia to avoid any potentially misleading contributions of cortically-driven changes on endogenous NO. Hence, no electrical extrastriatal stimulation was performed and great attention was paid to the effects of 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1, a NO donor), N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, a nonselective NOS inhibitor) and Zaprinast (a PDE inhibitor) delivered by iontophoresis upon the main striatal phenotypes. The latter were operationally distinguished in silent medium spiny-like neurons (MSN), with negligible spontaneous activity but displaying glutamate-induced firing discharge at rest and spontaneously active neurons (SAN), representing to a large extent nonprojecting interneurons. SANs were excited by SIN-1 and Zaprinast while MSNs showed a clear inhibition during local iontophoretic application of SIN-1 and Zaprinast. In 6-OHDA animals, SIN-1-induced excitation in SANs was significantly increased (on the contrary, the inhibitory effect of L-NAME was less effective). Interestingly, in DA-denervated animals, a subclass of MSNs (40%) displayed a peculiar excitatory response to SIN-1. These findings support the notion of an inhibitory modulatory role exerted by endogenous NO on control striatal projection cells. In addition, these findings suggest a functional cross-talk between NO, spontaneously active interneurons, and projection neurons that becomes critical in the parkinsonian state.
In the era of Human Papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination, a lot of misunderstanding still exists among healthcare professionals and patients regarding HPV infection. The purpose of this review is to synthesize the clinical molecular mechanisms that contribute to HPV-mediated cervical carcinogenesis, as well as to appraise the current status of new biomarkers and technologies in terms of available data on clinical applications and future promises.
Genomic imprinting causes genes to be expressed or repressed depending on their parental origin. The majority of imprinted genes identified to date map in clusters and much of our knowledge of the mechanisms, function and evolution of imprinting have emerged from their analysis. The cluster of imprinted genes delineated by the delta-like homolog 1 gene and the type III iodothyronine deiodinase gene (Dlk1-Dio3) is located on distal mouse chromosome 12 and human chromosome 14. Its developmental importance is exemplified by severe phenotypes associated with altered dosage of these genes in mice and humans. The domain contains three imprinted protein-coding genes, Dlk1, Rtl1 and Dio3, expressed from the paternally inherited chromosome and several imprinted large and small noncoding RNA genes expressed from the maternally inherited homolog. Here, we discuss the function and regulation of imprinting at this domain.
Articulate speech represents a unique trait of our species. Besides other structures, the cerebellum pertains to the brain network engaged in spoken language production. Data from different sources point at a dual role of this organ within the verbal domain: (i) the cerebellum appears to subserve the online sequencing of syllables into fast, smooth and rhythmically organized larger utterances, and (ii) furthermore, the cerebellum seems to participate in the temporal organization of internal speech, that is, a prearticulatory verbal code. Impaired prearticulatory verbal coding mechanisms could explain at least some of the perceptual and cognitive deficits observed in cerebellar disorders. Recent genetic studies indicate that distinct mutations of a specific regulatory gene (FOXP2) promoted the emergence of articulate speech during the course of hominid evolution. Conceivably, structural changes of the expressed FOXP2 protein supported the 'vocal elaboration' of phylogenetically older brain networks engaged in upper limb motor control, such as the cerebro-cerebellar loops.
Abnormal neuronal signaling caused by metabolic changes characterizes several neurological disorders, and in some instances metabolic interventions provide therapeutic benefits. Indeed, altering metabolism either by fasting or by maintaining a low-carbohydrate (ketogenic) diet might reduce epileptic seizures and offer neuroprotection in part because the diet increases mitochondrial biogenesis and brain energy levels. Here we focus on a novel hypothesis that a ketogenic diet-induced change in energy metabolism increases levels of ATP and adenosine, purines that are critically involved in neuron-glia interactions, neuromodulation and synaptic plasticity. Enhancing brain bioenergetics (ATP) and increasing levels of adenosine, an endogenous anticonvulsant and neuroprotective molecule, might help with understanding and treating a variety of neurological disorders.
Rabies is an important public health problem in South East Asia, with cases in this part of the world contributing to about 70% of the global burden. A large number of rabies cases occur in India, however, there is no organized system of surveillance and hence there is a lack of reliable data. Moreover, comprehensive molecular epidemiological studies have not been performed on Indian virus isolates. In this study, we determined the complete nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequence of a primary isolate of rabies virus obtained from the brain of an infected patient. Comparison of the genomic sequence with those of the ten fully sequenced rabies strains available in GenBank showed nucleotide homology ranging from 97% with AY956319 to 81% with AY705373. Amino acid homology of nucleoprotein ranged from 99.7% with AY352493 to 92% with DQ875051. In case of the glycoprotein gene, the homology ranged from 98.8% with AY956319 to 87.2 % with AY705373. An extensive nucleoprotein, glycoprotein, and full-length genome-based phylogenetic analysis was performed along with sequences available from the GenBank. Phylogenetic analysis of the complete genome sequence indicated that this isolate exhibited close homology with the ex Indian strain AY956319.
Previous research has associated a prolonged attentional blink (AB) with adult dyslexia [Hari, R., Valta, M., &amp; Uutela, K. (1999). Prolonged attentional dwell time in dyslexic adults. Neuroscience Letters, 271, 202-204]. The AB represents a limitation in temporal information processing, estimated as the time interval between two targets necessary for accurate recall (e.g., [Raymond, J. E., Shapiro, K. L., &amp; Arnell, K. M. (1992). Temporary suppression of visual processing in an RSVP task: An attentional blink? Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance, 18, 849-860]). Utilizing single- and dual-target procedures, this investigation extended upon previous research. When controlling for baseline sensitivity as estimated in the dual-target condition, there was no significant difference between dyslexic and control performance. Finding no evidence of a single-target task difference or prolonged AB effect in dyslexia, it is suggested that baseline sensitivity differences relate to difficulties with task demands in dyslexic readers.
We investigated the effect of peripheral administration of a selective cannabinoid CB1 receptor agonist arachidonyl-2-choroethylamide (ACEA), on evoked responses of primary afferents in vivo. Extracellular recordings were made from filaments of the saphenous nerve that responded to noxious mechanical stimulation of their receptive fields and effects of ACEA (30 and 50 microg/100 microl, i.a.) were studied. ACEA significantly inhibited evoked responses, effects that were blocked by co-administration of the cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist AM251 (30 microg/100 microl). These results demonstrate a cannabinoid CB1 receptor-mediated inhibition of primary afferent nociceptor excitability and provide further support for a peripheral site of action of cannabinoids.
We and others have shown that prior exposure to the volatile anesthetic isoflurane induces ischemic tolerance in the brain. Our results also suggest that isoflurane preconditioning reduces cell apoptosis in the penumbral region of rat brain. We designed this study to determine whether isoflurane preconditioning decreased mitochondria-dependent cell apoptosis. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to or not exposed to 2% isoflurane for 30 min at 24 h before the permanent middle cerebral arterial occlusion. Western blotting was used to quantify protein expression in the cytosolic and mitochondrial fractions of non-ischemic brain cortex and brain cortex in the ischemic core and penumbra. Isoflurane preconditioning significantly decreased the infarct volume of cerebral cortex and improved neurological outcome. Isoflurane increased the expression of the antiapoptotic B-cell lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2) proteins in the cerebral cortex of rats without brain ischemia. Rats preconditioned with isoflurane before brain ischemia had increased Bcl-2 expression in the penumbra. Isoflurane preconditioning reduced the release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria and the activation of caspase 3 in the penumbra. However, isoflurane preconditioning did not alter the translocation of Bid and Bax from the cytosol to the mitochondria, identified mechanisms for Bcl-2 to block the release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria. Our results suggest that isoflurane preconditioning increases Bcl-2 expression to block the release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria to decrease the cell apoptosis in the penumbra.
Small increases in respiratory dead space (VD) augment the exercise ventilatory response by a serotonin-dependent mechanism known as short-term modulation (STM). We tested the hypotheses that the relevant serotonin receptors for STM are in the spinal cord, and are of the 5-HT2-receptor subtype. After preparing adult female goats with a mid-thoracic (T6-T8) subarachnoid catheter, ventilation and arterial blood gases were measured at rest and during treadmill exercise (4.8 km/h; 5% grade) with and without an increased VD (0.2-0.3 L). Measurements were made before and after spinal or intravenous administration of a broad-spectrum serotonin receptor antagonist (methysergide, 1-2mg total) and a selective 5-HT2-receptor antagonist (ketanserin, 5-12 mg total). Although spinal methysergide had no effect on the exercise ventilatory response in control conditions, the augmented response with increased VD was impaired, allowing Pa(CO)(2) to increase from rest to exercise. Spinal methysergide diminished both mean inspiratory flow and frequency responses to exercise with increased VD. Spinal ketanserin impaired Pa(CO)(2) regulation with increased VD, although its ventilatory effects were less clear. Intrathecal dye injections indicated CSF drug distribution was caudal to the upper cervical spinal cord and intravenous drugs at the same total dose did not affect STM. We conclude that spinal 5-HT2 receptors modulate the exercise ventilatory response with increased VD in goats.
In the previous study we reported that morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) could be suppressed by peripheral electric stimulation (PES), an effect related to the increased gene expression of opioid peptides in the central nervous system. Considering that opioids were known to elevate dopamine (DA) activity in the mesolimbic brain, the present study was designed to further analyze the possible involvement of the mesolimbic dopaminergic system (MLDS) in the suppressive effect of PES on the rewarding effects of morphine in SD male rats. We found that morphine-induced CPP can be successfully suppressed by PES, an effect accompanied by a reversal of the increased tissue contents of DA and its metabolites in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) of morphine-induced CPP rats. Our results suggest that MLDS seems to play important roles in the mechanisms underlying PES's suppression of the rewarding effect of drug-associated environmental cues in the rat.
A single session of footshocks in rats causes long-lasting sensitisation of behavioural, hormonal and autonomic responses to subsequent novel stressful challenges as well as altered pain sensitivity. These changes mimic aspects of post-traumatic stress disorder in humans. Our aim was to identify neuropeptide substrates in the central nervous system involved in stress sensitisation. Male Wistar rats were exposed to ten footshocks in 15 min (preshocked) or placed in the same cage without shocks (control). Two weeks later, rats were placed in a novel cage, subjected to 5 min of 85 dB noise, and returned to their home cage. Rats were killed either before or 1 h after noise and their brains processed for in situ hybridization for neuropeptide Y (NPY) and beta-preprotachykinin-I (PPT) mRNA. Additional groups of rats were killed under basal conditions and brains processed for NPY and neurokinin receptor binding with radiolabelled ligands. Two weeks after footshock treatment NPY mRNA expression was increased in the basolateral amygdala and showed preshockxnoise interaction in the locus coeruleus (down after noise in controls, lower basal and unchanged after noise in preshocked). PPT expression in the lateral parabrachial nucleus also showed preshockxnoise interaction (up after noise in controls, higher basal and down after noise in preshocked), and was increased after noise in the periaquaeductal grey. NK1 receptor binding in the agranular insular cortex and arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus and NK2 receptor binding in the amygdala was lower in preshocked rats than in controls. Altered expression of NPY in the basolateral amygdala and locus coeruleus could contribute to or compensate for behavioural and autonomic sensitisation in preshocked rats. Altered PPT expression in the parabrachial nucleus may be involved in the altered pain processing seen in this model. Lower NK1 and NK2 receptor numbers in cortex, hypothalamus and amygdala may reflect secondary adaptations to altered neuropeptide release. These long-term changes in brain neuropeptide systems could offer novel leads for pharmacological modulation of long-term stress-induced sensitisation.
During development, many neural stem cells &quot;age&quot; as they sequentially generate distinct neuronal or glial cell types. In this issue, Maurange et al. (2008) now identify the temporal control factors in Drosophila neural stem cells (neuroblasts) that regulate the fate of stem cell progeny and signal the end of stem cell proliferation.
Spontaneous calcium activity of neural progenitors is largely dependent on a paracrine signaling mechanism involving release of ATP and activation of purinergic receptors. Although it is well documented that, in mature astrocytes, cytokines modulate the expression levels of certain purinergic receptors, nothing is known about their impact during early stages of development. Here we provide evidence that conditioned medium from activated microglia and interleukin-1beta, but not tumor necrosis factor-alpha, decrease the frequency of calcium oscillations and reduce the rate of in vitro migration of astrocyte progenitors. Such alterations were due to changes in activity of two purinergic P2 receptors, and not to the amount of released ATP. These results indicate that interleukin-1beta plays an important role during early stages of CNS development, modulating calcium signaling and cell migration.
Antibodies to myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) have been implicated in Multiple Sclerosis demyelination through activation of complement and/or macrophage-effector processes. We presented a novel mechanism, whereby MOG on oligodendrocytes, when cross-linked with anti-MOG and secondary antibody resulted in its repartitioning into lipid rafts, and changes in protein phosphorylation and morphology. Here, we show that similar events occur when anti-MOG is cross-linked with Fc receptors (FcRs) present on microglia but not with complement. These results indicate that FcRs are endogenous antigen/antibody cross-linkers in vitro, suggesting that FcRs could be physiologically relevant in vivo and possible targets for therapy in Multiple Sclerosis.
Recognition confidence and the explicit awareness of memory retrieval commonly accompany accurate responding in recognition tests. Memory performance in recognition tests is widely assumed to measure explicit memory, but the generality of this assumption is questionable. Indeed, whether recognition in nonhumans is always supported by explicit memory is highly controversial. Here we identified circumstances wherein highly accurate recognition was unaccompanied by hallmark features of explicit memory. When memory for kaleidoscopes was tested using a two-alternative forced-choice recognition test with similar foils, recognition was enhanced by an attentional manipulation at encoding known to degrade explicit memory. Moreover, explicit recognition was most accurate when the awareness of retrieval was absent. These dissociations between accuracy and phenomenological features of explicit memory are consistent with the notion that correct responding resulted from experience-dependent enhancements of perceptual fluency with specific stimuli--the putative mechanism for perceptual priming effects in implicit memory tests. This mechanism may contribute to recognition performance in a variety of frequently-employed testing circumstances. Our results thus argue for a novel view of recognition, in that analyses of its neurocognitive foundations must take into account the potential for both (1) recognition mechanisms allied with implicit memory and (2) recognition mechanisms allied with explicit memory.
Although the lateral nucleus of the amygdala (LA) is essential for conditioned auditory fear memory, an emerging theme is that plasticity in multiple brain regions contributes to fear memory formation. The LA receives direct projections from the auditory thalamus, specifically the medial division of the medial geniculate nucleus (MGm) and adjacent posterior intralaminar nucleus (PIN). While traditionally viewed as a simple relay structure, mounting evidence implicates the thalamus in diverse cognitive processes. We investigated the role of plasticity in the MGm/PIN in auditory fear memory. First we found that auditory fear conditioning (but not control manipulations) increased the levels of activated CREB in both the MGm and PIN. Next, using viral vectors, we showed that exogenously increasing CREB in this region specifically enhanced formation of an auditory conditioned fear memory without affecting expression of an auditory fear memory, formation of a contextual fear memory, or basic auditory processing. Interestingly, mice with increased CREB levels in the MGm/PIN also showed broad auditory fear generalization (in contrast to control mice, they exhibited fear responses to tones of other frequencies). Together, these results implicate CREB-mediated plasticity in the MGm/PIN in both the formation and generalization of conditioned auditory fear memory. Not only do these findings refine our knowledge of the circuitry underlying fear memory but they also provide novel insights into the neural substrates that govern the degree to which acquired fear of a tone generalizes to other tones.
Previous studies indicate that transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) with biphasic pulses applied approximately over the primary somatosensory cortex (S1) suppresses performance in vibrotactile temporal discrimination tasks; these previous results, however, do not allow separating perceptual influence from memory or decision-making. Moreover, earlier studies using external landmarks for directing biphasic TMS pulses to the cortex do not reveal whether the changes in vibrotactile task performance were due to action on S1 or an adjacent area. In the present study, we determined whether the S1 area representing a cutaneous test site is critical for perceptual processing of tactile temporal discrimination. Electrical test pulses were applied to the thenar skin of the hand and the subjects attempted to discriminate single from twin pulses. During discrimination task, monophasic TMS pulses or sham TMS pulses were directed anatomically accurately to the S1 area representing the thenar using magnetic resonance image-guided navigation. The subject's capacity to temporal discrimination was impaired with a decrease in the delay between the TMS pulse and the cutaneous test pulse from 50 to 0 ms. The result indicates that S1 area representing a cutaneous test site is involved in perceptual processing of tactile temporal discrimination.
In contrast to vision, the neuro-anatomical substrates of vestibular perception are obscure. The vestibular apparati provide a head angular velocity signal allowing perception of self-motion velocity. Perceived change of angular position-in-space can also be obtained from the vestibular head velocity signal via a process called Path Integration (so-called since displacement is obtained by a mathematical temporal integration of the vestibular velocity signal). It is unknown however, if distinct cortical loci sub-serve vestibular perceptions of velocity versus displacement (i.e. Path Integration). Previous studies of human brain activity have not used head motion stimuli hence precluding localisation of vestibular cortical areas specialised for Path Integration distinct from velocity perception. We inferred vestibular cortical function by measuring the disrupting effect of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation on the performance of a displacement-dependent vestibular navigation task. Our data suggest that posterior parietal cortex is involved in encoding contralaterally directed vestibular-derived signals of perceived angular displacement and a similar effect was found for both hemispheres. We separately tested whether right posterior parietal cortex was involved in vestibular-sensed velocity perception but found no association. Overall, our data demonstrate that posterior parietal cortex is involved in human Path Integration but not velocity perception. We suggest that there are separate brain areas that process vestibular signals of head velocity versus those involved in Path Integration.
Ovarian steroids alter cognitive performance of young individuals. Whether progesterone enhances learning and memory in tasks involving the prefrontal cortex and/or hippocampus in aged mice was investigated. Aged mice received progesterone (10 mg/kg, s.c.) or vehicle and were tested for cortical and/or hippocampal learning and memory. Progesterone increased spontaneous alterations in the T-maze and time spent exploring novel objects in the object recognition task. Progesterone increased the time mice spent in the quadrant of the water maze where the hidden platform had been during training, increased latencies to crossover to the shock-associated side of the inhibitory avoidance chamber, and increased freezing in the contextual fear conditioning task. Progesterone did not enhance performance in tasks mediated by the amygdala (cued conditioning), striatum (conditioned place preference), or cerebellum (rotarod) in these aged mice. Thus, progesterone improved learning and memory in tasks mediated by the prefrontal cortex and/or hippocampus of aged mice.
Cerebral responses to traumatic brain injury (TBI) include up- and downregulation of a vast number of proteins involved in endogenous inflammatory responses and defense mechanisms developing postinjury. The present study analyzed the global gene expression profile in response to cryo-induced TBI by means of microarray analysis. Adolescent rats were subjected to TBI and treated with either placebo or a neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM)-derived fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) agonist, FGL peptide, which has been demonstrated to have neuroprotective effects. mRNA levels were measured at various time-points postlesion (6 h, 1 day and 4 days). The effects of injury, treatment, and injury-treatment interaction were observed. TBI alone rendered a large number of genes affected. Analysis of lesion and treatment interactions resulted in a clear effect of the interaction between injury and FGL-treatment compared to injury and placebo-treatment. Genes affected by TBI alone included inflammation markers, protein kinases, ion channel members and growth factors. Genes encoding regulators of apoptosis, signal transduction and metabolism were altered by the interaction between FGL-treatment and TBI. FGL-treatment in non-injured animals rendered genes regulating signaling, transport and cytoskeleton maintenance significantly increased. Thus, the hypothesis of a putative neuroprotective role of FGL was supported by our findings.
Despite similar computational approaches, there is surprisingly little interaction between the computational neuroscience and the systems biology research communities. In this review I reconstruct the history of the two disciplines and show that this may explain why they grew up apart. The separation is a pity, as both fields can learn quite a bit from each other. Several examples are given, covering sociological, software technical, and methodological aspects. Systems biology is a better organized community which is very effective at sharing resources, while computational neuroscience has more experience in multiscale modeling and the analysis of information processing by biological systems. Finally, I speculate about how the relationship between the two fields may evolve in the near future.
There is evidence that patients with schizophrenia have impaired explicit memory and intact implicit memory. The present study sought to replicate and extend that of O'Carroll et al. [O'Carroll, R.E., Russell, H.H., Lawrie, S.M. and Johnstone, E.C., 1999. Errorless learning and the cognitive rehabilitation of memory-impaired schizophrenic patients. Psychological Medicine 29, 105-112.] which reported that for memory-impaired patients with schizophrenia performance on a (cued) word recall task is enhanced using errorless learning techniques (in which errors are prevented during learning) compared to errorful learning (the traditional trial-and-error approach). Thirty patients with a DSM-IV diagnosis of schizophrenia and fifteen healthy controls (HC) participated. The Rivermead Behavioural Memory Test was administered and from their scores, the schizophrenic patients were classified as either memory-impaired (MIS), or memory-unimpaired (MUS). During the training phase two lists of words were learned separately, one using the errorless learning approach and the other using an errorful approach. Subjects were then tested for their recall of the words using cued recall. After errorful learning training, performance on word recall for the MIS group was impaired compared to the MUS and HC groups. However, after errorless learning training, no significant differences in performance were found between the three groups. Errorless learning may play an important role in remediation of cognitive deficits for patients with schizophrenia.
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is an anxiety disorder that may follow major psychological trauma. The disorder is longstanding, even chronic, and there is a need for effective treatment. The most effective short-term treatments are cognitive behavioural therapy and eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR). Twenty subjects with chronic PTSD following occupational health hazards from &quot;person under train&quot; accidents or assault at work were treated with five sessions of EMDR. They were assessed with psychometric scales and diagnostic interviews before treatment, directly after treatment, at 8 months, and at 35 months after the end of Therapy. The primary outcome variable was full diagnosis of PTSD according to the DSM-IV diagnostic criteria. Results from interview-based and self-evaluation psychometric scales were used as secondary outcome variables. Immediately following treatment, the patients were divided up into two groups, initial remitters (12 of 20) and non-remitters (8 of 20). There were no drop-outs during therapy, but three patients withdrew during follow-up. The initial result was maintained at the 35-month follow-up. The secondary outcome variables also showed a significant immediate change towards normality that was stable during the long-term follow-up. After 3 years of follow-up, 83% of the initial remitters had full working capacity.
Attention is typically impaired in depression and may play a role in risk for suicidal behavior. In this study, 66 non-patients, 83 depressed subjects with no past history of suicide attempt, 53 depressed subjects with one or more low lethality suicide attempts, and 42 depressed subjects with at least one high lethality attempt were compared on two computerized measures of attention, a continuous performance test (CPT) and a Stroop task. All subjects were medication free at the time of assessment. Attention was impaired in all depressed subjects but worse in those with a past history of suicidal behavior. CPT performance did not differ among the groups, but Stroop interference was significantly poorer in all depressed subjects relative to non-patients, and poorer still in high lethality suicide attempters relative to all other groups. Interference scores correlated modestly with subjective depression, functional level, suicide ideation, number of past suicide attempts, and lethality of past attempts. Depression-related impairments of attention, especially susceptibility to interference, are accentuated in those with a past history of suicidal behavior. Fundamental deficits in attentional control may play a role in risk for suicidal behavior, and may contribute to a variety of cognitive deficits in suicidal patients. Brain regions subserving attentional control, which overlap considerably with regions implicated in affective disorders, may be a useful target for studies seeking to characterize neuropsychological factors associated with suicidal behavior.


Dietary phenolic compounds may act as antioxidants in vitro, but because of structural modifications during absorption, its role based on concentrations high enough to afford an antioxidant protection needs to be re-evaluated. We have explored the hypothesis that red wine procyanidins interact with low density lipoproteins (LDL) and that, at this location, the phenolic compounds efficiently protect LDL from oxidation and maintain LDL alpha-tocopherol at a high steady state concentration by recycling it back from the alpha-tocopheroxyl radical. To this end, human plasma was supplemented with wine procyanidins and isolated LDL were challenged with a constant flux of peroxyl radicals. As compared with LDL from plasma-free procyanidins, those LDL better resisted lipid oxidation and exhibited longer lag-phases of alpha-tocopherol consumption. The procyanidins, depending on their structure, were able to reduce the UV-induced alpha-tocopherol radical in a micellar system, as evidenced by electron paramagnetic ressonance. Mechanistically, the protection of LDL was interpreted in terms of quenching of peroxyl radicals and the recycling of alpha-tocopherol by the procyanidins bound to the lipoproteins. These results support the notion that, in human plasma, the procyanidins, via binding to LDL, may act as efficient local antioxidants.
Desmoid fibromatoses are benign, slow growing fibroblastic neoplasms, arising from musculoaponeurotic stromal elements. Desmoids are characterized by local invasion, with a high rate of local recurrence and a tendency to destroy adjacent structures and organs. Desmoid fibromatoses are rare in children, and though they may occur in the head and neck region, are extremely rare in the paranasal sinuses. Here we report a case of extraabdominal desmoid fibromatosis in a seven-year-old boy involving the sphenoid sinus, one of only six published reports of desmoid fibromatosis of the paranasal sinuses. The expansile soft tissue mass eroded the walls of the sphenoid sinus as well as the posterior ethmoid air cells extending cephalad through the base of the skull. We discuss the clinicopathologic features of this lesion, including structural and ultrastructural characteristics, and we review the literature regarding treatment and outcome.
In common with other secondary motor areas, the macaque ventral premotor cortex (PMv) gives rise to corticospinal projections; it also makes numerous reciprocal corticocortical connections with the primary motor cortex (M1). Repetitive intracortical microstimulation (rICMS) of the PMv gives rise to movements of the hand and digits. To investigate whether these motor effects are dependent on the corticocortical interactions with M1, the effect of reversible inactivation of the M1 hand area was tested in three macaque monkeys with chronically implanted intracortical electrodes in the hand representations of M1 and PMv (rostral division, area F5). Monkeys were lightly sedated. Test EMG responses to rICMS were recorded from intrinsic hand muscles before and after microinjection of the GABA agonist muscimol in the M1 hand area. This not only greatly reduced EMG responses evoked from M1, but also reduced or abolished responses from F5, over a similar time course (20-50 min). Muscimol in M1 reduced the level of background EMG activity in the contralateral hand, which was paretic for several hours after injection. However, because EMG responses to direct activation of the corticospinal tract were significantly less affected than the responses to F5 stimulation, it is unlikely that reduced motoneuronal excitability explained the loss of the evoked responses from F5. Finally, muscimol injections in M1 greatly reduced the corticospinal volleys evoked by rICMS in F5. The results suggest that the motor effects evoked from F5 depend, at least in part, on corticocortical interactions with M1, leading to activation of M1 corticospinal outputs to hand muscles.
Postsynaptic density-93 (PSD-93)/Chapsyn-110 is a PDZ (PSD-95/Discs large/zona occludens-1) domain-containing membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) that functions as a scaffold to assemble channels, receptors, and other signaling proteins at cell membranes. PSD-93 is highly enriched at synapses, but mice lacking this protein have no synaptic structural abnormalities, probably because of overlapping expression and redundancy with other MAGUKs. Consequently, the function of PSD-93 is not well understood. Here, we show that PSD-93, but not other MAGUKs, is enriched at the axon initial segment (AIS), where it colocalizes with Kv1.1, Kv1.2, Kv1.4, and Kvbeta2 subunit-containing K(+) channels, Caspr2, and TAG-1 (transient axonal glycoprotein-1). When coexpressed with Kv1 channels in heterologous cells, PSD-93 induces formation of large cell-surface clusters. Knockdown of PSD-93 in cultured hippocampal neurons by RNA interference disrupted Kv1 channel localization at the AIS. Similarly, PSD-93-/- mice failed to cluster Kv1 channels at the AIS of cortical and hippocampal neurons. In contrast, Caspr2, which mediates Kv1 channel clustering at the juxtaparanode, is not required for localization of Kv1 channels at the AIS. These results show PSD-93 mediates AIS accumulation of Kv1 channels independently of Caspr2.
Experience-dependent regulation of synaptic strength in the horizontal connections in layer 1 of the primary motor cortex is likely to play an important role in motor learning. Dendritic spines, the primary sites of excitatory synapses in the brain, are known to change shape in response to various experimental stimuli. We used a rat motor learning model to examine connection strength via field recordings in slices and confocal imaging of labeled spines to explore changes induced solely by learning a simple motor task. We report that motor learning increases response size, while transiently occluding long-term potentiation (LTP) and increasing spine width in layer 1. This demonstrates learning-induced changes in behavior, synaptic responses, and structure in the same animal, suggesting that an LTP-like process in the motor cortex mediates the initial learning of a skilled task.
Previously acquired aversive and appetitive memories are not stable and permanent. The reactivation of such memories by re-exposure to training stimuli renders them vulnerable to disruption by amnestic agents such as the noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-SH-dibenzo{a,d}cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (MK-801). However, relatively little is known about the parameters that influence the reactivation process. Here, we show that the method of stimulus presentation during memory reactivation is of great importance. Male Lister Hooded rats were trained to acquire a lever press response that delivered a sucrose reward paired with a light conditioned stimulus (CS). The CS-sucrose association was then reactivated through re-exposure to the CS, either contingently upon the lever press response, or noncontingently in the absence of instrumental responding. Systemic administration of MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg) at the time of memory reactivation resulted in amnesia, and hence a reduction in subsequent sucrose seeking induced by, and dependent upon, presentation of the CS, only when the memory was reactivated contingently. Therefore, stimuli may have to be presented in the same manner at memory reactivation as during learning in order to render a previously acquired memory vulnerable to disruption. These results have important implications for the potential translational use of glutamatergic treatments in conjunction with targeted memory reactivation.
Rodent studies using cortical removal techniques, ranging from transient deactivation to surgical ablation of cortex, reveal the importance of auditory cortical integrity in detecting short silent gaps in white noise (2-15 ms). Processing limits for longer gaps under decorticate conditions in rats remain unknown. Determining the temporal threshold for subcortical resolution of gaps in noise could, however, shed light on both normal hierarchical processing of acoustic temporal stimuli, as well as the etiology of processing anomalies following developmental cortical disruption. To address these important issues, we assessed whether intact rats, as well as those with induced developmental cortical disruptions (microgyria) could resolve silent gaps of 20-100 ms in duration when embedded in white noise, during functional deactivation of auditory cortex. Results showed that both intact rats, as well as those with cortical malformations resulting from early focal disruptions of neuronal migration could resolve silent gaps of 100-ms duration under cortical deactivation (KCl). However, only intact rats could reliably detect 75-ms gaps, suggesting possible subcortical anomalies in subjects with early cortical disturbances.
Investigating the neural substrates of auditory processing of absolute pitch musicians has relevance for understanding the capabilities of the human brain for plasticity. Electroencephalography was used to examine the N1 of auditory-evoked potentials from absolute pitch musicians, nonabsolute pitch musicians, and nonmusicians during tone labeling tasks with and without presentation of a reference tone. Source localization using low-resolution electromagnetic tomography revealed that when labeling tones without a reference, absolute pitch musicians generated greater activity than nonabsolute pitch musicians in the left and right hemispheres. This suggests that when required to label tones without an external reference, absolute pitch musicians have the ability to recruit a greater network than nonabsolute pitch musicians or nonmusicians.



Maturation of the cerebral cortex involves the spontaneous emergence of distinct patterns of neuronal synchronization, which regulate neuronal differentiation, synapse formation, and serve as a substrate for information processing. The intrinsic activity patterns that characterize the maturation of cortical layer 2/3 are poorly understood. By using microelectrode array recordings in vivo and in vitro, we show that this development is marked by the emergence of nested - and beta/gamma-oscillations that require NMDA- and GABA(A)-mediated synaptic transmission. The oscillations organized as neuronal avalanches, i.e., they were synchronized across cortical sites forming diverse and millisecond-precise spatiotemporal patterns that distributed in sizes according to a power law with a slope of -1.5. The correspondence between nested oscillations and neuronal avalanches required activation of the dopamine D(1) receptor. We suggest that the repetitive formation of neuronal avalanches provides an intrinsic template for the selective linking of external inputs to developing superficial layers.
Dominant mutations in ubiquitously expressed superoxide dismutase (SOD1) cause familial ALS by provoking premature death of adult motor neurons. To test whether mutant damage to cell types beyond motor neurons is required for the onset of motor neuron disease, we generated chimeric mice in which all motor neurons and oligodendrocytes expressed mutant SOD1 at a level sufficient to cause fatal, early-onset motor neuron disease when expressed ubiquitously, but did so in a cellular environment containing variable numbers of non-mutant, non-motor neurons. Despite high-level mutant expression within 100% of motor neurons and oligodendrocytes, in most of these chimeras, the presence of WT non-motor neurons substantially delayed onset of motor neuron degeneration, increasing disease-free life by 50%. Disease onset is therefore non-cell autonomous, and mutant SOD1 damage within cell types other than motor neurons and oligodendrocytes is a central contributor to initiation of motor neuron degeneration.
We have recently demonstrated that microglia as multipotential stem cells give rise to microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2)-positive and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive cells and that microglia-derived MAP2-positive cells possess properties of functional neurons. In this study, we investigated the molecular pathways involved in the generation of microglia-derived MAP2-positive and GFAP-positive cells. Western blot analyses demonstrated that expression levels of Id2 protein, an inhibitory basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor of the inhibitor of differentiation and DNA binding family, and Smad proteins were upregulated under differentiation conditions. Immunocytochemical analyses demonstrated that the generation of MAP2-positive and GFAP-positive cells from microglia was promoted by bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) and was inhibited by noggin which is a BMP antagonist, Smad4 siRNA and Id2 siRNA. These results indicate that activation of BMP signaling through Smad and Id2 proteins is one of the molecular pathways involved in the generation of microglia-derived MAP2-positive and GFAP-positive cells.

Sustained nigrostriatal dopamine depletion increases the serine/threonine phosphorylation of multiple striatal proteins that play a role in corticostriatal synaptic plasticity, including Thr(286) phosphorylation of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IIalpha (CaMKIIalpha). Mechanisms underlying these changes are unclear, but protein phosphatases play a critical role in the acute modulation of striatal protein phosphorylation. Here we show that dopamine depletion for periods ranging from 3 weeks to 10 months significantly reduces the total activity of protein phosphatase (PP) 1, but not of PP2A, in whole lysates of rat striatum, as measured using multiple substrates, including Thr(286)-autophosphorylated CaMKIIalpha. Striatal PP1 activity is partially inhibited by a fragment of the PP1-binding protein neurabin-I, Nb-(146-493), because of the selective inhibition of the PP1gamma(1) isoform. The fraction of PP1 activity that is insensitive to Nb-(146-493) was unaffected by dopamine depletion, demonstrating that dopamine depletion specifically reduces the activity of PP1 isoforms that are sensitive to Nb-(146-493) (i.e. PP1gamma(1)). However, total striatal levels of PP1gamma(1) or any other PP1 isoform were unaffected by dopamine depletion, and our previous studies showed that total levels of the PP1 regulatory/targeting proteins DARPP-32, spinophilin, and neurabin were also unchanged. Rather, co-immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated that dopamine depletion increases the association of PP1gamma(1) with spinophilin in striatal extracts. In combination, these data demonstrate that striatal dopamine depletion inhibits a specific synaptic phosphatase by increasing PP1gamma(1) interaction with spinophilin, perhaps contributing to hyperphosphorylation of synaptic proteins and disruptions of synaptic plasticity and/or dendritic morphology.
We here describe the generation of novel, green fluorescent protein-based Ca(2+) indicators targeted to the peroxisome lumen. We show that (i) the Ca(2+) concentration of peroxisomes in living cells at rest is similar to that of the cytosol; (ii) increases in cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration (elicited by either Ca(2+) mobilization from stores or Ca(2+) influx through plasma membrane Ca(2+) channels) are followed by a slow rise in intraperoxisomal [Ca(2+)]; (iii) Ca(2+) influx into peroxisomes is driven neither by an ATP-dependent pump nor by membrane potential nor by a H(+)(Na(+)) gradient. The peroxisomal membrane appears to play a low pass filter role, preventing the organelle from taking up shortlasting cytosolic Ca(2+) transients but allowing equilibration of the peroxisomal luminal [Ca(2+)] with that of the cytosol during prolonged Ca(2+) increases. Thus, peroxisomes appear to be an additional cytosolic Ca(2+) buffer, but their influx and efflux mechanisms are unlike those of any other cellular organelle.
When a stimulus is presented, its sensory trace decays rapidly, lasting for approximately 1000 ms. This brief and labile memory, referred as iconic memory, serves as a buffer before information is transferred to working memory and executive control. Here we explored the effect of different factors--geometric, spatial, and experience--with respect to the access and the maintenance of information in iconic memory and the progressive distortion of this memory. We studied performance in a partial report paradigm, a design wherein recall of only part of a stimulus array is required. Subjects had to report the identity of a letter in a location that was cued in a variable delay after the stimulus onset. Performance decayed exponentially with time, and we studied the different parameters (time constant, zero-delay value, and decay amplitude) as a function of the different factors. We observed that experience (determined by letter frequency) affected the access to iconic memory but not the temporal decay constant. On the contrary, spatial position affected the temporal course of delay. The entropy of the error distribution increased with time reflecting a progressive morphological distortion of the iconic buffer. We discuss our results on the context of a model of information access to executive control and how it is affected by learning and attention.
Studies have shown that N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors play a critical role in morphine analgesia and motoric processes at different levels of the central nervous system. In this study, we used cortex-specific NR1 knockout (KO) mice (C57BL/6 strain) to elucidate the role of cortical NMDA receptors in morphine analgesia and motor coordination. On post-natal day 20, mice (CTL and KO) received vehicle (saline) or morphine (10 mg/kg) and paw withdrawal latency (PWL) to a noxious thermal stimulus was measured. On post-natal day 21, motor coordination was measured using the rotating pole test. No differences in KO mice were found with respect to PWL following administration of saline or morphine (p&gt;0.05). However, sex-dependent differences were found in motor coordination, with male KO mice showing a greater motor impairment in the rotating pole test than female KO mice (p&lt;0.05). The present results demonstrate that NMDA receptors are involved in both the analgesic effects of morphine and motor coordination, with the existence of sex-related differences in motor coordination.
When food is plentiful, circadian rhythms of animals are powerfully entrained by the light-dark cycle. However, if animals have access to food only during their normal sleep cycle, they will shift most of their circadian rhythms to match the food availability. We studied the basis for entrainment of circadian rhythms by food and light in mice with targeted disruption of the clock gene Bmal1, which lack circadian rhythmicity. Injection of a viral vector containing the Bmal1 gene into the suprachiasmatic nuclei of the hypothalamus restored light-entrainable, but not food-entrainable, circadian rhythms. In contrast, restoration of the Bmal1 gene only in the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus restored the ability of animals to entrain to food but not to light. These results demonstrate that the dorsomedial hypothalamus contains a Bmal1-based oscillator that can drive food entrainment of circadian rhythms.
Brain tumors are now the leading cause of cancer-related deaths in children under age 15. Malignant gliomas are, for all practical purposes, incurable and new therapeutic approaches are desperately needed. One emerging strategy is to use the tumor tracking capacity inherent in many stem cell populations to deliver therapeutic agents to the brain cancer cells. Current limitations of the stem cell therapy strategy include that stem cells are treated as a single entity and lack of uniform technology is adopted for selection of clinically relevant sub-populations of stem cells. Specifically, therapeutic success relies on the selection of a clinically competent stem cell population based on their capacity of targeting brain tumors. A novel and generalizable organotypic slice platform to evaluate stem cell potential for targeting pediatric brain tumors is proposed to fill the gap in the current work flow of stem cell-based therapy. The organotypic slice platform has advantages of being mimic in vivo model, easier to manipulate to optimize parameters than in vivo models such as rodents and primates. This model serves as a framework to address the discrepancy between anticipated in vivo results and actual in vivo results, a critical barrier to timely progress in the field of the use of stem cells for the treatment of neurological disorders.
N'-aryl acyl hydrazides were identified as P2X7 receptor antagonists. Structure-activity relationship (SAR) studies evaluated functional activity by monitoring calcium flux inhibition in cell lines expressing recombinant human and rat P2X7 receptors. Selected analogs were assayed in vitro for their capacity to inhibit release of cytokine IL-1beta. Compounds with potent antagonist function were evaluated in vivo using the zymosan-induced peritonitis model. A representative compound effectively attenuated mechanical allodynia in a rat model of neuropathic pain.

The level of electrotonic coupling in the inferior olive is extremely high, but its functional role in cerebellar motor control remains elusive. Here, we subjected mice that lack olivary coupling to paradigms that require learning-dependent timing. Cx36-deficient mice showed impaired timing of both locomotion and eye-blink responses that were conditioned to a tone. The latencies of their olivary spike activities in response to the unconditioned stimulus were significantly more variable than those in wild-types. Whole-cell recordings of olivary neurons in vivo showed that these differences in spike timing result at least in part from altered interactions with their subthreshold oscillations. These results, combined with analyses of olivary activities in computer simulations at both the cellular and systems level, suggest that electrotonic coupling among olivary neurons by gap junctions is essential for proper timing of their action potentials and thereby for learning-dependent timing in cerebellar motor control.
The naturally occurring sex difference in dendritic spine number on hypothalamic neurons offers a unique opportunity to investigate mechanisms establishing synaptic patterning during perinatal sensitive periods. A major advantage of the rat as a model of sexual differentiation is that treatment of neonatal females with estradiol will permanently induce the male phenotype. During the development of other systems, exuberant innervation is followed by activity-dependent pruning necessary for elimination of spurious synapses. In contrast, we demonstrate that estradiol-induced organization in the hypothalamus involves the induction of new synapses on dendritic spines. Activation of estrogen receptors by estradiol triggers a nongenomic activation of PI3 kinase that results in enhanced glutamate release from presynaptic neurons. Subsequent activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors activates MAP kinases, thereby inducing dendritic spine formation. These results reveal a transneuronal mechanism by which estradiol acts during a sensitive period to establish a profound and lasting sex difference in hypothalamic synaptic patterning.
Homeostatic plasticity keeps neuronal spiking output within an optimal range in the face of chronically altered levels of network activity. Little is known about the underlying molecular mechanisms, particularly in response to elevated activity. We report that, in hippocampal neurons experiencing heightened activity, the activity-inducible protein kinase Polo-like kinase 2 (Plk2, also known as SNK) was required for synaptic scaling-a principal mechanism underlying homeostatic plasticity. Synaptic scaling also required CDK5, which acted as a &quot;priming&quot; kinase for the phospho-dependent binding of Plk2 to its substrate SPAR, a postsynaptic RapGAP and scaffolding molecule that is degraded following phosphorylation by Plk2. RNAi knockdown of SPAR weakened synapses, and overexpression of a SPAR mutant resistant to Plk2-dependent degradation prevented synaptic scaling. Thus, priming phosphorylation of the Plk2 binding site in SPAR by CDK5, followed by Plk2 recruitment and SPAR phosphorylation-degradation, constitutes a molecular pathway for neuronal homeostatic plasticity during chronically elevated activity.
Serum response factor (SRF) is a prototypic transcription factor that mediates stimulus-dependent gene expression. Here, we show that SRF mediates NGF signaling, axonal growth, branching, and target innervation by embryonic DRG sensory neurons. Conditional deletion of the murine SRF gene in DRGs results in no deficits in neuronal viability or differentiation but causes defects in extension and arborization of peripheral axonal projections in the target field in vivo, similar to the target innervation defects observed in mice lacking NGF. Moreover, SRF is both necessary and sufficient for NGF-dependent axonal outgrowth in vitro, and NGF regulates SRF-dependent gene expression and axonal outgrowth through activation of both MEK/ERK and MAL signaling pathways. These findings show that SRF is a major effector of both MEK/ERK and MAL signaling by NGF and that SRF is a key mediator of NGF-dependent target innervation by embryonic sensory neurons.
Direction selectivity in the retina requires the asymmetric wiring of inhibitory inputs onto four subtypes of On-Off direction-selective ganglion cells (DSGCs), each preferring motion in one of four cardinal directions. The primary model for the development of direction selectivity is that patterned activity plays an instructive role. Here, we use a unique, large-scale multielectrode array to demonstrate that DSGCs are present at eye opening, in mice that have been reared in darkness and in mice that lack cholinergic retinal waves. These data suggest that direction selectivity in the retina is established largely independent of patterned activity and is therefore likely to emerge as a result of complex molecular interactions.
Nicotinic mechanisms acting on the hippocampus influence attention, learning, and memory and constitute a significant therapeutic target for many neurodegenerative, neurological, and psychiatric disorders. Here, we report that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) (1-100 ng/ml), a member of the neurotrophin gene family, rapidly decreases alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor responses in interneurons of the hippocampal CA1 stratum radiatum. Such effect is dependent on the activation of the TrkB receptor and involves the actin cytoskeleton; noteworthy, it is compromised when the extracellular levels of the endogenous neuromodulator adenosine are reduced with adenosine deaminase (1 U/ml) or when adenosine A(2A) receptors are blocked with SCH 58261 (2-(2-furanyl)-7-(2-phenylethyl)-7H-pyrazolo[4,3-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5-amine) (100 nm). The intracellular application of U73122 (1-[6[[(17beta)-3-methoxyestra-1,3,5(10)-trien-17-yl]amino]hexyl]-1H-pyrrole-2,5-dione) (5 mum), a broad-spectrum inhibitor of phospholipase C, or GF 109203X (bisindolylmaleimide I) (2 mum), a general inhibitor of protein kinase C isoforms, blocks BDNF-induced inhibition of alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor function. Moreover, in conditions of simultaneous intracellular dialysis of the fast Ca(2+) chelator BAPTA (10 mm) and removal of extracellular Ca(2+) ions, the inhibitory action of BDNF is further prevented. The present findings disclose a novel target for rapid actions of BDNF that might play important roles on synaptic transmission and plasticity in the brain.
The genes Kcnc1 and Kcnc3 encode the subunits for the fast-activating/fast-deactivating, voltage-gated potassium channels Kv3.1 and Kv3.3, which are expressed in several brain regions known to be involved in the regulation of the sleep-wake cycle. When these genes are genetically eliminated, Kv3.1/Kv3.3-deficient mice display severe sleep loss as a result of unstable slow-wave sleep. Within the thalamocortical circuitry, Kv3.1 and Kv3.3 subunits are highly expressed in the thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN), which is thought to act as a pacemaker at sleep onset and to be involved in slow oscillatory activity (spindle waves) during slow-wave sleep. We showed that in cortical electroencephalographic recordings of freely moving Kv3.1/Kv3.3-deficient mice, spectral power is reduced up to 70% at frequencies &lt;15 Hz. In addition, the number of sleep spindles in vivo as well as rhythmic rebound firing of TRN neurons in vitro is diminished in mutant mice. Kv3.1/Kv3.3-deficient TRN neurons studied in vitro show approximately 60% increase in action potential duration and a reduction in high-frequency firing after depolarizing current injections and during rebound burst firing. The results support the hypothesis that altered electrophysiological properties of TRN neurons contribute to the reduced EEG power at slow frequencies in the thalamocortical network of Kv3-deficient mice.
DNA damage is an important initiator of neuronal apoptosis and activates signaling events not yet fully defined. Using the camptothecin-induced DNA damage model in neurons, we previously showed that cyclin D1-associated cell cycle cyclin-dependent kinases (Cdks) (Cdk4/6) and p53 activation are two major events leading to activation of the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway. With gene array analyses, we detected upregulation of Cited2, a CBP (cAMP response element-binding protein-binding protein)/p300 interacting transactivator, in response to DNA damage. This upregulation was confirmed by reverse transcription-PCR and Western blot. CITED2 was functionally important because CITED2 overexpression promotes death, whereas CITED2 deficiency protects. Cited2 upregulation is upstream of the mitochondrial death pathway (BAX, Apaf1, or cytochrome c release) and appears to be independent of p53. However, inhibition of the Cdk4 blocked Cited2 induction. The Cited2 prodeath mechanism does not involve Bmi-1 or p53. Instead, Cited2 activates peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma), an activity that we demonstrate is critical for DNA damage-induced death. These results define a novel neuronal prodeath pathway in which Cdk4-mediated regulation of Cited2 activates PPARgamma and consequently caspase.
Sexual behavior between males is observed in many species, but the biological factors involved are poorly known. In mammals, manipulation of dopamine has revealed the role of this neuromodulator on male sexual behavior. We used genetic and pharmacological approaches to manipulate the dopamine level in dopaminergic cells in Drosophila and investigated the consequence of this manipulation on male-male courtship behavior. Males with increased dopamine level showed enhanced propensity to court other males but did not change their courtship toward virgin females, general olfactory response, general gustatory response, or locomotor activity. Our results indicate that the high intensity of male-male interaction shown by these manipulated males was related to their altered sensory perception of other males.
Lapses of attention manifest as delayed behavioral responses to salient stimuli. Although they can occur even after a normal night's sleep, they are longer in duration and more frequent after sleep deprivation (SD). To identify changes in task-associated brain activation associated with lapses during SD, we performed functional magnetic resonance imaging during a visual, selective attention task and analyzed the correct responses in a trial-by-trial manner modeling the effects of response time. Separately, we compared the fastest 10% and slowest 10% of correct responses in each state. Both analyses concurred in finding that SD-related lapses differ from lapses of equivalent duration after a normal night's sleep by (1) reduced ability of frontal and parietal control regions to raise activation in response to lapses, (2) dramatically reduced visual sensory cortex activation, and (3) reduced thalamic activation during lapses that contrasted with elevated thalamic activation during nonlapse periods. Despite these differences, the fastest responses after normal sleep and after SD elicited comparable frontoparietal activation, suggesting that performing a task while sleep deprived involves periods of apparently normal neural activation interleaved with periods of depressed cognitive control, visual perceptual functions, and arousal. These findings reveal for the first time some of the neural consequences of the interaction between efforts to maintain wakefulness and processes that initiate involuntary sleep in sleep-deprived persons.
The endogenous opioid system is involved in fear learning in rodents, as opioid agonists attenuate and opioid antagonists facilitate the acquisition of conditioned fear. It has been suggested that an opioidergic signal, which is engaged through conditioning and acts inhibitory on unconditioned stimulus input, is the source of these effects. To clarify whether blockade of endogenous opioid neurotransmission enhances acquisition of conditioned fear in humans, and to elucidate the neural underpinnings of such an effect, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging in combination with behavioral recordings and a double-blind pharmacological intervention. All subjects underwent the same classical fear-conditioning paradigm, but subjects in the experimental group received the opioid antagonist naloxone before and during the experiment, in contrast to subjects in the control group, who received saline. Blocking endogenous opioid neurotransmission with naloxone led to more sustained responses to the unconditioned stimulus across trials, evident in both behavioral and blood oxygen level-dependent responses in pain responsive cortical regions. This effect was likely caused by naloxone blocking conditioned responses in a pain-inhibitory circuit involving opioid-rich areas such as the rostral anterior cingulate cortex, amygdala, and periaqueductal gray. Most importantly, naloxone enhanced the acquisition of fear on the behavioral level and changed the activation profile of the amygdala: whereas the control group showed rapidly decaying conditioned responses across trials, the naloxone group showed sustained conditioned responses in the amygdala. Together, these results demonstrate that in humans the endogenous opioid system has an inhibitory role in the acquisition of fear.
Neurons in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) are responsible for the generation of circadian oscillations, and understanding how these neurons communicate to form a functional circuit is a critical issue. The neurotransmitter GABA and its receptors are widely expressed in the SCN where they mediate cell-to-cell communication. Previous studies have raised the possibility that GABA can function as an excitatory transmitter in adult SCN neurons during the day, but this work is controversial. In the present study, we first tested the hypothesis that GABA can evoke excitatory responses during certain phases of the daily cycle by broadly sampling how SCN neurons respond to GABA using extracellular single-unit recording and gramicidin-perforated-patch recording techniques. We found that, although GABA inhibits most SCN neurons, some level of GABA-mediated excitation was present in both dorsal and ventral regions of the SCN, regardless of the time of day. These GABA-evoked excitatory responses were most common during the night in the dorsal SCN region. The Na(+)-K(+)-2Cl(-) cotransporter (NKCC) inhibitor, bumetanide, prevented these excitatory responses. In individual neurons, the application of bumetanide was sufficient to change GABA-evoked excitation to inhibition. Calcium-imaging experiments also indicated that GABA-elicited calcium transients in SCN cells are highly dependent on the NKCC isoform 1 (NKCC1). Finally, Western blot analysis indicated that NKCC1 expression in the dorsal SCN is higher in the night. Together, this work indicates that GABA can play an excitatory role in communication between adult SCN neurons and that this excitation is critically dependent on NKCC1.


Allele-specific gene silencing by RNA interference (RNAi) is therapeutically useful for specifically inhibiting the expression of disease-associated alleles without suppressing the expression of corresponding wild-type alleles. To realize such allele-specific RNAi (ASP-RNAi), the design and assessment of small interfering RNA (siRNA) duplexes conferring ASP-RNAi is vital; however, it is also difficult. In a previous study, we developed an assay system to assess ASP-RNAi with mutant and wild-type reporter alleles encoding the Photinus and Renilla luciferase genes. In line with experiments using the system, we realized that it is necessary and important to enhance allele discrimination between mutant and corresponding wild-type alleles. Here, we describe the improvement of ASP-RNAi against mutant alleles carrying single nucleotide variations by introducing base substitutions into siRNA sequences, where original variations are present in the central position. Artificially mismatched siRNAs or short-hairpin RNAs (shRNAs) against mutant alleles of the human Prion Protein (PRNP) gene, which appear to be associated with susceptibility to prion diseases, were examined using this assessment system. The data indicates that introduction of a one-base mismatch into the siRNAs and shRNAs was able to enhance discrimination between the mutant and wild-type alleles. Interestingly, the introduced mismatches that conferred marked improvement in ASP-RNAi, appeared to be largely present in the guide siRNA elements, corresponding to the 'seed region' of microRNAs. Due to the essential role of the 'seed region' of microRNAs in their association with target RNAs, it is conceivable that disruption of the base-pairing interactions in the corresponding seed region, as well as the central position (involved in cleavage of target RNAs), of guide siRNA elements could influence allele discrimination. In addition, we also suggest that nucleotide mismatches at the 3'-ends of sense-strand siRNA elements, which possibly increase the assembly of antisense-strand (guide) siRNAs into RNA-induced silencing complexes (RISCs), may enhance ASP-RNAi in the case of inert siRNA duplexes. Therefore, the data presented here suggest that structural modification of functional portions of an siRNA duplex by base substitution could greatly influence allele discrimination and gene silencing, thereby contributing to enhancement of ASP-RNAi.


We cannot help but categorize the visual world into objects like cats and faces. An intriguing new study shows that observers automatically discover informative fragments of visual objects during category learning.
Actions are guided by prior sensory information [1-10], which is inherently uncertain. However, how the motor system is sculpted by trial-by-trial content of current sensory information remains largely unexplored. Previous work suggests that conditional probabilities, learned under a particular context, can be used preemptively to influence the output of the motor system [11-14]. To test this we used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to read out corticospinal excitability (CSE) during preparation for action in an instructed delay task [15, 16]. We systematically varied the uncertainty about an impending action by changing the validity of the instructive visual cue. We used two information-theoretic quantities to predict changes in CSE, prior to action, on a trial-by-trial basis: entropy (average uncertainty) and surprise (the stimulus-bound information conveyed by a visual cue) [17-19]. Our data show that during preparation for action, human CSE varies according to the entropy and surprise conveyed by visual events guiding action. CSE increases on trials with low entropy about the impending action and low surprise conveyed by an event. Commensurate effects were observed in reaction times. We suggest that motor output is biased according to contextual probabilities that are represented dynamically in the brain.
Incomplete spinal cord injury (SCI) elicits structural plasticity of the spared motor system, including the motor cortex, which may underlie some of the spontaneous recovery of motor function seen after injury. Promoting structural plasticity may become an important component of future strategies to improve functional outcomes. We have recently observed dynamic changes in the density and morphology of dendritic spines in the motor cortex following SCI. The present study sought to test whether SCI-induced changes in spine density and morphology could be modulated by potential strategies to enhance functional recovery. We examined the effects of enriched environment, transplants, and neurotrophin-3 on the plasticity of synaptic structures in the motor cortex following SCI. Housing rats in an enriched environment increased spine density in the motor cortex regardless of injury. SCI led to a more slender and elongated spine morphology. Enriched housing mitigated the SCI-induced morphological alterations, suggesting that the environmental modification facilitates maturation of synaptic structures. Transplantation of embryonic spinal cord tissue and delivery of neurotrophin-3 at the injury site further increased spine density when combined with enriched housing. This combinatorial treatment completely abolished the injury-induced changes, restoring a preinjury pattern of spine morphology. These results demonstrated that remodeling of dendritic spines in the motor cortex after SCI can be modulated by enriched housing, and the combinatorial treatment with embryonic transplants and neurotrophin-3 can potentiate the effects of enriched housing. We suggest that synaptic remodeling processes in the motor cortex can be targeted for an intervention to enhance functional recovery after SCI.
The effects of acute and repeated stress on expression of the early immediate gene c-fos in the basolateral amygdala have previously been reported; however, characterization of which neuronal subpopulations are activated by these stimuli has not been investigated. This question is of considerable relevance, insofar as the basolateral amygdala houses a heterogeneous population of neurons, including those of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic and glutamatergic phenotypes that may be subcategorized based on their expression of various calcium-binding proteins, including parvalbumin, calbindin, calretinin, and the calcium-sensitive enzyme calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II. Characterization of these subpopulations has revealed unique differences in their physiology, synaptology, and morphology, suggesting that each distinct phenotype may have profound effects on the local circuitry of the amygdala. Therefore, we examined the effects of acute and repeated restraint stress on expression of the immediate early gene c-fos in neurons containing parvalbumin, calbindin, calretinin, or calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II in the basolateral amygdala. Double-label immunohistochemistry revealed that acute restraint stress activated a proportion of parvalbumin-, calbindin-, or calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II-positive neurons. Prior exposure to repeated restraint stress markedly attenuated acute-stress mediated activation of these neuronal populations, although not equally. Expression of c-Fos protein was not detected in calretinin-positive neurons in any experimental group. These results demonstrate that distinct neuronal phenotypes in the basolateral amygdala are activated by acute restraint stress and that prior repeated restraint stress differentially affects this response.
The pigeon vestibulocerebellum is divided into two regions based on the responses of Purkinje cells to optic flow stimuli: the uvula-nodulus responds best to self-translation, and the flocculus responds best to self-rotation. We used retrograde tracing to determine whether the flocculus and uvula-nodulus receive differential mossy fiber input from the vestibular and cerebellar nuclei. From retrograde injections into the both the flocculus and uvula-nodulus, numerous cells were found in the superior vestibular nucleus (VeS), the cerebellovestibular process (pcv), the descending vestibular nucleus (VeD), and the medial vestibular nucleus (VeM). Less labeling was found in the prepositus hypoglossi, the cerebellar nuclei, the dorsolateral vestibular nucleus, and the lateral vestibular nucleus, pars ventralis. In the VeS, the differential input to the flocculus and uvula-nodulus was distinct: cells were localized to the medial and lateral regions, respectively. The same pattern was observed in the VeD, although there was considerable overlap. In the VeM, the majority of cells labeled from the flocculus were in rostral margins on the ipsilateral side, whereas labeling from uvula-nodulus injections was distributed bilaterally throughout the VeM. Finally, from injections in the flocculus but not the uvula-nodulus, moderate labeling was observed in a paramedian area, adjacent to the medial longitudinal fasciculus. In summary, there were clear differences with respect to the projections from the vestibular nuclei to functionally distinct parts of the vestibulocerebellum. Generally speaking, the mossy fibers to the flocculus and uvula-nodulus arise from regions of the vestibular nuclei that receive input from the semicircular canals and otolith organs, respectively.


Growth/differentiation factor 3 (GDF3) is highly expressed in adipose tissue, and previous overexpression experiments in mice have suggested that it may act as an adipogenic factor under conditions of high lipid load. GDF3 has been shown to signal via the activin receptor ALK4 during embryogenesis, but functional receptors in adipose tissue are unknown. In this study, we show that Gdf3(-/-) mutant mice accumulate less adipose tissue than WT animals and show partial resistance to high-fat diet-induced obesity despite similar food intake. We also demonstrate that GDF3 can signal via the ALK4-homolog ALK7 and the coreceptor Cripto, both of which are expressed in adipose tissue. In agreement with a role for ALK7 in GDF3 signaling in vivo, mutant mice lacking ALK7 also showed reduced fat accumulation and partial resistance to diet-induced obesity. We propose that GDF3 regulates adipose-tissue homeostasis and energy balance under nutrient overload in part by signaling through the ALK7 receptor.
All major cell types in pancreatic islets express the transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta superfamily receptor ALK7, but the physiological function of this receptor has been unknown. Mutant mice lacking ALK7 showed normal pancreas organogenesis but developed an age-dependent syndrome involving progressive hyperinsulinemia, reduced insulin sensitivity, liver steatosis, impaired glucose tolerance, and islet enlargement. Hyperinsulinemia preceded the development of any other defect, indicating that this may be one primary consequence of the lack of ALK7. In agreement with this, mutant islets showed enhanced insulin secretion under sustained glucose stimulation, indicating that ALK7 negatively regulates glucose-stimulated insulin release in beta-cells. Glucose increased expression of ALK7 and its ligand activin B in islets, but decreased that of activin A, which does not signal through ALK7. The two activins had opposite effects on Ca(2+) signaling in islet cells, with activin A increasing, but activin B decreasing, glucose-stimulated Ca(2+) influx. On its own, activin B had no effect on WT cells, but stimulated Ca(2+) influx in cells lacking ALK7. In accordance with this, mutant mice lacking activin B showed hyperinsulinemia comparable with that of Alk7(-/-) mice, but double mutants showed no additive effects, suggesting that ALK7 and activin B function in a common pathway to regulate insulin secretion. These findings uncover an unexpected antagonism between activins A and B in the control of Ca(2+) signaling in beta-cells. We propose that ALK7 plays an important role in regulating the functional plasticity of pancreatic islets, negatively affecting beta-cell function by mediating the effects of activin B on Ca(2+) signaling.
The frontal eye field (FEF) is involved in the transformation of visual signals into saccadic eye movements. Although it is often considered an oculomotor structure, several lines of evidence suggest that the FEF also contributes to visual perception and attention. To better understand the range of behaviors to which the FEF can contribute, we tested whether monkeys could detect activation of their FEF by electrical microstimulation with currents below those that cause eye movements. We found that stimulation of FEF neurons could almost always be detected at levels below those needed to generate saccades and that the electrical current needed for detection was highly correlated with that needed to generate a saccade. This relationship between detection and saccade thresholds can be explained if FEF neurons represent preparation to make particular saccades and subjects can be aware of such preparations without acting on them when the representation is not strong.
Interactions between the opioidergic and dopaminergic systems in the nucleus accumbens (NAcb) play a critical role in mediating cocaine withdrawal-induced effects on cell signaling and behavior. In support of this, increased activation of striatal dopamine-D1 receptors (D1R) results in desensitization of delta-opioid receptor (DOR) signaling through adenylyl cyclase during early cocaine withdrawal. A potential cellular substrate underlying receptor desensitization is receptor internalization. The present study examined the effect of cocaine withdrawal on subcellular localization of DOR in dendrites of the NAcb core (NAcbC) and shell (NAcbS) using immunoelectron microscopy. Female and male rats received binge-pattern cocaine or saline for 14 days and subsequently underwent 48 h withdrawal. Animals were transcardially perfused and tissue sections were processed for immunogold-silver localization of DOR. Semi-quantitative analysis revealed that cocaine withdrawal caused an increase in the percentage of DOR localized intracellularly in the NAcbS of male and female rats and the NAcbC of male rats compared to saline controls. In contrast, in the NAcbC of female rats, there was an increase in DOR associated with the plasma membrane following cocaine withdrawal. To determine whether modulation of D1R could directly impact DOR containing neurons, the hypothesis that DOR and D1R co-exist in common neurons of the NAcb was examined in nave rats. Semi-quantitative analysis revealed a subset of profiles containing both DOR and D1R immunoreactivities. The present findings demonstrate a redistribution of DOR in the NAcb following cocaine withdrawal and provide anatomical evidence supporting D1R regulation of DOR function in a subset of NAcb neurons.
We previously showed that neuregulin-1 (NRG-1) protected neurons from death in vivo following focal ischemia. The goal of this study was to develop an in vitro rat ischemia model to examine the cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in the neuroprotective effects of NRG-1 on ischemia-induced neuronal death. Rat B-35 neuroblastoma cells differentiated by serum withdrawal, developed enhanced neuronal characteristics including, neurite extension and upregulation of neuronal markers of differentiation. When B35 neurons were subjected to oxygen glucose deprivation (OGD)/reoxygenation or glutamate, widespread neuronal death was seen after both treatments. Treatment with NRG-1 immediately after OGD significantly increased neuronal survival. NRG-1 administration also resulted in a significant decrease in annexin V, an early marker of apoptosis. However, the neurotoxic actions of glutamate were unaffected by NRG-1. The neuroprotective effects of NRG-1 were prevented by an inhibitor of the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase/Akt pathway. These results provide a new model to gain insight into the mechanisms employed by NRG-1 to protect neurons from ischemic brain injury.
Effective cell replacement therapies for neurological disease require neuron-restricted precursors as grafted cells. The problem of obtaining sufficient grafts for transplantation can be resolved by creating an appropriate immortalized cell line. In the present study, a thermally controlled immortalized GABAergic neuronal progenitor cell line (RMNE6) was established from E13 rat ventral mesencephalon cells immortalized using the temperature-sensitive mutant of SV40 large T antigen (ts-TAg). RMNE6 cells proliferated rapidly and expressed a neuron-like phenotype at the permissive temperature (33 degrees C), but eventually stopped growing at the non-permissive temperature (39 degrees C). Expression of the neuronal markers PSA-NCAM, beta-tubulin III and MAP2 by RMNE6 cells was confirmed by RT-PCR or immunocytochemistry. Furthermore, these cells exhibited functional GABAergic neuron properties, as evidenced by the expression of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) as well as the synthesis and release of the neurotransmitter GABA in a calcium-dependent manner. Moreover, RMNE6 cells spontaneously expressed and secreted several neurotrophic factors, such as NGF, BDNF, NT-3, NT-4/5, and GDNF. The cells survived well and kept expression of SV40 Tag, GAD65/67 and GABA in the striatum, at least 28 days after being transplanted in the rat brain. Tumorigenesis assays confirmed the safety of the immortalized cell line in vivo. Taken together, the results support the use of RMNE6 cells as an ideal cell model for transplantation research aimed at the treatment and prevention of neurodegenerative disease.
Photothrombotic infarcts of the neocortex result in structural and functional alterations of cortical networks, including decreased GABAergic inhibition, and can generate epileptic seizures within 1 month of lesioning. In our study, we assessed the involvement and potential changes of cortical GABA A receptor (GABA AR) alpha1 subunits at 1, 3, 7, and 30 days after photothrombosis. Quantitative competitive reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (cRT-PCR) and semi-quantitative Western blot analysis were used to investigate GABA AR alpha1 subunit mRNA and protein levels in proximal and distal regions of perilesional cortex and in homotopic areas of young adult Sprague-Dawley rats. GABA AR alpha1 subunit mRNA levels were decreased ipsilateral and contralateral to the infarct at 7 days, but were increased bilaterally at 30 days. GABA AR alpha1 subunit protein levels revealed no significant change in neocortical areas of both hemispheres of lesioned animals compared with protein levels of sham-operated controls at 1, 3, 7, and 30 days. At 30 days, GABA AR alpha1 subunit protein expression was significantly increased in lesioned animals within proximal and distal regions of perilesional cortex compared with distal neocortical areas contralaterally (Student's t-test, p&lt;0.05). Short- and long-term alterations of mRNA and protein levels of the GABA AR alpha1 subunit ipsilateral and contralateral to the lesion may influence alterations in cell surface receptor subtype expression and GABA AR function following ischemic infarction and may be associated with formative mechanisms of poststroke epileptogenesis.
Schwann cells are remarkably plastic cells that can both form and stably maintain myelin sheaths around axons and also rapidly dedifferentiate upon injury. New findings (Parkinson, D.B., A. Bhaskaran, P. Arthur-Farraj, L.A. Noon, A. Woodhoo, A.C. Lloyd, M.L. Feltri, L. Wrabetz, A. Behrens, R. Mirsky, and K.R. Jessen. 2008. J. Cell Biol. 181:625-637) indicate that the transition between these distinct states of differentiation is directed by the transcription factor Krox-20, which promotes and maintains myelination, and c-Jun, which antagonizes it. Cross-inhibition of these transcription factors serves to switch Schwann cells between the myelinated and dedifferentiated phenotypes, respectively.


The processing of spatial information is the focus of interest for many cognitive neuroscientists. Approximately 10 years ago, a novel behavioral paradigm called active allothetic place avoidance (AAPA) was designed allowing the simultaneous assessment of locomotor and spatial behavior. The present study describes the effect of the combined treatment of Long-Evans rats with alpha1-adrenergic and D2 antagonists prazosin (1mg/kg and 2 mg/kg) and sulpiride (10 mg/kg and 30 mg/kg) on locomotion and avoidance behavior in the AAPA task. Results show that co-application of both drugs leads to disturbances in locomotion and avoidance in rats at the doses, which caused no impairments when administered independently. This finding suggests that both types of receptors act synergistically to regulate locomotion and possibly spatial behavior.
We determined if cutaneous hyperalgesia and pain-induced c-Fos overexpression in the spinal cord produced by repeated forced swimming (FS) stress in the rat were related to changes in GABA neurotransmission by studying spinal release of GABA and the effect of positive modulation of GABA-A receptors with diazepam. Male rats were daily submitted to 10-20 min of either forced swimming or sham swimming (SS) for 3 consecutive days. Two days later, spinal GABA release was estimated by in vivo microdialysis. In other set of rats, either diazepam (2 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline was administered 1h before either SS or FS and inflammatory nociception was assessed with the formalin test; it was followed by removal of lumbar spinal cords for c-Fos immunocytochemistry. Basal and pain-evoked release of GABA in the spinal cord was lower in FS rats than in SS rats. In contrast, pain scores during formalin test late phase and pain-induced c-Fos expression in laminae I-VI of ipsilateral dorsal horn were significantly higher in FS rats than in SS rats. In FS rats, diazepam did not have effect on GABA release but reduced pain scores and overexpression of c-Fos whereas flumazenil (0.1 mg/kg, i.p.), an antagonist of the benzodiazepine binding site, reversed these effects. When diazepam was given only 1h before the formalin test, it slightly but significantly reduced pain scores during late phase in FS rats but not in SS rats. In conclusion, stress-induced reduction in GABA-A receptor activation is involved in the development of FS stress-induced hyperalgesia.
We investigated sleep ontogenesis in the ferret-a placental mammal that is highly altricial compared to other mammalian species. Because altriciality is linked with elevated rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep amounts during infancy, it was expected that ferret kits would display very high levels of this state. Longitudinal polysomnographic measurements were made from 8 ferret kits from approximately eye-opening (postnatal day [P]30)-P50 using an experimental routine that minimized the effects of maternal separation. These data were compared to values from 8 adult ferrets (&gt;3 months of age) and 6 neonatal cats (mean age: P31.7). We find that the polygraphic features of REM and non-REM (NREM) sleep are present by at least P30. Over the next 2 weeks, REM sleep amounts slightly declined while wakefulness and NREM sleep amounts increased. However, a comparison to published values from developing cats and rats showed that the ferret did not exhibit a disproportionate amount of REM sleep at similar postnatal ages or relative to a common developmental milestone (eye-opening).
Self-injurious behaviour (SIB) is exhibited by individuals with a broad variety of developmental disorders and genetic abnormalities, including autism and Lesch-Nyhan, Prader-Willi and Rett syndromes. Most research has focused on environmental factors that reinforce SIB, and less is known about the biological basis of this behaviour disorder. However, animal models have been developed to study the neurochemical pathology that underlies SIB. In one model, rats exhibit self-biting after repeated daily administration of moderately high doses of pemoline (100-200mg/kg). Dopaminergic and glutamatergic neurotransmission have been implicated in this model. Accordingly, we investigated the role of glutamatergic neurotransmission in pemoline-induced SIB, using the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists MK-801 and memantine. MK-801 is a high affinity antagonist which blocks glutamate-mediated neuroplasticity and behavioural sensitization to other psychostimulants. It lessened the incidence of SIB, the time spent self-injuring, and the area of tissue damage in the pemoline model. Memantine, on the other hand, is a low affinity antagonist which does not disrupt glutamate-mediated neuroplasticity, and it had little if any effect on any measure of pemoline-induced SIB. These results suggest that repeated pemoline administration induces glutamate-mediated neuroplastic changes that lead to the eventual expression of SIB. Further investigation of these changes may reveal specific neurochemical factors that contribute to SIB in this animal model of self-injury.
Spatial tasks are widely used to determine the function of limbic system structures in rats. The present study used a new task designed to evaluate spatial behavior, the ziggurat task (ZT), to examine the performance of rats with widespread hippocampal damage induced by N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA). The task consisted of an open field containing 16 identical ziggurats (pyramid shaped towers) arranged at equal distances. One of the ziggurats was baited with a food reward. The task required rats to navigate through the open field by using a combination of distal and/or proximal cues in order to locate the food reward. The ability to acquire and recall the location of the goal (baited) ziggurat was tested in consecutive training sessions of eight trials per day for 10 days. The location of the goal ziggurat was changed every second day, requiring the rats to learn a total of five different locations. Several parameters, including latency to find the target, distance traveled, the number of visits to non-baited ziggurats (errors), and the number of returns were used as indices of learning and memory. Control rats showed a significant decrease in distance traveled and reduced latency in locating the goal ziggurat across trials and days, suggesting that they learned and remembered the location of the goal ziggurat. Interestingly, the hippocampal-damaged group moved significantly faster, and traveled longer distances compared to the control group. Significant differences were observed between these groups with respect to the number of errors and returns on test days. Day 11 served as probe day, in which no food reward was given. The controls spent more time searching for the food in the previous training quadrant compared to the hippocampal group. The findings demonstrate that the ZT is a sensitive and efficient dry task for measuring hippocampus-dependent spatial performance in rats requiring little training and not associated with some of the disadvantages of water tasks.
We have recently reported that bis(7)-tacrine could prevent glutamate-induced neuronal apoptosis through NMDA receptors. In this study, we demonstrated that in cultured rat cortical neurons, bis(7)-tacrine (IC(50), 0.02 microM) prevented glutamate-induced excitotoxicity more substantially than memantine (IC(50), 0.7 microM). In addition, bis(7)-tacrine was more efficient than memantine in buffering the intracellular Ca(2+) triggered by glutamate. In cultured rat hippocampal neurons, bis(7)-tacrine inhibited 50 microM NMDA-activated current in a concentration-dependent manner with an IC(50) of 0.68+/-0.07 microM, which is five times more potent than that produced by memantine (IC(50), 3.41+/-0.36 microM; p&lt;0.05). By contrast, bis(7)-tacrine, up to 5 microM, did not significantly affect the current activated by 50 microM AMPA or 50 microM kainate. These results suggest that bis(7)-tacrine is more potent than memantine against glutamate-induced neurotoxicity by selectively inhibiting NMDA-activated current.
Tumor cells strategically down-regulate Fas receptor expression to evade immune attack and up-regulate expression of Fas ligand to promote apoptosis of infiltrating T lymphocytes. Many pathways leading to apoptotic cell death require calcium release from inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (IP3Rs). Here, we show that Fas-dependent killing of Jurkat T lymphoma cells by SW620 colon cancer cells requires calcium release from IP3R. General suppression of IP3R signaling significantly reduced SW620-mediated Jurkat cell apoptosis. Significantly, a specific inhibitor of apoptotic calcium release from IP3R strongly blocked lymphocyte apoptosis. Thus, selective pharmacological targeting of apoptotic calcium release from IP3R may enhance tumor cell immunogenicity.
The neural cell adhesion molecule NCAM binds glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) through specific determinants located in its third immunoglobulin (Ig) domain. However, high affinity GDNF binding and downstream signaling depend upon NCAM co-expression with the GDNF co-receptor GFRalpha1. GFRalpha1 promotes high affinity GDNF binding to NCAM and down-regulates NCAM-mediated homophilic cell adhesion, but the mechanisms underlying these effects are unknown. NCAM and GFRalpha1 interact at the plasma membrane, but the molecular determinants involved have not been characterized nor is it clear whether their interaction is required for GFRalpha1 regulation of NCAM function. We have investigated the structure-function relationships underlying GFRalpha1 binding to NCAM in intact cells. The fourth Ig domain of NCAM was both necessary and sufficient for the interaction of NCAM with GFRalpha1. Moreover, although the N-terminal domain of GFRalpha1 had previously been shown to be dispensable for GDNF binding, we found that it was both necessary and sufficient for the efficient interaction of this receptor with NCAM. GFRalpha1 lacking its N-terminal domain was still able to potentiate GDNF binding to NCAM and assemble into a tripartite receptor complex but showed a reduced capacity to attenuate NCAM-mediated cell adhesion. On its own, the GFRalpha1 N-terminal domain was sufficient to decrease NCAM-mediated cell adhesion. These results indicate that direct receptor-receptor interactions are not required for high affinity GDNF binding to NCAM but play an important role in the regulation of NCAM-mediated cell adhesion by GFRalpha1.
One of the mechanisms by which mutations in superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) cause familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (fALS) is proposed to involve the accumulation of detergent-insoluble, disulfide-cross-linked, mutant protein. Recent studies have implicated cysteine residues at positions 6 and 111 as critical in mediating disulfide cross-linking and promoting aggregation. In the present study, we used a panel of experimental and disease-linked mutations at cysteine residues of SOD1 (positions 6, 57, 111, and 146) in cell culture assays for aggregation to demonstrate that extensive disulfide cross-linking is not required for the formation of mutant SOD1 aggregates. Experimental mutants possessing only a single cysteine residue or lacking cysteine entirely were found to retain high potential to aggregate. Furthermore we demonstrate that aggregate structures in symptomatic SOD1-G93A mice can be dissociated such that they no longer sediment upon ultracentrifugation (i.e. appear soluble) under relatively mild conditions that leave disulfide bonds intact. Similar to other recent work, we found that cysteines 6 and 111, particularly the latter, play interesting roles in modulating the aggregation of human SOD1. However, we did not find that extensive disulfide cross-linking via these residues, or any other cysteine, is critical to aggregate structure. Instead we suggest that these residues participate in other features of the protein that, in some manner, modulate aggregation.
It is widely believed, that environmental factors play a crucial role in the etiology and outcome of psychiatric diseases such as Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). A former study from our laboratory has shown that both methylphenidate (MP) and handling have a positive effect on the dopaminergic fiber density in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) of early traumatized gerbils (Meriones unguiculatus). The current study was performed to investigate if enriched environment during MP application has an additional influence on the dopaminergic and GABAergic fiber densities in the PFC and amygdala in this animal model. Animals received a single early dose of methamphetamine (MA; 50 mg/kg; i.p.) on postnatal day (PD) 14, which is known to cause multiple changes in the subsequent development of several neurotransmitter systems including the dopaminergic systems, and were then treated with oral daily applications of MP (5 mg/kg) from PD30-60. Animals treated this way were either transferred to an enriched environment after weaning (on PD30) or were kept under impoverished rearing conditions. There was no effect of an enriched environment on the dopaminergic or GABAergic fiber density neither in the PFC nor in the amygdala. With regard to former studies these results underline the particular impact of MP in the treatment of ADHD.
The challenges to obtaining chemical-scale information on the molecules of neuroscience are considerable. Most targets are complex integral membrane proteins that are not amenable to direct structural characterization. However, by combining the tools of organic synthesis, molecular biology, and electrophysiology, rational and systematic structure-function studies can be performed in what we have termed physical organic chemistry on the brain. Using these tools, we have probed hydrophobic effects, hydrogen bonding, cation-pi interactions, and conformational changes associated with channel gating. The insights gained provide important guidance for drug discovery efforts targeting ion channels and neuroreceptors and mechanistic insights for the complex proteins of neuroscience.

Anxiety disorders are a highly prevalent and disabling class of psychiatric disorders. This review focuses on new directions in neurobiological research and implications for the development of novel psychopharmacological treatments. Neuroanatomical and neuroimaging research in anxiety disorders has centered on the role of the amygdala, reciprocal connections between the amygdala and the prefrontal cortex, and, most recently, alterations in interoceptive processing by the anterior insula. Anxiety disorders are characterized by alterations in a diverse range of neurochemical systems, suggesting ample novel targets for drug therapies. Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) concentrations are elevated in a subset of anxiety disorders, which suggests the potential utility of CRF receptor antagonists. Pharmacological blockade of the memory-enhancing effects of stress hormones such as glucocorticoids and noradrenaline holds promise as a preventative approach for trauma-related anxiety. The glutamatergic system has been largely overlooked as a potential pharmacological target, although convergent preclinical, neuroimaging, and early clinical findings suggest that glutamate receptor antagonists may have potent anxiolytic effects. Glutamatergic receptor agonists (e.g., D-cycloserine) also have an emerging role in the treatment of anxiety as facilitators of fear extinction during concurrent behavioral interventions. The neuropeptides substance P, neuropeptide Y, oxytocin, orexin, and galanin are each implicated in anxiety pathways, and neuropeptide analogs or antagonists show early promise as anxiolytics in preclinical and/or clinical research. Each of these active areas of research holds promise for expanding and improving evidence-based treatment options for individuals suffering with clinical anxiety.


Circadian related disorders and alterations in sleep-wake patterns are common complaints in the elderly, especially those diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease. The negative physical and psychological effects resulting from chronic circadian disruption are numerous and appear to be positively correlated with the length of time an individual has suffered from a circadian disorder. In the current paper, we explore the effects of acute and chronic disruption of circadian rhythms on memory using a phase shifting schedule that can continually challenge the rats' circadian system by using repeated phase shifts and recovery sessions. We demonstrate a significant learning and memory deficit on a spatial version of the water maze task in the chronically phase shifted, but not in the acutely phase shifted animals. Moreover, we find no impairment in fear conditioning suggesting that chronic phase shifting predominantly affects hippocampal memory. We propose that chronic circadian disruption may play a role in the development of age-related cognitive deficits and dementia in the elderly.
Recent research suggests that rapid visual stimulation can induce long-term potentiation-like effects non-invasively in humans. However, to date, this research has provided only limited evidence for input-specificity, a fundamental property of cellular long-term potentiation. In the present study we extend the evidence for input-specificity by investigating the effect of stimulus orientation. We use sine wave gratings of two different orientations to show that rapid visual stimulation can induce orientation-specific potentiation, as indexed by changes in the amplitude of a late phase of the N1 complex of the visual-evoked potential. This result suggests that discrete populations of orientation-tuned neurons can be selectively potentiated by rapid visual stimulation. Furthermore, our results support earlier studies that have suggested that the locus of potentiation induced by rapid visual stimulation is visual cortex.
One major goal of drug development would be the establishment of biomarkers as objective indicators of normal biological and pathogenetic processes, or pharmacological response to a therapeutic intervention. A potential approach is to investigate proteins in CSF linked to key neuropathological features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recently CSF phosphorylated-Tau (p-Tau) levels have been reported to reflect neurofibrillary changes within the brain of patients with AD, however the use of serial CSF investigations in order to monitor the disease progression is not applicable. PET with FDG reveals characteristic patterns in AD patients, however so far no correlation between in vivo metabolic information and pathological features has been reported. In the present study, we tested whether CSF Tau levels correlate with metabolic rate for glucose consumption in a cohort of 28 AD patients. We found a statistically significative correlation between both CSF total and p-TAU protein and relative metabolic indexes obtained from 18FDG-PET scans in parietal, temporal and occipital lobes bilaterally. These results indicate the existence of a correlation between impairment of cerebral metabolism, estimated throughout FDG-PET, and CSF Tau protein levels.
Prepulse inhibition (PPI; also termed startle reduction or reflex modification, see Ref. [H.S. Hoffman, J.R. Ison, Reflex modification in the domain of startle: I. Some empirical findings and their implications for how the nervous system processes sensory input, Psychol. Rev. 87 (1980) 175-189]) provides an efficient and accurate method to assess both simple and complex acoustic discrimination in rodents [J.R. Ison, G.R. Hammond, Modification of the startle reflex in the rat by changes in the auditory and visual environments, J. Comp. Physiol. Psychol. 75 (1971) 435-452]. Assessment of acoustic processing using PPI is less time consuming than operant conditioning paradigms, allows for the testing of many subjects simultaneously, and largely eliminates confounds due to motivation and attention [M. Clark, G. Rosen, P. Tallal, R.H. Fitch, Impaired processing of complex auditory stimuli in rats with induced cerebrocortical microgyria, J. Cog. Neurosci. 12 (2000) 828-839]. Moreover, PPI procedures allow for data acquisition from the first day of testing, and can be used on rats as young as P14-15 [J.T. Friedman, A. Peiffer, M. Clark, A. Benasich, R.H. Fitch, Age and experience related improvements in gap detection in the rat, Dev. Brain Res. 152 (2004) 83-91; M. McClure, S. Threlkeld, G. Rosen, R.H. Fitch, Rapid auditory processing and learning deficits in rats with P1 versus P7 neonatal hypoxic-ischemic injury, Behav. Brain Res. 172 (2006) 114-121; S.W. Threlkeld, M.M. McClure, G.D. Rosen, R.H. Fitch, Developmental timeframes for the induction of microgyria and rapid auditory processing deficits in the rat, Brain Res. 1109 (2006) 22-31]. For these and additional reasons, the PPI paradigm has more recently been adapted to the assessment of complex acoustic discrimination (tone sequences and FM sweeps), and applied to the study of normally developing as well as neuropathologically affected rodent populations. The purpose of the current review is to provide a background on the PPI paradigm, and to summarize what has been learned more recently using modified versions of PPI with rodent models.

In adulthood, the copulatory system in male green anole lizards is characterized by the presence of two hemipenes, each controlled by ipsilateral muscles. These structures are present in both sexes early in development, but prior to hatching regress completely in females. Embryonic treatment with steroid hormones alters the morphology of the copulatory system, suggesting active roles for both androgens and estrogens in sexual differentiation. To elucidate the timing and sites of steroid hormone action in the embryonic copulatory system, the distributions of androgen receptor (AR) and estrogen receptor-alpha (ER alpha) mRNA expression were examined. In situ hybridization was conducted on the rostral tail of anoles at three stages spanning differentiation of the copulatory structures: embryonic days (E) 13, 18, and 24 (hatching occurs at approximately E34). At E13, males expressed significantly higher levels of AR mRNA in both hemipenes and muscles than did females, while females at the same age tended to express higher levels of ER alpha mRNA in these structures. By E18, hemipenes and copulatory muscles were regressed in most females, and were not present in any females at E24. In males, no effect of age was detected on the expression of either AR or ER alpha. These data suggest that peripheral copulatory structures in the embryonic anole are direct targets for the actions of both androgens and estrogens in sexual differentiation, consistent with the idea that estradiol facilitates regression in females and androgen promotes survival in males. However, the issue of whether or not a critical period exists remains open.
We recently reported that the 25 amino acid peptide xenin caused reduced feed intake when centrally injected in chicks. The present study was designed to explore possible mechanisms of the xenin-induced anorexigenic response in chicks. In Experiments 1 and 2, chicks were implanted with cannulas and xenin injections were made directly into the ventromedialis hypothalami (VMH). Chicks responded with reduced feed intake and increased c-Fos immunoreactivity at the VMH. In Experiment 3 chicks that received co-intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of naloxone and a dose of xenin (100 pmol), that alone does not affect feed intake, had reduced feed intake. In Experiment 4, chicks responded to ICV xenin with reduced feed- but increased exploratory-pecking. Thus, we conclude that xenin may mediate its effect directly at the VMH and that the endogenous opioid system may counter anorexigenic effects of low xenin doses in chicks. Xenin also caused increased exploration of a novel environment, an effect that may be competitive with feeding. Taken together, these results suggest that xenin regulation of chick appetite is the result of several central and behavioral mechanisms acting in synergism.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by loss of dopaminergic neurons. The I93M mutation in ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCH-L1) is associated with familial PD, and we have previously shown that the I93M UCH-L1-transgenic mice exhibit dopaminergic cell loss. Over 90% of neurodegenerative diseases, including PD, occur sporadically. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying sporadic PD as well as PD associated with I93M UCH-L1 are largely unknown. UCH-L1 is abundant (1-5% of total soluble protein) in the brain and is a major target of oxidative/carbonyl damage associated with sporadic PD. As well, abnormal microtubule dynamics and tubulin polymerization are associated with several neurodegenerative diseases including frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17. Here we show that familial PD-associated mutant UCH-L1 and carbonyl-modified UCH-L1 display shared aberrant properties: compared with wild-type UCH-L1, they exhibit increased insolubility and elevated interactions with multiple proteins, which are characteristics of several neurodegenerative diseases-linked mutants. Circular dichroism analyses suggest similar structural changes in both UCH-L1 variants. We further report that one of the proteins interacting with UCH-L1 is tubulin, and that aberrant interaction of mutant or carbonyl-modified UCH-L1 with tubulin modulates tubulin polymerization. These findings may underlie the toxic gain of function by mutant UCH-L1 in familial PD. Our results also suggest that the carbonyl modification of UCH-L1 and subsequent abnormal interactions of carbonyl-modified UCH-L1 with multiple proteins, including tubulin, constitute one of the causes of sporadic PD.
A physiological concentration of extracellular ATP stimulated biphasic Ca(2+) signal, and the Ca(2+) transient was decreased and the Ca(2+) sustain was eliminated immediately after removal of ATP and Ca(2+) in RBA-2 astrocytes. Reintroduction of Ca(2+) induced Ca(2+) sustain. Stimulation of P2Y(1) receptors with 2-methylthioadenosine 5'-diphosphate (2MeSADP) also induced a biphasic Ca(2+) signaling and the Ca(2+) sustains were eliminated using Ca(2+)-free buffer. The 2MeSADP-mediated biphasic Ca(2+) signals were inhibited by phospholipase C (PLC) inhibitor U73122, and completely blocked by P2Y(1) selective antagonist MRS2179 and protein kinase C (PKC) activator phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) whereas enhanced by PKC inhibitors GF109203X and Go6979. Inhibition of capacitative Ca(2+) entry (CCE) decreased the Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) entry; nevertheless, ATP further enhanced the Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) entry in the intracellular Ca(2+) store-emptied and CCE-inhibited cells indicating that ATP stimulated Ca(2+) entry via CCE and ionotropic P2X receptors. Furthermore, the 2MeSADP-induced Ca(2+) sustain was eliminated by apyrase but potentiated by P2X(4) allosteric effector ivermectin (IVM). The agonist ADPbetaS stimulated a lesser P2Y(1)-mediated Ca(2+) signal and caused a two-fold increase in ATP release but that were not affected by IVM whereas inhibited by PMA, PLC inhibitor ET-18-OCH(3) and phospholipase D (PLD) inhibitor D609, and enhanced by removal of intra- or extracellular Ca(2+). Taken together, the P2Y(1)-mediated Ca(2+) sustain was at least in part via P2X receptors activated by the P2Y(1)-induced ATP release, and PKC played a pivotal role in desensitization of P2Y(1) receptors in RBA-2 astrocytes.
The precursor frequency of naive CD4(+) T cells shows an inverse relationship with the number of memory cells generated after exposure to cognate Ag. Using the lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) model, we show here that only when the initial number of naive virus-specific CD4(+) T cell precursors is low (&lt; or =10(4) per spleen) do they give rise to abundant and homogeneous memory cells that are CD62L(low), IL-7R(high), and imbued with an enhanced capacity to produce cytokine, proliferate, and survive over time. Furthermore, memory cells derived from a high naive precursor number show functional deficits upon secondary exposure to virus. The negative effect of higher naive precursor frequency was not attributable to competition for limiting amounts of Ag, because LCMV-naive CD4(+) TCR-transgenic CD4 T cells were recruited into the LCMV-induced response even when their initial number was high. Instead, the T cells appear to compete for direct IFN-gamma signals as they differentiate into memory cells. These results are consistent with a model of T cell development in which the most fit effector T cells that receive sufficient direct IFN-gamma signals are selected to differentiate further into memory cells.
MHC class I molecules (MHC-I) have been implicated in nervous system development in the mouse. In this study we present evidence for the interaction of MHC-I with the NK cell receptor Ly49 in primary cortical neuronal cultures. We show that MHC-I and Ly49 are expressed on neuronal soma and axon surfaces, with Ly49 also present on dendrites. Anti-MHC-I Abs reduce synapsin-I expression and enhance neurite outgrowth and neuronal death. Conversely, anti-Ly49 mAbs increase synapsin-I expression, reduce neurite outgrowth, and promote neuron viability. Because we show that Ly49 genes are selectively expressed in the adult brain, these findings suggest an unsuspected role for the MHC-I-Ly49 interaction in the development and function of the brain.
Recently, a new subtype of limbic encephalitis (LE) has been described, serologically characterized by the presence of antibodies against voltage gated potassium channels (VGKC, to be called VGKC-LE). Only little is known about CSF findings in this new disorder. Here we report the results of 29 lumbar punctures in 17 patients with VGKC-LE. Slight pleocytosis, mainly consisting of lymphocytes and monocytes, and elevated total protein concentrations were present in 41 and 47%, respectively. Intrathecal immunoglobulin (Ig) synthesis as defined by the presence of CSF-specific oligoclonal IgG bands, an increased IgG index, or an elevated IgG, IgA, or IgM ratio, was not detected in any of the patients, but dysfunction of the blood-CSF barrier was found in 35%. CSF findings were normal in 23%. Conclusions: Unlike paraneoplastic LE, VGKC-LE is not frequently associated with intrathecal Ig production or markedly elevated white cell counts. Thus, normal CSF findings do not preclude the disease. VGKC-Ab should, therefore, be determined whenever LE is clinically suspected, irrespective of the presence or absence of inflammatory CSF changes.
A six year old boy presented with classical features of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) and was confirmed by absent dystrophin staining on muscle biopsy. In the paternal line there were 5 affected individuals across two generations with classical DMD. There was no family history of the illness in the maternal line. Molecular genetics analysis by PCR of the exons showed a deletion in exon 45 in two affected individuals. Microsatellite analysis showed that though the deletion was observed in the same locus in exon 45 it is a new independent mutation.
Many types of mazes have been used in cognitive brain research and data obtained from those experiments, especially those from rodents' studies, support the idea that the hippocampus is related to spatial learning and memory. But the results from non-human primates researches regarding the role of the hippocampus in spatial learning and memory are controversial and inconsistent with those obtained in rodents. This might be due to the differences of the methods used in non-human primates and rodents. Several kinds of maze models including two-dimensional computerized visual maze models and three-dimensional maze models have been developed for non-human primates, but they all have some defects. Therefore, development of a maze model for non-human primates that is comparable with those used in rodents is necessary to solve the controversy. This paper describes a large-scale, three-dimensional outdoor maze model for non-human primates which can be used to study spatial learning and memory. Monkeys learn to use the maze quickly compared with two-dimensional computerized visual mazes. It has many advantages which could make up the limits of the existing three-dimensional mazes in non-human primates, and can be comparable with radial arm mazes used in rodents. Based on the results, we believe that the new maze model will be valuable in many research areas, especially in studies involving spatial learning and memory in freely moving monkeys.
Technological improvement of measurements for the electrical recordings from individual neurons within network is essential in neuroscience today. Here, we present a novel automatic positioning and sensing microelectrode array (APSMEA), which simultaneously positioned desired number of neurons onto 48 recording microelectrodes automatically and scathelessly by use of negative dielectrophoretic (DEP) forces, and facilitated the measurement of the electrophysiological activities of neuronal populations after functional synaptic connections formed between neurons. The results of multi-site electrophysiological recordings during drug administration also demonstrated the application of APSMEA in bioassay with cultured rat cortical neurons. Therefore, this device should benefit the investigation of neuronal networks in vitro with more comprehensive electrophysiological experiments, and also promise the possibility of a modular device for both cell manipulation and cell-based biosensor on microchip.
Dopamine and noradrenaline are both involved in modulation of superior cognitive functions that are mainly dependent on frontal cortex activity. Experimental evidence points to parallel variations in extracellular concentrations of catecholamines in the cerebral cortex, which leads us to hypothesize their corelease from noradrenergic neurons. This study aimed to verify this hypothesis, by means of cerebral microdialysis following destruction of dopaminergic innervation in rats. The unilateral injury of dopaminergic neurons, by 6-hydroxydopamine injection in the ventral tegmental area, dramatically reduced the immunoreactivity for dopamine transporter in the cerebral hemisphere ipsilateral to the lesion. Tissue dopamine content in the ipsilateral nucleus accumbens and medial prefrontal and parietal cortex was also profoundly decreased, whereas noradrenaline was only slightly affected. Despite the lower tissue content in the denervated side, the extracellular dopamine level was not changed in the cortex, although it was markedly decreased in the nucleus accumbens ipsilateral to the lesion. The effect of drugs selective for D(2)-dopaminergic (haloperidol) or alpha(2)-noradrenergic (RS 79948) receptors was verified. Haloperidol failed to modify extracellular dopamine in either cortex but increased it in the nucleus accumbens, such an increase being greatly reduced in the denervated side. On the other hand, RS 79948 increased extracellular dopamine and DOPAC in all areas tested, the increases being of the same degree in both intact and lesioned sides. The results strongly support the hypothesis that the majority of extracellular dopamine in the cortex, unlike that in the nucleus accumbens, originates from noradrenergic terminals.
Microglia play a variety of significant roles in the central nervous system (CNS), and in one of those roles they undergo morphological change in response to neural injury and migrate to the injured region. We previously reported that ATP/ADP promotes microglial chemotaxis via the Gi/o-coupled P2Y12 receptor; however, the intracellular signaling underlying P2Y12-receptor-mediated microglial chemotaxis is not fully understood. In this study, we examined the role of phospholipase C (PLC) and calcium signaling in ADP-induced microglial chemotaxis. A PLC inhibitor, U73122, significantly suppressed the chemotaxis and completely blocked the ADP-evoked intracellular calcium response, and a calcium chelator, BAPTA-AM, inhibited the chemotaxis. These results indicate that ADP-induced microglial chemotaxis is regulated by a PLC-mediated calcium pathway. ADP stimulation induced Akt phosphorylation in microglia, and the phosphorylation was inhibited by a P2Y12 receptor antagonist, AR-C69931MX. The Akt phosphorylation was blocked by U73122 and BAPTA-AM as well as by a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor, wortmannin, and inhibition of the Akt activation resulted in failure of chemotaxis. These results indicate that Akt activation is dependent on the PI3K pathway and a PLC-mediated increase in intracellular calcium and suggest that Akt activation is involved in ADP-induced microglial chemotaxis.
The cerebellum coordinates movement and maintains body posture. The main output of the cerebellum is formed by three deep nuclei, which receive direct inhibitory inputs from cerebellar Purkinje cells, and excitatory collaterals from mossy and climbing fibres. Neurons of deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN) are spontaneously active, and disrupting their activity results in severe cerebellar ataxia. It is suggested that voltage-gated calcium channels make a significant contribution to the spontaneous activity of DCN neurons, although the exact identity of these channels is not known. We sought to delineate the functional role and identity of calcium channels that contribute to pacemaking in DCN neurons of juvenile rats. We found that in the majority of cells blockade of calcium currents results in avid high-frequency bursting, consistent with the notion that the net calcium-dependent current in DCN neurons is outward. We showed that the bursting seen in these neurons after block of calcium channels is the consequence of reduced activation of small-conductance calcium-activated (SK) potassium channels. With the use of selective pharmacological blockers we showed that L-, P/Q-, R- and T-type calcium channels do not contribute to the spontaneous activity of DCN neurons. In contrast, blockade of high-threshold N-type calcium channels increased the firing rate and caused the cells to burst. Our results thus suggest a selective coupling of N-type voltage-gated calcium channels with calcium-activated potassium channels in DCN neurons. In addition, we demonstrate the presence of a cadmium-sensitive calcium conductance coupled with SK channels, that is pharmacologically distinct from L-, N-, P/Q-, R- and T-type calcium channels.
Previous studies have shown that charge substitutions in the amino terminus of a chimeric connexin, Cx32*43E1, which forms unapposed hemichannels in Xenopus oocytes, can result in a threefold difference in unitary conductance and alter the direction and amount of open channel current rectification. Here, we determine the charge selectivity of Cx32*43E1 unapposed hemichannels containing negative and/or positive charge substitutions at the 2nd, 5th and 8th positions in the N-terminus. Unlike Cx32 intercellular channels, which are weakly anion selective, the Cx32*43E1 unapposed hemichannel is moderately cation selective. Cation selectivity is maximal when the extracellular surface of the channel is exposed to low ionic strength solutions implicating a region of negative charge in the first extracellular loop of Cx43 (Cx43E1) in influencing charge selectivity analogous to that reported. Negative charge substitutions at the 2nd, 5th and 8th positions in the intracellular N-terminus substantially increase the unitary conductance and cation selectivity of the chimeric hemichannel. Positive charge substitutions at the 5th position decrease unitary conductance and produce a non-selective channel while the presence of a positive charge at the 5th position and negative charge at the 2nd results in a channel with conductance similar to the parental channel but with greater preference for cations. We demonstrate that a cysteine substitution of the 8th residue in the N-terminus can be modified by a methanthiosulphonate reagent (MTSEA-biotin-X) indicating that this residue lines the aqueous pore at the intracellular entrance of the channel. The results indicate that charge selectivity of the Cx32*43E1 hemichannel can be determined by the combined actions of charges dispersed over the permeation pathway rather than by a defined region that acts as a charge selectivity filter.

Epidemiological studies of environmental risk factors in Parkinson's disease (PD) are dependent on recollection of past exposures based on patients' self-reports. There are limited studies that have assessed the quality of such data. We conducted a prospective study to determine the test-retest repeatability of environmental and lifestyle factors, and medical data in a PD cohort of Asian ethnicity. A total of 150 consecutive PD patients were initially screened, and 100 were recruited and completed an initial interview. Eighty-three patients completed the second interview more than 6 months later. Lifestyle habits (such as smoking and coffee consumption) showed excellent agreement (kappa &gt; 0.90). For the amount and duration of coffee, tea, alcohol, and cigarette smoking exposure, the total agreement in the response for these factors in the repeat interview were noted in 71.4%, 73.3%, 100%, and 90%, respectively (ICC &gt; 0.83). Medical conditions for which the patients were on treatment, such as diabetes, hypertension, and stroke, revealed very high repeatability (kappa = 0.81-0.90). Environmental exposures like well-water consumption and prior farm-dwelling produced a moderately good repeatability (kappa = 0.66-0.77). In conclusion, our study demonstrates that even over long interval period of more than half a year, self-report lifestyle exposure information, personal and environmental exposure data can be collected with moderate-to-high repeatability from PD patients.
In a case control study using a standardized protocol, 600 subjects were evaluated for essential tremor (ET). We demonstrated that ET was significantly more frequent in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) (12/204, 5.9%) compared to diseased controls (2/206, 1%) and healthy controls (1/190, 0.5%). A regression analysis with ET as outcome and group (either PD or healthy controls or diseased controls) as independent variable (adjusting for age and sex) revealed that PD had higher odds of having ET than diseased controls (OR = 5.43, 95% CI = 1.16, 25.39, P &lt; 0.001) and healthy controls (OR = 10.87, 95% CI = 1.39, 85.15, P &lt; 0.001). The low frequency of ET in our controls was further confirmed in a follow-up study in a group of age and gender matched general medical patients who attended an outpatient clinic (0% frequency). Eight of 204 PD (3.9%) compared to none of diseased (0%) (P = 0.004) and healthy controls (0%) (P = 0.008) had a prior diagnosis of ET. The duration of ET symptoms in patients with PD was 25.1 +/- 19.6 (range 3-60) years. A multivariate analysis demonstrated that a lower dose of levodopa (OR = 0.993, 95%CI for OR = 0.988, 0.997, P &lt; 0.001) and a higher age of onset of disease (OR = 1.108, 95%CI for OR = 1.035, 1.187, P &lt; 0.001) were associated with increased odds of PD with ET, compared to patients with PD without ET. In our Asian population, patients with PD were 5 to 10 times more likely to have ET compared to diseased and healthy controls, suggesting that the association of ET and PD is unlikely to be ethnicity-specific.
Antineuronal antibodies (ANAs) have been implicated in the pathophysiology of postinfectious movement disorders, such as Sydenham's chorea. However, their relevance in other movement disorders--in the absence of infectious triggers--remains much disputed. We sought to assess the frequency of ANAs in idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) and to explore whether a specific phenotype is associated with the presence of ANAs. For this purpose, we recruited 76 IPD patients, 9 patients with genetic parkinsonism, and 10 with one of the parkinson-plus syndromes. They were all subjected to a comprehensive clinical review. In addition, 50 patients with non-extrapyramidal neurological disease and 30 healthy blood donors served as control populations. Blood samples were tested for the presence of ANAs with Western blotting, using recombinant proteins of the three putative antigens (aldolase C, neuron-specific enolase, and pyruvate kinase M1). We found these antibodies in 11.8% of the 76 IPD patients, which differed significantly from healthy controls (0%, P = 0.043), but nonsignificantly from patients with genetic parkinsonism (11.1%), with a parkinson-plus syndrome (10%), or from neurological disease controls (4%). With respect to relevant disease characteristics, IPD patients with or without ANAs were indistinguishable, except for atypical disease features (mainly early falls or freezing and marked Pisa syndrome), which were more frequent in the ANA-positive IPD group. We conclude that ANAs do not play a role in the majority of patients with IPD, but might be relevant in the pathogenesis of IPD with atypical features.
An emerging branch of social cognitive neuroscience attempts to unravel the critical cognitive mechanisms that enable humans to engage in joint action. In the current experiment, differences in brain activity in participants engaging in solitary action and joint action were identified using whole brain fMRI while participants performed a virtual bar-balancing task either alone (S), or with the help of a partner in each of two separate joint-action conditions (isomorphic [Ji] and non-isomorphic [Jn]). Compared to the performing the task alone, BOLD signal was found to be stronger in both joint-action conditions at specific sites in the human mirror system (MNS). This activation pattern may reflect the demand on participants to simulate the actions of others, integrate their own actions with those of their partners, and compute appropriate responses. Increasing inter-dependence (complementarity) of movements being generated by cooperating individuals (Jn&gt;Ji&gt;S) was found to correlate with BOLD signal in the right anterior node of the MNS (pars opercularis), and the area around the right temporoparietal junction (TPJ). These data are relevant to current debates concerning the role of right IFG in complementary action, as well as evolving theories of joint action.
Tensor-based morphometry (TBM) creates three-dimensional maps of disease-related differences in brain structure, based on nonlinearly registering brain MRI scans to a common image template. Using two different TBM designs (averaging individual differences versus aligning group average templates), we compared the anatomical distribution of brain atrophy in 40 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), 40 healthy elderly controls, and 40 individuals with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI), a condition conferring increased risk for AD. We created an unbiased geometrical average image template for each of the three groups, which were matched for sex and age (mean age: 76.1 years+/-7.7 SD). We warped each individual brain image (N=120) to the control group average template to create Jacobian maps, which show the local expansion or compression factor at each point in the image, reflecting individual volumetric differences. Statistical maps of group differences revealed widespread medial temporal and limbic atrophy in AD, with a lesser, more restricted distribution in MCI. Atrophy and CSF space expansion both correlated strongly with Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE) scores and Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR). Using cumulative p-value plots, we investigated how detection sensitivity was influenced by the sample size, the choice of search region (whole brain, temporal lobe, hippocampus), the initial linear registration method (9- versus 12-parameter), and the type of TBM design. In the future, TBM may help to (1) identify factors that resist or accelerate the disease process, and (2) measure disease burden in treatment trials.
We have investigated the neural basis of perceptual certainty using a simple discrimination paradigm. Psychophysical experiments have shown that a pair of identical electrical stimuli to the skin or a pair of auditory clicks to the ears are consistently perceived as two separate events in time when the inter-stimulus interval (ISIs) is long, and perceived as simultaneous events when the ISIs are very short. The perceptual certainty of having received one or two stimuli decreases when the ISI lies between these two extremes and this is reflected in inconsistent reporting of the percept across trials. In two fMRI experiments, 14 healthy subjects received either paired electrical pulses delivered to the forearm (ISIs=5-110 ms) or paired auditory clicks presented binaurally (ISIs=1-20 ms). For each subject and modality, we calculated a consistency index (CI) representing the level of perceptual certainty. The task activated pre-SMA and anterior cingulate cortex, plus the cerebellum and the basal ganglia. Critically, activity in the right putamen was linearly dependent on CI for both tactile and auditory discrimination, with topographically distinct effects in the two modalities. These results support a role for the human putamen in the &quot;automatic&quot; perception of temporal features of tactile and auditory stimuli.
The neurobiology of birdsong, as a model for human speech, is a fast growing area of research in the neurosciences and involves electrophysiological, histological and more recently magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) approaches. Many of these studies require the identification and localization of different brain areas (nuclei) involved in the sensory and motor control of song. Until now, the only published atlases of songbird brains consisted in drawings based on histological slices of the canary and of the zebra finch brain. Taking advantage of high-magnetic field (7 Tesla) MRI technique, we present the first high-resolution (80 x 160 x 160 microm) 3-D digital atlas in stereotaxic coordinates of a male zebra finch brain, the most widely used species in the study of birdsong neurobiology. Image quality allowed us to discern most of the song control, auditory and visual nuclei. The atlas can be freely downloaded from our Web site and can be interactively explored with MRIcro. This zebra finch MRI atlas should become a very useful tool for neuroscientists working on birdsong, especially for co-registrating MRI data but also for determining accurately the optimal coordinates and angular approach for injections or electrophysiological recordings.
Motor Imagery (MI) is an attractive but intriguing means to access the motor network. There are marked inconsistencies in the functional imaging literature regarding the degree, extent and distribution of the primary motor cortex (BA 4) involvement during MI as compared to Executed Movement (EM), which may in part be related to the diverse role of BA 4 and its two subdivisions (i.e., 4a and 4p) in motor processes as well as to methodological issues. Here we used fMRI with monitoring of compliance to show that in healthy volunteers optimally screened for their ability to perform MI the contralateral BA 4 is involved during MI of a finger opposition sequence (2, 3, 4, 5; paced at 1 Hz), albeit less than during EM of the same sequence, and in a location sparing the hand area. Furthermore, both 4a and 4p subdivisions were found to be involved in MI, but the relative involvement of BA 4p appeared more robust and closer to that seen with EM. We suggest that during MI the role of BA 4 and its subdivisions may be non-executive, perhaps related to spatial encoding, though clearly further studies are needed. Finally, we report a similar hemispheric activation balance within BA 4 with both tasks, which extends the commonalities between EM and MI.
On the basis of numerous studies that have described interactions between the dopaminergic and opioidergic systems, we have investigated whether genetic deletion of dopamine D2 receptors (D2R) might influence the expression of central opioid receptors. The levels of mu, delta, kappa and nociceptin opioid peptide receptors were determined in the brains and spinal cords of D2R knockout mice using quantitative autoradiography. The significant changes in opioid receptor binding found in the brains of heterozygous and homozygous mice were mainly restricted to the basal ganglia. In homozygous mice, a down-regulation of mu and delta receptors was observed in the striatal and pallidal areas. This alteration may be an adaptive response to the increase in enkephalin levels previously described in the striatum of these mutant mice. On the contrary, an up-regulation of kappa receptors was found in the striatal and nigral regions and might be related to a change in dynorphin levels. Significant increases in nociceptin receptor binding were also observed in homozygous mice in brain areas involved in motor behavior. At the spinal level, only kappa and nociceptin receptor binding showed significant overall differences between genotypes. The functional consequences of these adaptive changes are discussed in relation to the findings of behavioral and neurochemical studies reported to date in D2R knockout mice.
In the mammalian neocortex, the corpus callosum serves as the major source of interhemispheric communication, composed of axons from callosal neurons located in supragranular (II/III) and infragranular (V/VI) layers. We sought to characterize the physiology and morphology of supragranular and infragranular callosal neurons in mice using retrograde tracers and whole-cell patch clamp recordings. Whole-cell patch clamp recordings were made from retrogradely labeled callosal neurons following unilateral injection of fluorescent latex microspheres in the contralateral sensory-motor cortex. Following recordings and biocytin dialysis, labeled neurons were reconstructed using computer-assisted camera lucida (Neurolucida) for morphological analyses. Whole-cell recordings revealed that callosal neurons in both supra- and infragranular layers display very similar intrinsic membrane properties and are characteristic regular-spiking neurons. Morphological features examined from biocytin-filled reconstructions as well as retrogradely BDA labeled cells did not reveal any differences. Analysis of spontaneous postsynaptic potentials from callosal neurons did reveal several differences including average amplitude, frequency, and decay time. These findings suggest that callosal neurons in both supra- and infragranular layers have similar phenotypes though belong to different local, intracortical networks.
Experiments were done in urethane-anesthetized, barodenervated, male Wistar rats. Chemical stimulation of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) by unilateral microinjections of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) elicited increases in mean arterial pressure (MAP) and greater splanchnic nerve activity (GSNA). The increases in the MAP and GSNA induced by chemical stimulation of the PVN were significantly exaggerated by bilateral microinjections of D(-)-2-amino-7-phosphono-heptanoic acid (D-AP7) and 2,3-dioxo-6-nitro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-benzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide disodium (NBQX) (ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists) into the medial subnucleus of the nucleus tractus solitarius (mNTS). These results were confirmed by single unit recordings; i.e. excitation of mNTS barosensitive neurons caused by chemical stimulation of the ipsilateral PVN was blocked by application of D-AP7 and NBQX to these neurons. Bilateral microinjections of D-AP7 and NBQX into the mNTS elicited pressor responses which were significantly attenuated by inhibition of PVN neurons by bilateral microinjections of muscimol. Unilateral microinjections of fluorogold into the mNTS resulted in bilateral retrograde labeling of the PVN neurons. Unilateral microinjections of biotinylated dextran amine into the PVN resulted in anterograde labeling of axons and terminals in the mNTS bilaterally and the labeled terminals exhibited vesicular glutamate transporter-2 immunoreactivity. These results indicated that 1) a tonically active glutamatergic bilateral projection from the PVN to the mNTS exists; 2) bilateral blockade of ionotropic glutamate receptors in the mNTS exaggerates the increases in MAP and GSNA, but not heart rate, to the chemical stimulation of the PVN; and 3) this projection may serve as a restraint mechanism for excitatory cardiovascular effects of PVN stimulation.
The classification, morphology and function of enteric neurons have been extensively studied in the small and large intestine. However, little is known about enteric neurons that directly project to the CNS. Previous studies have identified these unique neurons in the rectum, rectospinal neurons, but little was done to characterize them. Therefore, the aim of this study was to identify and characterize enteric neurons in the rat colon that directly project to the CNS by using retrograde neuronal tracing and immunohistochemistry. By applying the retrograde tracers 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethyl-indocarbocyanine perchlorate (DiI) and Fluorogold (FG) to the L6/S1 segments of the spinal cord, we identified these neurons in both the myenteric and submucosal plexuses of the colon. These neurons were immunoreactive for neurofilament (NF) a marker for Adelta-fibers and isolectin-B4 (IB(4)) a marker for C-fibers. These neurons expressed the enzyme neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) as well as peptides associated with sensory neurons such as substance P (SP) and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) but did not express calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunits NR1 and NR2D and proteinase-activated receptor-2 (PAR2) were also found in these neurons. However they did not express the transient receptor potential receptor V1 (TRPV1) or neurokinin 1 receptor (NK1). The expression of the peptides and receptors suggests that there are at least two separate populations of neurons projecting from the colon to the CNS. The data suggest that these colospinal afferent neurons (CANs) might be involved in nociception. Whether sensory information from CANs is perceived by the animal or is part of the parasympathetic reflex is currently not known.
The aims of the study were to investigate whether the level of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) (1-40) was increased in brain of diabetic rats and whether the increase was associated with dysfunction of P-glycoprotein at the blood-brain barrier. A diabetes-like condition was induced by single administration of 65 mg/kg streptozotocin via i.p. injection. Abeta (1-40) levels in brain of the diabetic rats were measured using an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kit. The in vivo brain-to-blood efflux and blood-to-brain influx transport of [(125)I]-labeled human amyloid-beta-peptide (hAbeta) (1-40) were measured using the brain efflux index and brain permeability coefficient-surface area product, respectively. [(14)C]inulin served as a reference compound. The results showed that Abeta (1-40) levels significantly increased in temporal cortex and hippocampus of the diabetic rats. The brain remaining percentage of [(125)I]hAbeta (1-40) in diabetic rats significantly increased at 30 min after intracerebral microinjection, accompanied by decrease of the brain efflux index. Pretreatment of P-glycoprotein inhibitors verapamil or cyclosporin A significantly increased the brain remaining percentage of [(125)I]hAbeta (1-40). The brain permeability coefficient-surface area product of [(125)I]hAbeta (1-40) was increased in diabetic rats, accompanied by increased Abeta (1-40) levels in plasma. The present study demonstrated that a diabetic state could increase Abeta (1-40) levels in brain, which might be explained, at least in part, by the decline in brain-to-blood efflux of Abeta (1-40) due to deficient cerebral P-glycoprotein function in diabetic rats.
Using extracellular single unit recordings alone or in combination with neurobiotin juxtacellular labeling and orexin (hypocretin) immunohistochemistry in the mouse, we have recorded a total of 452 neurons in the orexin neuron field of the posterior hypothalamus. Of these, 76 exhibited tonic discharge highly specific to wakefulness, referred to as waking-active neurons. They showed differences from each other in terms of spike shape, activity profile, and response to an arousing sound stimulus and could be classified into three groups on the basis of spike shape as: 1) biphasic broad; 2) biphasic narrow; and 3) triphasic. Waking-active neurons characterized by biphasic broad spikes were orexin-immunopositive, whereas those characterized by either biphasic narrow or triphasic broad spikes were orexin-immunonegative. Unlike waking-specific histamine neurons, all orexin and non-orexin waking-active neurons exhibited slow (&lt;10 Hz) tonic discharges during wakefulness and ceased firing shortly after the onset of electroencephalogram (EEG) synchronization (deactivation), the EEG sign of sleep (drowsy state). They remained virtually silent during slow-wave sleep, but displayed transient discharges during paradoxical (or rapid eye movement) sleep. During the transition from sleep to wakefulness, both orexin and triphasic non-orexin neurons fired in clusters prior to the onset of EEG activation, the EEG sign of wakefulness, and responded with a short latency to an arousing sound stimulus given during sleep. In contrast, the biphasic narrow non-orexin neurons fired in single spikes either prior to, or after, EEG activation during the same transition and responded to the stimulus with a longer latency. The activity of all waking-active neurons preceded the return of muscle tonus at the transition from paradoxical sleep to wakefulness. These data support the view that the activity of orexin and non-orexin waking-active neurons in the posterior hypothalamus plays an important wake-promoting role and that their activity antagonizes cortical deactivation and loss of muscle tone.
Src family protein kinases (SFKs) -mediated tyrosine-phosphorylation regulates N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor synaptic function. Some members of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) family of proteins bind to both SFKs and NMDA receptors, but it is unclear whether the MAGUK family of proteins is required for SFKs-mediated tyrosine-phosphorylation of the NMDA receptors. Here, we showed by co-immunoprecipitation that post-synaptic density (PSD) -93, a member of the MAGUK family of proteins, interacts with the NMDA receptor subunits NR2A and NR2B as well as with Fyn, a member of the SFKs, in mouse cerebral cortex. Using a biochemical fractionation approach to isolate subcellular compartments revealed that the expression of Fyn, but not of other members of the SFKs (Lyn, Src, and Yes), was significantly decreased in synaptosomal membrane fractions derived from the cerebral cortex of PSD-93 knockout mice. Interestingly, we found that PSD-93 disruption causes reduction of tyrosine-phosphorylated NR2A and NR2B in the same fraction. Moreover, PSD-93 deletion markedly blocked the SFKs-mediated increase in tyrosine-phosphorylated NR2A and NR2B through the protein kinase C pathway after induction with 4-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate in cultured cortical neurons. Our findings indicate that PSD-93 appears to mediate tyrosine-phosphorylation of the NMDA receptors and synaptic localization of Fyn.
Recent studies suggest that intermittent and prolonged normobaric hyperoxia (HO) results in brain ischemic tolerance (BIT), reducing ischemic brain injury. We have attempted to determine the time course of HO-induced BIT, and to explore the putative roles of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) converting enzyme (TACE), TNF-alpha, and nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activation in mediating this effect. Two core experimental protocols were applied to rats (experiments 1 [E1] and 2 [E2] respectively). E1 rodents comprised six subgroups, breathing room air (RA; O(2)=21%), or 95% oxygen (HO) for 4, 8, 16 h (4RA, 8RA, 16RA and 4HO, 8HO, 16HO respectively). E2 rodents were divided into subgroups, exposed to 95% inspired HO for 4 h/day for six consecutive days (intermittent hyperoxia, InHO) or for 24 continuous hours (prolonged hyperoxia, PrHO). Each of these had a control group exposed to 21% oxygen in the same chamber. Twenty-four hours after pretreatment, each group was randomly divided to receive 60 min right middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO-operated), sham-operation (without MCAO), or no operation (intact). After 24 h reperfusion, neurologic deficit score (NDS), brain water content, Evans Blue extravasation (as a marker of blood-brain barrier permeability), TACE expression, serum TNF-alpha, and phosphor- kappaBalpha levels were assessed in all animals, and infarct volume in the MCAO-operated subgroups. E1: Compared with the control (RA) group, infarct volume was reduced by 58.6% and 64.4% in 16 h and 24 h respectively. NDS and Evans Blue extravasation was also reduced in 16 h and 24 h. There was no statistical difference among 4 h and 8 h. E2: Preconditioning with prolonged and intermittent HO decreased NDS, infarct volume and upregulated TACE and increased phosphor-kappaBalpha and serum TNF-alpha level significantly. Although further studies are needed to clarify the mechanisms of brain ischemic tolerance, InHO and PrHO may partly exert their effects via triggering TACE/TNF-alpha/NF-kappaB.
Activation of nociceptors causes them to secrete neuropeptides. The binding of these peptides to receptors on blood vessels causes vasodilation and increased vascular permeability that allows loss of proteins and fluid (plasma extravasation, PE); this contributes to inflammation. This study defines the relationship between electrical activation of nociceptors and PE and evaluates the time course of this response in the skin of rats. We measured the time course and extent of PE by digital imaging of changes in skin reflectance caused by leakage of Evans Blue (EB) dye infused in the circulatory system before stimulation. Stimulation of the exclusively sensory saphenous nerve caused the skin to become dark blue within 2 min due to accumulation of EB. While PE is usually measured after 5-15 min of electrical stimulation, we found that stimulation for only 1 min at 4 Hz produced maximum PE. This response was dependent on the number of electrical stimuli at least for 4 Hz and 8 Hz stimulation rates. Since accumulation of EB in the skin is only slowly reversible, to determine the duration of enhanced vascular permeability we administered EB at various times after electrical stimulation of the saphenous nerve. PE was only observed when EB was infused within 5 min of electrical stimulation but could still be observed 50 min after capsaicin (1%, 25 microl) injection into the hind paw. These findings indicate that enhanced vascular permeability evoked by electrical stimulation persists only briefly after release of neuropeptides from nociceptors in the skin. Therefore, treatment of inflammation by blockade of neuropeptide release and receptors may be more effective than treatments aimed at epithelial gaps. We propose, in models of stimulation-induced inflammation, the use of a short stimulus train.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurological disorder that is often associated with various gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms. The link between the alteration of dopaminergic system and the symptoms of the GI tract in PD is complicated. To determine the changes in the dopaminergic system in the GI tract in PD, two kinds of rodent PD models were used in the present study. One was 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) -treated rats in which 6-OHDA was microinjected in the bilateral substantia nigra (SN). The other was 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) -treated mice in which MPTP was injected intraperitoneally. Immunofluorescence, reverse transcription (RT)-real time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and Western blot were used to evaluate and compare the levels of mRNA and protein expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine transporter (DAT) in the GI tract between normal and rodent PD models, as well as between 6-OHDA-treated rats and MPTP-treated mice. The results indicated that TH- and DAT-positive cells were widely distributed in the GI tract. There were significant differences in TH and DAT expression in the GI tract between normal and PD models, as well as between 6-OHDA-treated rats and MPTP-treated mice. The protein levels of TH and DAT in the GI tract were significantly increased in 6-OHDA-treated rats, but the protein level of TH was significantly decreased in MPTP-treated mice. In addition, there was visible atrophy of gastric epithelial parietal cells in MPTP-treated mice, although the protein level of DAT was not significantly changed. The different alterations of dopaminergic system in the GI tract of the two kinds of PD models might underline the differences in GI symptoms in PD patients and might be correlated with the disease severity and disease process affecting the GI tract.
Adrenalectomy (ADX) abolishes behavioral sensitization to cocaine in DBA/2, but not C57BL/6 inbred mice. The present study tests the hypothesis that this ADX effect on behavioral sensitization in the DBA/2 strain involves changes in midbrain dopamine systems that do not occur in the C57BL/6 strain. For that purpose, we have measured tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine transporter (DAT) mRNA and D1- and D2-like receptor binding in C57BL/6 and DBA/2 mice that were i) unoperated, ii) ADX or sham (SHAM) operated, or iii) ADX or SHAM operated and subjected to a cocaine sensitization regimen (15.0 mg/kg cocaine on nine consecutive days, followed by a 7.5 mg/kg challenge after a 5-day withdrawal). ADX prevented behavioral sensitization to cocaine in the DBA/2, but not the C57BL/6 strain [de Jong IEM, Oitzl MS, de Kloet ER (2007) Adrenalectomy prevents behavioural sensitisation of mice to cocaine in a genotype-dependent manner. Behav Brain Res 177:329-339]. Mice were killed under basal conditions, in the latter case 24 h after the cocaine challenge. ADX did not affect the dopaminergic markers in drug nave mice. By contrast, strain-dependent neuroadaptations were found in the midbrain dopamine system of mice subjected to the sensitization regimen. In the DBA/2 strain, sensitization-resistant ADX mice were characterized by reduced D2 binding in the nucleus accumbens core and rostral caudate putamen. Furthermore, ADX prevented the increase in TH and DAT mRNA expression in the substantia nigra, and the decrease in D2 binding in the dorsomedial subdivision of the caudal caudate putamen associated with sensitization in SHAM mice. In the C57BL/6 strain ADX only marginally affected dopaminergic adaptations. These data suggest that adrenal hormones modulate behavioral sensitization to cocaine in a genotype-dependent fashion possibly through adaptations in pre- and post-synaptic components of the midbrain dopamine system. During cocaine sensitization, the DBA/2, but not the C57BL/6 strain, was susceptible to ADX in the dopamine system with respect to presynaptic TH and DAT and terminal D2 receptor expression.
Chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH) attenuates baroreflex control of heart rate (HR). In this study, we assessed whether CIH exposure reduced nucleus ambiguus (NA) control of HR and induced neural degeneration in the NA. Fischer 344 (age: 3-4 months) rats were exposed to either room air (RA: normoxia) or intermittent hypoxia for 35-50 days. At the end of these exposures, animals were anesthetized with pentobarbital. HR responses to arterial blood pressure (AP) changes induced by phenylephrine (PE) and sodium nitroprusside (SNP) were measured. In another set of rats, HR and AP responses to L-glutamate (L-Glu) microinjections (10 mM, 20 nl) into the left NA and electrical stimulation of the left cervical vagus nerve at 1-30 Hz (0.5 mA, 1 ms) for 20 s were measured. Brainstem slices at the level of -800, -400, 0, +400, +800 microm relative to the obex were processed in additional rats using Nissl staining. The NA was identified by retrogradely labeling vagal motoneurons using the tracer tetramethylrhodamine dextran (TMR-D) which was injected into the ipsilateral nodose ganglion. We found that CIH significantly 1) reduced the baroreflex control of HR (slope RA: -1.2+/-0.2 bpm/mmHg; CIH -0.5+/-0.1 bpm/mmHg; P&lt;0.05); 2) attenuated the HR responses to l-Glu injections into the NA [HR: -280+/-15 (RA) vs. -235+/-16 (CIH) beats/min; P&lt;0.05]; 3) augmented the HR responses to electrical stimulation of the vagus (P&lt;0.05); 4) induced a significant cellular loss in the NA region (P&lt;0.05). Thus, CIH induces a cell loss in the NA region which may contribute to attenuation of baroreflex sensitivity and NA control of HR following CIH.
Significant outbreaks of prion disease linked to oral exposure of the prion agent have occurred in animal and human populations. These disorders are associated with a conformational change of a normal protein, PrP(C) (C for cellular), to a toxic and infectious form, PrP(Sc) (Sc for scrapie). None of the prionoses currently have an effective treatment. Some forms of prion disease are thought to be spread by oral ingestion of PrP(Sc), such as chronic wasting disease and variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Attempts to obtain an active immunization in wild-type animals have been hampered by auto-tolerance to PrP and potential toxicity. Previously, we demonstrated that it is possible to overcome tolerance and obtain a specific anti-PrP antibody response by oral inoculation of the PrP protein expressed in an attenuated Salmonella vector. This past study showed that 30% of vaccinated animals were free of disease more than 350 days post-challenge. In the current study we have both optimized the vaccination protocol and divided the vaccinated mice into low and high immune responder groups prior to oral challenge with PrP(Sc) scrapie strain 139A. These methodological refinements led to a significantly improved therapeutic response. 100% of mice with a high mucosal anti-PrP titer immunoglobulin (Ig) A and a high systemic IgG titer, prior to challenge, remained without symptoms of PrP infection at 400 days (log-rank test P&lt;0.0001 versus sham controls). The brains from these surviving clinically asymptomatic mice were free of PrP(Sc) infection by Western blot and histological examination. These promising findings suggest that effective mucosal vaccination is a feasible and useful method for overcoming tolerance to PrP and preventing prion infection via an oral route.
Female rats require a sufficient amount and pattern of vaginal-cervical stimulation to initiate neuroendocrine changes required for the successful implantation of a fertilized ovum in the uterus. These changes are characterized by twice daily prolactin surges that last 10-12 days. Following a sterile mating, the endocrine changes are still observed, and are termed pseudopregnancy (PSP). The mating stimulation required to initiate these changes prior to pregnancy or PSP has a neural representation, which we have termed the intromission mnemonic. We sought to examine if the formation of the intromission mnemonic is accompanied by alterations in the number or density of synapses in limbic areas by immuno-labeling a pre-synaptic protein, synapsin. Groups of cycling female rats on proestrus day received either 15 or 5 intromissions or mounts-without intromissions from a vasectomized male; an additional time-matched control group was left in the home cage. All females were perfused after 90 min or 8 h. The brains were removed and sliced, and the amygdala and hippocampus immunostained for synapsin, then imaged by confocal microscopy. We found that 90 min after mating sufficient for PSP, the number of synapsin puncta (points of immunoreactivity equivalent to a synapse) was decreased and the intensity of the synapsin staining was increased in the posterodorsal medial amygdala (MePD). A similar reduction of puncta was observed in the CA1 region of the hippocampus, and an increase of intensity occurred in the basolateral amygdala. Spaced intromissions had no effect on synapsin expression anywhere examined. Intensity reductions unrelated to receipt of vaginal-cervical stimulation were observed in the hippocampus. None of these effects were observed after 8 h. Together, these results raise the possibility that synapses in the MePD may be pruned after mating stimulation, resulting in pathway-specific stabilization that contributes to the intromission mnemonic associated with the establishment of PSP.
The protein alpha-synuclein is implicated in the development of Parkinson's disease. The molecule forms Lewy body aggregates that are hallmarks of the disease, has been associated with the spread of neuropathology from the peripheral to the CNS, and appears to be involved with the autonomic disorders responsible for the gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms of individuals afflicted with Parkinson's. To characterize the normative expression of alpha-synuclein in the innervation of the GI tract, we examined both the postganglionic neurons and the preganglionic projections by which the disease is postulated to retrogradely invade the CNS. Specifically, in Fischer 344 and Sprague-Dawley rats, immunohistochemistry in conjunction with injections of the tracer Dextran-Texas Red was used to determine, respectively, the expression of alpha-synuclein in the myenteric plexus and in the vagal terminals. Alpha-synuclein is expressed in a subpopulation of myenteric neurons, with the proportion of positive somata increasing from the stomach (approximately 3%) through duodenum (proximal, approximately 6%; distal, approximately 13%) to jejunum (approximately 22%). Alpha-synuclein is co-expressed with the nitrergic enzyme nitric oxide synthase (NOS) or the cholinergic markers calbindin and calretinin in regionally specific patterns: approximately 90% of forestomach neurons positive for alpha-synuclein express NOS, whereas approximately 92% of corpus-antrum neurons positive for alpha-synuclein express cholinergic markers. Vagal afferent endings in the myenteric plexus and the GI smooth muscle do not express alpha-synuclein, whereas, virtually all vagal preganglionic projections to the gut express alpha-synuclein, both in axons and in terminal varicosities in apposition with myenteric neurons. Vagotomy eliminates most, but not all, alpha-synuclein-positive neurites in the plexus. Some vagal preganglionic efferents expressing alpha-synuclein form varicose terminal rings around myenteric plexus neurons that are also positive for the protein, thus providing a candidate alpha-synuclein-expressing pathway for the retrograde transport of putative Parkinson's pathogens or toxins from the ENS to the CNS.
In response to injury, endogenous precursors in the adult brain can proliferate and generate new neurons, which may have the capacity to replace dysfunctional or dead cells. Although injury-induced neurogenesis has been demonstrated in animal models of stroke, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Huntington's disease (HD), studies of Parkinson's disease (PD) have produced conflicting results. In this study, we investigated the ability of adult mice to generate new neurons in response to the parkinsonian toxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), which causes selective degeneration of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons. MPTP lesions increased the incorporation of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine-5'-monophosphate (BrdU), as well as the number of cells that co-expressed BrdU and the immature neuronal marker doublecortin (DCX), in two neuroproliferative regions-the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus (DG) and the rostral subventricular zone (SVZ). BrdU-labeled, DCX-expressing cells were not found in the substantia nigra (SN) of MPTP-treated mice, where neuronal cell bodies are destroyed, but were present in increased numbers in the striatum, where SN neurons lost in PD normally project. Fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2), which enhances neurogenesis in a mouse model of HD, also increased the number of BrdU/DCX-immunopositive cells in the SN of MPTP-treated mice. Thus, MPTP-induced brain injury increases striatal neurogenesis and, in combination with FGF-2 treatment, also stimulates neurogenesis in SN.
Nitric oxide (NO) has been long assumed to play a key role in mammalian olfaction. This was based largely on circumstantial evidence, i.e. prominent staining for nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and cyclic guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cGMP) or soluble guanylyl cyclase, an effector enzyme activated by NO, in local interneurons of the olfactory bulb. Here we employ innovative custom-fabricated NO micro-sensors to obtain the first direct, time-resolved measurements of NO signaling in the olfactory bulb. In 400 microm thick mouse olfactory bulb slices, we detected a steady average basal level of 87 nM NO in the extracellular space of mitral or granule cell layers. This NO 'tone' was sensitive to NOS substrate manipulation (200 microM L-arginine, 2 mM N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester) and Mg(2+) modulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor conductance. Electrical stimulation of olfactory nerve fibers evoked transient (peak at 10 s) increments in NO levels 90-100 nM above baseline. In the anesthetized mouse, NO micro-sensors inserted into the granule cell layer detected NO transients averaging 55 nM in amplitude and peaking at 3.4 s after onset of a 5 s odorant stimulation. These findings suggest dual roles for NO signaling in the olfactory bulb: tonic inhibitory control of principal neurons, and regulation of circuit dynamics during odor information processing.
The signal transduction pathways regulating growth cone motility remain poorly defined. Previously, we have characterized the inhibitory molecule, motuporamine C (MotC), as a robust stimulator of growth cone collapse. Utilizing MotC as a research tool to elucidate pathways involved with collapse, we have previously shown that the Rho-Rho kinase (ROCK) pathway is partially required for collapse. In this study, we report MotC induces a high-amplitude rise in intracellular free Ca(2+) concentration levels in chicks, resulting in the activation of the Ca(2+)-sensitive protease, calpain. Furthermore, we show that while calpain is necessary for collapse, inhibition of calpain only partially attenuates MotC-mediated collapse. Instead, concomitant inhibition of both the Rho-ROCK and calpain pathways has an additive effect in attenuating the collapse response to MotC. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of concurrent activation of calpain and Rho-ROCK signaling during growth cone collapse. Our data support a model of growth cone collapse that requires the combinatorial regulation of multiple signal transduction cascades that likely target different cellular mechanisms to induce this motile response.
Chronic desynchronization between the mammalian circadian pacemaker and its external environment, such as that observed from shift work or jet lag, can lead to various long-term health consequences. The circadian clock can be reset by exposure to light, although the magnitude of such adjustments is modest. 5-HT modulates the effects of light, and 5-HT(1A) mixed agonist/antagonists, such as NAN-190, have been found to potentiate the phase resetting ability of light. The mechanism for this potentiation has yet to be uncovered, although it has been proposed that these drugs inhibit raphe output while simultaneously blocking post-synaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors. The current study takes advantage of the heterogeneous network organization of the circadian clock to identify where in the circadian system NAN-190 exerts its influence. Retinorecipient cells in the ventrolateral suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) are activated by glutamate and release either gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. Application of the glutamate agonist N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) or either of these neuropeptides to the SCN mimics the effects of light. We hypothesized that NAN-190 would modify responses to treatments that activate the circadian system upstream, but not downstream, of where NAN-190 is acting. Hamsters were pretreated with NAN-190 or vehicle, followed by one of the neurochemicals 45 min later, during the early- and/or late-subjective night. NAN-190 potentiated NMDA-induced phase advances and delays as well as GRP-induced advances, but attenuated GRP-induced delays. NAN-190 did not potentiate NMDA-induced Fos expression, however greater GRP-induced Fos expression was found within the dorsolateral region of the SCN. These data suggest that NAN-190 acts, in part, by modifying the responsiveness of retinorecipient cells in the circadian clock. An understanding of the neural events that underlie the potentiation of photic phase shifts by NAN-190 could guide the development of novel chronobiotics which could be used to treat a variety of sleep and circadian disorders.
Estrogen receptors can activate transcription in the nucleus, and activate rapid signal transduction cascades in the cytosol. Multiple reports identify estrogen receptors at the plasma membrane, while others document the dynamic responses of estrogen receptor to ligand binding. However, the function and identity of membrane estrogen receptors remain controversial. We have used confocal microscopy and cell fractionation on the murine hippocampus-derived HT22 cell line and rat primary cortical neurons transfected with estrogen receptor-green fluorescent protein constructs to address the membrane localization of these receptors. We observe translocation of estrogen receptor beta (beta) to the plasma membrane 5 min after exposure to 17beta-estradiol, whereas estrogen receptor alpha (alpha) localization remains unchanged. Membrane localization of estrogen receptor beta is transient, selective for 17beta-estradiol, and is not blocked by ICI182,780. Inhibition of the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway does not block estrogen-mediated estrogen receptor beta membrane translocation, and in fact prolongs membrane localization. These data suggest that while both estrogen receptor alpha and estrogen receptor beta can be present at the neuronal membrane, their presence is differentially regulated.
An unusual property of the neuron is its capability for cell-to-cell communication via synapses, known to be the neuron-level &quot;protophenomenon&quot; underlying the brain-level &quot;real phenomenon&quot; of cognition. The temporal synchronization of such synaptic activity is the leading candidate for explaining &quot;cognitive binding&quot; and therefore the unity of mind. An equally-unusual property of the neuron is the action potential, the means by which the neuron sends a signal down the axon. Although infrequently noted by researchers in relation to consciousness, signal propagation within the neuron entails the momentary permeability of the neuronal membrane, allowing a massive influx of charged ions into the cellular interior. Such openness to the extracellular world is arguably the protophenomenon of neuronal &quot;sentience,&quot; literally, feeling the charge-state of the electrochemical environment. Sensitivity to the external pH is a common feature of all living cells, but is greatly amplified during the neuron's action potential. Synchronization of the action potentials of the same neurons that are involved in cognitive binding is the likely mechanism by which the sentience of individual neurons is coordinated into the brain-level phenomenon of subjective awareness. I conclude that a proper understanding of the permeability of the neuronal membrane during the action potential is as important for consciousness studies as is a proper understanding of synaptic transmission for the explication of the cognition made possible by neurons.
Gaboxadol or 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo-[5,4-c]pyridine-3-ol (THIP) is a selective agonist for the delta-subunit containing extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors that will soon enter the U.S. market as a sleep aid [Winsky-Sommerer R, Vyazovskiy VV, Homanics GE, Tobler I (2007) The EEG effects of THIP (gaboxadol) on sleep and waking are mediated by the GABA(A)delta-subunit-containing receptors. Eur J Neurosci 25:1893-1899]. Numerous studies have shown that systemic administration of THIP reduces wakefulness and increases sleep both in humans and rats [Lancel M, Langebartels A (2000) Gamma-aminobutyric acid(A) (GABA(A)) agonist 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo[4,5-c]pyridin-3-ol persistently increases sleep maintenance and intensity during chronic administration to rats. J Pharmacol Exp Ther 293:1084-1090; Walsh JK, Deacon S, Dijk DJ, Lundahl J (2007) The selective extrasynaptic GABAA agonist, gaboxadol, improves traditional hypnotic efficacy measures and enhances slow wave activity in a model of transient insomnia. Sleep 30:593-602]. However, it is yet unclear where in the brain THIP acts to promote sleep. Since the perifornical lateral hypothalamus (PFH) contains orexin neurons and orexin neurons are critical for maintenance of arousal [McCarley RW (2007) Neurobiology of rapid eye movement (REM) and NREM sleep. Sleep Med 8:302-330], we hypothesized that THIP may act on PFH neurons to promote sleep. To test our hypothesis, we used reverse microdialysis to perfuse THIP unilaterally into the PFH and studied its effects on sleep-wakefulness during the light period in freely behaving rats. Microdialysis perfusion of THIP (100 microM) into the PFH produced a significant reduction in wakefulness with a concomitant increase in non-rapid eye movement or slow wave sleep as compared with artificial cerebrospinal fluid perfusion. REM sleep was unaffected. This is the first study implicating the delta-subunit containing extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors in PFH in control of sleep-wakefulness in freely behaving rats.
Transgenic Centre for Research in Neurodegenerative Diseases 8 (TgCRND8) mice expressing a double mutant form of human amyloid precursor protein represent a good model of Alzheimer's disease, and can be useful to clarify the involvement of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) dysregulation in the pathophysiology of this neurodegenerative disorder. Activation of extracellular regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2, jun kinase (JNK) and p38MAPK was studied in the hippocampus of 7-month-old TgCRND8 mice by immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis using antibodies selective for the phosphorylated, and thus active, forms of the enzymes. We demonstrated that the three main MAPK pathways were differentially activated in cells of the hippocampus of TgCRND8 mice in comparison to wild type (Wt) littermates, p38MAPK and JNK being more activated, while ERK less activated. p38MAPK was significantly activated in microglia, astrocytes and neurons, around and distant from the plaques. JNK was highly activated in cells closely surrounding the plaques. No difference was observed in the activation of the two major bands of JNK, at a molecular weight of 46 kDa and 54 kDa. These data indicate the possible involvement of p38MAPK and JNK pathways dysregulation in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. The ERK2 isoform of the ERK pathway was less activated in the hippocampal dentate gyrus of Tg mice in basal conditions. Furthermore activation of the ERK pathway by ex vivo cholinergic stimulation with carbachol caused significantly higher activation of ERK in the hippocampus of Wt mice than in Tg mice. These findings may pose a molecular basis for the memory disruption of Alzheimer's disease, since proper functioning of the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and of ERK2 is critical for memory formation.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors containing the alpha4 and beta2 subunits constitute the most abundant high-affinity binding site of nicotine in the brain and are critical for the addictive qualities of nicotine. 5-HT neurotransmission is thought to be an important contributor to nicotine addiction. Therefore in this study it was examined how alpha4-containing receptors are positioned to modulate the function of 5-HT neurons using ultrastructural analysis of immunolabeling for the alpha4 receptor subunit in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DR), a primary source of forebrain 5-HT in the rat. Of 150 profiles labeled for the alpha4 subunit, 140 or 93% consisted of either soma or dendrites, these were often small-caliber (distal) dendrites &lt;1.5 microm in diameter (63/150 or 42%). The majority (107/150 or 71%) of profiles containing labeling for alpha4 were dually labeled for the synthetic enzyme for 5-HT, tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH). Within dendrites immunogold labeling for alpha4 was present on the plasma membrane or near postsynaptic densities. However, labeling for alpha4 was commonly localized to the cytoplasmic compartment often associated with smooth endoplasmic reticulum, plausibly representing receptors in transit to or from the plasma membrane. Previous studies have suggested that nicotine presynaptically regulates activity onto 5-HT neurons, however alpha4 immunolabeling was detected in only 10 axons in the DR or 7% of profiles sampled. This finding suggest that alpha4 containing receptors are minor contributors to presynaptic regulation of synaptic activity onto 5-HT neurons, but rather alpha4 containing receptors are positioned to influence 5-HT neurons directly at postsynaptic sites.
The mammalian cerebellar cortex is highly compartmentalized. First, it is subdivided into four transverse expression domains: the anterior zone (AZ), the central zone (CZ), the posterior zone (PZ), and the nodular zone (NZ). Within each zone, the cortex is further subdivided into a symmetrical array of parasagittal stripes. The most extensively studied compartmentation antigen is zebrin II/aldolase c, which is expressed by a subset of Purkinje cells forming parasagittal stripes. Stripe phenotypes are specified early in cerebellar development, in part through the action of early B-cell factor 2 (Ebf2), a member of the atypical helix-loop-helix transcription factor family Collier/Olf1/EBF. In the murine cerebellum, Ebf2 expression is restricted to the zebrin II-immunonegative (zebrin II-) Purkinje cell population. We have identified multiple cerebellar defects in the Ebf2 null mouse involving a combination of selective Purkinje cell death and ectopic expression of multiple genes normally restricted to the zebrin II- subset. The nature of the cerebellar defect in the Ebf2 null is different in each transverse zone. In contrast to the ectopic expression of genes characteristic of the zebrin II+ Purkinje cell phenotype, phospholipase Cbeta4 expression, restricted to zebrin II- Purkinje cells in control mice, is well maintained, and the normal number of stripes is present. Taken together, these data suggest that Ebf2 regulates the expression of genes associated with the zebrin II+ Purkinje cell phenotype and that the zebrin II- Purkinje cell subtype is specified independently.
The effects of repeated administration of a tricyclic antidepressant, imipramine, lasting 14 days (10 mg/kg p.o., twice daily), were studied ex vivo in rat frontal cortex slices prepared 48 h after last dose of the drug. In slices prepared from imipramine-treated animals the mean frequency, and to a lesser degree the mean amplitude, of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents recorded from layer II/III pyramidal neurons, were decreased. These effects were accompanied by a reduction of the initial slope ratio of pharmacologically isolated N-methyl-D-aspartate to AMPA/kainate receptor-mediated stimulation-evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents. Imipramine treatment also resulted in a decrease of extracellular field potentials evoked in layer II/III by stimulation of underlying sites in layer V. These results indicate that chronic treatment with imipramine results in an attenuation of the release of glutamate and an alteration in the postsynaptic reactivity of ionotropic glutamate receptors in rat cerebral cortex.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder caused by abnormal CAG repeat expansion in the IT15 gene encoding huntingtin protein (htt). Mutated htt is predicted to acquire toxic properties in specific brain regions. For instance, striatal neurons expressing dopamine receptors predominantly degenerate in HD patients. Although the basis of this specific vulnerability remains unclear, a great deal of evidence has documented the ability of the dopamine system to modulate the toxicity of expanded htt. To investigate the relationship between dopamine receptors and expanded htt, we transfected enhanced green fluorescent proteins (EGFP) tagged to normal (25 CAG) or mutant (103 CAG) htt in SK-N-MC neuroblastoma cells that endogenously express D1 receptors. Forming nuclear and cytoplasmic aggregates, mutant htt-EGFP was toxic to cells beyond 24 h post-transfection. Remarkably, low doses of a selective D1 receptors agonist or forskolin, an activator of adenylate cyclase, accelerated the formation of mutant htt nuclear aggregates, whereas the number of cytoplasmic aggregates was decreased. These effects were associated with a minor increase in cell death. Understanding the functional bases of these effects may further elucidate the role of dopamine receptors signaling in the complex pathophysiology of HD.
The importance of an intracellular calcium content increase to obtain cholinergic antinociception was demonstrated. The physiological and pathological role of ryanodine receptors (RyRs), receptors involved in the mobilization of intracellular calcium stores, at the CNS level is poorly understood. The aim of the present study was, therefore, to investigate the role of supraspinal endoplasmic type 1, 2 and 3 RyR subtypes in muscarinic antinociception in conditions of acute thermal (hotplate test) and inflammatory (abdominal constriction test) pain. In the absence of isoform selective RyR antagonists, types 1, 2 and 3 RyR knockdown mice were obtained. Western blotting experiments were performed to quantify the RyR isoform protein levels in knockdown mice demonstrating a selective protein level reduction in knockdown animals. I.c.v. pretreatment with an antisense oligonucleotide (aODN) against type 1 or type 3 RyR prevented cholinergic antinociception in the hotplate test shifting to the right of the physostigmine dose-response curve. This antagonistic effect disappeared 7 days after the end of the aODN administration. Conversely, the physostigmine analgesia remained unmodified in type 2 RyR knockdown mice. Similar results were obtained in the abdominal constriction test. Mice undergoing aODN treatments showed neither alteration of animals' gross behavior nor locomotor impairment (rota-rod and hole board tests). These results elucidate the intracellular mechanism underlying muscarinic antinociception. A selective involvement of RyR1 and RyR3 in supraspinal muscarinic analgesia was demonstrated whereas RyR2 appears not to play an essential role in acute thermal and inflammatory pain.
There is recent evidence supporting the notion that the cannabinoid signaling system plays a modulatory role in the regulation of cell proliferation and migration, survival of neural progenitors, neuritic elongation and guidance, and synaptogenesis. This assumption is based on the fact that cannabinoid 1-type receptors (CB(1) receptors) and their ligands emerge early in brain development and are abundantly expressed in certain brain regions that play key roles in these processes. We have recently presented in vivo evidence showing that this modulatory action might be exerted through regulating the synthesis of the cell adhesion molecule L1 that is also a key element for those processes. To further explore this issue, we conducted here immunohistochemical studies aimed at determining the cellular substrates of CB(1) receptor-L1 interactions in the rat brain during late fetal development. In this period, we previously found that the activation of CB(1) receptors increased L1 synthesis in several forebrain white matter regions but not in gray matter areas. Using double labeling studies, we observed here colocalization of both proteins in fiber tracts including the corpus callosum, the adjacent subcortical white matter, the internal capsule and the anterior commissure. Experiments conducted with cultures of fetal rat cortical nerve cells revealed that L1 is present mainly in neurons but not in glial cells. This fact, together with the results obtained in the double labeling studies, would indicate that L1 and CB(1) receptors should possibly be present in axons elongating through these white matter tracts, or, alternatively, in migrating neurons. Further experiments confirmed the presence of CB(1) receptors in elongating axons, since these receptors colocalized with growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43), a marker of growth cones, but not with synaptophysin, a marker of active synaptic terminals, in the same forebrain white matter regions. Lastly, using cultured fetal rat cortical neurons, we also observed that the activation of cannabinoid receptors increased the levels of the full-length L1 and altered those of some active proteolytic fragments of this protein whose generation has been associated with specific steps in the process of neuritic elongation in cultured neurons. In summary, we have demonstrated that the effects caused by cannabinoid agonists on L1 are facilitated by the colocalization of this cell adhesion molecule with CB(1) receptors in several forebrain white matter regions during fetal brain development. We have provided strong evidence that this phenomenon occurs in axons elongating through these white matter tracts, and we have explored in vitro how cannabinoid receptors influence L1 levels. Considering the role played by L1 in different events related to neural development, our observations support the occurrence of a physiological mechanism by which the cannabinoid system might regulate the process of axonal growth and guidance through regulating the synthesis and function of L1.
We previously showed that intrathecal co-administration of amitriptyline with morphine upregulates the expression of the glial glutamate transporters glutamate-aspartate transporter (GLAST) and glutamate transporter-1 (GLT-1) and restores neuronal glutamate transporter excitatory amino acid carrier 1 (EAAC1) expression in chronically morphine-infused rats. The present study examined the role of nuclear transcription factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) in the regulation of the expression of GLAST, GLT-1, and EAAC1 following long-term amitriptyline/morphine co-infusion. Male Wistar rats were implanted with two intrathecal catheters with or without a microdialysis probe; one of the catheters was used for continuous infusion of saline (control), morphine (15 microg/h), or morphine plus amitriptyline (both 15 microg/h) for 5 days, while the other was used for a single daily intrathecal injection of the NF-kappaB inhibitor Ro106-9920 (10 microl of 10 microM) for 5 days. We found that amitriptyline co-infusion restored the antinociceptive effect of morphine (4.5-fold right-shift in the morphine dose-response curve compared with a 65-fold right-shift in its absence) and this effect was inhibited by Ro106-9920 administration (48-fold right-shift). Moreover, amitriptyline/morphine co-infusion increased IkappaBalpha phosphorylation and the translocation of NF-kappaB p65 from the cytosol to the nucleus. Daily intrathecal injection of Ro106-9920 prevented the amitriptyline/morphine-induced NF-kappaB p65 translocation and reversed the amitriptyline/morphine-induced GLAST and GLT-1 upregulation and inhibited the restoration of EAAC1 expression. The Ro106-9920 injections abolished the inhibitory effect of amitriptyline on the morphine-evoked release of excitatory amino acids into the spinal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) dialysates. In conclusion, amitriptyline/morphine co-infusion restores the antinociceptive effect of morphine and upregulates GLAST and GLT-1 expression and restores EAAC1 expression to baseline levels, thus reducing excitatory amino acid levels in the spinal CSF dialysates. The mechanism involves activation of the NF-kappaB pathway, but may also involve other pathways.
Amphetamine has been shown previously to increase the apportioning of associative strength to weak predictors in appetitive Pavlovian conditioning procedures such as latent inhibition and overshadowing. Manipulating the likelihood with which different conditioned stimuli (CSs) predict subsequent delivery of an unconditioned stimulus (UCS) is an alternative method by which the associability of CSs can be influenced. The present experiment tested effects of D-amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg or 1.5 mg/kg administered 15 min prior to conditioning) in appetitive acquisition under partial versus continuous reinforcement of alternative CSs with sucrose pellet UCS delivery. Specifically, male Wistar rats were conditioned to light and tone CSs that were followed by the UCS on 100% or 50% of trials in a cross-over design. It was predicted that amphetamine would disrupt rats' ability to select appropriately the most valid CSs for learning which would be expressed as increased conditioning to weaker, 50% valid CSs. Contrary to prediction, differential responding based on relative validity was preserved under amphetamine, for both light and tone stimuli. Instead, the results showed that responding to light CSs was generally reduced under amphetamine. Conditioning to tone CSs was higher and unaffected by amphetamine. Thus, results demonstrate that amphetamine effects are determined by the properties of the CS used for learning.
The administration of low dose opioid antagonists has been explored as a potential means of detoxification in opiate dependence. Previous results from our laboratory have shown that concurrent administration of low dose naltrexone in the drinking water of rats implanted with subcutaneous morphine pellets attenuates behavioral and biochemical signs of withdrawal in brainstem noradrenergic nuclei. Noradrenergic projections originating from the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) and the locus coeruleus (LC) have previously been shown to be important neural substrates involved in the somatic expression of opiate withdrawal. The hypothesis that low dose naltrexone treatment attenuates noradrenergic hyperactivity typically associated with opiate withdrawal was examined in the present study by assessing norepinephrine tissue content and norepinephrine efflux using in vivo microdialysis coupled to high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with electrochemical detection (ED). The frontal cortex (FC), amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) and cerebellum were analyzed for tissue content of norepinephrine following withdrawal in morphine dependent rats. Naltrexone-precipitated withdrawal elicited a significant decrease in tissue content of norepinephrine in the BNST and amygdala. This decrease was significantly attenuated in the BNST of rats that received low dose naltrexone pre-treatment compared to controls. No significant difference was observed in the other brain regions examined. In a separate group of rats, norepinephrine efflux was assessed with in vivo microdialysis in the BNST or the FC of morphine dependent rats or placebo treated rats subjected to naltrexone-precipitated withdrawal that received either naltrexone in their drinking water (5 mg/L) or unadulterated water. Following baseline dialysate collection, withdrawal was precipitated by injection of naltrexone and sample collection continued for an additional 4 h. At the end of the experiment, animals were transcardially perfused and the brains were removed for verification of probe placement. Low dose naltrexone pre-treatment significantly attenuated withdrawal-induced increases of extracellular norepinephrine in the BNST, with a smaller effect in the FC. These findings suggest that alterations in norepinephrine release associated with withdrawal may be attenuated in forebrain targets of noradrenergic brainstem neurons that may underlie reduced behavioral signs of withdrawal following low dose naltrexone administration.
Currently, the use of electronic scales is increasing rapidly, which is not surprising considering its accuracy, the ease of use and the increased compliance. The value of Visual Analogue Scales as a mean to objectify subjective variables has long been recognised. The current study aimed to validate the electronic Visual Analogue Scale of Anxiety (eVAAS). Seventy-one subjects, control subjects (n=46) and Panic Disorder patients (n=25), filled out the paper VAAS and the eVAAS in a randomised order. Panic was provoked using 35% CO(2) inhalation allowing us to include maximal scores in our analyses. The correlation between eVAAS and pVAAS was very strong and highly significant (r=0.98, p&lt;0.001). pVAAS scores were slightly higher than eVAAS scores (p&lt;0.001), but this difference is clinically unimportant. The VAAS established on a tablet PC is a useful and valid measure of anxiety and holds intrinsic benefits for anxiety assessment.

In complex natural environments, auditory and visual information often have to be processed simultaneously. Previous functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies focused on the spatial localization of brain areas involved in audiovisual (AV) information processing, but the temporal characteristics of AV information flow in these regions remained unclear. In this study, we used fMRI and a novel information-theoretic approach to study the flow of AV sensory information. Subjects passively perceived sounds and images of objects presented either alone or simultaneously. Applying the measure of mutual information, we computed for each voxel the latency in which the blood oxygenation level-dependent signal had the highest information content about the preceding stimulus. The results indicate that, after AV stimulation, the earliest informative activity occurs in right Heschl's gyrus, left primary visual cortex, and the posterior portion of the superior temporal gyrus, which is known as a region involved in object-related AV integration. Informative activity in the anterior portion of superior temporal gyrus, middle temporal gyrus, right occipital cortex, and inferior frontal cortex was found at a later latency. Moreover, AV presentation resulted in shorter latencies in multiple cortical areas compared with isolated auditory or visual presentation. The results provide evidence for bottom-up processing from primary sensory areas into higher association areas during AV integration in humans and suggest that AV presentation shortens processing time in early sensory cortices.
The basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA) has been implicated in the modulation of learning after stress. Acute inescapable stress enhances classical eyeblink conditioning in male rats, whereas the same stressor impairs eyeblink conditioning in female rats. The experiments here directly assessed whether inactivation of the BLA during stress exposure would block both the stress-induced facilitation in males and the retardation of eyeblink conditioning in females. To this end, the BLA was temporarily inactivated by infusion of the GABA agonist muscimol before acute stressor exposure. All rats were trained in a different context 24 h later. Males infused with muscimol before the stressful event did not exhibit facilitated eyeblink conditioning, whereas those infused with the vehicle emitted more conditioned responses than unstressed males. Females infused with muscimol before stress did not express a deficit in conditioning, whereas those infused with vehicle and stressed emitted fewer conditioned responses than unstressed vehicle controls. These data demonstrate that neuronal activity within the BLA during stress exposure is necessary to modulate learning 24 h later in a new context. Thus, the BLA is necessary to induce the long-term effect of stressful experience on conditioning regardless of sex and direction of modulation.
Illuminating the molecular identity and regulation of early progenitor cells in the olfactory sensory epithelium represents an important challenge in the field of neural development. We show in both mouse and zebrafish that the winged helix transcription factor Foxg1 is expressed in an early progenitor population of the olfactory placode. In the mouse, Foxg1 is first expressed throughout the olfactory placode but later becomes restricted to the ventrolateral olfactory epithelium. The essential role of Foxg1 in olfactory development is demonstrated by the strikingly severe phenotype of Foxg1 knock-out mice: older embryos have no recognizable olfactory structures, including epithelium, bulb, or vomeronasal organs. Initially, a small number of olfactory progenitors are specified but show defects in both proliferation and differentiation. Similarly, antisense RNA knockdown of Foxg1 expression in the zebrafish shows a reduction in the number of neurons and mitotic cells in olfactory rosettes, mirroring the phenotype seen in the mouse Foxg1 null mutant. Using mosaic analysis in the zebrafish, we show that Foxg1 is required cell-autonomously for the production of mature olfactory receptor neurons. Therefore, we identified an evolutionarily conserved requirement for Foxg1 in the development of the vertebrate olfactory system.
The parietal cortex contains representations of space in multiple coordinate systems including retina-, head-, body-, and world-based systems. Previously, we found that when monkeys are required to perform spatial computations on objects, many neurons in parietal area 7a represent position in an object-centered coordinate system as well. Because visual information enters the brain in a retina-centered reference frame, generation of an object-centered reference requires the brain to perform computation on the visual input. We provide evidence that area 7a contains a correlate of that computation. Specifically, area 7a contains neurons that code information in retina- and object-centered coordinate systems. The information in retina-centered coordinates emerges first, followed by the information in object-centered coordinates. We found that the strength and accuracy of these representations is correlated across trials. Finally, we found that retina-centered information could be used to predict subsequent object-centered signals, but not vice versa. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that either area 7a, or an area that precedes area 7a in the visual processing hierarchy, is performing the retina- to object-centered transformation.
Somatostatin (SRIF) and cortistatin (CST) are two endogenous peptides with high sequence similarities that act as hormones/neurotransmitters both in the CNS and the periphery; their genes although distinct result from gene duplication. Their receptors appear to be common, since the five known SRIF receptors (sst1-sst5) have similar subnanomolar affinity for SRIF and CST, whether the short (SRIF-14, CST-14, CST-17) or the long versions (SRIF-28, CST-29) of the peptides. Whether CST targets specific receptors not shared by SRIF, is still debated: MrgX2 has been described as a selective CST receptor, with submicromolar affinity for CST but devoid of affinity for SRIF; however the distribution of CST and MrgX2 is largely different, and there is no MrgX2 in rodents. A similar situation arises with the GHS receptor GHS-R1a, which displays some preferential affinity for CST over SRIF, but for which there is no evidence that it is activated by CST in vivo. In both cases, one may argue that submicromolar affinity is not the norm of a GPCR for its endogenous neuropeptide. On the other hand, all receptors known to bind SRIF have similar high affinity for CST and both peptides act as potent agonists at the sst1-sst5 receptors, whichever transduction pathway is considered. In addition, [(125)I][Tyr(10)]CST(14) labels sst1-sst5 receptors with subnanomolar affinity, and [(125)I][Tyr(10)]CST(14) binding in the brain is overlapping with that of [(125)I][Tyr(0)]SRIF(14). The functional differences reported that distinguish CST from SRIF, have not been explained convincingly and may relate to ligand-driven transductional selectivity, and other complicating factors such as receptor dimerisation, (homo or heterodimerisation), and/or the influence of accessory proteins (GIPs, RAMPS), which remain to be studied in more detail.
In the absence of sensory stimulation, neocortical circuits display complex patterns of neural activity. These patterns are thought to reflect relevant properties of the network, including anatomical features like its modularity. It is also assumed that the synaptic connections of the network constrain the repertoire of emergent, spontaneous patterns. Although the link between network architecture and network activity has been extensively investigated in the last few years from different perspectives, our understanding of the relationship between the network connectivity and the structure of its spontaneous activity is still incomplete. Using a general mathematical model of neural dynamics we have studied the link between spontaneous activity and the underlying network architecture. In particular, here we show mathematically how the synaptic connections between neurons determine the repertoire of spatial patterns displayed in the spontaneous activity. To test our theoretical result, we have also used the model to simulate spontaneous activity of a neural network, whose architecture is inspired by the patchy organization of horizontal connections between cortical columns in the neocortex of primates and other mammals. The dominant spatial patterns of the spontaneous activity, calculated as its principal components, coincide remarkably well with those patterns predicted from the network connectivity using our theory. The equivalence between the concept of dominant pattern and the concept of attractor of the network dynamics is also demonstrated. This in turn suggests new ways of investigating encoding and storage capabilities of neural networks.
New developments in fluorophores as well as in detection methods have fueled the rapid growth of optical imaging in the life sciences. Commercial widefield microscopes generally use arc lamps, excitation/emission filters and shutters for fluorescence imaging. These components can be expensive, difficult to maintain and preclude stable illumination. Here, we describe methods to construct inexpensive and easy-to-use light sources for optical microscopy using light-emitting diodes (LEDs). We also provide examples of its applicability to biological fluorescence imaging.
A possible treatment approach for chronic spinal cord injuries has been tested. We report that minced, autologous, pre-injured peripheral nerve administered as a single injection into an injury-induced cyst, resulting from a contusion injury of the thoracic spinal cord, stimulates recovery of hindlimb locomotor function in rats, as measured by the Basso, Beattie, Bresnahan Locomotor Rating Scale. This response was further enhanced by the addition of exogenous neurotrophic factors. Histological analysis showed axons of the corticospinal tract exhibited significant regeneration past the injury site, when quantified both by number and length. Results indicate that the use of a pre-injured peripheral nerve graft stimulates chronically injured descending nerves to overcome a local inhibitory environment. The resulting sprouting and growth past the injury site is associated with a significant improvement in locomotor function.
Numerous studies have shown that neuronal plasticity in the hippocampus and neocortex is regulated by estrogen and that aromatase, the key enzyme for estrogen biosynthesis, is present in cerebral cortex. Although the expression pattern of aromatase mRNA has been described in the monkey brain, its precise cellular distribution has not been determined. In addition, the degree to which neuronal aromatase is affected by gonadal estrogen has not been investigated. In this study, we examined the immunohistochemical distribution of aromatase in young ovariectomized female rhesus monkeys with or without long-term cyclic estradiol treatment. Both experimental groups showed that aromatase is localized in a large population of CA1-3 pyramidal cells, in granule cells of the dentate gyrus and in some interneurons in which it was co-expressed with the calcium-binding proteins calbindin, calretinin, and parvalbumin. Moreover, numerous pyramidal cells were immunoreactive for aromatase in the neocortex, whereas only small subpopulations of neocortical interneurons were immunoreactive for aromatase. The widespread expression of the protein in a large neuronal population suggests that local intraneuroral estrogen synthesis may contribute to estrogen-induced synaptic plasticity in monkey hippocampus and neocortex of female rhesus monkeys. In addition, the apparent absence of obvious differences in aromatase distribution between the two experimental groups suggests that these localization patterns are not dependent on plasma estradiol levels.
The rapid entry of drugs into the brain is thought to increase the propensity for addiction. The mechanisms that underlie this effect are not known, but variation in the rate of intravenous cocaine delivery does influence its ability to induce immediate early gene expression (IEG) in the striatum, and to produce psychomotor sensitization. Both IEG induction and psychomotor sensitization are dependent upon dopamine and glutamate neurotransmission within the striatum. We hypothesized, therefore, that varying the rate of intravenous cocaine delivery might influence dopamine and/or glutamate overflow in the striatum. To test this we used microdialysis coupled to on-line capillary electrophoresis and laser-induced fluorescence, which allows for very rapid sampling, to compare the effects of a rapid (5 s) versus a slow (100 s) intravenous cocaine infusion on extracellular dopamine and glutamate levels in the striatum of freely moving rats. An acute injection of cocaine had no effect on extracellular glutamate, at either rate tested. In contrast, although peak levels of dopamine were unaffected by infusion rate, dopamine levels increased more rapidly when cocaine was administered over 5 versus 100 s. Moreover, c-fos mRNA expression in the region of the striatum sampled was greater when cocaine was administered rapidly than when given slowly. These data suggest that small differences in the temporal dynamics of dopamine neurotransmission may have a large effect on the subsequent induction of intracellular signalling cascades that lead to immediate early gene expression, and in this way influence the ability of cocaine to produce long-lasting changes in brain and behavior.

Individual differences in the dopaminergic system of the nucleus accumbens of rats have extensively been reported. These individual differences have frequently been used to explain individual differences in response to environmental and pharmacological challenges. Remarkably, only little attention is paid to the factors that underlie these individual differences. This review gives an overview of the studies that have been performed in our institute during the last 20 years to investigate individual differences in accumbal dopamine release. Data are summarised demonstrating that individual differences in accumbal dopamine release are due to individual differences in: the functional reactivity of the noradrenergic system, the accumbal concentration of vesicular monoamine transporters and tyrosine hydroxylase as well as in the quantal size of the presynaptic pools of dopamine. Our data are embedded in the available literature to create a model that illustrates the putative hardware giving rise to the individual-specific release of accumbal dopamine. An important role is contributed to individual differences in the reactivity of the: hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axes, the reactivity of second messenger systems as well in the aminergic reactivity of the accumbens shell and core. The consequences of the individual-specific make-up and reactivity of the nucleus accumbens on the regulation of behaviour and the response to drugs of abuse will also be discussed. Apart from agents that interact with dopaminergic receptors, re-uptake or breakdown, noradrenergic agents as well as agents that interact with vesicular monoamine transporters or tyrosine hydroxylase are suggested to have therapeutic effects in subjects that are suffering from diseases in which the dopaminergic system is disturbed.
Executive functions are higher-order cognitive processes such as attention, behavioural flexibility, decision-making, inhibitory control, planning, time estimation and working memory that exert top-down control over behaviour. In addition to the role of cannabinoid signaling in other cognitive functions such as mnemonic processes, interest in its involvement in executive functions has arisen more recently. Here, we will briefly review some of the recent findings indicating a modulatory role of cannabinoid action on executive functioning. In addition, a growing body of evidence suggests that in particular adolescents are more vulnerable for the deleterious effects of drugs of abuse such as cannabis on cognitive functioning. Therefore, in this paper we will also briefly discuss some recent developments in this research field.
The existence of sexual dysfunctions in men, including premature and retarded ejaculation poses challenges to develop translational models in rats that may help in improving treatment and delineate the neural mechanisms of action. Most of our current understanding of the neurobiology, neuroanatomy and psychopharmacology of sexual behavior and ejaculatory function has been derived from preclinical studies in the rat. When large populations of male rats are tested on sexual activity during four successive tests, over time individual rats display a very stable sexual behavior that is either slow, normal or fast as characterized by the number of ejaculations performed. These sexual endophenotypes are postulated as rat counterparts of premature (fast rats) or retarded ejaculation (slow rats). Psychopharmacology in these endophenotypes may help to delineate the underlying mechanisms and pathology. This is illustrated by the effects of serotonergic antidepressants and serotonergic compounds on sexual and ejaculatory behavior of rats. Further unravelling of sexual endophenotypes may benefit from the use of chromosomal substitution strains in mice that enable the localization of relevant chromosomal areas and genes involved in ejaculation processes. These preclinical studies and models contribute to a better understanding of the neurobiology of ejaculation and boost the development of novel drug targets to treat ejaculatory disorders such as premature and retarded ejaculation.
In anxiety research, the search for models with sufficient clinical predictive validity to support the translation of animal studies on anxiolytic drugs to clinical research is often challenging. This review describes the stress-induced hyperthermia (SIH) paradigm, a model that studies the activation of the autonomic nervous system in response to stress by measuring body temperature. The reproducible and robust SIH response, combined with ease of testing, make the SIH paradigm very suitable for drug screening. We will review the current knowledge on the neurobiology of the SIH response, discuss the role of GABA(A) and serotonin (5-HT) pharmacology, as well as how the SIH response relates to infectious fever. Furthermore, we will present novel data on the SIH response variance across different mice and their sensitivity to anxiolytic drugs. The SIH response is an autonomic stress response that can be successfully studied at the level of its physiology, pharmacology, neurobiology and genetics and possesses excellent animal-to-human translational properties.
The pharmacological treatment of mood and anxiety disorders has for long relied on the serendipitous findings of monoaminergic and benzodiazepine drugs more than 50 years ago. These treatments, however, are therapeutically insufficient and even though more recently developed drugs are particularly improving side effects, the efficacy or response rate of the drugs has fundamentally not improved. Therefore it is necessary to develop new methods to identify novel mechanisms not based on merely the symptomatology, but on biologically relevant (endo) phenotypes. This review examines the option of integrating mouse and human behavioural genetics to aid the identification of the putative underlying pathophysiological mechanisms and pharmacological targets for psychiatric disorders.
Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease are neurodegenerative diseases, characterized by the accumulation and deposition of neurotoxic protein aggregates. The capacity of specific proteins to self-interact and form neurotoxic aggregates seems to be a common underlying mechanism leading to pathology in these neurodegenerative diseases. This process might be initiated and/or accelerated by proteins that interact with these aggregating proteins. The transglutaminase (TG) family of proteins are calcium-dependent enzymes that catalyze the formation of covalent epsilon-(gamma-glutamyl)lysine isopeptide bonds, which can result in both intra- and intermolecular cross-links. Intramolecular cross-links might modify self-interacting proteins, and make them more prone to aggregate. In addition, intermolecular cross-links could link self-aggregating proteins and thereby initiate and/or stimulate the aggregation process. So far, increased levels and activity of tissue transglutaminase (tTG), the best characterized member of the TG family, have been observed in many neurodegenerative diseases, and the self-interacting proteins, characteristic of Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease, are known substrates of tTG. Here, we focus on the role of tTG in the initiation of the aggregation process of self-interacting proteins in these diseases, and promote the notion that tTG might be an attractive novel target for treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.
The isolation and identification, in 1964, of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the primary psychoactive compound in cannabis, opened the door to a whole new field of medical research. The exploration of the therapeutic potential of THC and other natural and synthetic cannabinoid compounds was paralleled by the discovery of the endocannabinoid system, comprising cannabinoid receptors and their endogenous ligands, which offered exciting new insights into brain function. Besides its well-known involvement in specific brain functions, such as control of movement, memory and emotions, the endocannabinoid system plays an important role in fundamental developmental processes such as cell proliferation, migration and differentiation. For this reason, changes in its activity during stages of high neuronal plasticity, such as the perinatal and the adolescent period, can have long-lasting neurobehavioral consequences. Here, we summarize human and animal studies examining the behavioral and neurobiological effects of in utero and adolescent exposure to cannabis. Since cannabis preparations are widely used and abused by young people, including pregnant women, understanding how cannabinoid compounds affect the developing brain, leading to neurobehavioral alterations or neuropsychiatric disorders later in life, is a serious health issue. In addition, since the endocannabinoid system is emerging as a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of several neuropsychiatric diseases, a detailed investigation of possible adverse effects of cannabinoid compounds on the central nervous system (CNS) of immature individuals is warranted.
Well-consolidated memories, when retrieved, may return to a transiently fragile state, and need to be consolidated again in order to be maintained. This process has been referred to as memory reconsolidation and presumably serves to modify or strengthen memory traces. In recent years, our understanding of the neurobiological mechanisms underlying this phenomenon has increased rapidly. Here, we will briefly review some of the pharmacological evidence, stressing a crucial role for the brain's major neurotransmitter systems, such as glutamate and noradrenaline, in memory reconsolidation. Pharmacological intervention of reconsolidation processes may have clinical relevance, especially for the treatment of psychiatric disorders that are characterized by pathological memories, including post-traumatic stress disorder and addictive behaviour.

Recent studies have demonstrated that the topography of thalamocortical (TC) axon projections is initiated before they reach the cortex, in the ventral telencephalon (VTel). However, at this point, the molecular mechanisms patterning the topography of TC projections in the VTel remains poorly understood. Here, we show that a long-range, high-rostral to low-caudal gradient of Netrin-1 in the VTel is required in vivo for the topographic sorting of TC axons to distinct cortical domains. We demonstrate that Netrin-1 is a chemoattractant for rostral thalamic axons but functions as a chemorepulsive cue for caudal thalamic axons. In accordance with this model, DCC is expressed in a high-rostromedial to low-caudolateral gradient in the dorsal thalamus (DTh), whereas three Unc5 receptors (Unc5A-C) show graded expression in the reverse orientation. Finally, we show that DCC is required for the attraction of rostromedial thalamic axons to the Netrin-1-rich, anterior part of the VTel, whereas DCC and Unc5A/C receptors are required for the repulsion of caudolateral TC axons from the same Netrin-1-rich region of the VTel. Our results demonstrate that a long-range gradient of Netrin-1 acts as a counteracting force from ephrin-A5 to control the topography of TC projections before they enter the cortex.
Prostanoids have a broad spectrum of biological activities in a variety of organs including the brain. However, their effects on synaptic plasticity in the brain, which have been recently revealed, are ambiguous in comparison to those in the other organs. Prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) is a prostanoid produced from arachidonic acid in the cellular membrane, and knowledge about its functions is increasing. Recently, a novel function of PGE(2) in the brain has shed light on aspects of synaptic plasticity such as long-term potentiation (LTP). More recently, we have proposed a hypothesis for the mechanisms of this PGE(2)-related form of synaptic plasticity in the visual cortex. This involves the dynamics of two subtypes of PGE(2) receptors that have opposing functions in intracellular signal transduction. Consequently, mechanisms that increase the level of cyclic AMP in the cytosol may explain for the mechanisms of LTP in the visual cortex. The current notion of bidirectional trafficking of PGE(2) receptors under this hypothesis is reminiscent of the &quot;silent synapse&quot; mechanism of LTP on the trafficking of the AMPA receptors between the membrane and cytosol. Moreover, we propose the hypothesis that PGE(2) acts as a &quot;post-to-postsynaptic messenger&quot; for the induction of LTP in the visual cortex. This review describes a complex mode of action of PGE(2) receptors in synaptic plasticity in the brain.
Literature highlights that serotonergic descending pathways are implicated in somatosensory functions in the spinal cord and that serotonin (5-HT) in the dorsal horn might play a role in motor function through proprioceptive feedback. We hypothesized that 5-HT release in dorsal horn might represent an important factor in the completion of locomotion by facilitation of the spinocerebellar tract and/or by modulation of spinal reflex pathways. The present study demonstrates that during locomotor activity, 5-HT is released in layers II, III, IV, V of Rexed. Microdialysis in combination with HPLC was used to measure concentrations of neurotransmitters in the lumbar dorsal horn before, during, and after a treadmill running exercise. Our results show a significant 41% increase of 5-HT release within the dorsal horn during the exercise. 5-HT release is temporally related to exercise. The present study demonstrates that dorsal horn 5-HT release might modulate locomotion.
Little attention has been directed towards environmental control of sensitivity to natural reward and its possible relationship with other motivated behaviors, besides the well-known effects of environmental enrichment and social isolation on drug self-administration and locomotor sensitization to psychostimulants. Here, we investigate the effects of these rearing conditions on sucrose consumption and preference, and tissue levels of striatal dopamine. The possible relationship among sucrose intake, immobility behavior in the forced swimming test, and dopamine concentration was explored through correlation and regression analyses. Even though all animals preferred sucrose over water, we found, that during postnatal period, isolated rats consumed more sucrose than control or enriched littermates. In isolated rats sucrose intake correlated positively with ventral but not with dorsal striatum dopamine, even when striatal dopamine did not differ among groups. Especially in isolated animals immobility behavior was positively predicted by differences in sucrose intake. The dopamine concentration did not correlate with immobility behavior. Taken together, the present data support previous findings regarding the effects of early life events upon reward-sensitivity and depressive-like behavior, and also provide further evidence about the relationship between these motivated behaviors and the likely role of ventral striatum dopamine in regulating them.
The mechanisms that underlie the altered neurotransmitter system in Alzheimer's disease (AD) are not well understood. Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is a precursor protein for beta-amyloid, an important trigger protein in the pathogenesis of AD. Duplication of the APP gene as well as APP genes that contain certain mutations has been reported to be associated with familial AD (FAD), and a role of APP in neurotransmission has been suggested recently. This study examines the role of APP in exocytosis in PC12 cells using transfected human growth hormone (hGH) as a reporter for secretion. It was found that overexpression of APP or expression of the Swedish FAD mutation (APPsw) in PC12 cells significantly increased the basal secretion and constitutive secretion of hGH. Expression of an APP phosphorylation-deficient mutant decreased both basal and constitutive secretion relative to the APP wild-type, suggesting a role for APP-Thr668 phosphorylation in secretion in PC12 cells. Overexpression of X11alpha, a protein that stabilizes cellular APP, also increased the basal secretion of hGH but, contrary to APP, decreased the constitutive secretion of hGH, suggesting that basal and constitutive secretion is likely to proceed via distinct pathways and that the increase in the basal secretion of hGH may result from APP-X11alpha interaction. These results demonstrate an unknown role for APP in secretion, and suggest that elevated levels of APP or APP mutation in FAD brains contribute to the altered neurotransmitter pathology of AD through stimulation of basal and constitutive secretion.
Generation and accumulation of fibrillar amyloid beta (Abeta) is widely considered as the pathogenic basis of neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Both active immunization with fibrillar Abeta and passive immunization with anti-Abeta antibodies in transgenic mouse models of AD result in prevention/dissociation of Abeta plaque formation and restoration of cognitive functions. However, similar immunization studies in humans had to be halted because 6% of the AD patients developed acute meningoencephalitis, likely due to anti-Abeta specific autoimmune Th1 cells. Hence, making Abeta immunotherapy successful requires production of strong antibody responses without Th1-type immunity. In an attempt to develop safer vaccines, we examined the influence of oligodeoxynucleotides as adjuvant on the Th1 and Th2 immune response to Abeta in aged rats. We further investigated whether a DNA prime-protein boost strategy could elicit a more robust Th2 response. The results of the present study showed that all the animals injected with either Abeta peptide alone or Abeta encoding plasmid alone or plasmid DNA prime followed by peptide boost have elicited specific anti-Abeta antibodies. When co-administered, synthetic oligodeoxynucleotides (ODN) further enhanced the anti-Abeta titres. More importantly, the IgG subclasses of the antibodies generated by DNA prime-peptide boost regimen with ODN as adjuvant were primarily of IgG2b and IgG1 isotypes, suggesting that heterologous immunization strategy along with ODN would be advantageous in eliciting more beneficial Th2-type humoral immune response.
Fast-spiking cells (FS cells) are a prominent subtype of neocortical GABAergic interneurons with important functional roles. Multiple FS cell properties are coordinated for rapid response. Here, we describe an FS cell feature that serves to gate the powerful inhibition produced by FS cell activity. We show that FS cells in layer 2/3 barrel cortex possess a dampening mechanism mediated by Kv1.1-containing potassium channels localized to the axon initial segment. These channels powerfully regulate action potential threshold and allow FS cells to respond preferentially to large inputs that are fast enough to &quot;outrun&quot; Kv1 activation. In addition, Kv1.1 channel blockade converts the delay-type discharge pattern of FS cells to one of continuous fast spiking without influencing the high-frequency firing that defines FS cells. Thus, Kv1 channels provide a key counterbalance to the established rapid-response characteristics of FS cells, regulating excitability through a unique combination of electrophysiological properties and discrete subcellular localization.
Synaptic strengthening produced by epileptiform activity may contribute to seizure progression and cognitive impairment in epilepsy. Agents that limit this form of plasticity may have therapeutic benefit. Neuregulin is an endogenous growth factor that is released at synapses in an activity dependent manner and can suppress long term potentiation (LTP). Alterations in neuregulin signaling have been associated with schizophrenia. A role for neuregulin in epilepsy has not been explored. We used field potential recordings to examine the role of neuregulin in regulating synaptic strengthening following epileptiform activity in hippocampal slices. Neuregulin had no effect on basal synaptic transmission, isolated NMDA field potentials or GABAergic inhibition on CA1 pyramidal neurons. However, it reversed LTP at CA1 synapses. Brief exposure to 10 mM potassium chloride produced epileptiform bursting and potentiation of CA1 synapses and suppressed the subsequent induction of LTP. Neuregulin reversed high K(+)-induced synaptic strengthening, enabling LTP induction after neuregulin washout. In this manner neuregulin preserved the dynamic range of synaptic responses and plasticity after epileptiform activity. These results indicate that LTP and high K(+)-induced synaptic strengthening share a common neuregulin-sensitive mechanism. By opposing synaptic strengthening caused by epileptiform activity, we suggest that neuregulin may reduce the generation and spread of seizures as well as memory deficits associated with epilepsy.
The goal of the present study was to determine an optimum exposure regimen for alterations in sleep induced by chronic alcohol treatments in rats. We used two different exposure routes (alcohol in water and alcohol in liquid diet at two different doses in each regimen (6% and 12% alcohol in water and 3% and 6% alcohol in liquid diet)). All treatments were for 6 weeks. We found the effects of the 6% and 12% in water and 3% in liquid diet to be very similar; all three produced increases in slow-wave sleep (SWS) only in the dark period with no changes in rapid-eye-movement sleep (REMS). On the other hand 6% alcohol in liquid diet caused much more dramatic changes, with alterations in both SWS and REMS in both the dark and light periods. These animals spent less time in SWS and REMS during the light period but more time in SWS and REMS in the dark period. Additionally, the variation of slow-wave amplitude (SWA) across day and night in this group of alcoholic animals is blunted with the loss of the peak of SWA at the beginning of light onset compared to the other groups. We conclude that future alcohol treatment regimens used to investigate the effects of alcohol on sleep in adult rats should use an exposure protocol of at least 6 weeks with 6% alcohol in liquid diet.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) have the potential to be used for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD), as they can be expanded, manipulated and differentiated in vitro to generate dopaminergic neurones which are suitable for transplantation. Since NSCs have a tendency to follow an astrocytic lineage after differentiation in vitro, researchers are investigating ways to induce a neuronal phenotype in these cells. In this study, the human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1) transactivator of transcription (TAT) protein transduction domain (PTD) system was used in an attempt to promote neuronal differentiation in rodent NSCs. A fusion protein that incorporated both the TAT PTD and the Pax6 protein (a determinant of neurogenesis) was created and added to the differentiation phase of embryonic day (E) 12 rat ventral mesencephalic (VM) neurosphere cultures. Subsequently, application of dopaminergic growth factors (GFs) was used in an attempt to induce the newly-generated neuronal progenitors to adopt a dopaminergic phenotype. In addition, a technique involving the differentiation of intact neurospheres (instead of the differentiation of neurosphere-derived dissociated cells) was investigated for its ability to promote dopaminergic neurogenesis. Immunocytochemical analysis of the differentiated neurosphere cultures indicated that both of these techniques had a significant effect on the emergence of dopaminergic neurones. Moreover, upon combination of these techniques, a further increase in dopaminergic neuronal generation was observed. Based on the findings of the present study, it is clear that NSCs are greatly influenced by their environment and that optimised in vitro conditions can support the potential of these cells to differentiate into dopaminergic neurones.
A series of zeolite-type silicates containing stoichiometric amounts of Ln(3+) ions in the framework (Ln-AV-9 materials), with composition (Na(4)K(2))(Ln(2)Si(16)O(38)).10H(2)O (Ln = Nd, Sm, Eu, Tb, Gd, Dy) has recently been synthesized and characterized. They form paramagnetic microparticles, which as aqueous suspensions have negligible water (1)H longitudinal relaxivities (r(1)) for all Ln(3+) ions studied and quite large transverse relaxivities (r(2)). In this work we further analysed the size distribution of the Ln-AV-9 particles and their r(2)* and r(2) relaxivities. The r(2)* relaxivity effects are explained by the static dephasing regime (SDR) theory. The r(2) relaxivities appear to be strongly dependent on the interval between two consecutive refocusing pulses (tau(CP)) in the train of 180 degrees pulses applied. For long tau(CP) values, the r(2) of the systems saturates at a value, which is always an order of magnitude smaller than r(2)*. These features are explained by a crude model, which takes into account the residual diffusion effect in the static dephasing regime. The large microparticles, although not efficient in T(1) relaxation, are quite effective in enhancing T(2) relaxation, particularly at high magnetic fields. The r(2)* values and the saturation values for r(2) were found to increase linearly with B(0) and mu(0)(2). The largest transversal relaxation rate enhancements were observed for Dy-AV-9 with a saturation value of r(2) of 60 s(-1) mM(-1) and a r(2)* value of 566 s(-1) mM(-1) at 9.4 T and 298 K.
Although many studies have shown that the activity of individual neurons in a variety of visual areas is modulated by attention, a fundamental question remains unresolved: can attention alter the visual representations of individual neurons? One set of studies, primarily relying on the attentional modulations observed when a single stimulus is presented within the receptive field of a neuron, suggests that neuronal selectivities, such as orientation or direction tuning, are not fundamentally altered by attention (Salinas and Abbott, 1997; McAdams and Maunsell, 1999; Treue and Martinez Trujillo, 1999). Another set of studies, relying on modulations observed when multiple stimuli are presented within a receptive field, suggests that attention can alter the weighting of sensory inputs (Moran and Desimone, 1985; Luck et al., 1997; Reynolds et al., 1999; Chelazzi et al., 2001). In these studies, when preferred and nonpreferred stimuli are simultaneously presented, responses are much stronger when attention is directed to the preferred stimulus than when it is directed to the nonpreferred stimulus. In this study, we recorded neuronal responses from individual neurons in visual cortical area V4 to both single and paired stimuli with a variety of attentional allocations and stimulus combinations. For each neuron studied, we constructed a quantitative model of input summation and then tested various models of attention. In many neurons, we are able to explain neuronal responses across the entire range of stimuli and attentional allocations tested. Specifically, we are able to reconcile seemingly inconsistent observations of single and paired stimuli attentional modulation with a new model in which attention can facilitate or suppress specific inputs to a neuron but does not fundamentally alter the integration of these inputs.
TRPA1 is an excitatory, nonselective cation channel implicated in somatosensory function, pain, and neurogenic inflammation. Through covalent modification of cysteine and lysine residues, TRPA1 can be activated by electrophilic compounds, including active ingredients of pungent natural products (e.g., allyl isothiocyanate), environmental irritants (e.g., acrolein), and endogenous ligands (4-hydroxynonenal). However, how covalent modification leads to channel opening is not understood. Here, we report that electrophilic, thioaminal-containing compounds [e.g., CMP1 (4-methyl-N-[2,2,2-trichloro-1-(4-nitro-phenylsulfanyl)-ethyl]-benzamide)] covalently modify cysteine residues but produce striking species-specific effects [i.e., activation of rat TRPA1 (rTRPA1) and blockade of human TRPA1 (hTRPA1) activation by reactive and nonreactive agonists]. Through characterizing rTRPA1 and hTRPA1 chimeric channels and point mutations, we identified several residues in the upper portion of the S6 transmembrane domains as critical determinants of the opposite channel gating: Ala-946 and Met-949 of rTRPA1 determine channel activation, whereas equivalent residues of hTRPA1 (Ser-943 and Ile-946) determine channel block. Furthermore, side-chain replacements at these critical residues profoundly affect channel function. Therefore, our findings reveal a molecular basis of species-specific channel gating and provide novel insights into how TRPA1 respond to stimuli.
In the hippocampus, pyramidal cells encode information in two major ways: rate coding and temporal coding. Rate coding, in which information is coded through firing frequency, is exemplarily illustrated by place cells, characterized by their location-specific firing. In addition, the precise temporal organization of firing of multiple place cells provides information, in a compressed time window, about the temporal sequence of the locations visited by the animal. This encoding is accomplished through phase precession, a phenomenon whereby unit firing is linked to theta rhythm, one of the major hippocampal EEG oscillations. Although it is likely that this type of processing is critical for normal brain function, its involvement in pathologies associated with cognitive disorders is unknown. In this experiment, we determined whether the temporal organization of place cell firing is affected in an animal model of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE), a disease accompanied with cognitive impairment. We investigated hippocampal coding and its relationship to theta rhythm in rats after status epilepticus (SE), a condition that leads to MTLE. We found a great proportion of SE place cells had aberrant phase/precession pattern and temporal organization of firing among pairs of neurons, which constitutes the compression of temporal sequences, was altered in SE rats. The same animals were also markedly impaired in the water maze task, a measure of spatial memory. We propose that the synaptic and cellular alterations observed in MTLE induce aberrant temporal coding in the hippocampus, contributing in turn to cognitive dysfunction.
Excessive Ca(2+) loading is central to most hypotheses of excitotoxic neuronal damage. We examined dendritic Ca(2+) signals in single CA1 neurons, injected with fluorescent indicators, after extended exposures to a low concentration of NMDA (5 microM). As shown previously, NMDA produces an initial transient Ca(2+) elevation of several micromolar, followed by recovery to submicromolar levels. Then after a delay of approximately 20-40 min, a large Ca(2+) elevation appears in apical dendrites and propagates to the soma. We show here that this large delayed Ca(2+) increase is required for ultimate loss of membrane integrity. However, transient removal of extracellular Ca(2+) for varying epochs before and after NMDA exposure does not delay the propagation of these events. In contrast to compound Ca(2+) elevations, intracellular Na(+) elevations are monophasic and were promptly reversed by the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 [(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo [a,d] cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate]. MK-801 applied after the transient Ca(2+) elevations blocked the delayed propagating Ca(2+) increase. Even if applied after the propagating response was visualized, MK-801 restored resting Ca(2+) levels. Propagating Ca(2+) increases in dendrites were delayed or prevented by (1) reducing extracellular Na(+), (2) injecting ATP together with the Ca(2+) indicator, or (3) provision of exogenous pyruvate. These results show that extended NMDA exposure initiates degenerative signaling generally in apical dendrites. Although very high Ca(2+) levels can report the progression of these responses, Ca(2+) itself may not be required for the propagation of degenerative signaling along dendrites. In contrast, metabolic consequences of sustained Na(+) elevations may lead to failure of ionic homeostasis in dendrites and precede Ca(2+)-dependent cellular compromise.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small, highly conserved molecules that have been shown to regulate the expression of genes by binding to specific target mRNAs. Dicer, an RNase III endonuclease, is essential for the production and function of mature miRNAs, and removal of Dicer has been shown to disrupt many developmental processes. In this study, Dicer was removed specifically from the retina using a floxed Dicer conditional allele and the retinal Chx10Cre transgene. Retinal Dicer knock-out mice displayed a reproducible inability to respond to light. In addition, morphological defects were observed with the formation of photoreceptor rosettes at postnatal day 16, which progressed to more general cellular disorganization and widespread degeneration of retinal cell types as the animals aged. This was accompanied by concomitant decrease in both scotopic and photopic electroretinogram (ERG) responses. Interestingly, removing a single allele of Dicer resulted in ERG deficits throughout life but not to morphological abnormalities. Northern blot analysis of Dicer-depleted retinas showed a decrease in several miRNAs. The observation that progressive retinal degeneration occurred after removal of Dicer raises the possibility that miRNAs are involved in retinal neurodegenerative disorders.


We present three experiments that investigated the perception of animacy and direction from local biological motion cues. Coherent and scrambled point-light displays of humans, cats, and pigeons that were upright or inverted were embedded in a random dot mask and presented to naive observers. Observers assessed the animacy of the walker on a six-point Likert scale in Experiment 1, discriminated the direction of walking in Experiment 2, and completed both the animacy rating and the direction discrimination tasks in Experiment 3. We show that like the ability to discriminate direction, the perception of animacy from scrambled displays that contain solely local cues is orientation specific and can be well-elicited within exposure times as short as 200 ms. We show further that animacy ratings attributed to our stimuli are linearly correlated with the ability to discriminate their direction of walking. We conclude that the mechanisms responsible for processing local biological motion signals not only retrieve locomotive direction but also aid in assessing the presence of animate agents in the visual environment.


Understanding fixed motor pattern diversity across related species provides a window for exploring the evolution of their underlying neural mechanisms. The electric organ discharges of weakly electric fishes offer several advantages as paradigmatic models for investigating how a neural decision is transformed into a spatiotemporal pattern of action. Here, we compared the far fields, the near fields and the electromotive force patterns generated by three species of the pulse generating New World gymnotiform genus Gymnotus. We found a common pattern in electromotive force, with the far field and near field diversity determined by variations in amplitude, duration, and the degree of synchronization of the different components of the electric organ discharges. While the rostral regions of the three species generate similar profiles of electromotive force and local fields, most of the species-specific differences are generated in the main body and tail regions of the fish. This causes that the waveform of the field is highly site dependant in all the studied species. These findings support a hypothesis of the relative separation of the electrolocation and communication carriers. The presence of early head negative waves in the rostral region, a species-dependent early positive wave at the caudal region, and the different relationship between the late negative peak and the main positive peak suggest three points of lability in the evolution of the electrogenic system: a) the variously timed neuronal inputs to different groups of electrocytes; b) the appearance of both rostrally and caudally innervated electrocytes, and c) changes in the responsiveness of the electrocyte membrane.



Integrins link the extracellular matrix to the cytoskeleton via a complex of proteins: the integrin-cytoskeleton link. A recent study in Drosophila has uncovered a new component of the link, Wech, and shown that it is essential for integrin-mediated adhesion.
How do we tell how many objects there are in a visual scene? A recent study has shown that the numerousness of objects is a 'primary visual property' of the scene, just like the objects' colour, shape or location.
Microelectrode recordings from the human auditory cortex suggest that the tuning of individual neurons can account for sound frequency discrimination thresholds and that this tuning varies in a context-dependent fashion with the type of sound used to measure it.
Perceptual aftereffects following adaptation to simple stimulus attributes (e.g., motion, color) have been studied for hundreds of years. A striking recent discovery was that adaptation also elicits contrastive aftereffects in visual perception of complex stimuli and faces [1-6]. Here, we show for the first time that adaptation to nonlinguistic information in voices elicits systematic auditory aftereffects. Prior adaptation to male voices causes a voice to be perceived as more female (and vice versa), and these auditory aftereffects were measurable even minutes after adaptation. By contrast, crossmodal adaptation effects were absent, both when male or female first names and when silently articulating male or female faces were used as adaptors. When sinusoidal tones (with frequencies matched to male and female voice fundamental frequencies) were used as adaptors, no aftereffects on voice perception were observed. This excludes explanations for the voice aftereffect in terms of both pitch adaptation and postperceptual adaptation to gender concepts and suggests that contrastive voice-coding mechanisms may routinely influence voice perception. The role of adaptation in calibrating properties of high-level voice representations indicates that adaptation is not confined to vision but is a ubiquitous mechanism in the perception of nonlinguistic social information from both faces and voices.
Adiposity, commonly measured as body mass index (BMI), may influence or be influenced by brain structures and functions involved in dementia processes. Adipose tissue changes in degree and intensity over the lifespan, and has been shown to influence brain development in relationship to early and late measures of cognitive function, intelligence, and disorders of cognition such as dementia. A lower BMI is associated with prevalent dementia, potentially due to underlying brain pathologies and correspondingly greater rates of BMI or weight decline observed during the years immediately preceding clinical dementia onset. However, high BMI during mid-life or at least approximately 5-10 years preceding clinical dementia onset may increase risk. The interplay of adiposity and the brain occurring over the course of the lifespan will be discussed in relationship to developmental origins, mid-life sequelae, disruptions in brain structure and function, and late-life changes in cognition and dementia. Characterizing the life course of adiposity among those who do and do not become demented enhances understanding of biological underpinnings relevant for understanding the etiologies of both dementia and obesity and their co-existence.
Protein kinase C (PKC) is involved in synaptic remodeling, induction of protein synthesis, and many other processes important in learning and memory. Activation of neuronal protein kinase C correlates with, and may be essential for, all phases of learning, including acquisition, consolidation, and reconsolidation. Protein kinase C activation is closely tied to hydrolysis of membrane lipids. Phospholipases C and A2 produce 1,2-diacylglycerol and arachidonic acid, which are direct activators of protein kinase C. Phospholipase C also produces inositol triphosphate, which releases calcium from internal stores. Protein kinase C interacts with many of the same pathways as insulin; therefore, it should not be surprising that insulin signaling and protein kinase C activation can both have powerful effects on memory storage and synaptic remodeling. However, investigating the possible roles of insulin in memory storage can be challenging, due to the powerful peripheral effects of insulin on glucose and the low concentration of insulin in the brain. Although peripheral for insulin, synthesized in the beta-cells of the pancreas, is primarily involved in regulating glucose, small amounts of insulin are also present in the brain. The functions of this brain insulin are inadequately understood. Protein kinase C may also contribute to insulin resistance by phosphorylating the insulin receptor substrates required for insulin signaling. Insulin is also responsible insulin-long term depression, a type of synaptic plasticity that is also dependent on protein kinase C. However, insulin can also activate PKC signaling pathways via PLC gamma, Erk 1/2 MAP kinase, and src stimulation. Taken together, the available evidence suggests that the major impact of protein kinase C and its interaction with insulin in the mature, fully differentiated nervous system appears to be to induce synaptogenesis, enhance memory, reduce Alzheimer's pathophysiology, and stimulate neurorepair.
The metabolic syndrome is a cluster of more or less related metabolic and cardiovascular derangements including visceral obesity, insulin resistance, blood and tissue dislipidemia, high blood pressure and it is often associated with neuroendocrine and immunological dysregulations. The aetiology of this syndrome is clinically highly relevant because it predisposes to life-threatening complications, such as Diabetes Mellitus, kidney failure, cardiovascular disease, and certain types of cancer. Contributing factors include a sedentary life-style combined with increased dietary fat intake and psychosocial stress. From a biological viewpoint, however, the metabolic syndrome can be considered as a maladaptive consequence of an initially successful adaptation to high environmental demands. As opposed to pre-historic times - when environmental demands were usually energy-costly (e.g., fight/flight/hunt) and nutritional resource often inadequate - energy-utilizing actions serve no longer an optimal solution to deal with environmental demands of current human society. This paper describes the interactions between psychosocial stress and nutrition and how these may affect emotional and metabolic components of the metabolic syndrome. A deeper understanding of these interactions is necessary to come to effective treatment and prevention of the metabolic syndrome in the future.
Unlike responses to acute stressful events that are protective and adaptive in nature, chronic stress elicits neurochemical, neuroanatomical and cellular changes that may have deleterious consequences upon higher brain functioning. For example, while exposure to acute stress facilitates memory formation and consolidation, chronic stress or chronic exposure to stress levels of glucocorticoids impairs cognitive performance. Chronic stress or glucocorticoid exposure, as well as impairments in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function are proposed to participate in the etiology and progression of neurological disorders such as depressive illness, anxiety disorders and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). HPA axis dysfunction, impaired stress responses and elevated basal levels of glucocorticoids are also hallmark features of experimental models of type 1 and type 2 diabetes, as well as diabetic subjects in poor glycemic control. Such results suggest that stress and glucocorticoids contribute to the neurological complications observed in diabetes patients. Interestingly, many of the hyperglycemia mediated changes in the brain are similar to those observed in depressive illness patients and in experimental models of chronic stress. Such results suggest that common mechanisms may be involved in the development of the neurological complications associated with Anxiety, Depressive illness and Diabetes: the As and Ds of stress. The aim of the current review will be to discuss the mechanisms through which limbic structures such as the hippocampus and amygdala respond and adapt to the deleterious consequences of chronic stress and hyperglycemia.
The mechanisms underlying olanzapine-induced weight gain have not yet been fully elucidated. To examine the effects of long-term treatment with olanzapine on different aspects of energy balance, we administered olanzapine to male rats. Osmotic minipumps were chosen as preferred mode of administration because the half-life of olanzapine is only 2(1/2) h in rats compared to 30 h in humans. We discovered that, within one week, degradation of olanzapine occurred in the solution used to fill the minipump reservoir. This resulted in a decrease in delivered olanzapine and declining plasma levels over the course of the experiment. Therefore, we caution other researchers for the limitations of using osmotic minipumps to administer olanzapine for longer periods of time.
alpha-Melanocyte stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) has a relatively low affinity for the melanocortin MC4 receptor. Constructs of multimeric alpha-MSH varying from one to eight subunits were synthesized to test whether they displayed an improved ability to bind to and activate the human melanocortin MC4 receptor. alpha-MSH subunits were coupled by a flexible linker and placed in front of an IRES-eGFP sequence. Efficacy for activation of the melanocortin MC4 receptor increased with every extra subunit, resulting in a 100 fold lower EC50 value of alpha-MSH8 when compared with alpha-MSH1. Furthermore, supernatant of cells transfected with alpha-MSH8 proved to have an increased affinity to the melanocortin MC4 receptor when compared to cells transfected with the other multimers. Together, these data show that multimeric alpha-MSH has improved ability to activate the human melanocortin MC4 receptor in vitro.
Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of dementia in the elderly. The cause of Alzheimer's disease is still unknown and there is no cure for the disease yet despite 100 years of extensive research. Cardiovascular risk factors such as high serum cholesterol, presence of the Apolipoprotein epsilon4 (APOE epsilon4) allele and hypertension, play important roles in the development of Alzheimer's disease. We postulate that a combination of diet, lifestyle, vascular, genetic, and amyloid related factors, which enhance each other's contribution in the onset and course of Alzheimer's disease, will be more likely the cause of the disease instead of one sole mechanism. The possibility that the risk for Alzheimer's disease can be reduced by diet or lifestyle is of great importance and suggests a preventative treatment in Alzheimer's disease. Because of the great importance of lipid diets and metabolism in preventative treatment against both Alzheimer's disease and cardiovascular disease, long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids from fish oil, ApoE genotype and cholesterol metabolism in correlation with Alzheimer's disease will be reviewed.
Current models of memory typically require a protein synthetic step leading to a more or less permanent structural change in synapses of the network that represent the stored information. This instructive role of protein synthesis has recently been called into question [Routtenberg, A., Rekart, J.L. 2005. Post-translational modification of synaptic proteins as the substrate for long-lasting memory. Trends Neurosci. 28, 12-19]. In its place a new theory is proposed in which post-translational modifications (PTMs) of proteins already synthesized and present within the synapse calibrate synaptic strength. PTM is thus the only mechanism required to sustain long-lasting memories. Activity-induced, PTM-dependent structural modifications within brain synapses then define network formation which is thus a product of the concatenation of cascaded PTMs. This leads to a formulation different from current protein synthesis models in which neural networks initially formed from these individual synaptic PTM-dependent changes is maintained by regulated positive feedback maintains. One such positive feedback mechanism is 'cryptic rehearsal' typically referred to as 'noise' or 'spontaneous' activity. This activity is in fact not random or spontaneous but determined in a stochastic sense by the past history of activation of the nerve cell. To prevent promiscuous network formation, the regulated positive feedback maintains the altered state given specific decay kinetics for the PTM. The up or down state of individual synapses actually exists in an infinite number of intermediate states, never fully 'up', nor fully 'down.' The networks formed from these uncertain synapses are therefore metastable. A particular memory is also multiply represented by a 'degenerate code' so that should loss of a subset of representations occur, erasure can be protected against. This mechanism also solves the flexibility-stability problem by positing that the brain eschews synaptic stability having its own uncertainty principle that allows retrieval from a probabilistic network, so that a retrieved memory can be represented by a selection of components from an essentially infinite number of networks. The network so formed, that is the retrieval, thus emerges from a hierarchy of connectionistic probabilities. The relation of this new theory of memory network formation to current and potential computational implementations will benefit by its unusual point of initiation: deep concerns about the molecular substrates of information storage.

Retinoid signaling plays a crucial role in patterning rhombomeres in the hindbrain and motor neurons in the spinal cord during development. A fundamentally interesting question is whether retinoids can pattern functional organization in the forebrain that generates a high order of cognitive behavior. The striatum contains a compartmental structure of striosome (or &quot;patch&quot;) and intervening matrix. How this highly complex mosaic design is patterned by the genetic programs during development remains elusive. We report a developmental mechanism by which retinoid receptor signaling controls compartmental formation in the striatum. We analyzed RARbeta(-/-) mutant mice and found a selective loss of striosomal compartmentalization in the rostral mutant striatum. The loss of RARbeta signaling in the mutant mice resulted in reduction of cyclin E2, a cell cycle protein regulating transition from G(1) to S phase, and also reduction of the proneural gene Mash1, which led to defective neurogenesis of late-born striosomal cells. Importantly, during striatal neurogenesis, endogenous levels of retinoic acid were spatiotemporally regulated such that transduction of high levels of retinoic acid through RARbeta selectively expanded the population of late-born striosomal progenitors, which evolved into a highly elaborate compartment in the rostral striatum. RARbeta(-/-) mutant mice, which lacked such enlarged compartment, displayed complex alternations of dopamine agonist-induced stereotypic motor behavior, including exaggeration of head bobbing movement and reduction of rearing activity. RARbeta signaling thus plays a crucial role in setting up striatal compartments that may engage in neural circuits of psychomotor control.
In addition to its role in the storage of fat, adipose tissue acts as an endocrine organ, and it contains a functional renin-angiotensin system (RAS). Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) plays a key role in the RAS by converting angiotensin I to the bioactive peptide angiotensin II (Ang II). In the present study, the effect of targeting the RAS in body energy homeostasis and glucose tolerance was determined in homozygous mice in which the gene for ACE had been deleted (ACE(-/-)) and compared with wild-type littermates. Compared with wild-type littermates, ACE(-/-) mice had lower body weight and a lower proportion of body fat, especially in the abdomen. ACE(-/-) mice had greater fed-state total energy expenditure (TEE) and resting energy expenditure (REE) than wild-type littermates. There were pronounced increases in gene expression of enzymes related to lipolysis and fatty acid oxidation (lipoprotein lipase, carnitine palmitoyl transferase, long-chain acetyl CoA dehydrogenase) in the liver of ACE(-/-) mice and also lower plasma leptin. In contrast, no differences were detected in daily food intake, activity, fed-state plasma lipids, or proportion of fat excreted in fecal matter. In conclusion, the reduction in ACE activity is associated with a decreased accumulation of body fat, especially in abdominal fat depots. The decreased body fat in ACE(-/-) mice is independent of food intake and appears to be due to a high energy expenditure related to increased metabolism of fatty acids in the liver, with the additional effect of increased glucose tolerance.
The structure of immunogenic and immunomodulatory cell wall glucans of Candida albicans is commonly interpreted in terms of a basic polysaccharide consisting of a beta-D-(1--&gt;3)-linked glucopyranosyl backbone possessing beta-D-(1--&gt;6)-linked side chains of varying distribution and length. This proposed molecular architecture has been re-evaluated by the present study on the products of selective enzymolysis of insoluble C. albicans glucan particles (GG). High resolution 1H (400 and 700 MHz) and 13C (100 and 175 MHz) NMR analyses were performed on a soluble beta-glucan preparation (GG-Zym) obtained by GG digestion with endo-beta-D-(1--&gt;3)-glucanase and on its high- (Pool 1) and low-molecular weight (Pool 2) sub-fractions. The resonances typical of uniformly beta-D-(1--&gt;6)- and beta-D-(1--&gt;3)-linked linear glucans, together with additional multiplets assigned to short-chain oligoglucosides, were detected in GG-Zym. Pool 1 (46.3+/-6.4% of GG-Zym content) consisted of beta-D-(1--&gt;6)-linked glucopyranosyl polymers, with short beta-D-(1--&gt;3)-branched side chains of 2.20+/-0.02 units (branching degree (DB)=0.14+/-0.03). Pool 2 was a mixture of glucose and linear short-chain beta-D-(1--&gt;3)-oligoglucosides. Further digestion of Pool 1 by beta-D-(1--&gt;6)-glucanase yielded a mixture of glucose and short beta-D-(1--&gt;6)-linked, either linear or beta-D-(1--&gt;3,6) branched, oligomers. These endoglucanase digestion patterns were consistent with the presence in C. albicans cell wall glucans of beta-D-(1--&gt;6)-linked glucopyranosyl backbones possessing beta-D-(1--&gt;3)-linked side chains, a structure very close to that of beta-D-(1--&gt;6)-glucan from Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast. This finding may provide the grounds for further elucidation of the cell wall structure and a better understanding of the biological properties of C. albicans beta-glucans.
Based on histopathological investigation of the brain of exceptionally talented persons Sntha found increased volume of parietal association areas with abundance of cells. He supposed that the angular gyrus may be a &quot;memory field&quot;. In his publication Genius and inheritance he expressed that: &quot;Talent is a child of the present, but the genius is born for eternity.&quot; He discussed the localization of sensory and motor amnestic aphasia analysing the signs of patient with brain tumor and called attention to concomitant psychological symptoms. He found crossed aphasia in twice as many lefthanded than righthanded persons. This may explain the recent observations that the restitution of aphasia is predetermined; speech ability of ambidexterous or latent lefthanded persons improve better. He analysed the topography of emotional and voluntary facial palsy. The currently accepted hierarchical concept of mental and speech ability can be derived from the ouevre of Sntha and his predecessors. Sntha can be honoured as a forerunner of the modern theories of aphasia localization.
Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is highly enriched in excitatory synapses in the central nervous system and is critically involved in synaptic plasticity, learning, and memory. However, the precise temporal and spatial regulation of CaMKII activity in living cells has not been well described, due to lack of a specific method. Here, based on our previous work, we attempted to generate an optical probe for fluorescence lifetime imaging (FLIM) of CaMKII activity by fusing the protein with donor and acceptor fluorescent proteins at its amino- and carboxyl-termini. We first optimized the combinations of fluorescent proteins by taking advantage of expansion of fluorescent proteins towards longer wavelength in fluorospectrometric assay. Then using digital frequency domain FLIM (DFD-FLIM), we demonstrated that the resultant protein can indeed detect CaMKII activation in living cells. These FLIM versions of Camui could be useful for elucidating the function of CaMKII both in vitro and in vivo.
Transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) is a molecular sensor of noxious heat and capsaicin. Its channel activity can be modulated by several mechanisms. Here we identify a membrane protein, Pirt, as a regulator of TRPV1. Pirt is expressed in most nociceptive neurons in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) including TRPV1-positive cells. Pirt null mice show impaired responsiveness to noxious heat and capsaicin. Noxious heat- and capsaicin-sensitive currents in Pirt-deficient DRG neurons are significantly attenuated. Heterologous expression of Pirt strongly enhances TRPV1-mediated currents. Furthermore, the C terminus of Pirt binds to TRPV1 and several phosphoinositides, including phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2), and can potentiate TRPV1. The PIP2 binding is dependent on the cluster of basic residues in the Pirt C terminus and is crucial for Pirt regulation of TRPV1. Importantly, the enhancement of TRPV1 by PIP2 requires Pirt. Therefore, Pirt is a key component of the TRPV1 complex and positively regulates TRPV1 activity.
Ndel1, the mammalian homologue of the Aspergillus nidulans NudE, is emergently viewed as an integrator of the cytoskeleton. By regulating the dynamics of microtubules and assembly of neuronal intermediate filaments (IFs), Ndel1 promotes neurite outgrowth, neuronal migration, and cell integrity (1-6). To further understand the roles of Ndel1 in cytoskeletal dynamics, we performed a tandem affinity purification of Ndel1-interacting proteins. We isolated a novel Ndel1 molecular complex composed of the IF vimentin, the molecular motor dynein, the lissencephaly protein Lis1, and the cis-Golgi-associated protein alphaCOP. Ndel1 promotes the interaction between Lis1, alphaCOP, and the vimentin-dynein complex. The functional result of this complex is activation of dynein-mediated transport of vimentin. A loss of Ndel1 functions by RNA interference fails to incorporate Lis1/alphaCOP in the complex, reduces the transport of vimentin, and culminates in IF accumulations and altered neuritogenesis. Our findings reveal a novel regulatory mechanism of vimentin transport during neurite extension that may have implications in diseases featuring transport/trafficking defects and impaired regeneration.
Aging of the brain is characterized by several neurochemical modifications involving structural proteins, neurotransmitters, neuropeptides and related receptors. Alterations of neurochemical indices of synaptic function have been considered as indicators of age-related impairment of central functions, such as locomotion, memory and sensory performances. Several studies demonstrated that GABA receptors, glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD65&amp;67), and different subpopulations of GABAergic neurons are markedly decreased in experimental animal brains during aging. Thus, the age-related decline in cognitive functions could be attributable, at least in part, to decrements in GABA inhibitory neurotransmission. In this study, using a passive avoidance test, we show that chronic supplementation of taurine to aged mice significantly ameliorates the age-dependent decline in memory acquisition and retention. We have previously shown that taurine supplementation caused changes in the GABAergic system. These changes include increased levels of the neurotransmitters GABA and glutamate, increased expression of glutamic acid decarboxylase and the neuropeptide somatostatin and increase in the number of somatostatin-positive neurons. These specific alterations of the inhibitory system caused by taurine treatment oppose those naturally occurring in aging, and suggest a protective role of taurine against the normal aging process. Increased understanding of age-related neurochemical changes in the GABAergic system will be important in elucidating the underpinnings of the functional changes of aging. Taurine might help forestall the age-related decline in cognitive functions through alterations of the GABAergic system.
Autosomal dominant lateral temporal epilepsy (ADTLE) is a genetically transmitted epileptic syndrome characterized by focal seizures with predominant auditory symptoms likely originating from the lateral region of the temporal lobe. Mutations in coding region or exon splice sites of the leucine-rich, glioma-inactivated 1 (LGI1) gene account for about 50% of ADLTE families. De novo LGI1 mutations of the same kind have also been found in about 2.5% of non-familial cases with idiopathic partial epilepsy with auditory features (IPEAF). In both conditions, mutations in the LGI1 promoter region have not been reported. We sequenced the minimal promoter region of LGI1 in the probands of 16 ADLTE families and in 104 sporadic IPEAF patients and no mutations clearly linked to the disease were found. However, two polymorphisms, -500G&gt;A and -507G&gt;A, with potential functional implications were identified and analysed in the cohort of sporadic IPEAF patients but their frequencies did not differ from those found in a control population of similar age, gender and geographic origin. We also analysed in our study population the GABA(B) receptor 1 c.1465G&gt;A and the prodynorphin promoter 68-bp repeat polymorphisms, previously associated with temporal lobe epilepsy. None of these polymorphisms showed a significant association with IPEAF, whereas a tendency towards association with the prodynorphin low expression (L) alleles was found in the small group of ADLTE index cases, in agreement with previous studies suggesting that this polymorphism is a susceptibility factor in familial forms of temporal lobe epilepsy.
Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) has proven to be a valuable treatment in neuropathic pain. Our previous animal experiments performed on rat models of SCS and ensuing clinical trials have demonstrated that intrathecal (i.t.) administration of subeffective doses of certain drugs may enhance the pain relieving effect of SCS in cases with unsatisfactory SCS outcome. Recently, an augmented release of spinal acetylcholine acting on muscarinic receptors has been shown to be one of the mechanisms involved in SCS. The present study was performed to examine whether cold hypersensitivity and heat hyperalgesia in rats with partial sciatic nerve injuries can be attenuated by SCS in the same way as tactile hypersensitivity and to explore a possibly synergistic effect of SCS and a muscarinic receptor agonist, oxotremorine. Rats with signs of neuropathy were subjected to SCS applied in awake, freely moving condition. Oxotremorine was administered intrathecally. Tactile, cold and heat sensitivities were assessed by using von Frey filaments, cold spray and focused radiant heat, respectively. Oxotremorine i.t. dose-dependently suppressed the tactile hypersensitivity. SCS markedly increased withdrawal thresholds (WTs), withdrawal latencies and cold scores. When combining SCS with a subeffective dose of oxotremorine i.t., the suppressive effect of SCS on the pain-related symptoms was dramatically enhanced in rats failing to obtain a satisfactory effect with SCS alone. In conclusion, the combination of SCS and a drug with selective muscarinic receptor agonistic properties could be an optional therapy, when SCS per se has proven inefficient.
The dorsal striatum plays a critical role in procedural learning and memory. Current models of basal ganglia assume that striatal neurons and circuitry are critical for the execution of overlearned, habitual sequences of action. However, less is known about how the striatum encodes task information that guides the performance of actions in procedural tasks. To explore the striatal encoding of task information, we compared the behavioral correlates of striatal neurons tested in two tasks: a multiple T-maze task in which reward delivery was entirely predictable based on spatial cues (the Multiple-T task), and a task in which rats ran on a rectangular track, but food delivery depended on the distance traveled on the track and was not dependent solely on spatial location (the Take-5 task). Striatal cells recorded on these tasks were divisible into three cell types: phasic-firing neurons (PFNs), tonically firing neurons (TFNs), and high-firing neurons (HFNs) and similar proportions of each cell type were found in each task. However, the behavioral correlates of each cell type were differentially sensitive to the type of task rats were performing. PFNs were responsive to specific task-parameters on each task. TFNs showed reliable burst-and-pause responses following food delivery and other events that were consistent with tonically active neurons (TANs) on the Take-5 (non-spatial) task but not on the Multiple-T (spatial) task. HFNs showed spatial oscillations on the Multiple-T (spatial) task but not the Take-5 (non-spatial) task. Reconstruction of the rats' position on the maze was highly accurate when using striatal ensembles recorded on the Multiple-T (spatial) task, but not when using ensembles recorded on the Take-5 (non-spatial) task. In contrast, reconstruction of time following food delivery was successful in both tasks. The results indicated a strong task dependency of the quality of the spatial, but not the reward-related, striatal representations on these tasks. These results suggest that striatal spatial representations depend on the degree to which spatial task-parameters can be unambiguously associated with goals.
L5/L6 spinal nerve ligation (SNL) in rodents induces behavioral signs similar to the symptoms of neuropathic pain in humans. L5/L6 SNL in rats has been well characterized so far, but there have been few studies using mice. In this study, we established an L5/L6 SNL model in mice and examined the effects of known antinociceptive drugs in the model. We also analyzed the changes in gene expression in dorsal root ganglions with special reference to those which are known to change in a neuropathic pain state to validate the model. Mechanical allodynia in the ipsilateral side paw was observed beginning on day 1 and lasted for at least 2 months following surgery. Diclofenac showed no significant effect on the mechanical allodynia. Gabapentin and pregabalin completely reversed allodynia, but they also caused a decrease in locomotor activity. Duloxetine caused a partial recovery of the threshold. Mexiletine completely reversed allodynia, but it also caused sedation or motor impairment. Morphine caused a partial recovery of the threshold and hyper-locomotion. This mouse L5/L6 SNL model represents a robust mechanical allodynia, which shows a similar pharmacological response to that reported in rats and human patients with neuropathic pain. The pattern changes in gene expression also resembled those reported in rats. This model will therefore be useful for investigation of the effects of novel antinociceptive compounds and the mechanisms of neuropathic pain.
To define mechanisms underlying neurovascular injury following brain embolism-induced neurodegeneration, we investigated temporal and spatial pathological changes in brain microvessels up to 12 weeks after microsphere embolism (ME) induction in aged male rats. Mild ME upregulated endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and protein tyrosine nitration in brain microvessels. Strong beta-amyloid immunoreactivity coincident with increased eNOS immunoreactivity was observed in microvessels. Immunoblotting of purified brain microvessels revealed that beta-amyloid accumulation significantly increased 1 week after ME induction and remained elevated for 12 weeks. Importantly, beta-amyloid accumulation in brain parenchyma was also observed in areas surrounding injured microvessels at 12 weeks. Levels of Alzheimer's-related hyperphosphorylated tau proteins also concomitantly increased in neurons surrounding regions of beta-amyloid accumulation 12 weeks after ME induction, as did glycogen synthase kinase (GSK3beta) (Tyr-216) phosphorylation. Taken together, ME-induced aberrant eNOS expression and subsequent protein tyrosine nitration in microvessels preceded beta-amyloid accumulation both in microvessels and brain parenchyma, leading to hyperphosphorylation of neuronal tau proteins through GSK3beta activation.
A population of neural progenitor cells (NPCs) has been known to exist in adult spinal cord and migrate toward the lesion regions during spinal cord injury (SCI). Although there are some positive effects of the transplanted olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) on axonal regeneration in SCI, little is known about the effects and the underlying mechanism of these grafted OECs on NPCs. In this study, we have investigated how soluble factors derived from rat OECs regulate the proliferation and differentiation of rat NPCs. The conditioned medium from cultured OECs showed its ability to promote proliferation and inhibit neuronal differentiation of NPCs. Notch signaling was apparently involved in this process. With the addition of DAPT, which inhibited Notch signaling, the effects of OEC-conditioned medium on NPCs were blocked. We thus conclude that diffusible factors released from OECs activate the Notch signaling pathway to stimulate the proliferation and suppress neuronal differentiation of NPCs. These findings reveal the likely limitation of using OECs transplantation for SCI repair.
Basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) is up-regulated in response to a nerve lesion and promotes axonal regeneration by activation of the tyrosine kinase receptor fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1). To determine the effects of elevated FGFR1 levels on neurite outgrowth, overexpression was combined with lysosomal inhibition of receptor degradation. In pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells, FGFR1 overexpression resulted in flattened morphology, increased neurite outgrowth and activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and AKT. Degradation of FGFR1 was inhibited by the lysosomal inhibitor leupeptin and by the proteasomal inhibitor lactacystin. In rat primary adult neurons, FGFR1 overexpression enhanced FGF-2-induced axon growth which was further increased by co-treatment with leupeptin. Lysosomal inhibition of receptor degradation concomitant with ligand stimulation of neurons overexpressing FGFR1 provides new insight in tyrosine kinase receptor-mediated promotion of axon regeneration and demonstrates that adult sensory neurons express sub-optimal levels of tyrosine kinase receptors for neurotrophic factors.
Rodents detect visceral pain in response to noxious levels of rectal distension. However, the mechanoreceptors that innervate the rectum and respond to noxious levels of rectal distension have not been identified. Here, we have identified the mechanoreceptors of capsaicin-sensitive rectal afferents and characterized their properties in response to circumferential stretch of the rectal wall. We have also used the lethal spotted (ls/ls) mouse to determine whether rectal mechanoreceptors that respond to capsaicin and stretch may also develop in an aganglionic rectum that is congenitally devoid of enteric ganglia. In wild type (C57BL/6) mice, graded increases in circumferential stretch applied to isolated rectal segments activated a graded increase in firing of slowly-adapting rectal mechanoreceptors. Identical stimuli applied to the aganglionic rectum of ls/ls mice also activated similar graded increases in firing of stretch-sensitive rectal afferents. In both wild type and aganglionic rectal preparations, focal compression of the serosal surface using von Frey hairs identified mechanosensitive &quot;hot spots,&quot; that were associated with brief bursts of action potentials. Spritzing capsaicin (10 microM) selectively onto each identified mechanosensitive hot spot activated an all or none discharge of action potentials in 32 of 56 identified hot spots in wild type mice and 24 of 62 mechanosensitive hot spots in the aganglionic rectum of ls/ls mice. Each single unit activated by both capsaicin and circumferential stretch responded to low mechanical thresholds (1-2 g stretch). No high threshold rectal afferents were ever recorded in response to circumferential stretch. Anterograde labeling from recorded rectal afferents revealed two populations of capsaicin-sensitive mechanoreceptor that responded to stretch: one population terminated within myenteric ganglia, the other within the circular and longitudinal smooth muscle layers. In the aganglionic rectum of ls/ls mice, only the i.m. mechanoreceptors were identified. Both myenteric and i.m. mechanoreceptors could be identified by their immunoreactivity to the anti-TRPV1 antibody and the vesicular glutamate transporter, Vglut2. Myenteric mechanoreceptors had a unique morphology, consisting of smooth bulbous nodules that ramified within myenteric ganglia. In summary, the rectum of wild type mice is innervated by at least two populations of capsaicin-sensitive rectal mechanoreceptor, both of which respond to low mechanical thresholds within the innocuous range. These findings suggest that the visceral pain pathway activated by rectal distension is likely to involve low threshold rectal mechanoreceptors that are activated within the normal physiological range.
Protein kinase C gamma (PKCgamma) is widely distributed throughout the CNS and is thought to play a role in long term hyper-excitability in nociceptive neurones. Here, we provide the first report of PKCgamma cells in the dorsal column nuclei of the adult rat. Retrograde labeling of PKCgamma cells from the thalamus with choleragenoid revealed that 25% of the PKCgamma positive gracile cells projected to the thalamus. Further, we have characterized the distribution of PKCgamma within gracile nucleus in terms of colocalization with various neurotransmitter receptors or enzymes and calcium binding proteins, and compared this with PKCgamma colocalization in cells of laminae I-III of the spinal cord. We show that approximately 90% of the PKCgamma cells in the gracile nucleus and 60% in the dorsal horn were immuno-positive for the AMPA receptor subunit glutamate 2/3 (GluR2/3). Little coexpression was seen with neurokinin 1 receptor, nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and the AMPA receptor subunit GluR1, markers of distinct neuronal subpopulations. In the spinal cord, a quarter of PKCgamma cells expressed calbindin, but very few cells did so in the gracile nucleus. Electrical stimulation at c-fiber strength of the normal or injured sciatic nerve was used to induce c-fos as a marker of postsynaptic activation in the spinal cord and gracile nucleus. Quantitative analysis of the number of PKCgamma positive gracile cells that expressed also c-fos increased from none to 24% after injury, indicating an alteration in the sensory activation pattern in these neurones after injury. C-fos was not induced in inner lamina II following c-fiber electrical stimulation of the intact or axotomized sciatic nerve, indicating no such plasticity at the spinal cord level. As dorsal column nuclei cells may contribute to allodynia after peripheral nerve injury, pharmacological modulation of PKCgamma activity may therefore be a possible way to ameliorate neuropathic pain after peripheral nerve injury.
Neuronal gap junctions in the brain, providing intercellular electrotonic signal transfer, have been implicated in physiological and behavioral correlates of learning and memory. In connexin31.1 (Cx31.1) knockout (KO) mice the coding region of the Cx31.1 gene was replaced by a LacZ reporter gene. We investigated the impact of Cx31.1 deficiency on open-field exploration, the behavioral response to an odor, non-selective attention, learning and memory performance, and the levels of memory-related proteins in the hippocampus, striatum and the piriform cortex. In terms of behavior, the deletion of the Cx31.1 coding DNA in the mouse led to increased exploratory behaviors in a novel environment, and impaired one-trial object recognition at all delays tested. Despite strong Cx31.1 expression in the peripheral and central olfactory system, Cx31.1 KO mice exhibited normal behavioral responses to an odor. We found increased levels of acetylcholine esterase (AChE) and cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) in the striatum of Cx31.1 KO mice. In the piriform cortex the Cx31.1 KO mice had an increased heterogeneity of CREB expression among neurons. In conclusion, gap-junctions featuring the Cx31.1 protein might be involved in open-field exploration as well as object memory and modulate levels of AChE and CREB in the striatum and piriform cortex.
The small heat shock proteins (sHsps) are a family of molecular chaperones defined by an alpha-crystallin domain that is important for sHsps oligomerization and chaperone activity. sHsps perform many physiological functions including the maintenance of the cellular cytoskeleton, the regulation of protein aggregation and modulate cell survival in a number of cell types including glial and neuronal cells. Many of these functions have been implicated in disease processes in the CNS and indeed sHsps are considered targets for disease therapy. Despite this, there is no study that systematically and comparatively characterized sHsps expression in the CNS. In the present study we have analyzed the expression of this gene family in the mouse brain by reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), in situ hybridization and Western blotting. Gene expression analysis of the 10 known members of mammalian sHsps confirms the presence of 5 sHsps in the CNS. A distinct white matter specific expression pattern for HspB5 and overlapping expression of HspB1 and HspB8 in the lateral and dorsal ventricles of the brain is observed. We confirm protein expression of HspB1, HspB5, HspB6 and HspB8 in the brain. Further subcellular fractionation of brain and synaptosomes details a distinct subcompartment-specific association and detergent solubility of sHsps. This biochemical signature is indicative of an association with synaptic and other neural specializations. This observation will help one understand the functional role played by sHsps during physiology and pathology in the CNS.
Induced or genetically based cortical laminar malformations in somatosensory cortex have been associated with perceptual and acoustic processing deficits in mammals. Perinatal freeze-lesions of developing rat primary somatosensory (S1) cortex induce malformations resembling human microgyria. Induced microgyria located in parietal somatosensory cortex have been linked to reduced behavioral detection of rapid sound transitions and altered spectral processing in primary auditory cortex (A1). Here we asked whether belt auditory cortex function would be similarly altered in rats with S1 microgyria (MG+). Pure-tone acoustic response properties were assessed in A1 and ventral auditory (VAF) cortical fields with Fourier optical imaging and multi-unit recordings. Three changes in spectral response properties were observed in both A1 and VAF in MG+ rats: 1) multi-unit response magnitudes were reduced 2) optical and multi-unit frequency responses were more variable; 3) at high sound levels units responded to a broader range of pure-tone frequencies. Optical and multi-unit pure-tone response magnitudes were both reduced for low sound levels in VAF but not A1. Sound level &quot;tuning&quot; was reduced in VAF but not in A1. Finally, in VAF frequency tuning and spike rates near best frequency were both altered for mid- but not high-frequency recording sites. These data suggest that VAF belt auditory cortex is more vulnerable than A1 to early postnatal induction of microgyria in neighboring somatosensory cortex.
Cerebral ischemia followed by oxygen reperfusion induced apoptosis in hippocampal neurons in the stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHRSP) but not in Wistar Kyoto rats (WKY). We investigated whether 2-phenyl-1,2-benzisoselenazol-3(2H)-one, also called PZ51 (ebselen), useful for treating ischemic damage or antihypertension in the brain, can protect against ischemic neuronal damage in SHRSP. In this study, we compared the effects of ebselen, carvedilol, 3-methyl-1-phenyl-2-pyrazolin-5-one (MCI-186) as well as vitamin E, added to cultures of neurons after reoxygenation (20% O(2)) following hypoxia (1% O(2)). SHRSP neurons died rapidly during reoxygenation following hypoxia but were rescued in large measure by 10 muM ebselen (neuronal death; 2.7+/-1.4%). In order of neuroprotective potency, the agents ranked as follows: ebselen&gt;carvedilol&gt;MCI-186&gt;vitamin E. In vivo, strong neuroprotection by ebselen was observed in the hippocampal CA1 region of SHRSP (32.9+/-9.5 apoptotic neuron/1000 neurons, 30 mg/kg/day). Ebselen prevented apoptosis as confirmed by morphological observations in vivo. Its effect was associated with the expression of Bcl-2 and Bax. These findings suggest that ebselen has a marked inhibitory effect on neuronal damage during stroke. Ebselen may be effective in the prevention and/or treatment of neurodegenerative diseases associated with excessive apoptosis in patients with stroke.
Although it is generally accepted that rodents' sociosexual behavior relies mainly on chemosignals, the specific roles played by the vomeronasal and olfactory systems in detecting these signals are presently unclear. This work reports the results of three experiments aimed at clarifying the role of the vomeronasal system on gender recognition and intersexual attraction, by analyzing the effects of lesions of the accessory olfactory bulbs (AOB) in chemically nave female mice. The first experiment demonstrates that lesions of the AOB abolish the preference that females show for male-soiled bedding in tests in which the females can contact the bedding, thus having access to both volatile and involatile male chemosignals. The second experiment shows that airborne male-derived chemosignals are not attractive to intact, chemically nave females but tend to be preferentially explored by females whose AOB has been lesioned. However, repeated exposure to male-soiled bedding has opposite effects in sham-operated and AOB-lesioned female mice. Whereas after this experience sham-operated females show an (acquired) attraction toward male airborne chemosignals, in AOB-lesioned females the same experience makes male-derived volatiles aversive. Finally, in the third experiment we have confirmed that our AOB-lesioned females are able to detect urine-borne male odorants, as well as to discriminate them from the synthetic terpene geraniol. These findings strongly suggest that in mice, the involatile male sexual pheromone that is intrinsically attractive is detected by the vomeronasal system of the females. In addition, the repeated experience of females with male-soiled bedding would probably allow the association of this pheromone, acting as unconditioned stimulus, with olfactory stimuli (odorants) that therefore would become conditioned attractors to the females.
A behavioral reaction to sensory stimulation is a basic mechanism which is pivotal to many complex behavioral responses. In previous studies we found that visual stimulation induces a selective serotonergic and dopaminergic activation in the occipital (OccC), but not temporal (TempC) cortex in freely moving rats. In a behavioral study in rats we demonstrate now that visual stimulation (0, 8, 22, 82, 155 or 440 lux) activates behavioral activity in an intensity-dependent manner. Behavior activating visual stimulation with 82 lux, but not 22 lux or 82 dB white noise, increased extracellular serotonin (5-HT), but not dopamine (DA), in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) in freely moving animals measured by in vivo microdialysis. There was no effect on 5-HT or DA in the entorhinal and perirhinal cortex. Visual stimulation with 82 lux increased extracellular 5-HT in the mPFC and OccC also in anesthetized animals, but had no effect in the TempC. Auditory stimulation reduced 5-HT in the TempC, but had no effect in the mPFC or OccC. Neither visual nor auditory stimulation had a significant effect on DA in all three cortical areas. We conclude that visual stimulation induces behavioral activation by increasing 5-HT activity in the mPFC and OccC.
Subcutaneous formalin injection has been used extensively to evaluate acute effects (over several hours) of chemical nociceptive stimulation on nociceptive reflexes. Also, a persistent hyperreflexia for mechanical and thermal stimulation, lasting 3 weeks after formalin injection, has been revealed and related to microglial activation in the spinal dorsal horn. The present study demonstrates more prolonged effects of formalin injection, lasting 6 weeks, on operant escape from nociceptive thermal stimulation. Operant escape requires cerebral processing of nociceptive input and can detect effects that are not limited to spinal or spinal-brain stem-spinal reflex circuits. Compared with rats injected with saline, escape responding to 44.5 degrees C and 47 degrees C stimulation was increased after bilateral s.c. injection of 5% formalin into the dorsal hind paws. The hyperalgesia outlasted visible signs of trauma (e.g. paw edema). Responses to 36 degrees C were not altered after formalin injection, providing a control for effects of the peripheral injury on activity levels or exploratory tendencies. Skin temperature recordings from the forepaws and contralateral hind paw during 44.5 degrees C stimulation of the left hind paw provided an indirect measure of cutaneous blood flow in formalin- and saline-injected animals. Normal reductions in skin temperature during thermal stimulation were attenuated (nearly eliminated) at 1 and 2 weeks after formalin injection and partially recovered by 10 weeks. Thus, formalin-induced tissue injury produced a long-term secondary hyperalgesia, accompanied by a reduced sympathetic responsivity. The similar time-course for these phenomena suggests that there are mechanistic linkages between focal injury, autonomic dysregulation and enhanced pain sensitivity.
Feeding adult rats with high fat (HF) diets can alter their hypothalamic pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis responsiveness. In the present study, we examined the effect of a high fat diet, applied in rats from weaning to puberty, on their behavior and HPA axis status at puberty onset. Wistar rats of both sexes were fed postweaning with two diets containing either 24% fat (high fat, HF) or 4.3% fat (normal chow) by weight. HF enhanced puberty onset in female rats, without increasing body weight gain in either sex, compared with chow-fed animals. In the forced swim test, HF males exhibited a more active behavioral response on the first day, whereas HF females a more passive response during the second day of the test, as compared with their chow-fed counterparts. In the open field test, HF females showed increased sniffing but reduced rearing, compared with chow-fed females and were less explorative than HF males in the central arena. All animals could learn and recall a water maze task though HF males spent more time in the opposite quadrant than chow-fed males during memory test. The HPA axis status of these animals was investigated under basal conditions. Pubertal fat-fed males had lighter adrenals, while females heavier ones, compared with their counterparts. In addition, plasma corticosterone levels of female rats were increased and glucocorticoid receptor levels in their hypothalamus were reduced due to fat diet, while in males no such changes were detected. We conclude that HF feeding during the prepubertal period can affect behavior and the HPA axis of rats at puberty onset, well before the appearance of the obese state, in a sexually dimorphic manner. Fat diet impacted more the female HPA axis, suggesting that their system is more sensitive to fat-induced nutritional imbalance during adolescence. Present data suggest that the fat-induced nutritional imbalance in young females may lead to neuroendocrine dysfunction that in turn may trigger the appearance of stress-related disorders during adolescence.
The mitochondrial chaperonin heat shock protein 60 (Hsp60) assists the folding of a subset of proteins localized in mitochondria and is an essential component of the mitochondrial protein quality control system. Mutations in the HSPD1 gene that encodes Hsp60 have been identified in patients with an autosomal dominant form of hereditary spastic paraplegia (SPG13), a late-onset neurodegenerative disorder characterized by a progressive paraparesis of the lower limbs. The disease-associated Hsp60-(p.Val98Ile) protein, encoded by the c.292G&gt;A HSPD1 allele, has reduced chaperonin activity, but how its expression affects mitochondrial functions has not been investigated. We have studied mitochondrial function and expression of genes encoding mitochondrial chaperones and proteases in a human lymphoblastoid cell line and fibroblast cells from a patient who is heterozygous for the c.292G&gt;A HSPD1 allele. We found that both the c.292G&gt;A RNA transcript and the corresponding Hsp60-(p.Val98Ile) protein were present at comparable levels to their wild-type counterparts in SPG13 patient cells. Compared with control cells, we found no significant cellular or mitochondrial dysfunctions in SPG13 patient cells by assessing the mitochondrial membrane potential, cell viability, and sensitivity toward oxidative stress. However, a decreased expression of the mitochondrial protein quality control proteases Lon and ClpP, both at the RNA and protein level, was demonstrated in SPG13 patient cells. We propose that decreased levels of mitochondrial proteases Lon and ClpP may allow Hsp60 substrate proteins to go through more folding attempts instead of being prematurely degraded, thereby supporting productive folding in cells with reduced Hsp60 chaperonin activity. In conclusion, our studies with SPG13 patient cells expressing the functionally impaired mutant Hsp60 chaperonin suggest that reduction of the degradative activity of the protein quality control system may represent a previously unrecognized cellular adaptation to reduced chaperone function.
In this study, the effects of chronic lead (Pb(2+)) exposure, during day 0 of gestation (E0) to postnatal day 15 (P15), on voltage-gated sodium channel currents (I(Na)) were investigated in CA1 field of the hippocampus (CA1) neurons using the conventional whole-cell patch-clamp technique on rat hippocampal slices. We found that developmental lead exposure increased the activation threshold and the voltage at which the maximum I(Na) current was evoked, caused positive shifts of I(Na) steady-state activation curve, and enlarged I(Na) tail-currents; Pb(2+) delayed the activation of I(Na) in a voltage-dependent manner, prolonged the time course of the fast inactivation of sodium channels; Pb(2+) induced a right shift of the steady-state inactivation curve, accelerated the activity-dependent attenuation of I(Na), but made no significant effects on the time course of the recovery of I(Na) from inactivation and the fraction of inactivated channels. In addition, the co-treatment with alpha-tocopherol (VE), an effective antioxidant and free radical scavenger, completely prevented the aforementioned changes on I(Na). The alterations on I(Na) properties induced by developmental lead exposure were partly different from that in previous acute experiments under the conditions closer to physiological situation, and the process was considered related to the participating of lead in lipid peroxidation reaction, which has been reported to change the conformation and biophysical functions of membrane proteins.
Large conductance Ca(2+)-activated potassium channels (BK(Ca) channels) are expressed in the plasma membrane of various cell types. Interestingly, recent studies provided evidence for the existence of BK(Ca) channels also in mitochondria. However, the molecular composition of these channels as well as their cellular and tissue distribution is still unknown. The goal of the present study was to find a candidate for the regulatory component of the mitochondrial large conductance calcium activated potassium (mitoBK(Ca)) channel in neurons. A combined approach of Western blot analysis, high-resolution immunofluorescence and immunoelectron microscopy with the use of antibodies directed against four distinct beta subunits demonstrated the presence of the BK(Ca) channel beta4 subunit (KCNMB4) in the inner membrane of neuronal mitochondria in the rat brain and cultured neurons. Within the cell, the expression of beta4 subunit was restricted to a subpopulation of mitochondria. The analysis of beta4 subunit distribution throughout the brain revealed that the highest expression levels occur in the thalamus and the brainstem. Our results suggest that beta4 subunit is a regulatory component of mitochondrial BK(Ca) channels in neurons. These findings may support the perspectives for the neuroprotective role of mitochondrial BK(Ca) channel in specific brain structures.




Mucopolysaccharidoses (MPS) are inherited disorders caused by the deficiency of lysosomal enzymes. Sanfilippo syndrome (MPS III) and Hunter syndrome (MPS II) are characterized by severe and mild neurological disorders, respectively, in which the neurodegenerative mechanisms remain to be clarified. We immunohistochemically examined the involvement of tauopathy/synucleinopathy, cell death and oxidative damage in the brains of three cases each of MPS IIIB and MPS II and age-matched controls. In cases of MPS IIIB, the density of GABAergic interneurons in the cerebral cortex immunoreactive for calbindin-D28K and parvalbumin was markedly reduced when compared with age-matched controls. The swollen neurons showed immunoreactivity for phosphorylated alpha-synuclein but not for phosphorylated tau protein or beta-amyloid protein; those in the cerebral cortex demonstrated nuclear immunoreactivity for TUNEL, single-stranded DNA and 8-OHdG. Neither lipid peroxidation nor protein glycation was marked in MPS cases. The expression levels of superoxide dismutases (Cu/ZnSOD and MnSOD) and glial glutamate transporters (EAAT1 and EAAT2) were reduced in two MPS II cases. The disturbance of GABAergic interneurons can be related to mental disturbance, while synucleinopathy and/or DNA impairment may be implicated in the neurodegeneration of swelling neurons due to storage materials in MPS IIIB cases. These findings suggest the possibility of neuroprotective therapies other than enzyme replacement in MPS patients.
Carefully categorized postmortem human brains are crucial for research. The lack of generally accepted methods for processing human postmortem brains for research persists. Thus, brain banking is essential; however, it cannot be achieved at the cost of the teaching mission of the academic institution by routing brains away from residency programs, particularly when the autopsy rate is steadily decreasing. A consensus must be reached whereby a brain can be utilizable for diagnosis, research, and teaching. The best diagnostic categorization possible must be secured and the yield of samples for basic investigation maximized. This report focuses on integrated, novel methods currently applied at the New York Brain Bank, Columbia University, New York, which are designed to reach accurate neuropathological diagnosis, optimize the yield of samples, and process fresh-frozen samples suitable for a wide range of modern investigations. The brains donated for research are processed as soon as possible after death. The prosector must have a good command of the neuroanatomy, neuropathology, and the protocol. One half of each brain is immersed in formalin for performing the thorough neuropathologic evaluation, which is combined with the teaching task. The contralateral half is extensively dissected at the fresh state. The anatomical origin of each sample is recorded using the map of Brodmann for the cortical samples. The samples are frozen at -160 degrees C, barcode labeled, and ready for immediate disbursement once categorized diagnostically. A rigorous organization of freezer space, coupled to an electronic tracking system with its attached software, fosters efficient access for retrieval within minutes of any specific frozen samples in storage. This report describes how this achievement is feasible with emphasis on the actual processing of brains donated for research.








To better understand the extent that empirically supported and promising substance abuse treatment approaches are implemented in community settings, treatment providers were surveyed regarding their perceptions and use of several psychosocial and pharmacological treatment interventions. Program directors (n=30) and staff members (n=331) from diverse community settings rated the effectiveness and extent of use of various treatment interventions, and provided information on program and workforce characteristics via self-administered questionnaires. On average, program directors and staff rated the psychosocial treatment interventions as effective, with the exception of vouchers/motivational incentives. About half of the treatment providers did not know the effectiveness of certain pharmacological treatments, including buprenorphine and naltrexone. Respondents from the majority of programs (55%-80%) reported using Motivational Enhancement Therapy, Community Reinforcement Approach, and Supportive Expressive Psychotherapy. The extent that programs used several of the treatment interventions was related to organizational training and information resources. The study findings provide important information regarding training and research dissemination efforts.


We report a case of bilateral thalamic infarct associated with bilateral eyelid apraxia. This extremely rare condition provides us with an opportunity to map clinical and neuroimaging findings to help better understand brain function.
We examined the relationship between being bullied during childhood and activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis as assessed through repeated measures of salivary cortisol. A non-clinical sample of 154 (74 boys) predominantly Caucasian middle-class 12-year-olds each provided detailed information about their experiences with bullying and six saliva samples were standardized across time and day. Children with a history of child maltreatment, diagnosed psychiatric illness, foster care placement, medication use (psychotropic and oral contraception) and aggression directed toward peers and/or family members were excluded. Using multilevel regression and applying orthogonal polynomial contrasts to model the observed circadian pattern in the data, we found that occasional and frequent verbal peer victimization was associated with hyposecretion of cortisol when controlling for sex, pubertal status, age, depression and anxiety. This relation, however, was moderated by sex. For boys, occasional exposure was associated with higher cortisol levels, whereas for girls exposure was associated with lower cortisol levels. The present study highlights the need to consider the plight of peer-victimized children seriously, as it is associated with alterations to the HPA axis that affect males and females differently, and likely diminishes a person's ability to cope with stress, possibly placing them at risk for psychopathology and ill health.
Recent literature has shown that adherence to HAART is a multi-faceted phenomenon, which involves both behavioural and psychological features. Therefore, the results obtained so far, though promising, have not yet unambiguously identified the factors that could predict non-adherence. Since any support for strengthening the adherence should take into account the HIV+ patients' perception of both their state of health and their relational style, this study tried to identify some psychological characteristics involved in the adherence phenomenon. A self-administered battery of tests including the Attachment Style Questionnaire (ASQ) and the Multidimensional Health Locus of Control Form-C (MHLC-C) was administered to an Italian sample. Results showed significant gender differences between non-adherent and adherent subjects. Specifically, the psychological profile of non-adherent males seemed focused less on relational aspects and perceived relevance of physicians and of 'significant other people', whilst that of non-adherent females seemed more 'relationship-oriented'. This study means to encourage clinicians to plan specific, gender-focused support for enhancing adherence.
Inbred strains are genetically stable across time and laboratories, allowing scientists to accumulate a record of phenotypes, including physiological characteristics and behaviors. To date, the C57/C58 family of inbred mouse strains has been identified as having the highest innate ethanol consumption, but some lineages have rarely or never been surveyed. Thus, the purpose of the present experiment was to measure ethanol preference and intake in 22 inbred mouse strains, some of which have never been tested for ethanol consumption. Male and female mice (A/J, BALB/cByJ, BTBR+T(tf/tf), BUB/BnJ, C57BL/6J, C57BLKS/J, C58/J, CZECH/Ei, DBA/2J, FVB/NJ, I/LnJ, LP/J, MA/MyJ, NOD/LtJ, NON/LtJ, NZB/B1NJ, NZW/LacJ, PERA/Ei, RIIIS/J, SEA/GnJ, SM/J, and 129S1/SvlmJ) were individually housed and given unlimited access in a two-bottle choice procedure to one bottle containing tap water and a second containing increasing concentrations of ethanol (3%, 6%, 10%), 0.2% saccharin, and then increasing concentrations of ethanol (3%, 6%, 10%) plus 0.2% saccharin. Mice were given access to each novel solution for a total of 4 days, with a bottle side change every other day. Consistent with previous studies, C57BL/6J (B6) mice consumed an ethanol dose of &gt;10g/kg/day whereas DBA/2J (D2) mice consumed &lt;2g/kg/day. No strain voluntarily consumed greater doses of ethanol than B6 mice. Although the C58 and C57BLKS strains showed high ethanol consumption levels that were comparable to B6 mice, the BUB and BTBR strains exhibited low ethanol intakes similar to D2 mice. The addition of 0.2% saccharin to the ethanol solutions significantly increased ethanol intake by most strains and altered the strain distribution pattern. Strong positive correlations (rs&gt; or =0.83) were determined between consumption of the unsweetened versus sweetened ethanol solutions. Consumption of saccharin alone was significantly positively correlated with the sweetened ethanol solutions (rs=0.62-0.81), but the correlation with unsweetened ethanol solutions was considerably lower (rs=0.37-0.45). These results add new strains to the strain mean database that will facilitate the identification of genetic relationships between voluntary ethanol consumption, saccharin preference, and other phenotypes.
Subtyping in alcohol dependence has become an important issue as studies have proposed different neurobiological mechanisms in alcoholism in the recent years. Studies have shown that alcohol dependence reflects a wide range of different phenotypes, including psychological, social, and neurobiological factors. Different ways of subtyping have been proposed in the last decades, one of them being Lesch's typology of alcohol dependence. Recent investigations have shown that different subtypes of Lesch's typology are associated with specific neurobiological factors which may have important implications for clinical practice. This applies in particular for genetic and neuroendocrinological factors, differences in the regulation of NMDA receptor-mediated glutamatergic neurotransmission, and in response to acamprosate and naltrexone treatment.
Several studies report a strong link between ADHD and tobacco use; however, the nature of this relationship is not entirely clear. We examined the relationship between attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) symptoms and tobacco use within a sample of college students. Although tobacco use was the main focus, we also examined alcohol and marijuana use. We examined the association between the number of ADHD symptoms endorsed (severity), and tobacco, alcohol, and marijuana use in a convenience sample of 334 college students in the southeastern United States. Survey data were based on the annual Core Alcohol and Drug Survey for substance use, and the Current Symptom Scale (CSS) for ADHD, conduct disorder (CD), and antisocial personality disorder (ASPD) symptoms. Among ever users of a substance, the number (severity) of current ADHD symptoms, including inattentive and hyperactive symptoms, were significantly associated with the frequency of tobacco and marijuana use in the past month and past year, as well as to the frequency of alcohol use in the past month. The results suggest that the number of ADHD symptoms is proportionally associated with tobacco, alcohol, and marijuana use.




Tachykinins, acting through NK(3) receptors (NK(3)R), contribute to excitatory transmission to intrinsic primary afferent neurons (IPANs) of the small intestine. Although this transmission is dependent on protein kinase C (PKC), its maintenance could depend on protein kinase D (PKD), a downstream target of PKC. Here we show that PKD1/2-immunoreactivity occurred exclusively in IPANs of the guinea pig ileum, demonstrated by double staining with the IPAN marker NeuN. PKCepsilon was also colocalized with PKD1/2 in IPANs. PKCepsilon and PKD1/2 trafficking was studied in enteric neurons within whole mounts of the ileal wall. In untreated preparations, PKCepsilon and PKD1/2 were cytosolic and no signal for activated (phosphorylated) PKD was detected. The NK(3)R agonist senktide evoked a transient translocation of PKCepsilon and PKD1/2 from the cytosol to the plasma membrane and induced PKD1/2 phosphorylation at the plasma membrane. PKCepsilon translocation was maximal at 10 s and returned to the cytosol within 2 min. Phosphorylated-PKD1/2 was detected at the plasma membrane within 15 s and translocated to the cytosol by 2 min, where it remained active up to 30 min after NK(3)R stimulation. PKD1/2 activation was reduced by a PKCepsilon inhibitor and prevented by NK(3)R inhibition. NK(3)R-mediated PKCepsilon and PKD activation was confirmed in HEK293 cells transiently expressing NK(3)R and green fluorescent protein-tagged PKCepsilon, PKD1, PKD2, or PKD3. Senktide caused membrane translocation and activation of kinases within 30 s. After 15 min, phosphorylated PKD had returned to the cytosol. PKD activation was confirmed through Western blotting. Thus stimulation of NK(3)R activates PKCepsilon and PKD in sequence, and sequential activation of these kinases may account for rapid and prolonged modulation of IPAN function.
Neurokinin 3 receptor (NK3R) signaling has an integral role in the stimulated oxytocin (OT) and vasopressin (VP) release in response to hyperosmolarity and hypotension. Peripheral injections of cholecystokinin (CCK) receptor agonists for the CCK-A (sulfated CCK-8) and CCK-B (nonsulfated CCK-8) receptors elicit an OT release in rat. It is unknown whether NK3R contributes to this endocrine response. Freely behaving male rats were administered an intraventricular pretreatment of 250 or 500 pmol of SB-222200, a specific NK3R antagonist, or 0.15 M NaCl before an intraperitoneal or intravenous injection of CCK-8 (nonsulfated or sulfated) or 0.15 M NaCl. Blood samples were taken before intraventricular treatment and 15 min after intraperitoneal or intravenous injection, and plasma samples were assayed for OT and VP concentration. Intraperitoneal injection of both nonsulfated and sulfated CCK-8 significantly increased plasma OT levels and had no effect on plasma VP levels. Intravenous injection of sulfated CCK-8 stimulated an increase in plasma OT levels and did not alter plasma VP levels. However, intravenous injection of nonsulfated CCK-8 stimulated a significant increase in plasma levels of both OT and VP. No other studies have demonstrated CCK-8-stimulated release of VP in rat. NK3R antagonist did not alter baseline levels of either hormone. However, pretreatment of NK3R antagonist significantly blocked the CCK-stimulated release of OT in all CCK treatment groups and blocked VP release in response to intravenous injection of nonsulfated CCK-8. Therefore, central NK3R signaling is required for OT and VP release in response to CCK administration.
It has been assumed that the pathogenesis of hydrocephalus includes a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) absorption deficit. Because a significant portion of CSF absorption occurs into extracranial lymphatics located in the olfactory turbinates, the purpose of this study was to determine whether CSF transport was compromised at this location in a kaolin-induced communicating (extraventricular) hydrocephalus model in rats. Under 1-3% halothane anesthesia, kaolin (n = 10) or saline (n = 9) was introduced into the basal cisterns of Sprague-Dawley rats, and the development of hydrocephalus was assessed 1 wk later using MRI. After injection of human serum albumin ((125)I-HSA) into a lateral ventricle, the tracer enrichment in the olfactory turbinates 30 min postinjection provided an estimate of CSF transport through the cribriform plate into nasal lymphatics. Lateral ventricular volumes in the kaolin group (0.073 +/- 0.014 ml) were significantly greater than those in the saline-injected animals (0.016 +/- 0.001 ml; P = 0.0014). The CSF tracer enrichment in the olfactory turbinates (expressed as percent injected/g tissue) in the kaolin rats averaged 0.99 +/- 0.39 and was significantly lower than that measured in the saline controls (5.86 +/- 0.32; P &lt; 0.00001). The largest degree of ventriculomegaly was associated with the lowest levels of lymphatic CSF uptake with lateral ventricular expansion occurring only when almost all of the lymphatic CSF transport capacity had been compromised. We conclude that lymphatic CSF absorption is impaired in a kaolin-communicating hydrocephalus model and that the degree of this impediment may contribute to the severity of the induced disease.
A two-alternative forced-choice discrimination task was used to assess whether baboons (N=7) spontaneously process qualitative (i.e., first-order) or quantitative (i.e., second-order) variations in the configural arrangement of facial features. Experiment 1 used as test stimuli second-order pictorial faces of humans or baboons in which the mouth and the eyes were rotated upside down relative to the normal face. Baboons readily discriminated two different normal faces but did not discriminate a normal face from its second-order modified version. Experiment 2 used human or baboon faces for which the first-order configural properties had been distorted by reversing the location of the eyes and mouth within the face. Discrimination was prompt with these stimuli. Experiment 3 replicated some of the conditions and the results of experiment 1, thus ruling out possible effects of learning. It is concluded that baboons are more adept at spontaneously processing first- than second-order configural facial properties, similar to what is known in the human developmental literature.


