The use of animals in scientific research is highly controversial. Older justifications, which referred to an immense gulf between human beings and other animals, can no longer be sustained in the face of a large body of scientific evidence concerning the similarities between human beings and other animals. The probability is very high that they are like us in many important ways, including in having a capacity to suffer. Because animals may suffer during research, their use must be justified. An appropriate justification will require that researchers can demonstrate that the expected benefits of the research, in terms of pure knowledge and medical applications, outweigh the suffering imposed. However, while the infliction of suffering on animal models must meet stringent conditions, research which involves the (painless) death of animals is often easier to justify, since few animals other than human beings possess the psychological capacities required to care about their future.
The mortality and morbidity associated with stroke makes the development of new drugs a research priority. Recent unsuccessful clinical trials have reduced enthusiasm for the development of neuroprotective drugs. Here, we use empirical evidence derived from systematic reviews of stroke drug development to identify stages of drug development which might be improved. We then propose exemplar strategies which may be helpful, along with some basic economic modelling of what the impact of such strategies might be. This suggests that relatively straightforward measures might reduce the costs of drug development by $58 bn or 31%.
Blood biomarkers may have applications in stroke diagnosis, outcome prediction, or treatment. In this article, we provide a focused review on some of the methodological challenges and potential developments of biomarkers in stroke. We review the approaches to the development of a diagnostic blood marker: a candidate marker approach, marker panels, and -omics. Then we examined the role of blood markers to predict recurrent stroke and treatment response in stroke.
Two bacterial isolates, designated AF-51(T) and AF-50, with an optimum growth temperature of about 45 C and an optimum pH for growth between 6.0 and 6.5, were recovered from a hot spring in the Furnas, rea da Fonte 1825, on the Island of So Miguel in the Azores. Based on 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, these strains were related most closely to the type strain of Hydrotalea flava at a pairwise similarity of 95.7%. The two strains were orange-pigmented and formed non-motile, rod-shaped cells that stained Gram-negative and were aerobic and oxidase- and catalase-positive. The major fatty acids were iso-C(15:0), iso-C(17:0) 3-OH and iso-C(16:0). The major respiratory quinone was menaquinone 7. Based on phylogenetic, physiological and biochemical characteristics, these strains from the Azores are considered to represent a single novel species of the genus Hydrotalea, for which the name Hydrotalea sandarakina sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is AF-51(T) (=DSM 23241(T)=LMG 25526(T)). We provide emended descriptions of the genus Hydrotalea and of H. flava to reflect new results obtained in this study.

Schizophrenia is one of the most severe mental disorders. Despite significant advances in pharmacotherapy, treatment remains sub-optimal, with many patients having persisting deficits, especially in cognitive and social functioning. Yoga as a therapy has proven to be effective as a sole or additional intervention in psychiatric disorders such as depression and anxiety. Recently, there has been significant interest in the application of yoga therapy in psychosis and schizophrenia. To review a) the evidence for the use of yoga therapy in patients with schizophrenia b) studies which have been done in this area, c) the barriers for reaching yoga to patients, and d) future directions, an English language literature search of PubMed/MEDLINE, Google Scholar, and EBSCO as well as grey literature was done. Research reports have demonstrated the feasibility and efficacy of yoga as an add-on therapy in schizophrenia, particularly in improving negative symptomatology and social cognition. However, the biological underpinnings of this effect remain unclear, although there are some indications that hormones like oxytocin may contribute to the changes in social cognition.

Common peroneal neuropathy (CPN) may develop unexpectedly in patients with underlying cancer. To clarify the underlying pathophysiology, clinical and neurophysiological data were prospectively collected from 10 oncology clinic patients referred for neurological assessment after the onset of foot weakness. In all patients, the CPN occurred in the setting of advanced systemic malignancy frequently associated with marked weight loss at the time of foot weakness. Neurophysiological studies localised the CPN to the fibular head in 80% of cases. Findings from this study, combined with recent experimental evidence, support the hypothesis that clinically evident CPN develops after rapid weight loss, perhaps reflecting a relative metabolic deficiency within the nerve, which exposes anatomical susceptibility and possible subclinical pre-existing nerve injury.
Objective(s):The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of cannabinoid on cortical spreading depression (CSD) in rat brain. Cannabis has been used for centuries for both symptomatic and prophylactic treatment of different types of headaches including migraine. CSD is believed to be a putative neuronal mechanism underlying migraine aura and subsequent pain. Materials and Methods:The effects of Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), as well as, cannabinoid CB1 and CB2 receptor agonists on CSD in rat neocortical slices were investigated. Furthermore, the effect of cannabinoid CB1 agonist was tested on field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSP) and long-term potentiation (LTP). Results:HC (1-20 microM) dose dependently suppressed CSD amplitude, duration, and propagation velocity. Cannabinoid CB1 agonist, WIN 55,212-2 mesylate (1-10 microM), also significantly suppressed all characteristic features of CSD. However, cannabinoid CB2 agonist, JWH-133 (1-20 microM), did not affect CSD. FEPSP and induction of LTP were suppressed by application of WIN55212-2. Conclusion:Suppression of CSD by activation of CB1 receptors points to the potential therapeutic effects of cannabinoids in migraine with aura. More research is needed before we know whether cannabinoids may be helpful in treating migraine pain.
Metabolic syndrome (MS) can be defined as a group of signs that increases the risk of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM2). These signs include obesity, hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance. We are interested in the mechanisms that trigger hyperinsulinemia as a step to understand how  cells fail in DM2. Pancreatic  cells secrete insulin in response to glucose variations in the extracellular medium. When they are chronically over-stimulated, hyperinsulinemia is observed; but then, with time, they become incapable of maintaining normal glucose levels, giving rise to DM2. A chronic high sucrose diet for two months induces MS in adult male Wistar rats. In the present article, we analyzed the effect of the internal environment of rats with MS, on the activity of ATP-sensitive potassium channels (KATP) and calcium currents of pancreatic  cells. After 24 weeks of treatment with 20% sucrose in their drinking water, rats showed central obesity, hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance, and their systolic blood pressure and triglycerides plasma levels increased. These signs indicate the onset of MS. KATP channels in isolated patches of  cells from MS rats, had an increased sensitivity to ATP with respect to controls. Moreover, the macroscopic calcium currents, show increased variability compared with cells from control individuals. These results demonstrate that regardless of genetic background, a high sucrose diet leads to the development of MS. The observed changes in ionic channels can partially explain the increase in insulin secretion in MS rats. However, some  cells showed smaller calcium currents. These cells may represent a  cell subpopulation as it becomes exhausted by the long-term high sucrose diet.
Two experiments measured human sensitivity to temporal jitter in 25-click trains with inter-click intervals (ICIs) between 5 and 100 ms. In a naturalistic experiment using wideband clicks, jitter thresholds were a nonmonotonic function of ICI, peaking for ICIs near 40-60 ms. In a subsequent experiment, clicks were high-passed and presented against a low-frequency noise masker. Jitter threshold vs ICI functions lost the positive slope over short ICIs but retained the negative slope at long ICIs. The same behavior was seen in click rate discrimination tasks. Different processes mediate regularity analysis for click trains with ICIs above and below 40-60 ms.

Human length-tension curves are traditionally constructed using a model that assumes passive tension does not change during contraction (model A) even though the animal literature suggests that passive tension can decrease (model B). The study's aims were threefold: 1) measure differences in human medial gastrocnemius length-tension curves using model A vs. model B, 2) test the reliability of ultrasound constructed length-tension curves, and 3) test the robustness of fascicle length-generated length-tension curves to variations between the angle and fascicle length relationship. An isokinetic dynamometer manipulated and measured ankle angle while ultrasound was used to measure medial gastrocnemius fascicle length. Supramaximal tibial nerve stimulation was used to evoke resting muscle twitches. Length-tension curves were constructed using model A {angle-torque [A-T((A))], length-torque [L-T((A))]} or model B {length-torque [L-T((B))]} in three conditions: baseline, heel-lift (where the muscle was shortened at each angle), and baseline repeated 2 h later (+2 h). Length-tension curves constructed from model B differed from those produced via model A, indicated by a significant increase in maximum torque (23%) when using L-T((B)) vs. L-T((A)). No parameter measured was different between baseline and +2 h for any method, indicating good reliability when using ultrasound. Length-tension curves were unaffected by the heel-lift condition when using L-T((A)) or L-T((B)) but were affected when using A-T((A)). Since the muscle model used significantly alters human length-tension curves, and given animal data indicate model B to be more accurate when passive tension is present, we recommend that model B should be used when constructing medial gastrocnemius length-tension curves in humans in vivo.
Death is our most repressed consciousness, it inheres our condition as the primordial fear. Perhaps it was necessary that this angst be repressed in man or he would be hurled against the dark forces of nature. Modern ethos was built on this edifice, where the 'denial of death' while 'embracing one's symbolic immortality' would be worshipped, so this ideology simply overturned and repressed looking into the morass of the inevitable when it finally announced itself. Once this slowly pieced its way into all of life, 'death' would soon become a terminology in medicine too and assert its position, by giving a push to those directly dealing with the dying to shy away from its emotional and spiritual affliction. The need to put off death and prolong one's life would become ever more urgent. Research using psychedelics on the terminally ill which had begun in the 1950s and 1960s would coerce into another realm and alter the face of medicine; but the aggression with which it forced itself in the 1960s would soon be politically maimed, and what remained would be sporadic outpours that trickled its way from European labs and underground boot camps. Now, with the curtain rising, the question has etched itself again, about the use of psychedelic drugs in medicine, particularly psychedelic psychotherapy with the terminally ill. This study is an attempt to philosophically explore death anxiety from its existential context and how something that is innate in our condition cannot be therapeutically cured. Psychedelic use was immutably linked with ancient cultures and only recently has it seen its scientific revival, from which a scientific culture grew around psychedelic therapy. How much of what was threaded in the ritual and spiritual mores can be extricated and be interpreted in our own mechanized language of medicine is the question that nudges many.
The abuse of intravenous drugs, such as heroin, has become a major public health concern due to the increased risk of HIV-1 infection. Opioids such as heroin were originally identified and subsequently abused for their analgesic effects. However, many investigations have found additional effects of opioids, including regulation of the immune system. As such, chronic opioid abuse has been shown to promote HIV-1 pathogenesis and facilitate HIV-1-associated neurocognitive dysfunction. Clinical opioids, such as morphine and methadone, as well as illicit opioids, such as heroin, exert their effects primarily through interactions with the -opioid receptor (MOR). However, the mechanisms by which opioids enhance neurocognitive dysfunction through MOR-mediated signaling pathways are not completely understood. New findings in the regulation of MOR expression, particularly epigenetic and transcriptional regulation as well as alternative splicing, sheds new insights into possible mechanisms of HIV-1 and opiate synergy. In this review, we identify mechanisms regulating MOR expression and propose novel mechanisms by which opioids and HIV-1 may modulate this regulation. Additionally, we suggest that differential regulation of newly identified MOR isoforms by opioids and HIV-1 has functional consequence in enhancing HIV-1 neurocognitive dysfunction.
Botulinum neurotoxins (BoNTs) are classified into seven types (A-G), but multiple subtype and mosaic toxins exist. These subtype and mosaic toxins share a high sequence identity, and presumably the same receptors and substrates with their parental toxins. Here, we report that a mosaic toxin, type D-C (BoNT/D-C), uses different receptors from its parental toxin BoNT/C. BoNT/D-C, but not BoNT/C, binds directly to the luminal domains of synaptic vesicle proteins synaptotagmin (Syt) I and II, and requires expression of SytI/II to enter neurons. The SytII luminal fragment containing the toxin-binding site can block the entry of BoNT/D-C into neurons and reduce its toxicity in vivo in mice. We also found that gangliosides increase binding of BoNT/D-C to SytI/II and enhance the ability of the SytII luminal fragment to block BoNT/D-C entry into neurons. These data establish SytI/II, in conjunction with gangliosides, as the receptors for BoNT/D-C, and indicate that BoNT/D-C is functionally distinct from BoNT/C. We further found that BoNT/D-C recognizes the same binding site on SytI/II where BoNT/B and G also bind, but utilizes a receptor-binding interface that is distinct from BoNT/B and G. Finally, we also report that human and chimpanzee SytII has diminished binding and function as the receptor for BoNT/B, D-C and G owing to a single residue change from rodent SytII within the toxin binding site, potentially reducing the potency of these BoNTs in humans and chimpanzees.
In vivo optical imaging of cerebral blood flow (CBF) and metabolism did not exist 50 years ago. While point optical fluorescence and absorption measurements of cellular metabolism and hemoglobin concentrations had already been introduced by then, point blood flow measurements appeared only 40 years ago. The advent of digital cameras has significantly advanced two-dimensional optical imaging of neuronal, metabolic, vascular, and hemodynamic signals. More recently, advanced laser sources have enabled a variety of novel three-dimensional high-spatial-resolution imaging approaches. Combined, as we discuss here, these methods are permitting a multifaceted investigation of the local regulation of CBF and metabolism with unprecedented spatial and temporal resolution. Through multimodal combination of these optical techniques with genetic methods of encoding optical reporter and actuator proteins, the future is bright for solving the mysteries of neurometabolic and neurovascular coupling and translating them to clinical utility.
Disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) has an important part in cellular damage in neurological diseases, including acute and chronic cerebral ischemia, brain trauma, multiple sclerosis, brain tumors, and brain infections. The neurovascular unit (NVU) forms the interface between the blood and brain tissues. During an injury, the cascade of molecular events ends in the final common pathway for BBB disruption by free radicals and proteases, which attack membranes and degrade the tight junction proteins in endothelial cells. Free radicals of oxygen and nitrogen and the proteases, matrix metalloproteinases and cyclooxgyenases, are important in the early and delayed BBB disruption as the neuroinflammatory response progresses. Opening of the BBB occurs in neurodegenerative diseases and contributes to the cognitive changes. In addition to the importance of the NVU in acute injury, angiogenesis contributes to the recovery process. The challenges to treatment of the brain diseases involve not only facilitating drug entry into the brain, but also understanding the timing of the molecular cascades to block the early NVU injury without interfering with recovery. This review will describe the molecular and cellular events associated with NVU disruption and potential strategies directed toward restoring its integrity.
The role of dopamine D1 receptors in prefrontal cortex function, including working memory, is well acknowledged. However, relatively little is known about their role in other cognitive or emotional functions. We measured both D1 and D2 receptors in the brain using positron emission tomography in healthy subjects, with the aim of elucidating how regional D1 and D2 receptors are differentially involved in cognitive and emotional functions beyond working memory. We found an inverted U-shaped relation between prefrontal D1 receptor availability and Wisconsin Card Sorting Test performance, indicating that too little or too much D1 receptor stimulation impairs working memory or set shifting. In addition, variability of D1 receptor availability in the amygdala and striatum was related to individual differences in emotional responses and decision-making processes, respectively. These observations suggest that the variability of available D1 receptors might be associated with individual differences in brain functions that require phasic dopamine release. An interdisciplinary approach combining molecular imaging of dopamine neurotransmission with cognitive neuroscience and clinical psychiatry will provide new perspectives for understanding the neurobiology of neuropsychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, addiction and Parkinson's disease, as well as novel therapeutics for cognitive impairments observed in them.
Growth failure is nearly universal in spinal muscular atrophy type 1 and common in type 2, although acuity is often underappreciated at initial diagnosis. We reviewed 44 consecutive spinal muscular atrophy patients (28 type 1, 16 type 2) under 3 years at initial presentation. Growth failure was conventionally defined: weight below the fifth percentile or dropping 2 major percentiles over 6 months. Growth failure differed among subjects stratified by age at disease onset using the Kaplan-Meier method (P = 0.011). Median time to growth failure among subjects with onset between 0 to 3 months of age was 5 months; Only 1 of 22 avoided failure by 22 months of age. Median time to failure with disease onset between 4 to 6 months was 15 months. Most late onset (&gt; 6 months) subjects avoided growth failure. Early clinical symptoms predict feeding dysfunction and growth failure. Immediate, proactive nutritional intervention is indicated for patients with early symptom onset.


Intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) occurring after spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is an independent risk factor for mortality. The use of intraventricular urokinase (Uk) to reduce intraventricular blood clot volume and improve outcome was investigated. Patients with IVH requiring external ventricular drainage were recruited and randomized into a double-blind placebo controlled study. Assessments of collected cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) haemoglobin (Hb) and serial CT scans were performed. The study outcomes were: infection rates, length of stay in the intensive care unit, survival, National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score; and modified Rankin Scale scores. Our results showed an increase in both the drained CSF Hb concentration in patients treated with Uk compared to placebo and in the rate of resolution clot volume. No differences were found in the other outcome measures but there was a trend towards lowered mortality in the group treated with Uk. Therefore, intraventricular Uk resulted in faster resolution of IVH with no adverse events.
Decompressive craniectomy (DC) is used to relieve intractable intracranial hypertension and/or to prevent or reverse cerebral herniation. Significant controversy exists on selection of candidates, timing of the procedure and neurologic outcomes. Furthermore, the cerebral hemodynamic consequences post-DC have been researched only recently. We report on two consecutive patients who underwent DC in our institution and reviewed the literature on cerebral blood flow changes post-craniectomy. One patient had unilateral DC and the second had a suboccipital decompression (SOC). Cerebral blood flow velocities (FV) and pulsatility indices (PI) were recorded via transcranial Doppler (TCD). To our knowledge, this is the first report on FV/PI monitoring after SOC. TCD is a readily available, non-invasive test. The PI may provide useful information regarding timing and effectiveness of DC.



To investigate how sensory information is processed, transformed, and stored within an olfactory system, we examined the anatomy of the input region, the calyx, of the mushroom bodies of Drosophila melanogaster. These paired structures are important for various behaviors, including olfactory learning and memory. Cells in the input neuropil, the calyx, are organized into an array of microglomeruli each comprising the large synaptic bouton of a projection neuron (PN) from the antennal lobe surrounded by tiny postsynaptic neurites from intrinsic Kenyon cells. Extrinsic neurons of the mushroom body also contribute to the organization of microglomeruli. We employed a combination of genetic reporters to identify single cells in the Drosophila calyx by light microscopy and compared these with cell shapes, synapses, and circuits derived from serial-section electron microscopy. We identified three morphological types of PN boutons, unilobed, clustered, and elongated; defined three ultrastructural types, with clear- or dense-core vesicles and those with a dark cytoplasm having both; reconstructed diverse dendritic specializations of Kenyon cells; and identified Kenyon cell presynaptic sites upon extrinsic neurons. We also report new features of calyx synaptic organization, in particular extensive serial synapses that link calycal extrinsic neurons into a local network, and the numerical proportions of synaptic contacts between calycal neurons. All PN bouton types had more ribbon than nonribbon synapses, dark boutons particularly so, and ribbon synapses were larger and with more postsynaptic elements (2-14) than nonribbon (1-10). The numbers of elements were in direct proportion to presynaptic membrane area. Extrinsic neurons exclusively had ribbon synapses.
Cortical and subcortical inputs to the striatum are functionally highly organized and they obey to some extent striatal patch-matrix topography. Whether this organization is reflected in the density of various glutamatergic endings is unknown. We therefore mapped boutons expressing the vesicular glutamate transporters VGluT1 and VGluT2, together with boutons immunoreactive for vesicular -aminobutyric acid (GABA) transporter (VGAT) in patch and matrix throughout the striatum. We used triple-immunofluorescence staining followed by multichannel, high-magnification confocal laser scanning and 3D object recognition. Densities of VGluT1 and VGluT2 boutons were on average higher in matrix than in patches in all striatal sectors. The dorsal one-third of the striatum contained the highest densities of VGluT1 boutons. Subsequent 3D surface plotting revealed patterns of density &quot;valleys&quot; in the dorsomedial striatum coinciding with patch locations in the patch-matrix mapping. The density of VGluT1 boutons increased along three axes: ventrolateral-to-dorsomedial, ventral-to-dorsal, and lateral-to-medial. In contrast, VGluT2 showed a global increase in density from lateral to medial and a relatively high density in the ventral striatum. VGAT appeared more evenly distributed in the striatal patch-matrix than the VGluTs, with a tendency of bouton density to increase from medial to lateral. We noted a good correlation between the high VGluT1 bouton density dorsomedially with inputs from dorsal medial prefrontal cortex and related thalamic regions, and the enhanced VGluT2 input ventromedially with input from ventral medial prefrontal cortex and thalamic, amygdaloid, and hippocampal sources.
Ultraviolet (UV) light-transmitted signals play a major role in avian foraging and communication, subserving functional roles in feeding, mate choice, egg recognition, and nestling discrimination. Sequencing functionally relevant regions of the short wavelength sensitive type 1 (SWS1) opsin gene that is responsible for modulating the extent of SWS1 UV sensitivity in birds allows predictions to be made about the visual system's UV sensitivity in species where direct physiological or behavioral measures would be impractical or unethical. Here, we present SWS1 segment sequence data from representative species of three avian lineages for which visually based cues for foraging and communication have been investigated to varying extents. We also present a preliminary phylogenetic analysis and ancestral character state reconstructions of key spectral tuning sites along the SWS1 opsin based on our sequence data. The results suggest ubiquitous ultraviolet SWS1 sensitivity (UVS) in both paleognaths, including extinct moa (Emeidae), and parrots, including the nocturnal and flightless kakapo (Strigops habroptilus), and in most, but not all, songbird (oscine) lineages, and confirmed violet sensitivity (VS) in two suboscine families. Passerine hosts of avian brood parasites were included both UVS and VS taxa, but sensitivity did not co-vary with egg rejection behaviors. The results should stimulate future research into the functional parallels between the roles of visual signals and the genetic basis of visual sensitivity in birds and other taxa.
In a conditioning protocol, the onset of the conditioned stimulus ([CS]) provides information about when to expect reinforcement (unconditioned stimulus [US]). There are two sources of information from the CS in a delay conditioning paradigm in which the CS-US interval is fixed. The first depends on the informativeness, the degree to which CS onset reduces the average expected time to onset of the next US. The second depends only on how precisely a subject can represent a fixed-duration interval (the temporal Weber fraction). In three experiments with mice, we tested the differential impact of these two sources of information on rate of acquisition of conditioned responding (CS-US associability). In Experiment 1, we showed that associability (the inverse of trials to acquisition) increased in proportion to informativeness. In Experiment 2, we showed that fixing the duration of the US-US interval or the CS-US interval or both had no effect on associability. In Experiment 3, we equated the increase in information produced by varying the C/T ratio with the increase produced by fixing the duration of the CS-US interval. Associability increased with increased informativeness, but, as in Experiment 2, fixing the CS-US duration had no effect on associability. These results are consistent with the view that CS-US associability depends on the increased rate of reward signaled by CS onset. The results also provide further evidence that conditioned responding is temporally controlled when it emerges.
This special section brings together behavioral, computational, mathematical, and neuroimaging approaches to understand the processes underlying category learning. Over the past decade, there has been growing convergence in research on categorization, with computational-mathematical models influencing the interpretation of brain imaging and neuropsychological data, and with cognitive neuroscience findings influencing the development and refinement of models. Classic debates between single-system and multiple-memory-system theories have become more nuanced and focused. Multiple brain areas and cognitive processes contribute to categorization, but theories differ markedly in whether and when those neurocognitive components are recruited for different aspects of categorization. The articles in this special section approach this issue from several diverse angles.
This article describes an initial study of the effect of focused attention on phonological speech errors. In 3 experiments, participants recited 4-word tongue twisters and focused attention on 1 (or none) of the words. The attended word was singled out differently in each experiment; participants were under instructions to avoid errors on the attended word, to stress it, or to say it silently. The experiments showed that all methods of attending to a word decreased errors on that word, while increasing errors on the surrounding words. However, this error increase did not result from a relative increase in phonemic migrations originating from the attended word. This pattern is inconsistent with conceptualizing attention either as a higher activation of the attended word or greater inhibition of the unattended words throughout the production of the sequence. Instead, it is consistent with a model that presumes that attention exerts its effect at the time of production of the attended word, without lingering effects on the past or the future.
An anesthetized sheep model of traumatic brain injury (TBI) has been developed to assess early changes in intracranial pressure (ICP) following closed head injury. Immediately after TBI, a transient (&lt;10 min) hypertensive response occurred, followed by significant and prolonged systemic hypotension. ICP demonstrated a biphasic response, being seven times baseline values of 8  2 mm Hg 10 min after injury, decreasing to 25  2 mm Hg by 30 min, and then increasing to values exceeding 30 mm Hg by 4 h postinjury. ICP was always significantly higher than baseline values, which combined with hypotension, reduced cerebral perfusion pressure to less than 60% of normal. This early and sustained increase in ICP after craniocerebral trauma acutely alters cerebral perfusion pressure and brain oxygenation and provides a potential pathophysiological explanation for immediate clinical manifestations in humans following significant TBI.
Moderate to high levels of alcohol decrease brain intracellular free magnesium concentration, a factor known to be critical in brain injury. Phosphorus magnetic resonance spectroscopy was used to examine changes to brain free magnesium concentration after blunt cranial trauma in alcohol-intoxicated rats. Rats exposed acutely or chronically to alcohol sufficient to increase blood alcohol levels to between 150 and 350 mg/dL demonstrated a brain free magnesium level that was 20-50% less than in nonintoxicated animals (p &lt; 0.01). After injury, brain free magnesium levels declined more rapidly and to a greater extent in alcohol-affected animals than in nonintoxicated control animals (p &lt; 0.001). As both preinjury depletion of magnesium and degree of magnesium decline after brain injury have been associated with poor recovery, these findings suggest that moderate to severe alcohol intoxication may predispose the brain to a worse outcome by reducing brain free magnesium levels, both before and after injury.
Low-threshold voltage-gated M-type potassium channels (M channels) are tetraheteromers, commonly of two Kv7.2 and two Kv7.3 subunits. Though gated by voltage, the channels have an absolute requirement for binding of the membrane phospholipid phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PI(4,5)P(2)) to open. We have investigated the quantitative relation between the concentration of a water-soluble PI(4,5)P(2) analog, dioctanoyl-PI(4,5)P(2) (DiC(8)-PI(4,5)P(2)), and channel open probability (P(open)) by fast application of increasing concentrations of DiC(8)-PI(4,5)P(2) to the inside face of membrane patches excised from Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing M channels as heteromeric Kv7.2/7.3 subunits. The rationale for the experiments is that this will mimic the effect of changes in membrane PI(4,5)P(2) concentration. Single-channel conductances from channel current-voltage relations in cell-attached mode were 9.2  0.1 pS with a 2.5-mM pipette [K(+)]. Plots of P(open) against DiC(8)-PI(4,5)P(2) concentration were best fitted using a two-component concentration-P(open) relationship with high and low affinity, half-maximal effective concentration (EC(50)) values of 1.3  0.14 and 75.5  2.5 M, respectively, and Hill slopes of 1.4  0.06. In contrast, homomeric channels from cells expressing only Kv7.2 or Kv7.3 constructs yielded single-component curves with EC(50) values of 76.2  19.9 or 3.6  1.0 M, respectively. When wild-type (WT) Kv7.2 was coexpressed with a mutated Kv7.3 subunit with &gt;100-fold reduced sensitivity to PI(4,5)P(2), the high-affinity component of the activation curve was lost. Fitting the data for WT and mutant channels to an activation mechanism with independent PI(4,5)P(2) binding to two Kv7.2 and two Kv7.3 subunits suggests that the two components of the M-channel activation curve correspond to the interaction of PI(4,5)P(2) with the Kv7.3 and Kv7.2 subunits, respectively, that channels can open when only the two Kv7.3 subunits have bound DiC(8)-PI(4,5)P(2), and that maximum channel opening requires binding to all four subunits.

Serum levels of N-acetyl-aspartate (NAA) may be considered a useful marker of neuronal functioning. We aimed to measure serum NAA in cohorts of migraine and tension-type headache patients versus controls, performing correlations with main clinical features. A total of 147 migraine patients (including migraine without aura, with aura and chronic migraine), 65 tension-type headache (including chronic and frequent episodic tension-type headache) and 34 sex- and age-matched controls were selected. Serum was stored at -80C. Quantification of NAA was achieved by the standard addition approach and analysis was performed with liquid-chromatography-mass-spectrometry (LC/MS) technique. The NAA levels were significantly decreased in migraine group (0.0650.019mol/L), compared with both tension-type headache patients (0.0780.016mol/L) and controls (0.0850.013mol/L). Control subjects were significantly different from migraine with and without aura and chronic migraine, who differed significantly from episodic and chronic tension-type headache. Migraine with aura patients showed lower NAA levels when compared to all the other headache subtypes, including migraine without aura and chronic migraine. In the migraine group, no significant correlation was found between NAA serum levels, and headache frequency, allodynia and interval from the last and the next attack. The low NAA in the serum may be a sign of neuronal dysfunction predisposing to migraine, probably based on reduced mitochondria function.



Research on the neurobiology and pharmacotherapy of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) has grown exponentially since 1980. A reasonable question is whether this research has improved our understanding and treatment of ADHD. This article describes relevant developments that took place roughly between 1900 and 1970. During this time, the efficacy of stimulant therapy for the disorder was established and the symptoms of ADHD were linked to many possible nervous system disorders including in the brain-stem, reticular formation, diencephalon, basal ganglia, frontal lobes, and cortex. In 1970, the catecholamine hypothesis of ADHD was proposed. It is concluded that early theories about the neurobiologic basis of ADHD anticipated core ideas of modern theory.
In 1870, Eduard Hitzig and Gustav Fritsch performed experiments on dogs by which they were able to produce movement through electrical stimulation of specific parts of the cerebral cortex. Contemporaries regarded the experiment as a milestone in the controversially discussed issue of cerebral localization of functions even though this experiment came as a surprise to the community of experimental physiologists who had rejected localization for several decades after the antiphrenological work of the physiologist Pierre Flourens. In this article, I will argue that the context in which this experiment emerged was not so much the French localization debate of the 1860s but rather practical demands in clinical medicine, notably in electrotherapy. At the time of the experiment, Hitzig worked as a medical practitioner in Berlin and was interested in an anatomical and physiological explanation of the specific symptoms of one of his patients. The unpredictable outcome of this interest was the discovery of the electrical excitability of the cortex. Whereas experimental physiologists dominated the discussion on cerebral localization in Germany before 1870, the situation shifted after the publication of Fritsch and Hitzig's paper. Concrete medical necessities forced the discussion about localization and it was mainly due to the authority of clinical physicians that the localization of mental qualities in the brain became a cornerstone of brain research.

Developmental plasticity allows individuals to match their phenotype to the competitive environment they are most likely to encounter. Although there are numerous studies that demonstrate adaptive shifts in life-history and metric traits, we still have a poor understanding of whether internal physiological processes demonstrate plasticity and whether this plasticity supports life-history and metric traits. Here we use the Australian redback spider (Latrodectus hasselti), a species that demonstrates adaptive developmental shifts in response to the availability of females and the density of males, to examine the relationship between the routine metabolic rate (RMR) and the expression of size, body-condition and development rate. We reared immature males in three diet treatments, and in social environments that varied the presence/absence of females and the density of males and measured their RMR, weight, size and developmental rate at maturity. We show that although RMR decreased with decreasing resource abundance, RMR was positively correlated with the density of rivals. Moreover, RMR was not correlated with size or body-condition at maturity. Our results demonstrate that plasticity in the RMR supports plasticity in metric and life-history traits to create an integrated phenotype that matches the competitive environment.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a genetic neurodegenerative disorder affecting the basal ganglia. These subcortical structures are particularly important for motor functions, response selection and implicit learning. In the current study, we have assessed prodromal and symptomatic HD participants with an implicit contextual learning task that is not based on motor learning, but on a purely visual implicit learning mechanism. We used an implicit contextual learning task in which subjects need to locate a target among several distractors. In half of the trials, the positions of the distractors and target stimuli were repeated. By memorizing this contextual information, attention can be guided faster to the target stimulus. Nine symptomatic HD participants, 16 prodromal HD participants and 22 control subjects were included. We found that the responses of the control subjects were faster for the repeated trials than for the new trials, indicating that their visual search was facilitated when repeated contextual information was present. In contrast, no difference in response times between the repeated and new trials was found for the symptomatic and prodromal HD participants. The results of the current study indicate that both prodromal and symptomatic HD participants are impaired on an implicit contextual learning task.
Bilinguals who are fluent in American Sign Language (ASL) and English often produce code-blends - simultaneously articulating a sign and a word while conversing with other ASL-English bilinguals. To investigate the cognitive mechanisms underlying code-blend processing, we compared picture-naming times (Experiment 1) and semantic categorization times (Experiment 2) for code-blends versus ASL signs and English words produced alone. In production, code-blending did not slow lexical retrieval for ASL and actually facilitated access to low-frequency signs. However, code-blending delayed speech production because bimodal bilinguals synchronized English and ASL lexical onsets. In comprehension, code-blending speeded access to both languages. Bimodal bilinguals' ability to produce code-blends without any cost to ASL implies that the language system either has (or can develop) a mechanism for switching off competition to allow simultaneous production of close competitors. Code-blend facilitation effects during comprehension likely reflect cross-linguistic (and cross-modal) integration at the phonological and/or semantic levels. The absence of any consistent processing costs for code-blending illustrates a surprising limitation on dual-task costs and may explain why bimodal bilinguals code-blend more often than they code-switch.
Mirror neurons are one of the most important discoveries in the last decade of neuroscience. These are a variety of visuospatial neurons which indicate fundamentally about human social interaction. Essentially, mirror neurons respond to actions that we observe in others. The interesting part is that mirror neurons fire in the same way when we actually recreate that action ourselves. Apart from imitation, they are responsible for myriad of other sophisticated human behavior and thought processes. Defects in the mirror neuron system are being linked to disorders like autism. This review is a brief introduction to the neurons that shaped our civilization.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disease, and is clinically characterized by cognitive disturbances and the accumulation of the amyloid  (A) peptides in plaques in the brain. Recent studies have shown the links between AD and the immediate-early gene Arc (activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein), involved in synaptic plasticity and memory consolidation. For example, AD mouse models show a decreased expression of Arc mRNA in the brain. In additional, acute A application to brain slices leads to a widespread ARC protein diffusion, unlike the normal defined localization to synapses. In this study, we investigated genetic variation in human ARC and the risk of developing AD. To this end, we genotyped 713 subjects diagnosed with AD and 841 controls without dementia. ARC was sequenced in a group of healthy individuals, and seven previously known SNPs and three novel SNPs were identified. Two of the newly found SNPs were intronic and one, +2852(G/A), was located in the 3'UTR. Three tag SNPs were selected, including the novel SNP +2852(G/A), to relate to risk of AD, Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarker levels of total tau (T-tau), hyperphosphorylated tau181 (P-tau(181)) and A(1-42). The AA genotype of the newly found 3'-UTR SNP +2852(A/G), was associated with a decreased risk of AD (p (c)=0.005; OR=0.74; 95% CI: 0.61-0.89). No associations of single SNPs or haplotypes with MMSE score or CSF biomarkers were found. Here we report a novel ARC SNP associated with a reduced risk of developing AD. To our knowledge, this is the first study associating a gene variant of ARC with any disease. The location of the SNP within the 3'UTR indicates that dendritic targeting of ARC mRNA could be involved in the molecular mechanisms underlying this protective function. However, further investigation of the importance of this SNP for ARC function, ARC processing and the pathology of AD is needed.
Studies have shown that platelet APP ratio (representing the percentage of 120-130 kDa to 110 kDa isoforms of the amyloid precursor protein) is reduced in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). In the present study, we sought to determine if baseline APP ratio predicts the conversion from MCI to AD dementia after 4 years of longitudinal assessment. Fifty-five older adults with varying degrees of cognitive impairment (34 with MCI and 21 with AD) were assessed at baseline and after 4 years. MCI patients were re-classified according to the conversion status upon follow-up: 25 individuals retained the diagnostic status of MCI and were considered as stable cases (MCI-MCI); conversely, in nine cases the diagnosis of dementia due to AD was ascertained. The APP ratio (APPr) was determined by the Western blot method in samples of platelets collected at baseline. We found a significant reduction of APPr in MCI patients who converted to dementia upon follow-up. These individuals had baseline APPr values similar to those of demented AD patients. The overall accuracy of APPr to identify subjects with MCI who will progress to AD was 0.74  0.10, p = 0.05. The cut-off of 1.12 yielded a sensitivity of 75 % and a specificity of 75 %. Platelet APPr may be a surrogate marker of the disease process in AD, with potential implications for the assessment of abnormalities in the APP metabolism in patients with and at risk for dementia. However, diagnostic accuracy was relatively low. Therefore, studies in larger samples are needed to determine whether APPr may warrant its use as a biomarker to support the early diagnosis of AD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is strongly associated with loss of synapses. The complement system has been shown to be involved in synaptic elimination. Several studies point to an association between AD and the complement system. The purpose of this study was to examine the association of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of complement components 3 and 4 (C3 and C4, respectively), and complement receptor 1 (CR1) with AD in 43 patients with AD plus dementia, 42 patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) who progressed to AD during follow-up (MCI-AD), 42 patients with stable MCI and 44 controls. Complement levels were also applied in a multivariate model to determine if they provided any added value to the core AD biomarkers A42, T-tau and P-tau. We found elevated CSF levels of C3 and C4 in AD compared with MCI without progression to AD, and elevated CSF levels of CR1 in MCI-AD and AD when these groups were merged. These results provide support for aberrant complement regulation as a part in the AD process, but the changes are not diagnostically useful.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the extracellular deposit of Amyloid beta (A), mainly of the Amyloid beta(1-42) (A(1-42)) peptide in the hippocampus and neocortex leading to progressive cognitive decline and dementia. The possible imbalance between the A production/degradation process was suggested to contribute to the pathogenesis of AD. Among others, the serine protease plasmin has shown to be involved in A(1-42) clearance, a hypothesis strengthened by neuropathological studies on AD brains. To explore whether there is a change in plasmin system in CSF of AD patients, we analyzed CSF samples from AD and age-matched controls, looking at plasminogen, tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) and plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1) protein levels and t-PA and urokinase plasminogen activator (u-PA) enzymatic activities. We also measured A(1-42), total-tau and phospho-tau (181) CSF levels and sought for a possible relationship between them and plasmin system values. Our findings showed that t-PA, plasminogen and PAI-1 levels, as t-PA enzymatic activity, remained unchanged in AD with respect to controls; u-PA activity was not detected. We conclude that CSF analysis of plasminogen system does not reflect changes observed post-mortem. Unfortunately, the CSF detection of plasmin system could not be a useful biomarker for either AD diagnosis or disease progression. However, these findings do not exclude the possible involvement of the plasmin system in AD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) affects more than twenty-five million people worldwide and is the most common form of dementia. Symptomatic treatments have been developed, but effective intervention to alter disease progression is needed. Targets have been identified for disease-modifying drugs, but the results of clinical trials have been disappointing. Peripheral biomarkers of disease state may improve clinical trial design and analysis, increasing the likelihood of successful drug development. Amyloid-related measures, presumably reflecting principal pathology of AD, are among the leading cerebrospinal fluid and neuroimaging biomarkers, and measurement of plasma levels of amyloid peptides has been the focus of much investigation. In this review, we discuss recent data on plasma -amyloid (A) and examine the issues that have arisen in establishing it as a reliable biomarker of AD.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor (NMDAR)-stimulated autophosphorylation of calmodulin-dependent kinase II at Thr286 may regulate many aspects of neuroplasticity. Here, we show that low NMDA concentration (20 M) up-regulated Thr286 phosphorylation, and high concentration (100 M) caused dephosphorylation. We next modulated the strength of NMDAR activation by manipulating NMDAR 2A subunit (NR2A) and NMDAR 2B subunit (NR2B), which represent the major NMDAR subtypes in forebrain regions. Pharmacological inhibition and molecular knockdown of NR2A or NR2B blocked 20 M NMDA-induced phosphorylation. Conversely, over-expression of NR2A or NR2B enhanced phosphorylation by 20 M NMDA. The 100 M NMDA-induced dephosphorylation was suppressed by inhibition or knockdown of NR2A or NR2B, and enhanced by over-expression of NR2A or NR2B. Compared to NR2A, NR2B showed a higher impact on the NMDA-stimulated bi-directional regulation of Thr286 phosphorylation. We further found that activation of NR2A and NR2B by 100 M NMDA-induced dephosphorylation through protein phosphatases (PP) that are inhibited by high concentration okadaic acid (1 M), but not by PP2A and PP2B inhibitors. This novel function of NMDAR in dynamic regulation of calmodulin-dependent kinase II activity provides new evidence to support the current understanding that, depending on the degree of activation, NMDAR may lead to different and even opposing effects on intracellular signaling.
Midbrain dopaminergic neurons are implicated in various neurological and psychiatric diseases as well as drug addiction. Thus, the study of their generation and maintenance is pivotal to further our understanding of these disease-underlying mechanisms and development of novel therapeutics. Here, using an embryonic stem cell in vitro differentiation system and mutant dreher mouse, we showed that Lmx1a, an early regulator of midbrain dopamine neural progenitor phenotype specification, is also involved in the regulation of midbrain dopaminergic maturation by regulating gene expression of the dopamine transporter. Forced expression of Lmx1a induced dopamine transporter expression precociously in immature dopaminergic neurons, accompanied by significant increase in specific dopamine uptake. Lmx1a binds to well-conserved sequences in the dopamine transporter promoter region, and this binding sequence directs Lmx1a-dependent activation of reporter gene expression. Furthermore, during mouse embryonic development, dopamine transporter was more severely affected by Lmx1a mutation compared to other dopamine markers such as tyrosine hydroxylase and dopa decarboxylase, again supporting the role of Lmx1a in midbrain dopaminergic maturation in vivo. Thus, this study demonstrates that dopamine transporter is a direct target of Lmx1a and emphasizes a novel role of Lmx1a as one of regulators of mature midbrain dopaminergic neurotransmitter phenotypes.
Alpha-synuclein (-syn) is a synaptic protein that mutations have been linked to Parkinson's disease (PD), a common neurodegenerative disorder that is caused by the degeneration of the dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc). How -syn can contribute to neurodegeneration in PD is not conclusive but it is agreed that mutations or excessive accumulation of -syn can lead to the formation of -syn oligomers or aggregates that interfere with normal cellular function and contribute to the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. In this study, we found that -syn can impair the normal dynamics of mitochondria and this effect is particular prominent in A53T -syn mutant. In mice expressing A53T -syn, age-dependent changes in both mitochondrial morphology and proteins that regulate mitochondrial fission and fusion were observed. In the cellular model of PD, we found that -syn reduces the movement of mitochondria in both SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma and hippocampal neurons. Taken together, our study provides a new mechanism of how -syn can contribute to PD through the impairment of normal dynamics of mitochondria.
Type I interferons (IFNs) have been shown to act on neurons and to cause neuronal damage through mechanisms not completely defined. Here, we investigated the effects of type I IFNs on brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-induced TrkB receptor signaling and neurotrophic activity. In retinoic acid-treated human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells and mouse primary cortical neurons, long-term exposure to IFNs curtailed BDNF-induced activation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, phospholipase C and extracellular-regulated kinases 1 and 2 signaling. Moreover, IFN- inhibited BDNF-induced cell survival, neurite outgrowth, and expression of neuronal markers, such as neurofilament proteins, growth-associated protein-43 and glutamate -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid receptor subunit GluR1. The IFN inhibitory effects were associated with down-regulation of TrkB and inhibition of TrkB autophosphorylation. In SH-SY5Y cells, blockade of either Janus kinase with pyridone 6 or signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 1 with siRNA transfection attenuated IFN--induced TrkB down-regulation. Quantitative real time RT-PCR indicated that IFN- significantly reduced TrkB mRNA levels. Moreover, blockade of protein kinase R counteracted IFN--induced inhibition of TrkB expression and signaling. These data indicate that in neuronal cells IFNs negatively regulate BDNF signaling and neurotrophic activity through inhibition of TrkB activation and Janus kinase/Signal transducer and activator of transcription-dependent down-regulation of TrkB.
Cocaine/heroin combinations (speedball) exert synergistic neurochemical and behavioral effects that are thought to contribute to the increased abuse potential and subjective effects reported by polydrug users. In vivo fast-scan cyclic voltammetry was used to examine the effects of chronic intravenous self-administration (25 consecutive sessions) of cocaine (250 g/inf), heroin (4.95 g/inf) and speedball (250/4.95 g/inf cocaine/heroin) on changes in electrically evoked dopamine (DA) efflux, maximal rate of DA uptake (V(max)) and the apparent affinity (K(m)) of the DA transporter in the nucleus accumbens. The increase in electrically evoked DA was comparable following cocaine and speedball injection; however, heroin did not increase evoked DA. DA transporter K(m) values were similarly elevated following cocaine and speedball, but unaffected by heroin. However, speedball self-administration significantly increased baseline V(max), while heroin and cocaine did not change baseline V(max), compared with the baseline V(max) values of drug-nave animals. Overall, elevated DA clearance is a likely consequence of synergistic elevations of nucleus accumbens extracellular DA concentrations by chronic speedball self-administration, as reported previously in microdialysis studies. The present results indicate neuroadaptive processes that are unique to cocaine/heroin combinations and cannot be readily explained by simple additivity of changes observed with cocaine and heroin alone.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorders with a variable combination of motor and non-motor symptoms. Mutations in several genes including ATP13A2 (PARK9) are reported to be associated with PD. The underlying mechanism of PD is not well defined, however, both genetic and environmental causes contribute to it. ATP13A2 gene locates in chromosome 1 and contains 29 exons encoding for a protein of 1180 amino acids with 10 transmembrane domains. Abnormal gene expression has been implicated in neurodegenerative disorders. The transcriptional regulation of the ATP13A2 gene is unknown. In this report, we cloned and functionally characterized the human ATP13A2 gene promoter. We showed that the promoter region of the human ATP13A2 gene contains hypoxia response elements which can bind to transcription factor hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1). Hypoxia up-regulated ATP13A2 transcription via HIF-1 in HEK293 and dopaminergic MN9D cells. Our study indicates that hypoxia signaling plays a very important role in the regulation of human ATP13A2 gene expression. Further study is needed to determine the role of hypoxia in the pathogenesis of PD and its interaction with other PD causative genes, which will provide insights to the role of hypoxia and dysregulation of gene expression in Parkinson's disease.



IgG anti-GQ1b antibodies are a powerful serological marker for the diagnosis of Fisher syndrome (FS), but little is known regarding serological markers in FS patients that do not have the autoantibodies. The authors analyzed IgG antibodies against gangliosides other than GQ1b, ganglioside complexes, and ganglioside-like lipo-oligosaccharide (LOS) of Campylobacter jejuni isolates from FS patients. We identified 24 (12%) patients with GQ1b-seronegative FS among 207 FS patients who had been referred to our laboratory for anti-ganglioside antibody testing. Patients with GQ1b-seronegative FS were male and had a history of antecedent gastrointestinal illness more frequently than FS patients with IgG anti-GQ1b antibodies. Other clinical features during the illness were not distinguishing for GQ1b-seronegative FS. Four (17%) of 24 patients with GQ1b-seronegative FS had IgG antibodies against single gangliosides such as GM1b, GD1a, or GT1a. Antibodies against GM1 and GT1a complex were detected in four GQ1b-seronegative FS patients, three of whom did not have antibodies against single gangliosides. Mass spectrometry analysis showed that C. jejuni isolates from FS patients had GD1c-, GalNAc-GM1b-, or GalNAc-GD1c-like LOS, and not GQ1b-like LOS, highlighting the utility of examining serum antibodies against these ganglioside mimics in GQ1b-seronegative FS patients. Seven (29%) had IgG antibodies against the LOS from C. jejuni strains expressing GD1c-, GalNAc-GM1b-, or GalNAc-GD1c-like LOS. These findings suggest that IgG antibodies against GM1b, GD1c, GalNAc-GM1b, and ganglioside complexes are serological markers for GQ1b-seronegative Fisher syndrome.
Upper limb apraxia, a disorder of higher motor cognition, is a common consequence of left-hemispheric stroke. Contrary to common assumption, apraxic deficits not only manifest themselves during clinical testing but also have delirious effects on the patients' everyday life and rehabilitation. Thus, a reliable diagnosis and efficient treatment of upper limb apraxia is important to improve the patients' prognosis after stroke. Nevertheless, to date, upper limb apraxia is still an underdiagnosed and ill-treated entity. Based on a systematic literature search, this review summarizes the current tools of diagnosis and treatment strategies for upper limb apraxia. It furthermore provides clinicians with graded recommendations. In particular, a short screening test for apraxia, and a more comprehensive diagnostic apraxia test for clinical use are recommended. Although currently only a few randomized controlled studies investigate the efficacy of different apraxia treatments, the gesture training suggested by Smania and colleagues can be recommended for the therapy of apraxia, the effects of which were shown to extend to activities of daily living and to persist for at least 2 months after completion of the training. This review aims at directing the reader's attention to the ecological relevance of apraxia. Moreover, it provides clinicians with appropriate tools for the reliable diagnosis and effective treatment of apraxia. Nevertheless, this review also highlights the need for further research into how to improve diagnosis of apraxia based on neuropsychological models and to develop new therapeutic strategies.

The need to detect and process sensory cues varies in different behavioral contexts. Plasticity in sensory coding can be achieved by the context-specific release of neuromodulators in restricted brain areas. The context of aversion triggers the release of dopamine in the insect brain, yet the effects of dopamine on sensory coding are unknown. In this study, we characterize the morphology of dopaminergic neurons that innervate each of the antennal lobes (ALs; the first synaptic neuropils of the olfactory system) of the moth Manduca sexta and demonstrate with electrophysiology that dopamine enhances odor-evoked responses of the majority of AL neurons while reducing the responses of a small minority. Because dopamine release in higher brain areas mediates aversive learning we developed a naturalistic, ecologically inspired aversive learning paradigm in which an innately appetitive host plant floral odor is paired with a mimic of the aversive nectar of herbivorized host plants. This pairing resulted in a decrease in feeding behavior that was blocked when dopamine receptor antagonists were injected directly into the ALs. These results suggest that a transient dopaminergic enhancement of sensory output from the AL contributes to the formation of aversive memories. We propose a model of olfactory modulation in which specific contexts trigger the release of different neuromodulators in the AL to increase olfactory output to downstream areas of processing.
Virtually nothing is known about the activity of morphologically identified neurons in freely moving mammals. Here we describe stabilization and positioning techniques that allow juxtacellular recordings from labeled single neurons in awake, freely moving animals. This method involves the use of a friction-based device that allows stabilization of the recording pipette by friction forces. Friction is generated by a clamplike mechanism that tightens a sliding pipette holder to a preimplanted pipette guide. The interacting surfaces are smoothed to optical quality (&lt;5-nm roughness) to enable micrometer stepping precision of the device during operation. Our method allows recordings from identified neurons in freely moving animals, and thus opens new perspectives for analyzing the role of identified neurons in the control of behavior.
Visual and auditory spatial signals initially arise in different reference frames. It has been postulated that auditory signals are translated from a head-centered to an eye-centered frame of reference compatible with the visual spatial maps, but, to date, only various forms of hybrid reference frames for sound have been identified. Here, we show that the auditory representation of space in the superior colliculus involves a hybrid reference frame immediately after the sound onset but evolves to become predominantly eye centered, and more similar to the visual representation, by the time of a saccade to that sound. Specifically, during the first 500 ms after the sound onset, auditory response patterns (N = 103) were usually neither head nor eye centered: 64% of neurons showed such a hybrid pattern, whereas 29% were more eye centered and 8% were more head centered. This differed from the pattern observed for visual targets (N = 156): 86% were eye centered, &lt;1% were head centered, and only 13% exhibited a hybrid of both reference frames. For auditory-evoked activity observed within 20 ms of the saccade (N = 154), the proportion of eye-centered response patterns increased to 69%, whereas the hybrid and head-centered response patterns dropped to 30% and &lt;1%, respectively. This pattern approached, although did not quite reach, that observed for saccade-related activity for visual targets: 89% were eye centered, 11% were hybrid, and &lt;1% were head centered (N = 162). The plainly eye-centered visual response patterns and predominantly eye-centered auditory motor response patterns lie in marked contrast to our previous study of the intraparietal cortex, where both visual and auditory sensory and motor-related activity used a predominantly hybrid reference frame (Mullette-Gillman et al. 2005, 2009). Our present findings indicate that auditory signals are ultimately translated into a reference frame roughly similar to that used for vision, but suggest that such signals might emerge only in motor areas responsible for directing gaze to visual and auditory stimuli.
Quadrupeds maintain the dorsal side up body orientation due to the activity of the postural control system driven by limb mechanoreceptors. Binaural galvanic vestibular stimulation (GVS) causes a lateral body sway toward the anode. Previously, we have shown that this new position is actively stabilized, suggesting that GVS changes a set point in the reflex mechanisms controlling body posture. The aim of the present study was to reveal the underlying neuronal mechanisms. Experiments were performed on decerebrate rabbits. The vertebral column was rigidly fixed, whereas hindlimbs were positioned on a platform. Periodic lateral tilts of the platform caused postural limb reflexes (PLRs): activation of extensors in the loaded and flexing limb and a decrease in extensor activity in the opposite (unloaded and extending) limb. Putative spinal interneurons were recorded in segments L4-L5 during PLRs, with and without GVS. We have found that GVS enhanced PLRs on the cathode side and reduced them on the anode side. This asymmetry in PLRs can account for changes in the stabilized body orientation observed in normal rabbits subjected to continuous GVS. Responses to platform tilts (frequency modulation) were observed in 106 spinal neurons, suggesting that they can contribute to PLR generation. Two neuron groups were active in opposite phases of the tilt cycle of the ipsi-limb: F-neurons in the flexion phase, and E-neurons in the extension phase. Neurons were driven mainly by afferent input from the ipsi-limb. If one supposes that F- and E-neurons contribute, respectively, to excitation and inhibition of extensor motoneurons, one can expect that the pattern of response to GVS in F-neurons will be similar to that in extensor muscles, whereas E-neurons will have an opposite pattern. We have found that ~40% of all modulated neurons meet this condition, suggesting that they contribute to the generation of PLRs and to the GVS-caused changes in PLRs.
Spontaneous firing and behavior-related changes in discharge profiles of basal forebrain (BF) neurons are well documented, albeit the mechanisms underlying the variety of activity modes and intermodal transitions remain elusive. With the use of cell-attached recordings, this study identifies a range of spiking patterns in diagonal band Broca (DBB) noncholinergic cells of rats and tentatively categorizes them into low-rate random, tonic, and cluster firing activities. It demonstrates further that the multiplicity of discharge profiles is sustained intrinsically and persists after blockade of glutamate-, glycine/GABA-, and cholinergic synaptic inputs. Stimulation of muscarinic receptors, blockade of voltage-gated Ca(2+)-, and small conductance (SK) Ca(2+)-activated K(+) currents as well as chelating of intracellular Ca(2+) concentration accelerate low-rate random and tonic firing and favor transition of neurons into cluster firing mode. A similar trend towards higher discharge rates with switch of neurons into cluster firing has been revealed by activation of neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptors with the NPY or NPY(1) receptor agonist [Leu(31),Pro(34)]-NPY. Whole cell current-clamp analysis demonstrates that the variety of spiking modes and intermodal transitions could be induced within the same neuronal population by injection of bias depolarizing or hyperpolarizing currents. Taken together, these data demonstrate the intrinsic and highly variable character of regenerative firing in BF noncholinergic cells, subject to powerful modulation by classical neurotransmitters, NPY, and small membrane currents.
Neuronal control with high temporal precision is possible with optogenetics, yet currently available methods do not enable to control independently multiple locations in the brains of freely moving animals. Here, we describe a diode-probe system that allows real-time and location-specific control of neuronal activity at multiple sites. Manipulation of neuronal activity in arbitrary spatiotemporal patterns is achieved by means of an optoelectronic array, manufactured by attaching multiple diode-fiber assemblies to high-density silicon probes or wire tetrodes and implanted into the brains of animals that are expressing light-responsive opsins. Each diode can be controlled separately, allowing localized light stimulation of neuronal activators and silencers in any temporal configuration and concurrent recording of the stimulated neurons. Because the only connections to the animals are via a highly flexible wire cable, unimpeded behavior is allowed for circuit monitoring and multisite perturbations in the intact brain. The capacity of the system to generate unique neural activity patterns facilitates multisite manipulation of neural circuits in a closed-loop manner and opens the door to addressing novel questions.
Peripheral nerve injury promotes the release of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) from spinal microglial cells and primary afferent terminals. This induces an increase in dorsal horn excitability that contributes to &quot;central sensitization&quot; and to the onset of neuropathic pain. Although it is accepted that impairment of GABAergic and/or glycinergic inhibition contributes to this process, certain lines of evidence suggest that GABA release in the dorsal horn may increase after nerve injury. To resolve these contradictory findings, we exposed rat spinal cord neurons in defined-medium organotypic culture to 200 ng/ml BDNF for 6 days to mimic the change in spinal BDNF levels that accompanies peripheral nerve injury. Morphological and electrophysiological criteria and glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) immunohistochemistry were used to distinguish putative inhibitory tonic-islet-central neurons from putative excitatory delay-radial neurons. Whole cell recording in the presence of 1 M tetrodotoxin showed that BDNF increased the amplitude of GABAergic and glycinergic miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) in both cell types. It also increased the amplitude and frequency of spontaneous, action potential-dependent IPSCs (sIPSCs) in putative excitatory neurons. By contrast, BDNF reduced sIPSC amplitude in inhibitory neurons but frequency was unchanged. This increase in inhibitory drive to excitatory neurons and decreased inhibitory drive to inhibitory neurons seems inconsistent with the observation that BDNF increases overall dorsal horn excitability. One of several explanations for this discrepancy is that the action of BDNF in the substantia gelatinosa is dominated by previously documented increases in excitatory synaptic transmission rather than by impediment of inhibitory transmission.
Glutamate (Glu) is a major excitatory neurotransmitter, playing a crucial role in the functioning of the nucleus accumbens (NAc), a critical area implicated in somatosensory integration and regulation of motivated behavior. In this study, high-speed amperometry with enzyme-based biosensors was used in freely moving rats to examine changes in extracellular Glu in the NAc shell and core induced by a tone, tail pinch (TP), social interaction with a male conspecific (SI), and intravenous (iv) cocaine (1 mg/kg). To establish the contribution of Glu to electrochemical signal changes, similar recordings were conducted with null (Glu(0)) sensors, which were exposed to the same chemical and physical environment but were insensitive to Glu. TP, SI, and cocaine, but not a tone, induced relatively large and prolonged current increases detected by both Glu and Glu(0) sensors. However, current differentials revealed very rapid, much smaller, and transient increases in extracellular Glu levels, more predominantly in the NAc shell than core. In contrast to monophasic responses with natural stimuli, cocaine induced a biphasic Glu increase in the shell, with a transient peak during the injection and a slower postinjection peak. Therefore, Glu is phasically released in the NAc after exposure to natural arousing stimuli and cocaine; this release is rapid, stimulus dependent, and structure specific, suggesting its role in triggering neural and behavioral activation induced by these stimuli. This study also demonstrates the need for multiple in vitro and in vivo controls to reveal relatively small, highly phasic, and transient fluctuations in Glu levels occurring under behaviorally relevant conditions.
Inner ear hair cells respond to mechanical stimuli with graded receptor potentials. These graded responses are modulated by a host of voltage-dependent currents that flow across the basolateral membrane. Here, we examine the molecular identity and the function of a class of voltage-dependent ion channels that carries the potassium-selective inward rectifier current known as I(K1). I(K1) has been identified in vestibular hair cells of various species, but its molecular composition and functional contributions remain obscure. We used quantitative RT-PCR to show that the inward rectifier gene, Kir2.1, is highly expressed in mouse utricle between embryonic day 15 and adulthood. We confirmed Kir2.1 protein expression in hair cells by immunolocalization. To examine the molecular composition of I(K1), we recorded voltage-dependent currents from type II hair cells in response to 50-ms steps from -124 to -54 in 10-mV increments. Wild-type cells had rapidly activating inward currents with reversal potentials close to the K(+) equilibrium potential and a whole-cell conductance of 4.8  1.5 nS (n = 46). In utricle hair cells from Kir2.1-deficient (Kir2.1(-/-)) mice, I(K1) was absent at all stages examined. To identify the functional contribution of Kir2.1, we recorded membrane responses in current-clamp mode. Hair cells from Kir2.1(-/-) mice had significantly (P &lt; 0.001) more depolarized resting potentials and larger, slower membrane responses than those of wild-type cells. These data suggest that Kir2.1 is required for I(K1) in type II utricle hair cells and contributes to hyperpolarized resting potentials and fast, small amplitude receptor potentials in response to current inputs, such as those evoked by hair bundle deflections.
Previously, we proposed a two-stage model for an in vitro neural correlate of eyeblink classical conditioning involving the initial synaptic incorporation of glutamate receptor A1 (GluA1)-containing -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid type receptors (AMPARs) followed by delivery of GluA4-containing AMPARs that support acquisition of conditioned responses. To test specific elements of our model for conditioning, selective knockdown of GluA4 AMPAR subunits was used using small-interfering RNAs (siRNAs). Recently, we sequenced and characterized the GluA4 subunit and its splice variants from pond turtles, Trachemys scripta elegans (tGluA4). Analysis of the relative abundance of mRNA expression by real-time RT-PCR showed that the flip/flop variants of tGluA4, tGluA4c, and a novel truncated variant tGluA4trc1 are major isoforms in the turtle brain. Here, transfection of in vitro brain stem preparations with anti-tGluA4 siRNA suppressed conditioning, tGluA4 mRNA and protein expression, and synaptic delivery of tGluA4-containing AMPARs but not tGluA1 subunits. Significantly, transfection of abducens motor neurons by nerve injections of tGluA4 flop rescue plasmid prior to anti-tGluA4 siRNA application restored conditioning and synaptic incorporation of tGluA4-containing AMPARs. In contrast, treatment with rescue plasmids for tGluA4 flip or tGluA4trc1 failed to rescue conditioning. Finally, treatment with a siRNA directed against GluA1 subunits inhibited conditioning and synaptic delivery of tGluA1-containing AMPARs and importantly, those containing tGluA4. These data strongly support our two-stage model of conditioning and our hypothesis that synaptic incorporation of tGluA4-containing AMPARs underlies the acquisition of in vitro classical conditioning. Furthermore, they suggest that tGluA4 flop may have a critical role in conditioning mechanisms compared with the other tGluA4 splice variants.
Vision in natural situations is different from the paradigms generally used to study vision in the laboratory. In natural vision, stimuli usually appear in a receptive field as the result of saccadic eye movements rather than suddenly flashing into view. The stimuli themselves are rich with meaningful and recognizable objects rather than simple abstract patterns. In this study we examined the sensitivity of neurons in macaque area V1 to saccades and to complex background contexts. Using a variety of visual conditions, we find that natural visual response patterns are unique. Compared with standard laboratory situations, in more natural vision V1 responses have longer latency, slower time course, delayed orientation selectivity, higher peak selectivity, and lower amplitude. Furthermore, the influences of saccades and background type (complex picture vs. uniform gray) interact to give a distinctive, and presumably more natural, response pattern. While in most of the experiments natural images were used as background, we find that similar synthetic unnatural background stimuli produce nearly identical responses (i.e., complexity matters more than &quot;naturalness&quot;). These findings have important implications for our understanding of vision in more natural situations. They suggest that with the saccades used to explore complex images, visual context (&quot;surround effects&quot;) would have a far greater effect on perception than in standard experiments with stimuli flashed on a uniform background. Perceptual thresholds for contrast and orientation should also be significantly different in more natural situations.
Linear receptive field (RF) models of area 3b neurons reveal a three-component structure: a central excitatory region flanked by two inhibitory regions that are spatially and temporally nonoverlapping with the excitation. Previous studies also report that there is an &quot;infield&quot; inhibitory region throughout the neuronal RF, which is a nonlinear interactive (second order) effect whereby stimuli lagging an input to the excitatory region are suppressed. Thus linear models may be inaccurate approximations of the neurons' true RFs. In this study, we characterize the RFs of area 3b neurons, using a second-order quadratic model. Data were collected from 80 neurons of two awake, behaving macaque monkeys while a random dot pattern was scanned simultaneously across the distal pads of digits D2, 3, and 4. We used an iterative method derived from matching pursuit to identify a set of linear and nonlinear terms with significant effects on the neuronal response. For most neurons (65/80), the linear component of the quadratic RF was characterized by a single excitatory region on the dominant digit. Interactions within the dominant digit were characterized by two quadratic filters that capture the spatial aspects of the interactive infield inhibition. Interactions between the dominant (most responsive) digit and its adjacent digit(s) formed the largest class of cross-digit interactions. The results demonstrate that a significant part of area 3b responses is due to nonlinear mechanisms, and furthermore, the data support the notion that area 3b neurons have &quot;nonclassical RF&quot;-like input from adjacent fingers, indicating that area 3b plays a role in integrating shape inputs across digits.
Animals must often make opposing responses to similar complex stimuli. Multiple sensory inputs from such stimuli combine to produce stimulus-specific patterns of neural activity. It is the differences between these activity patterns, even when small, that provide the basis for any differences in behavioral response. In the present study, we investigate three tasks with differing degrees of overlap in the inputs, each with just two response possibilities. We simulate behavioral output via winner-takes-all activity in one of two pools of neurons forming a biologically based decision-making layer. The decision-making layer receives inputs either in a direct stimulus-dependent manner or via an intervening recurrent network of neurons that form the associative layer, whose activity helps distinguish the stimuli of each task. We show that synaptic facilitation of synapses to the decision-making layer improves performance in these tasks, robustly increasing accuracy and speed of responses across multiple configurations of network inputs. Conversely, we find that synaptic depression worsens performance. In a linearly nonseparable task with exclusive-or logic, the benefit of synaptic facilitation lies in its superlinear transmission: effective synaptic strength increases with presynaptic firing rate, which enhances the already present superlinearity of presynaptic firing rate as a function of stimulus-dependent input. In linearly separable single-stimulus discrimination tasks, we find that facilitating synapses are always beneficial because synaptic facilitation always enhances any differences between inputs. Thus we predict that for optimal decision-making accuracy and speed, synapses from sensory or associative areas to decision-making or premotor areas should be facilitating.
The authors examined the impact of HIV, cognitive dysfunction, and depression on decision-making. HIV+ (N=100) and HIV- (N=26) participants were administered a comprehensive neuropsychological battery, a modified version of the Iowa Gambling Task, and a measure of depressive symptoms. HIV+ participants demonstrated more difficulties in learning the gambling task than did HIV- participants. Executive functioning and depression emerged as strong predictors of gambling task performance. Depression partially mediated the relationship between executive functioning and gambling performance. Our findings suggest that HIV infection, executive dysfunction, and depression place individuals at risk for poor decision-making.
Decision-making is a complex executive function that draws on past experience, present goals, and anticipation of outcome, and which is influenced by prevailing and predicted emotional tone and cultural context. Functional imaging investigations and focal lesion studies identify the orbitofrontal, anterior cingulate, and dorsolateral prefrontal cortices as critical to decision-making. The authors review the connections of these prefrontal regions with the neocortex, limbic system, basal ganglia, and cerebellum, highlight current ideas regarding the cognitive processes of decision-making that these networks subserve, and present a novel integrated neuroanatomical model for decision-making. Finally, clinical relevance of this circuitry is illustrated through a discussion of frontotemporal dementia, traumatic brain injury, and sociopathy.


Human embryonic stem cell (hESC)-derived dopaminergic (DA) neurons hold potential for treating Parkinson's disease (PD) through cell replacement therapy. Generation of DA neurons from hESCs has been achieved by coculture with the stromal cell line PA6, a source of stromal cell-derived inducing activity (SDIA). However, the factors produced by stromal cells that result in SDIA are largely undefined. We previously reported that medium conditioned by PA6 cells can generate functional DA neurons from NTera2 human embryonal carcinoma stem cells. Here we show that PA6-conditioned medium can induce DA neuronal differentiation in both NTera2 cells and the hESC I6 cell line. To identify the factor(s) responsible for SDIA, we used large-scale microarray analysis of gene expression combined with mass spectrometric analysis of PA6-conditioned medium (CM). The candidate factors, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), stromal cell-derived factor-1  (SDF1), secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (sFRP1), and vascular endothelial growth factor D (VEGFD) were identified, and their concentrations in PA6 CM were established by immunoaffinity capillary electrophoresis. Upon addition of SDF1, sFRP1, and VEGFD to the culture medium, we observed an increase in the number of cells expressing tyrosine hydroxylase (a marker for DA neurons) and III-tubulin (a marker for immature neurons) in both the NTera2 and I6 cell lines. These results indicate that SDF1, sFRP1, and VEGFD are major components of SDIA and suggest the potential use of these defined factors to elicit DA differentiation of pluripotent human stem cells for therapeutic intervention in PD.
The anticonvulsant properties of marijuana have been known for centuries. The recently characterized endogenous cannabinoid system thus represents a promising target for novel anticonvulsant agents; however, administration of exogenous cannabinoids has shown mixed results in both human epilepsy and animal models. The ability of cannabinoids to attenuate release of both excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters may explain the variable effects of cannabinoids in different models of epilepsy, but this has not been well explored. Using acute mouse brain slices, we monitored field potentials in the CA1 region of the hippocampus to characterize systematically the effects of the cannabinoid agonist WIN55212-2 (WIN) on evoked basal and epileptiform activity. WIN, acting presynaptically, significantly reduced the amplitude and slope of basal field excitatory postsynaptic potentials as well as stimulus-evoked epileptiform responses induced by omission of magnesium from the extracellular solution. In contrast, the combination of omission of magnesium plus elevation of potassium induced an epileptiform response that was refractory to attenuation by WIN. The effect of WIN in this model was partially restored by blocking -aminobutyric acid type B (GABA(B) ), but not GABA(A) , receptors. Subtle differences in models of epileptiform activity can profoundly alter the efficacy of cannabinoids. Endogenous GABA(B) receptor activation played a role in the decreased cannabinoid sensitivity observed for epileptiform activity induced by omission of magnesium plus elevation of potassium. These results suggest that interplay between presynaptic G protein-coupled receptors with overlapping downstream targets may underlie the variable efficacy of cannabinoids in different models of epilepsy.




Local anesthesia is widely used, in isolation or in conjunction with general anesthesia. The authors describe 2 adolescent patients presenting with absent brainstem reflexes and delayed awakening following elective foramen magnum decompression for Chiari Type I malformation. In both cases, neurological deficits were closely associated with the administration of a levobupivacaine field block following wound closure. In the absence of any structural or biochemical abnormalities, and with spontaneous recovery approximating the anesthetic half-life, the authors' observations are consistent with transient brainstem paralysis caused by perioperative local anesthetic infiltration.
The authors present the case of an isolated gonococcal paravertebral abscess with an epidural component in a 42-year-old man. A primary epidural abscess of the spine is a rare condition and is most commonly caused by Staphylococcus aureus. In this report, the authors present their therapeutic decisions and review the relevant literature on disseminated gonococcal infection in a patient presenting with an epidural abscess. A 42-year-old Indonesian man was admitted with symptoms of neck and upper back pain and bilateral lower-limb weakness. Clinical examination was unremarkable apart from tenderness over the lower cervical spine. Postgadolinium T1-weighted MRI of the cervical and thoracic spine demonstrated an enhancing lesion in the right paraspinal and epidural soft tissue at C-6 to T1-2, in keeping with a spinal epidural abscess. The patient underwent laminectomy of C-7 and T-1 with abscess drainage. Tissue cultures subsequently grew Neisseria gonorrhoeae that was resistant to quinolones by genotyping. Upon further questioning, the patient admitted to unprotected sexual intercourse with commercial sex workers. Further investigations showed that he was negative for other sexually transmitted infections. Postoperatively, he received a course of beta-lactam antibiotics with good recovery. Clinicians should be aware of this unusual disseminated gonococcal infection manifested in any patient with the relevant risk factors.

Chronic anxiety is a common and debilitating result of traumatic brain injury (TBI) in humans. While little is known about the neural mechanisms of this disorder, inflammation resulting from activation of the brain's immune response to insult has been implicated in both human post-traumatic anxiety and in recently developed animal models. In this study, we used a lateral fluid percussion injury (LFPI) model of TBI in the rat and examined freezing behavior as a measure of post-traumatic anxiety. We found that LFPI produced anxiety-like freezing behavior accompanied by increased reactive gliosis (reflecting neuroimmune inflammatory responses) in key brain structures associated with anxiety: the amygdala, insula, and hippocampus. Acute peri-injury administration of ibudilast (MN166), a glial cell activation inhibitor, suppressed both reactive gliosis and freezing behavior, and continued neuroprotective effects were apparent several months post-injury. These results support the conclusion that inflammation produced by neuroimmune responses to TBI play a role in post-traumatic anxiety, and that acute suppression of injury-induced glial cell activation may have promise for the prevention of post-traumatic anxiety in humans.


The space of visual signals is high-dimensional and natural visual images have a highly complex statistical structure. While many studies suggest that only a limited number of image statistics are used for perceptual judgments, a full understanding of visual function requires analysis not only of the impact of individual image statistics, but also, how they interact. In natural images, these statistical elements (luminance distributions, correlations of low and high order, edges, occlusions, etc.) are intermixed, and their effects are difficult to disentangle. Thus, there is a need for construction of stimuli in which one or more statistical elements are introduced in a controlled fashion, so that their individual and joint contributions can be analyzed. With this as motivation, we present algorithms to construct synthetic images in which local image statistics--including luminance distributions, pair-wise correlations, and higher-order correlations--are explicitly specified and all other statistics are determined implicitly by maximum-entropy. We then apply this approach to measure the sensitivity of the human visual system to local image statistics and to sample their interactions.


Throughout social and cognitive psychology, participants are routinely asked to respond in some way to experimental stimuli that are thought to represent categories of theoretical interest. For instance, in measures of implicit attitudes, participants are primed with pictures of specific African American and White stimulus persons sampled in some way from possible stimuli that might have been used. Yet seldom is the sampling of stimuli taken into account in the analysis of the resulting data, in spite of numerous warnings about the perils of ignoring stimulus variation (Clark, 1973; Kenny, 1985; Wells &amp; Windschitl, 1999). Part of this failure to attend to stimulus variation is due to the demands imposed by traditional analysis of variance procedures for the analysis of data when both participants and stimuli are treated as random factors. In this article, we present a comprehensive solution using mixed models for the analysis of data with crossed random factors (e.g., participants and stimuli). We show the substantial biases inherent in analyses that ignore one or the other of the random factors, and we illustrate the substantial advantages of the mixed models approach with both hypothetical and actual, well-known data sets in social psychology (Bem, 2011; Blair, Chapleau, &amp; Judd, 2005; Correll, Park, Judd, &amp; Wittenbrink, 2002).
What influences perceptions of political polarization? The authors examine the polarization of people's own political attitudes as a source of perceived polarization: Individuals with more extreme partisan attitudes perceive greater polarization than individuals with less extreme partisan attitudes. This &quot;polarization projection&quot; was demonstrated in 3 studies in which people estimated the distribution of others' political attitudes: one study with a nationally representative sample concerning the 2008 presidential election, and 2 studies concerning university students evaluating a policy regarding scarce resource allocation. These studies demonstrate that polarization projection occurs simultaneously with and independently of simple projection, the tendency to assume that others share one's partisan political attitudes. Polarization projection may occur partly because people assume that others engage in similar attitudinal processes as the self, such as extensive thought and emotional arousal. The projection of various attitudinal processes was demonstrated in a study concerning health care reform policies. Further supporting this explanation, polarization projection increased when people introspected about their own attitudinal processes, which increased the accessibility of those processes. Implications for perceptions of partisanship, social judgment, and civic behavior are discussed.

All marketed antipsychotics act by blocking dopamine D(2) receptors. Fast dissociation from D(2) receptors may be one of the elements contributing to the lower incidence of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) exhibited by newer antipsychotics. Therefore, we screened for specific D(2) receptor blockers with a fast rate of dissociation. Radioligand binding experiments identified N-[1-(3,4-difluorobenzyl)piperidin-4-yl]-6-(trifluoromethyl)pyridazin-3-amine (JNJ-37822681) as a fast-dissociating D(2) ligand. Its D(2) receptor specificity was high compared with atypical antipsychotics, with little activity at receptors associated with unwanted effects [(1), (2), H(1), muscarinic, and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) type 2C] and for receptors that may interfere with the effects of D(2) antagonism (D(1), D(3), and 5-HT(2A)). JNJ-37822681 occupied D(2) receptors in rat brain at relatively low doses (ED(50) 0.39 mg/kg) and was effective in animal models of psychosis (e.g., inhibition of apomorphine-induced stereotypy or D-amphetamine/phencyclidine-induced hyperlocomotion). Prolactin levels increased from an ED(50) (0.17 mg/kg, peripheral D(2) receptors) close to the ED(50) required for apomorphine antagonism (0.19 mg/kg, central D(2) receptors), suggesting excellent brain disposition and minimal prolactin release at therapeutic doses. JNJ-37822681 induced catalepsy and inhibited avoidance behavior, but with a specificity margin relative to apomorphine antagonism that was larger than that obtained for haloperidol and similar to that obtained for olanzapine. This larger specificity margin (compared with haloperidol) may reflect lower EPS liability and less behavioral suppression after JNJ-37822681. JNJ-37822681 is a novel, potent, specific, centrally active, fast-dissociating D(2) antagonist with optimal brain disposition, and it is the first compound that allows the evaluation of the potential value of fast D(2) antagonism for the treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.
Taurine acts as a partial agonist at the glycine receptor (GlyR) in some brain regions such as the hippocampus, striatum, and nucleus accumbens. Ethanol, volatile anesthetics, and inhaled drugs of abuse are all known positive allosteric modulators of GlyRs, but their effects on taurine-activated GlyRs remain poorly understood, especially their effects on the high concentrations of taurine likely to be found after synaptic release. Two-electrode voltage-clamp electrophysiology in Xenopus laevis oocytes was used to compare the enhancing effects of ethanol, anesthetics, and inhalants on human homomeric 1-GlyR activated by saturating concentrations of glycine versus taurine. Allosteric modulators had negligible effects on glycine-activated GlyR while potentiating taurine-activated currents. In addition, inhaled anesthetics markedly enhanced desensitization rates of taurine- but not glycine-activated receptors. Our findings suggest that ethanol, volatile anesthetics, and inhalants differentially affect the time courses of synaptic events at GlyR, depending on whether the receptor is activated by a full or partial agonist.
The gustatory cortex (GC) is important for perceiving the intensity of tastants but it remains unclear as to how single neurons in the region carry out this function. Previous studies have shown that taste-evoked activity from single neurons in GC can be correlated or anticorrelated with tastant concentration, yet whether one or both neural responses signal intensity is poorly characterized because animals from these studies were not trained to report the intensity of the concentration that they tasted. To address this issue, we designed a two-alternative forced choice (2-AFC) task in which freely licking rats distinguished among concentrations of NaCl and recorded from ensembles of neurons in the GC. We identified three neural ensembles that rapidly (&lt;300 ms or 2 licks) processed NaCl concentration. For two ensembles, their NaCl evoked activity was anticorrelated with NaCl concentration but could be further distinguished by their response to water; in one ensemble, water evoked the greatest response while in the other ensemble the lowest tested NaCl concentration evoked the greatest response. However, the concentration sensitive activity from each of these ensembles did not show a strong association with the behaviour of the rat in the 2-AFC task, suggesting a lesser role for signalling tastant intensity. Conversely, for a third neural ensemble, its neural activity was well correlated with increases in NaCl concentration, and this relationship best matched the intensity perceived by the rat. These results suggest that this neuronal ensemble in GC whose activity monotonically increases with concentration plays an important role in signalling the intensity of the taste of NaCl.
Caloric restriction attenuates the onset of a number of pathologies related to ageing. In mammals, circadian rhythms, controlled by the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic (SCN) clock, are altered with ageing. Although light is the main synchronizer for the clock, a daily hypocaloric feeding (HF) may also modulate the SCN activity in nocturnal rodents. Here we report that a HF also affects behavioural, physiological and molecular circadian rhythms of the diurnal rodent Arvicanthis ansorgei. Under constant darkness HF, but not normocaloric feeding (NF), entrains circadian behaviour. Under a lightdark cycle, HF at midnight led to phase delays of the rhythms of locomotor activity and plasma corticosterone. Furthermore, Per2 and vasopressin gene oscillations in the SCN were phase delayed in HF Arvicanthis compared with animals fed ad libitum. Moreover, light-induced expression of Per genes in the SCN was modified in HF Arvicanthis, despite a non-significant effect on light-induced behavioural phase delays. Together, our data show that HF affects the circadian system of the diurnal rodent Arvicanthis ansorgei differentially from nocturnal rodents. The Arvicanthis model has relevance for the potential use of HF to manipulate circadian rhythms in diurnal species including humans.
Ischaemia, inflammation, and exercise lead to tissue acidosis, which induces pain and mechanical hyperalgesia. Corresponding to this, enhanced thin-fibre afferent responses to mechanical stimulation have been recorded in vitro at low pH. However, knowledge about how this sensitization by low pH occurs is lacking. In this study, we found that all three types (rapidly adapting (RA), intermediately adapting and slowly adapting) of mechanically activated currents recorded with the whole cell patch-clamp method were sensitized by low pH in rat cultured dorsal root ganglion neurones. This sensitization was mainly observed in neurones positively labelled with isolectin B4 (IB4), which binds to versican, a chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan. Inhibitors of acid-sensitive channels (amiloride and capsazepine) did not block sensitization by low pH except in RA neurones, and extracellular calcium was not involved even in the sensitization of this type of neurone. A broad spectrum kinase inhibitor and a phospholipase C inhibitor (staurosporine and U73122) failed to block pH-induced sensitization in IB4-positive neurones, suggesting that these intracellular signalling pathways are not involved. Notably, both excess chondroitin sulfate in the extracellular solution and pretreatment of the neurone culture with chondroitinase ABC attenuated this low pH-induced sensitization in IB4-positive neurones. These findings suggest that a change in interaction between mechanosensitive channels and/or their auxiliary molecules and the side chain of versican on the cell surface causes this sensitization, at least in IB4-positive neurones. This report proposes a novel mechanism for sensitization that involves extracellular proteoglycans (versican).
Pathophysiological changes in basal ganglia-thalamo-cortical circuits are well established in idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). However, it remains open whether such alterations already occur at early stages representing a characteristic neurophysiological marker of PD. Therefore, the present study aims at elucidating changes of synchronised oscillatory activity in early PD patients. In this study, we performed whole-head magnetoencephalography (MEG) in a resting condition and during steady state contraction of the more severely affected forearm in 10 drugnaive, de novo patients, in 10 early-stage patients with chronic medication and in 10 age-matched control subjects. While cortico-muscular coherence (CMC) did not differ between groups, patients showed increased sensori-motor cortical power at beta frequency (1330 Hz) during rest as well as during isometric contraction compared to controls. In healthy control subjects the power of the contralateral hemisphere was significantly suppressed during isometric contraction. By contrast, both hemispheres were activated equally strongly in de novo patients. In medicated patients, the pattern was found to be reversed. Contralateral beta power was significantly correlated with motor impairment during isometric contraction but not during rest. The present results suggest that the reduced ability of the primary motor cortex to disengage from increased beta band oscillations during the execution of movements is an early marker of PD.
Two-photon imaging of fluorescence in brain enables analysis of the structure and dynamic activity of neurons and glial cells in living animals. However, vital functions such as beating of the heart cause pulsations in brain tissue, leading to image distortion and loss of resolution. We find that synchronizing imaging scans to the cardiac cycle reduces motion artifacts, significantly improving the resolution of cellular structures. By interlacing multiple heartbeat triggered imaging scans, it was possible to image large brain volumes with negligible distortion. This approach can be readily incorporated into conventional microscopes to achieve substantial reductions in motion artifacts during two-photon imaging.
The role of persistent inward currents (PICs) in cat respiratory motoneurones (phrenic inspiratory and thoracic expiratory) was investigated by studying the voltage-dependent amplification of central respiratory drive potentials (CRDPs), recorded intracellularly, with action potentials blocked with the local anaesthetic derivative, QX-314. Decerebrate unanaesthetized or barbiturate-anaesthetized preparations were used. In expiratory motoneurones, plateau potentials were observed in the decerebrates, but not under anaesthesia. For phrenic motoneurones, no plateau potentials were observed in either state (except in one motoneurone after the abolition of the respiratory drive by means of a medullary lesion), but all motoneurones showed voltage-dependent amplification of the CRDPs, over a wide range of membrane potentials, too wide to result mainly from PIC activation. The measurements of the amplification were restricted to the phase of excitation, thus excluding the inhibitory phase. Amplification was found to be greatest for the smallest CRDPs in the lowest resistance motoneurones and was reduced or abolished following intracellular injection of the NMDA channel blocker, MK-801. Plateau potentials were readily evoked in non-phrenic cervical motoneurones in the same (decerebrate) preparations. We conclude that the voltage-dependent amplification of synaptic excitation in phrenic motoneurones is mainly the result of NMDA channel modulation rather than the activation of Ca2+ channel mediated PICs, despite phrenic motoneurones being strongly immunohistochemically labelled for CaV1.3 channels. The differential PIC activation in different motoneurones, all of which are CaV1.3 positive, leads us to postulate that the descending modulation of PICs is more selective than has hitherto been believed.
The present study examined whether touch influences the autonomic responses and subjective pain intensity induced by noxious heat stimulation in humans. Heart rate and digital pulse wave were recorded. Heat stimulation was applied to the right plantar foot before, during, and after touch. Subjective pain intensity was evaluated using a visual analog scale (VAS). Touch was applied over the right medial malleolus for 10 min. Two types of touch were employed in a cross-over double-blinded randomized manner. When touch was applied with a soft elastomer brush, heat-induced autonomic responses attenuated significantly, while VAS scores were unchanged. In contrast, touch with a flat disc was ineffective for any measurement. Participants hardly perceived a difference in the texture of the touching materials. The present study result suggests there are mechanisms in conscious humans where some sort of touch inhibits nociceptive transmission into autonomic reflex pathways independent of sensation and cognition.
This study explored group differences among a treatment-seeking sample of hypersexual women (n = 31) and hypersexual men (n = 47) across facets of personality using the NEO-Personality Inventory-Revised and the Hyper sexual Behavior Inventory. A number of striking parallels emerged between the two groups, including similar levels of impulsivity, emotional dysregulation, and difficulties coping with stress. Hypersexual women, compared to men, exhibited higher levels of distrust toward others, lower levels of self-confidence and ambition, and a greater preference for excitement and stimulation. These findings suggest that several common facets of personality precipitate or perpetuate hypersexual behavior in men and women, with some variations across genders. The implications of these findings for treatment interventions are discussed.


In 1949, propylhexedrine replaced amphetamine sulfate as the active ingredient in over the counter Benzedrex due to reports of widespread abuse, psychosis and sudden death. Since its introduction, cases of psychosis, myocardial infarction, pulmonary vascular disease, pulmonary hypertension, and sudden death attributed to propylhexedrine abuse have been well documented, usually in the form of single case reports. Although growing concerns during the 1980's regarding its abuse potential and its use as a precursor in the manufacture of compounds of even higher abuse potential caused propylhexedrine to be reviewed by the WHO Expert Committee on Drug Dependence, no formal studies of the dependence potential of propylhexedrine exists to date. The following is a case of propylhexedrine dependence, with some of its history, revisited.
Assessments of lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) in the treatment of alcoholism have not been based on quantitative meta-analysis. Hence, we performed a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials in order to evaluate the clinical efficacy of LSD in the treatment of alcoholism. Two reviewers independently extracted the data, pooling the effects using odds ratios (ORs) by a generic inverse variance, random effects model. We identified six eligible trials, including 536 participants. There was evidence for a beneficial effect of LSD on alcohol misuse (OR, 1.96; 95% CI, 1.36-2.84; p = 0.0003). Between-trial heterogeneity for the treatment effects was negligible (I = 0%). Secondary outcomes, risk of bias and limitations are discussed. A single dose of LSD, in the context of various alcoholism treatment programs, is associated with a decrease in alcohol misuse.
Comorbid drug abuse in schizophrenia has been consistently reported as high, with estimates ranging between 10-70%. Comorbid addictive states in schizophrenia are possibly multifactorial, yet recent research assigns a significant neurobiological role in its genesis. Abnormalities in hippocampal/cortical function in schizophrenia which mediate reward and reinforcement behavior are identified as central to the development and maintenance of comorbid addictive states. Preliminary data suggest that the vulnerability of patients with schizophrenia to substance use disorders may be a primary disease symptom. The management of comorbid substance abuse in schizophrenia relies on the use of antipsychotic medications. Recent data raise the concern about whether first-generation antipsychotics in long-term use can conversely lead to enhancement of the abused substance's reinforcing properties. Some recent reports have assigned a favorable outcome to clozapine and second-generation antipsychotics, pointing to a possible differential role for various antipsychotics. In view of the high prevalence of comorbid drug abuse in schizophrenia, its impact on outcome of treatment and the recent emerging neurobiological information, it is my contention that comorbid drug abuse constitutes a dimension by itself and deserves to receive an indication in the development of new antipsychotics similar to negative symptoms or cognitive deficits.
Anticonvulsants, notably those which modulate GABA activity, have shown efficacy in reducing aggressive behavior. Previously, we found dose-related decreases in human aggressive responding following acute tiagabine administration. Here, we examined the effects of chronic tiagabine over a 5-week period. Twelve individuals at increased risk for aggressive and violent behavior (currently on parole/probation with personality and/or substance use disorders) were randomly assigned to placebo (n=6) or an escalating dose sequence of placebo, 4mg, 8mg, 12mg, placebo (n=6). Data were analyzed using both frequentist and Bayesian mixed models, evaluating aggressive behavior as a function of time, dose condition, and their interaction. For aggressive responding, there was a significant interaction of drug condition and time. Aggression in the tiagabine condition decreased for each additional week in the study, while participants in the placebo condition failed to demonstrate similar change over time. For monetary-reinforced responding, no drug or drug by time interactions were observed, suggesting specificity of drug effects on aggression. The small number of subjects limits the generality of the findings, and previous studies with tiagabine are limited to acute dosing and case report investigations. However, the present data provide an indication that tiagabine merits further examination as an agent for management of impulsive aggression.

Protracted use of stressors during military training courses does not necessarily enhance a Soldier?s ability to regulate stress on the battlefield. Extensive stress during training can be a contributing factor to suboptimal neurologic and overall long-term health. Prolonged high-stress military training programs, as well as extended duration combat deployments, should be comprehensively scrutinized for opportunities to preserve health and increase combat effectiveness. Contemporary research in neuroscience and psychology can provide insight into training techniques that can be used to control stress and optimize performance in combat. Physical fitness training programs can elevate the stress threshold. Extensive situational training can also inoculate Soldiers to specific combat stressors. Training methods such as these will enable Soldiers to achieve higher levels of performance while under enemy fire and are encouraged for units deploying to combat. Keywords: combat stress, military training, military deployment, physical training, post-traumatic stress disorder, sleep deprivation, stress inoculation training.
Clinical neurophysiology is the medical specialty in the UK responsible for training doctors in the interpretation of electroencephalograms (EEGs). At present it is difficult to recruit doctors to train in clinical neurophysiology which causes difficulty in delivering services. We established a tele-EEG service to record and report on EEGs at a UK hospital which was unable to attract a resident clinical neurophysiologist. The EEGs were recorded in digital format and placed on a web server to be read by a clinical neurophysiologist in another part of the UK. Where possible this was done using NHS web servers and email, but a back-up system was established using other systems with suitable encryption. A total of 1007 EEGs were reported in 13 months from patients of all ages, epilepsy being the commonest reason for referral. All cases were reported within 24 h of recording. The back-up system was used in 60 cases. Tele-EEG is a feasible, secure, timely and effective method of providing an EEG service to hospitals which cannot recruit a resident clinical neurophysiologist.

Survival in people infected with HIV has improved because of an increasingly powerful array of antiretroviral treatments, but neurological symptoms due to comorbid conditions, including infection with hepatitis C virus, malnutrition, and the effects of accelerated cardiovascular disease and ageing, are increasingly salient. A therapeutic gap seems to exist between the salutary effects of antiretroviral regimens and the normalisation of neurological function in HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders. Despite the advances in antiretroviral therapy, CNS opportunistic infections remain a serious burden worldwide. Most opportunistic infections can be recognised by a combination of characteristic clinical and radiological features and are treatable, but some important challenges remain in the diagnosis and management of HIV-associated opportunistic infections.





Manganese-enhanced MRI (MEMRI) is a powerful technique for the in vivo monitoring of brain function in animals. Manganese enters into cells through calcium channels, i.e., voltage-gated calcium channels and activated glutamate receptors (e.g., N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors). N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors are activated both in normal physiological and pathophysiological conditions. Consistent with these mechanisms, we showed that in the olfactory bulb, the MEMRI signal strongly increases when excitotoxic mechanisms are induced by an administration of a N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonist, quinolinate. We found that the intensity of the MEMRI signal in excitotoxic conditions is similar to the odor-evoked signal in normal physiological conditions. Finally, we showed that the dynamics of the MEMRI signal are determined by the early phase of manganese in the olfactory bulb. Overall, these data show that, in addition to physiological studies, MEMRI can be used as an in vivo method to follow-up the dynamics of excitotoxic events.

Major thematic threads linking extensive preclinical and clinical efforts have established a working mechanistic scheme whereby atypical antipsychotic drugs ameliorate negative DSM IV diagnostic criteria by effecting relatively potent blockade of serotonin (5-HT)(2A) receptors coupled with weaker antagonism of dopamine D(2) receptors in frontal cortical areas. These contentions are more or less supported by in vitro binding experiments employing cloned receptors on cultured cells, although significant functional involvement of 5-HT(2C) receptors has also been proposed. It is interesting that a key statistical analysis indicates a major shift in usage back to typical antipsychotic agents for management of schizophrenia from 1995-2008, whereas off-label usage of atypical antipsychotic agents was markedly increased or expanded for bipolar affective disorder. Importantly, meta-analyses generally did not support efficacy differences between the other atypical antipsychotics compared with the older typical agents. A critical examination of putative functional linkages of morphine and its type-selective mu opioid receptor to higher order cortical regulation of cognitive processes may provide novel insights into human behavioral processes that are severely impaired in schizophrenia spectrum disorders.
Recently, scientific literature informed that metabolic conditions in pregnant women may be associated with increased risk for autism and other neurodevelopmental disorders in their offspring. In a cohort study of more than 1000 children between the ages of 2 and 5 years, those who had mothers classified as having &quot;metabolic conditions&quot; (which included diabetes, hypertension, and obesity) during pregnancy were at a significantly higher risk for developing an autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and neurodevelopmental delays. In addition, mothers with obesity were 1.6 times more likely to have a child with ASD and more than twice as likely to have a child with other developmental problems. In the United States, the prevalence of obesity among women of childbearing age is 34%. Moreover, with obesity rates rising steadily, these results appear to raise serious public health implications. The main objective of this Editorial is to propagate the health care improvement based on the translation research approach from basic behavioral sciences and relevant integrative neuroscience to pressing clinical issues that include an understanding of the etiology and assessment of disorders, and the assessment of functioning and development of innovative and culturally appropriate preventive treatment. Behavioral interventions for weight management in pregnancy may include the Transtheoretical Model (TTM) employed in obese pregnant women and then, the comparison with elements of the ecological model. A comparative effectiveness design is to test the effect of tailoring while including one of the most important predictors of screening-physician recommendation: after careful selection of analyzed behaviors from the TTM approach. However, there is also a risk that the evidence may not be conclusive for sustained weigh loss as a primary outcome of the proposed intervention, although the TTM in combination of physical activity and diet tended to produce significant results. Therefore, physicians might use the TTM to convince pregnant women to regulate weight and educate future parents on how to deal with autism at an early age of their children using watchful waiting management.
The process-dissociation procedure was developed to separate the controlled and automatic contributions of memory. It has spawned the development of a host of new measurement approaches and has been applied across a broad range of fields in the behavioral sciences, ranging from studies of memory and perception to neuroscience and social psychology. Although it has not been without its shortcomings or critics, its growing influence attests to its utility. In the present article, we briefly review the factors motivating its development, describe some of the early applications of the general method, and review the literature examining its underlying assumptions and boundary conditions. We then highlight some of the specific issues that the methods have been applied to and discuss some of the more recent applications of the procedure, along with future directions.
The order in which participants choose to recall words from a studied list of randomly selected words provides insights into how memories of the words are represented, organised, and retrieved. One pervasive finding is that when a pair of semantically related words (e.g., &quot;cat&quot; and &quot;dog&quot;) is embedded in the studied list, the related words are often recalled successively. This tendency to successively recall semantically related words is termed semantic clustering (Bousfield, 1953; Bousfield &amp; Sedgewick, 1944; Cofer, Bruce, &amp; Reicher, 1966). Measuring semantic clustering effects requires making assumptions about which words participants consider to be similar in meaning. However, it is often difficult to gain insights into individual participants' internal semantic models, and for this reason researchers typically rely on standardised semantic similarity metrics. Here we use simulations to gain insights into the expected magnitudes of semantic clustering effects given systematic differences between participants' internal similarity models and the similarity metric used to quantify the degree of semantic clustering. Our results provide a number of useful insights into the interpretation of semantic clustering effects in free recall.
People can acquire both true and false knowledge about the world from fictional stories. The present study explored whether the benefits and costs of learning about the world from fictional stories extend beyond memory for directly stated pieces of information. Of interest was whether readers would use correct and incorrect story references to make deductive inferences about related information in the story, and then integrate those inferences into their knowledge bases. Participants read stories containing correct, neutral, and misleading references to facts about the world; each reference could be combined with another reference that occurred in a later sentence to make a deductive inference. Later they answered general knowledge questions that tested for these deductive inferences. The results showed that participants generated and retained the deductive inferences regardless of whether the inferences were consistent or inconsistent with world knowledge, and irrespective of whether the references were placed consecutively in the text or separated by many sentences. Readers learn more than what is directly stated in stories; they use references to the real world to make both correct and incorrect inferences that are integrated into their knowledge bases.
The mechanism enabling coordination of the resistance of feed arteries with microcirculatory arterioles to rapidly regulate tissue blood flow in line with changes in metabolic demand has preoccupied scientists for a quarter of a century. As experiments uncovered the underlying electrical events, it was frequently questioned how vasodilation could conduct over long distances without appreciable attenuation. This perspective reviews the data pertinent to this phenomenon and provides evidence that this remarkable response could be made possible by a simple mechanism based on the steep relationship between membrane potential and calcium entry demonstrated by the voltage-dependent calcium channels which mediate the control of vascular tone in vivo.
Postoperative care of major neurosurgical procedures is aimed at the prevention, detection and treatment of secondary brain injury. This consists of a series of pathological events (i.e. brain edema and intracranial hypertension, cerebral hypoxia/ischemia, brain energy dysfunction, non-convulsive seizures) that occur early after the initial insult and surgical intervention and may add further burden to primary brain injury and thus impact functional recovery. Management of secondary brain injury requires specialized neuroscience intensive care units (ICU) and continuous advanced monitoring of brain physiology. Monitoring of intracranial pressure (ICP) is a mainstay of care and is recommended by international guidelines. However, ICP monitoring alone may be insufficient to detect all episodes of secondary brain insults. Additional invasive (i.e. brain tissue PO2, cerebral microdialysis, regional cerebral blood flow) and non-invasive (i.e. transcranial doppler, near-infrared spectroscopy, EEG) brain monitoring devices might complement ICP monitoring and help clinicians to target therapeutic interventions (e.g. management of cerebral perfusion pressure, blood transfusion, glucose control) to patient-specific pathophysiology. Several independent studies demonstrate such multimodal approach may optimize patient care after major neurosurgical procedures. The aim of this review is to evaluate some of the available monitoring systems and summarize recent important data showing the clinical utility of multimodal neuromonitoring for the management of main acute neurosurgical conditions, including traumatic brain injury, subarachnoid hemorrhage and stroke.
Breakage of a local anesthetic needle in dentistry is a rare but potentially serious event. Here we describe a case of breakage of a hypodermic needle during administration of local anesthesia with a Vazirani-Akinosi mandibular nerve block in a 5-year-old uncooperative patient under moderate sedation with midazolam. The needle was localized using a fluoroscopy device and then removed under general anaesthesia. The postoperative course was unremarkable, without any neurological or vascular deficits.
We have previously reported a heteroplasmic mtDNA mutation (T1095C) in the 12SrRNA gene of an Italian family with features of maternally-inherited parkinsonism, antibiotic-mediated deafness and peripheral neuropathy. In the present study, we demonstrate that a transmitochondrial cybrid line derived from the proband of this family shows selective depletion of mitochondrial glutathione and decreases in the activity of complex II/III. Moreover, when exposed to an aminoglycoside antibiotic these cells responded with a ten-fold increase in the number of apoptotic cells compared to controls. These results support a pathogenic role for the T1095C mutation and indicate that the mutation increases the risk for aminoglycoside-induced toxicity.
Along with the impairment of mitochondrial respiration both mitochondrial fission/fusion and mitophagy have been shown to be altered in Parkinson's disease (PD). In both genetic and toxin-induced models of PD an imbalance in mitochondrial morphology is evident, as its correction through modulation of the fission/fusion proteins has been shown to be protective. From the study of the PD-associated genes, namely PINK1 and Parkin, compromised mitochondrial clearance through mitophagy has been associated with the disease etiopathogenesis. Here we propose that an interplay between defective mitochondrial morphology and clearance arises as a crucial player in sentencing neuronal fate in PD.
At the developing neuromuscular junction (NMJ), physical contact between motor axons and muscle cells initiates presynaptic and postsynaptic differentiation. Using Xenopus nerve-muscle cocultures, we previously showed that innervating axons induced muscle filopodia (myopodia), which facilitated interactions between the synaptic partners and promoted NMJ formation. The myopodia were generated by nerve-released signals through muscle p120 catenin (p120ctn), a protein of the cadherin complex that modulates the activity of Rho GTPases. Because axons also extend filopodia that mediate early nerve-muscle interactions, here we test p120ctn's function in the assembly of these presynaptic processes. Overexpression of wild-type p120ctn in Xenopus spinal neurons leads to an increase in filopodial growth and synaptic vesicle (SV) clustering along axons, whereas the development of these specializations is inhibited following the expression of a p120ctn mutant lacking sequences important for regulating Rho GTPases. The p120ctn mutant also inhibits the induction of axonal filopodia and SV clusters by basic fibroblast growth factor, a muscle-derived molecule that triggers presynaptic differentiation. Of importance, introduction of the p120ctn mutant into neurons hinders NMJ formation, which is observed as a reduction in the accumulation of acetylcholine receptors at innervation sites in muscle. Our results suggest that p120ctn signaling in motor neurons promotes nerve-muscle interaction and NMJ assembly.
The cation-Cl(-) cotransporters participate to neuronal Cl(-) balance and are responsible for the post-natal Cl(-) switch in central neurons. In the adult peripheral nervous system, it is not well established whether a Cl(-) transition occurs during maturation. We investigated the contribution of cation-Cl(-) cotransporters in the Cl(-) handling of sensory neurons derived from the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) of neonatal mice (postnatal days 1-6) and adult mice. Gramicidin-perforated patch-clamp recordings in wild-type neurons revealed that Cl(-) accumulated to very high values in P1-6 sensory neurons and decreased in adulthood. In post-natal sensory neurons, quantitative RT-PCR showed that NKCC1, KCC1 and KCC3 had a higher transcript expression level compared to KCC2 and KCC4. NKCC1 was the main cation-Cl(-) cotransporter controlling Cl(-) accumulation at this developmental stage. In adulthood, the KCC3 transcript was produced in larger amounts than the other cation-Cl(-) cotransporter transcripts and RT-PCR shows larger expression of the shorter KCC3a isoform in adult DRG. Pharmacological inhibitors of cation-Cl(-) cotransporters and the use of KCC3(-/-) mice demonstrated that NKCC1 sustained Cl(-) accumulation in the majority of adult sensory neurons while KCC3 contributed to Cl(-) extrusion in a subset of these neurons. Beta-galactosidase detection in adult KCC3(-/-) DRG showed that KCC3 transcripts were present in all adult sensory neurons suggesting a KCC3 isoform specific regulation of Cl(-) handling. The contribution of KCC3 to Cl(-) extrusion in a subset of sensory neurons indicates that KCC3 could play a major role in GABAergic/glycinergic transmission.
Neural activity plays an important role in organizing and optimizing neural circuits during development and in the mature nervous system. However, the cellular events that underlie this process still remain to be fully understood. In this study, we investigated the role of neural activity in regulating the structural plasticity of presynaptic terminals in the hippocampal formation. We designed a virus to drive the Drosophila Allatostatin receptor in individual dentate granule neurons to suppress activity of complex mossy fiber terminals 'on-demand' in organotypic slices and used time-lapse confocal imaging to determine the impact on presynaptic remodeling. We found that activity played an important role in maintaining the structural plasticity of the core region of the mossy fiber terminal (MFT) that synapses onto CA3 pyramidal cell thorny excrescences but was not essential for the motility of terminal filopodial extensions that contact local inhibitory neurons. Short-term suppression of activity did not have an impact on the size of the MFT, however, longer-term suppression reduced the overall size of the MFT. Remarkably, global blockade of activity with tetrodotoxin (TTX) interfered with the ability of single cell activity deprivation to slow down terminal dynamics suggesting that differences in activity levels among neighboring synapses promote synaptic remodeling events. The results from our studies indicate that neural activity plays an important role in maintaining structural plasticity of presynaptic compartments in the central nervous system and provide new insight into the time-frame during which activity can affect the morphology of synaptic connections.
In craniates, opsin-based photopigments expressed in the eye encode molecular 'light sensors' that constitute the initial protein in photoreception and the activation of the phototransduction cascade. Since the cloning and sequencing of the first vertebrate opsin gene (bovine rod opsin) nearly 30years ago (Ovchinnikov Yu 1982, FEBS Letters, 148, 179-191; Hargrave etal. 1983, Biophysics of Structure &amp; Mechanism, 9, 235-244; Nathans &amp; Hogness 1983, Cell, 34, 807-814), it is now well established that variation in the subtypes and spectral properties of the visual pigments that mediate colour and dim-light vision is a prevalent mechanism for the molecular adaptation to diverse light environments. In this review, we discuss the origins and spectral tuning of photopigments that first arose in the agnathans to sample light within the ancient aquatic landscape of the Early Cambrian, detailing the molecular changes that subsequently occurred in each of the opsin classes independently within the main branches of extant jawed gnathostomes. Specifically, we discuss the adaptive changes that have occurred in the photoreceptors of craniates as they met the ecological challenges to survive in quite differing photic niches, including brightly lit aquatic surroundings; the deep sea; the transition to and from land; diurnal, crepuscular and nocturnal environments; and light-restricted fossorial settings. The review ends with a discussion of the limitations inherent to the 'nocturnal-bottleneck' hypothesis relevant to the evolution of the mammalian visual system and a proposition that transition through a 'mesopic-bottleneck' may be a more appropriate model.
As one of the nine hereditary neurodegenerative polyQ disorders, spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA) results from a polyQ tract expansion in androgen receptor (AR). Although protein aggregates are the pathological hallmark of many neurodegenerative diseases, their direct role in the neurodegeneration is more and more questioned. To determine the early molecular mechanisms causing motor neuron degeneration in SBMA, we established an in vitro system based on the tetracycline-inducible expression of normal (AR20Q), the mutated, 51 glutamine-extended (AR51Q), or polyQ-deleted (AR0Q) AR in NSC34, a motor neuron-like cell line lacking endogenous AR. Although no intracellular aggregates were formed, the expression of the AR51Q leads to a loss of function characterized by reduced neurite outgrowth and to a toxic gain of function resulting in decreased cell viability. In this study, we show that both AR20Q and AR51Q are recruited to lipid rafts in response to testosterone stimulation. However, whereas testosterone induces the activation of the c-jun N-terminal kinase/c-jun pathway via membrane-associated AR20Q, it does not so in NSC34 expressing AR51Q. Phosphorylation of c-jun N-terminal kinase plays a crucial role in AR20Q-dependent survival and differentiation of NSC34. Moreover, c-jun protein levels decrease more slowly in AR20Q- than in AR51Q-expressing NSC34 cells. This is due to a rapid and transient inhibition of glycogen synthase kinase 3 occurring in a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-independent manner. Our results demonstrate that the deregulation of nongenomic AR signaling may be involved in SBMA establishment, opening new therapeutic perspectives.
Epigenetic studies of DNA and histone modifications represent a new and important activity in molecular investigations of human disease. Our previous epigenome-wide scan identified numerous DNA methylation differences in post-mortem brain samples from individuals affected with major psychosis. In this article, we present the results of fine mapping DNA methylation differences at the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) complex group 9 gene (HCG9) in bipolar disorder (BPD). Sodium bisulfite conversion coupled with pyrosequencing was used to interrogate 28 CpGs spanning 700 bp region of HCG9 in 1402 DNA samples from post-mortem brains, peripheral blood cells and germline (sperm) of bipolar disease patients and controls. The analysis of nearly 40000 CpGs revealed complex relationships between DNA methylation and age, medication as well as DNA sequence variation (rs1128306). Two brain tissue cohorts exhibited lower DNA methylation in bipolar disease patients compared with controls at an extended HCG9 region (P=0.026). Logistic regression modeling of BPD as a function of rs1128306 genotype, age and DNA methylation uncovered an independent effect of DNA methylation in white blood cells (odds ratio (OR)=1.08, P=0.0077) and the overall sample (OR=1.24, P=0.0011). Receiver operating characteristic curve A prime statistics estimated a 69-72% probability of correct BPD prediction from a case vs control pool. Finally, sperm DNA demonstrated a significant association (P=0.018) with BPD at one of the regions demonstrating epigenetic changes in the post-mortem brain and peripheral blood samples. The consistent multi-tissue epigenetic differences at HCG9 argue for a causal association with BPD.
We used the event-related potential (ERP) methodology to examine differences in neural processing between visually and memory-guided reaches. Consistent with previous findings (e.g., Westwood, Heath, &amp; Roy, 2003), memory-guided reaches undershot veridical target location to a greater extent than their visually guided counterparts. Analysis of the ERP data revealed that memory-guided reaches were associated with reduced potentials over medial-frontal cortex at target presentation and following movement onset. Further, we found that the amplitudes of the potentials over medial-frontal cortex for visually and memory-guided reaches were significantly correlated with the peak accelerations and decelerations of the reaching movements. Our results suggest that memory-guided reaches are mediated by a motor plan that is generated while a target is visible, and then stored in memory until needed--a result counter to recent behavioral theories asserting that memory-guided reaches are planned just before movement onset via a stored, sensory-based target representation.

Mutations of the leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene are the most common genetic cause of Parkinson's disease (PD) and are associated with pleiomorphic neuropathology. We hypothesize that LRRK2 mediates its pathogenic effect through alternative splicing of neurodegeneration genes. Methods used in this study included western blotting analysis of subcellular protein fractions, exon-array analysis of RNA from cultured neuroblastoma cells transfected with LRRK2 expression vectors, and reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) of RNA from cultured cells and postmortem tissue. Overexpression of the LRRK2 G2019S mutant resulted in a significant (2.6-fold; P = 0.020) decrease in nuclear transactive response DNA-binding protein 43 levels. Exon-array analyses revealed that wild-type LRRK2 had a significant effect on the expression of genes with nuclear (P &lt; 10(-22) ) and cell-cycle functions (P &lt; 10(-15) ). We replicated changes in gene expression in 30% of selected genes by quantitative RT-PCR. Overexpression of LRRK2 resulted in the altered splicing of two genes associated with PD, with an increased inclusion of exon 10 of microtubule-associated protein tau (1.7-fold; P = 0.001) and exon 5 of the alpha-synuclein (SNCA) gene (1.6-fold; P =0.005). Moreover, overexpression of LRRK2 (G2019S) and two mutant genes associated with neurodegeneration, TARDBP (M337V) and FUS (R521H), were associated with decreased inclusion out of the dystonin (DST) 1e precursor exons in SK-N-MC cells. Altered splicing of SNCA (1.9-fold; P &lt; 0.001) and DST genes (log(2) 2.3-fold; P = 0.005) was observed in a cohort of PD, compared with neurologically healthy, brains. This suggests that aberrant RNA metabolism is an important contributor to idiopathic PD.
Johannes Pompe is famous for describing type II glycogenosis, Pompe disease. However, Pompe's participation in the Dutch resistance during World War II has not been well described in the neurology literature. Pompe saved many Jews by hiding them as patients, saved a Jewish boy who was a neighbor, hid many young resistance fighters in his laboratory, resisted the Nazi call for all Dutch doctors to submit to their puppet physician's chamber, and hid a radio transmitter in the animal room of his laboratory. He was executed by firing squad in a German reprisal shortly before the end of the war. Pompe's patriotism and religious and humanitarian values seem to have been the basis for his actions. His heroic and tragic story should not be forgotten and should serve as an example to all during such dark times.

This study was done to assess the relationship between proteinuria and ischemic stroke in subjects with diabetes mellitus, and to determine whether proteinuria is an independent risk factor for stroke. This comparative study was conducted in Mymensingh Medical College Hospital from January 2009 to June 2010. It was done to establish the relationship between proteinuria (Microalbuminuria) and ischemic stroke among diabetic patients. Other risk factors were also assessed. Patients were divided in Group A - diabetic patients with ischemic stroke (n=50) and Group B diabetic patients without stroke (n=50). Mean age of the Group A &amp; B were 60.168.33 and 57.197.73 years (p=0.068). Mean Blood sugar (2 hours after Break Fast) was 14.684.32mmol/L in Group A and 14.754.02mmol/L in Group B (p&gt;0.05). Albumin Creatinine ratio was abnormal in 84.0% in Group A and 22.0% in Group A (p=0.001) [Odds ratio (95%CI) = 18.61 (6.78-51.09)]. Logistic regression analysis has also shown that microalbuminuria (ACR) is an independent risk factor for ischemic stroke (p=0.001), [Odds ratio (95%CI) = 19.811(5.915-66.348)]. In diabetic patients increased urinary protein is a risk factor for stroke. Estimation of urinary protein (Microalbuminuria) may be used as a predictor for ischemic stroke in patients with diabetes.
Cognitive abilities decline in normal aging, yet the underlying molecular mechanisms are poorly understood. We found that aging was associated with a decrease in the expression of the DNA methyltransferase Dnmt3a2 in the hippocampus and that rescuing Dnmt3a2 levels restored cognitive functions. Moreover, we found that Dnmt3a2 is an activity-regulated immediate early gene that is partly dependent on nuclear calcium signaling and that hippocampal Dnmt3a2 levels determine cognitive abilities in both young adult and aged mice.
Given the presence of massive feedback loops in brain networks, it is difficult to disentangle the contribution of feedforward and feedback processing to the recognition of visual stimuli, in this case, of emotional body expressions. The aim of the work presented in this letter is to shed light on how well feedforward processing explains rapid categorization of this important class of stimuli. By means of parametric masking, it may be possible to control the contribution of feedback activity in human participants. A close comparison is presented between human recognition performance and the performance of a computational neural model that exclusively modeled feedforward processing and was engineered to fulfill the computational requirements of recognition. Results show that the longer the stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA), the closer the performance of the human participants was to the values predicted by the model, with an optimum at an SOA of 100 ms. At short SOA latencies, human performance deteriorated, but the categorization of the emotional expressions was still above baseline. The data suggest that, although theoretically, feedback arising from inferotemporal cortex is likely to be blocked when the SOA is 100 ms, human participants still seem to rely on more local visual feedback processing to equal the model's performance.
Descending feedback connections, together with ascending feedforward ones, are the indispensable parts of the sensory pathways in the central nervous system. This study investigates the potential roles of feedback interactions in neural information processing. We consider a two-layer continuous attractor neural network (CANN), in which neurons in the first layer receive feedback inputs from those in the second one. By utilizing the intrinsic property of a CANN, we use a projection method to reduce the dimensionality of the network dynamics significantly. The simplified dynamics allows us to elucidate the effects of feedback modulation analytically. We find that positive feedback enhances the stability of the network state, leading to an improved population decoding performance, whereas negative feedback increases the mobility of the network state, inducing spontaneously moving bumps. For strong, negative feedback interaction, the network response to a moving stimulus can lead the actual stimulus position, achieving an anticipative behavior. The biological implications of these findings are discussed. The simulation results agree well with our theoretical analysis.
The precision of the neural code is commonly investigated using two families of statistical measures: Shannon mutual information and derived quantities when investigating very small populations of neurons and Fisher information when studying large populations. These statistical tools are no longer the preserve of theorists and are being applied by experimental research groups in the analysis of empirical data. Although the relationship between information-theoretic and Fisher-based measures in the limit of infinite populations is relatively well understood, how these measures compare in finite-size populations has not yet been systematically explored. We aim to close this gap. We are particularly interested in understanding which stimuli are best encoded by a given neuron within a population and how this depends on the chosen measure. We use a novel Monte Carlo approach to compute a stimulus-specific decomposition of the mutual information (the SSI) for populations of up to 256 neurons and show that Fisher information can be used to accurately estimate both mutual information and SSI for populations of the order of 100 neurons, even in the presence of biologically realistic variability, noise correlations, and experimentally relevant integration times. According to both measures, the stimuli that are best encoded are those falling at the flanks of the neuron's tuning curve. In populations of fewer than around 50 neurons, however, Fisher information can be misleading.
The impact of adding correlation to a population of neurons on the information and the activity of the population is one of the fundamental questions in recent system neuroscience. In this paper, we would like to introduce topology-based correlation at the level of storing patterns in a recurrent network. We then study the effects of topological patterns on the activity and memory capacity of the network. The general aim of the present work is to show how the repertoire of possible stored patterns is determined by the underlying network topology. Two topological probability rules for pattern selection in recurrent network are introduced. The first one selects patterns according to a Gibbs-type distribution. We start with a Hopfield-type dynamics on a ring model and then a Langevin model on a general random graph is treated. The phenomenon of phase transition in pattern selection motivated us to introduce an alternative topological rule for pattern selection. In a network of N neurons on a random d-regular graph, two asymptotic cases, d/N0 and d/N1, have been discussed for the new rule, and it is shown that capacity of the network grows considerably as d/N1. By introducing the notions of asymptotic eigenvector, we will be able to study the behaviour of the discrete model in the limit d/N0. It will be proved that for degree d less than a critical value there is a positive role for noise, in which case increasing the number of patterns will improve the storage capacity.
Aging disrupts neural timing, reducing the nervous system's ability to precisely encode sound. Given that the neural representation of temporal features is strengthened with musical training in young adults, can musical training offset the negative impact of aging on neural processing? By comparing auditory brainstem timing in younger and older musicians and nonmusicians to a consonant-vowel speech sound /da/. we document a musician's resilience to age-related delays in neural timing.
Huntington's disease (HD) is associated with profound autonomic dysfunction including dysregulation of cardiovascular control often preceding cognitive or motor symptoms. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels are decreased in the brains of HD patients and HD mouse models, and restoring BDNF levels prevents neuronal loss and extends survival in HD mice. We reasoned that heart rate changes in HD may be associated with altered BDNF signaling in cardiovascular control nuclei in the brainstem. Here we show that heart rate is elevated in HD (N171-82Q) mice at presymptomatic and early disease stages, and heart rate responses to restraint stress are attenuated. BDNF levels were significantly reduced in brainstem regions containing cardiovascular nuclei in HD mice and human HD patients. Central administration of BDNF restored the heart rate to control levels. Our findings establish a link between diminished BDNF expression in brainstem cardiovascular nuclei and abnormal heart rates in HD mice, and suggest a novel therapeutic target for correcting cardiovascular dysfunction in HD.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the progressive loss of motor neurons in the motor cortex, brain stem and spinal cord. Mutations in the valosin-containing protein gene (VCP) were recently described in ALS families. Some of these families included diagnoses of other clinical features including frontotemporal dementia, Paget's disease, inclusion body myopathy, Parkinsonism and limb weakness. We sought to determine the prevalence of VCP mutations in Australian familial (n = 131) and sporadic (n = 48) ALS cohorts diagnosed with classic ALS. No mutations were identified indicating that VCP mutations are not a common cause of classic ALS among Australian cases with predominantly European ancestry.
Human aging is characterized by a marked decrease in circulating levels of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and DHEA-sulfate (DHEAS), hormonal changes associated with cognitive decline. Despite beneficial effects of DHEA supplementation in rodents, studies in elderly humans have generally failed to show cognitive improvement after treatment. In the present study we evaluate the effects of age and estradiol supplementation on expression of genes involved in the de novo synthesis of DHEA and its conversion to estradiol in the rhesus macaque hippocampus. Using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) we demonstrate the expression of genes associated with this synthesis in several areas of the rhesus brain. Furthermore, real-time PCR reveals an age-related attenuation of hippocampal expression level of the genes CYP17A1, STS, and 3BHSD1/2. Additionally, short-term administration of estradiol is associated with decreased expression of CYP17A1, STS, SULT2B1, and AROMATASE, consistent with a downregulation not only of estrogen synthesis from circulating DHEA, but also of de novo DHEA synthesis within the hippocampus. These findings suggest a decline in neurosteroidogenesis may account for the inefficacy of DHEA supplementation in elderly humans, and that central steroidogenesis may be a function of circulating hormones and menopausal status.
Exposure to environmental contaminants, particularly pesticides, may be an important etiological factor in Parkinson's disease (PD); and evidence suggests a role for microglia-dependent inflammatory and oxidative processes in nigrostriatal pathology induced by such toxins. Yet, the events mediating microglial activation and their effects are not fully known. To this end, we hypothesized that the proinflammatory cytokine, interferon-gamma (IFN-), may be a prime factor in the pathogenesis of PD, given its critical role in regulating microglial responses to pathogens. Indeed, the present investigation demonstrated that genetic deletion of IFN- protected substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) dopamine (DA) neurons from the toxic effects of the pesticide, paraquat, and normalized changes in inflammatory and oxidative factors within this brain region. Specifically, IFN- knockout prevented the paraquat-induced morphological signs of microglial activation and expression of key nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase subunits, while also preventing time-dependent changes in proinflammatory enzymes (inducible nitric oxide synthase [iNOS], cyclooxygenase-2 [COX-2]), cytokines (interleukin-1 [IL-1], tumor necrosis factor- [TNF-]), and signaling factors (c-Jun N-terminal kinase [JNK], p38 MAP kinase [p38], Signal transducer and activator of transcription-1 [STAT1], nuclear factor kappa B [NF-B]). Moreover, paraquat transiently suppressed substantia nigra pars compacta expression of trophic and proneuroplastic factors (cyclic-AMP response element binding protein [CREB], brain-derived neurotrophic factor [BDNF]), and IFN- deficiency again reversed these effects. These data suggest that IFN- is important for paraquat-induced neurodegeneration and the accompanying oxidative, inflammatory, and trophic changes that characterize the response to the toxin. Targeting IFN- could thus have therapeutic implications for PD and other neurodegenerative conditions that involve multiple inflammatory pathways.
We aimed to examine whether total intracranial volume (TICV), a marker of premorbid brain size, modified the impact of the apolipoprotein E (apoE) e4 phenotype and ischemic white matter lesions (WMLs) on odds for dementia. The study comprised a population-based sample of 104 demented and 135 nondemented 85-year-olds, and included physical and neuropsychiatric examinations, and head computerized tomography (CT). Dementia disorders were defined according to standard criteria. TICV and WMLs were rated on computerized tomography. Using the highest group as reference, the risk for dementia, Alzheimer's disease (AD), and vascular dementia (VaD) was increased in those with the smallest half, tertile, and quartile of TICV. Smaller TICV increased the odds of dementia, Alzheimer's disease, and vascular dementia in participants with WMLs. WMLs were not associated with increased odds of dementia in those with the largest TICV. The interaction term WMLs*TICV was also significant. TICV did not modify the odds of dementia in those with the apolipoprotein e4 phenotype. Our results suggest that the impact of brain pathology on the risk of dementia is modified by premorbid brain size.
White matter hyperintensities (WMHs) are associated with impaired mobility in older people, but no studies have identified neuropsychological and sensorimotor mediating factors for this association. Our objective was to determine whether neuropsychological and sensorimotor functions mediate the association of WMHs and choice stepping reaction time (CSRT) under standard and dual-task conditions using structural equation modeling. Two hundred fifty-four older community dwellers (77.8  4.5 years) underwent structural magnetic resonance imaging, CSRT tests, neuropsychological and sensorimotor assessments. WMH volumes were quantified using an automated method. WMH volumes were significantly associated with neuropsychological tests and dual task CSRT performance. All neuropsychological and sensorimotor variables were also significantly associated with standard and dual task CSRT. The structural equation modeling revealed that impaired sensorimotor function was the only factor influencing impaired stepping performances in the standard condition. In the dual task condition, the association between WMHs and CSRT was mediated through slowed cognitive processing and not through reduced sensorimotor functioning. The conclusion was that WMHs are associated with slowed performance on a dual task CSRT task and this relationship is explained primarily by underlying neuropsychological impairments.
Older adults recall less episodically rich autobiographical memories (AM), however, the neural basis of this effect is not clear. Using functional MRI, we examined the effects of age during search and elaboration phases of AM retrieval. Our results suggest that the age-related attenuation in the episodic richness of AMs is associated with difficulty in the strategic retrieval processes underlying recovery of information during elaboration. First, age effects on AM activity were more pronounced during elaboration than search, with older adults showing less sustained recruitment of the hippocampus and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC) for less episodically rich AMs. Second, there was an age-related reduction in the modulation of top-down coupling of the VLPFC on the hippocampus for episodically rich AMs. In sum, the present study shows that changes in the sustained response and coupling of the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex (PFC) underlie age-related reductions in episodic richness of the personal past.
Capacities of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) such as working memory (WM) are known to decline with increasing age. However, it is unclear which neurofunctional mechanisms may underlie this aging-related cognitive decline. The finding that PFC activity tends to be less lateralized in older subjects has led to the assumption of a hemispheric asymmetry reduction in the PFC associated with aging (HAROLD). Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we here investigated aging-related neurofunctional alterations during the performance of a visual-spatial WM task with differential levels of difficulty. Older volunteers activated dorsolateral PFC regions bilaterally while young subjects recruited these areas only in the left hemisphere. These data corroborate the hemispheric asymmetry reduction in the PFC associated with aging (HAROLD) account. However, we also observed functional reorganizations in parieto-occipital areas, and with increasing WM demands, an aging-related reversed hemispheric asymmetry of prefrontal activations. Importantly, neither PFC nor parieto-occipital reorganizations prevented older participants from showing worse WM performance than young volunteers. We conclude that frontal-parietal functional reorganizations may reflect compensational mechanisms related to aging, but do not obviate diminished visual-spatial WM performance in older people.
Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK3B) and cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5) are the 2 major protein kinases involved in abnormal phosphorylation of tau. To determine their potential role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD) we analyzed 2 functional single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of GSK3B (rs334558 and rs6438552) and rs735555 of CDK5 regulatory subunit 1 (CDK5R1) in 373 PD cases and 346 healthy controls of eastern India. The C,C and T,C haplotypes of GSK3B were respectively moderately associated with increased risk and protection for late onset PD (LOPD) (odds ratio [OR], 1.399; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.069-1.829; p = 0.015, and OR, 0.436; 95% CI, 0.222-0.853; p = 0.016, respectively). Moreover, moderate to significant interaction between different loci were observed for the entire PD cohort or late onset PD only. However, among these interactions, individuals carrying the (C/C) genotype at both loci (rs6438552 and rs735555) had almost twice the risk of developing PD than those without this genotypic combination (OR, 1.871; 95% CI, 1.181-2.964; p = 0.009). Thus, synergistic effect between the 2 major tau kinases, through these SNPs, appears to determine the risk profile for PD.
Decreased cerebral blood flow and blood-brain barrier disruption are features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The plasma kallikrein-kinin system modulates cerebrovascular tone through release of vasoactive bradykinin (BK). Cerebroventricular infusion of A1-40 enhances BK release, suggesting that the activity of this system may be elevated in AD. We investigated the profile of the activating protease of this system, plasma kallikrein (PK), in frontal and temporal brain tissue from postmortem confirmed cases of AD, vascular dementia (VaD), and controls. Measurements of neuron specific enolase messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) and protein were used to adjust for neuronal loss. Adjusted PK mRNA was significantly increased in the frontal cortex in AD, and the frontal and temporal cortex in VaD. Similar trends were seen for PK protein level in AD and VaD. PK activity was significantly increased in the frontal and temporal cortex in AD. Increased PK activity in AD is likely to contribute to increased BK release and may thereby influence cerebral blood flow and vascular permeability.
The diverse and independently-varying signs of Parkinson's disease (PD) are often attributed to one simple mechanism: degeneration of the dopaminergic innervation of the posterolateral striatum. However, growing recognition of the dopamine (DA) loss and other pathology in extra-striatal brain regions has led to uncertainty whether loss of DA in the striatum is sufficient to cause parkinsonian signs. We tested this hypothesis by infusing cis-flupenthixol (cis-flu; a broad-spectrum D1/D2 receptor antagonist) into different regions of the macaque putamen (3 hemispheres of 2 monkeys) while the animal performed a visually-cued choice reaction time task in which visual cues indicated the arm to reach with and the peripheral target to contact to obtain food reward. Following reward delivery, the animal was required to self-initiate release of the peripheral target and return of the chosen hand to its home position (i.e., without the benefit of external sensory cues or immediate rewards). Infusions of cis-flu at 15 of 26 sites induced prolongations of reaction time (9 of 15 cases), movement duration (6 cases), and/or dwell time of the hand at the peripheral target (8 cases). Dwell times were affected more severely (+95%) than visually-triggered reaction times or movement durations (+25% and +15%, respectively). Specifically, the animal's hand often 'froze' at the peripheral target for up to 25-s, similar to the akinetic freezing episodes observed in PD patients. Across injections, slowing of self-initiation did not correlate in severity with prolongations of visually-triggered reaction time or movement duration, although the latter two were correlated with each other. Episodes of slowed self-initiation appeared primarily in the arm contralateral to the injected hemisphere and were not associated with increased muscle co-contraction or global alterations in behavioral state (i.e., inattention or reduced motivation), consistent with the idea that these episodes reflected a fundamental impairment of movement initiation. We found no evidence for an anatomic topography within the putamen for the effects elicited. We conclude that acute focal blockade of DA transmission in the putamen is sufficient to induce marked akinesia-like impairments. Furthermore, different classes of impairments can be induced independently, suggesting that specific parkinsonian signs have unique pathophysiologic substrates.
Anomalous patterns of synchronization between basal ganglia and cortex underlie the symptoms of Parkinson's disease. Computational modeling studies suggest that changes in cortical feedback loops involving trans-striatal and trans-subthalamic circuits bring up this anomalous synchronization. We asked whether striatal outflow synchronizes globus pallidus neurons with cortical activity in a rat model of Parkinson's disease. We found that striatal firing is highly increased in rats with chronic nigrostriatal lesion and that this hyperactivity can be reduced by locally infusing a competitive NMDA receptor antagonist. Moreover, NMDA receptor-dependent striatal output had frequency dependent effects on distinct pathological patterns of cortico-pallidal coupling. Blockade of striatal NMDA receptors almost completely abolished an anomalous ~1Hz cortico-pallidal anti-phase synchronization induced by nigrostriatal degeneration. Moreover, under striatal NMDA receptor blockade, synchronization with 2.5-5Hz cortical oscillations falls to negligible levels and oscillations at 10-20Hz are markedly attenuated, whereas beta synchronization (with a peak at ~26Hz) is marginally reduced. Thus, tonic activation of striatal NMDA receptors allows different forms of anomalous oscillations along the cortico-striato-pallidal axis. Moreover, the frequency dependent effects of NMDA receptors suggest that low and high frequency parkinsonian oscillations stem from partially different mechanisms. Finally, our results may help to reconcile views about the contributions of changes in firing rate and oscillatory synchronization to Parkinson's disease symptoms by showing that they are related to each other.
Laboratory studies examining moderate physiological or emotional arousal induced after learning indicate that it enhances memory consolidation. Yet, no studies have yet examined this effect in an applied context. As such, arousal was induced after a college lecture and its selective effects were examined on later exam performance. Participants were divided into two groups who either watched a neutral video clip (n=66) or an arousing video clip (n=70) after lecture in a psychology course. The final examination occurred two weeks after the experimental manipulation. Only performance on the group of final exam items that covered material from the manipulated lecture were significantly different between groups. Other metrics, such as the midterm examination and the total final examination score, did not differ between groups. The results indicate that post-lecture arousal selectively increased the later retrieval of lecture material, despite the availability of the material for study before and after the manipulation. The results reinforce the role of post-learning arousal on memory consolidation processes, expanding the literature to include a real-world learning context.
Both the serotonergic and endocannabinoid systems modulate frontocortical glutamate release; thus they are well positioned to participate in the pathogenesis of psychiatric disorders. With the help of fluorescent and confocal microscopy, we localized the CB(1) cannabinoid receptor (CB(1)R) in VGLUT1- and 2- (i.e. glutamatergic) and serotonin transporter- (i.e. serotonergic) -positive fibers and nerve terminals in the mouse and rat frontal cortex. CB(1)R activation by the synthetic agonists, WIN55212-2 (1 M) and R-methanandamide (1 M) inhibited the simultaneously measured evoked Ca(2+)-dependent release of [(14)C]glutamate and [(3)H]serotonin from frontocortical nerve terminals of Wistar rats, in a fashion sensitive to the CB(1)R antagonists, O-2050 (1 M) and LY320135 (5 M). CB(1)R agonists also inhibited the evoked release of [(14)C]glutamate in C57BL/6J mice in a reversible fashion upon washout. Interestingly, the evoked release of [(14)C]glutamate and [(3)H]serotonin was significantly greater in the CB(1)R knockout CD-1 mice. Furthermore, CB(1)R binding experiments revealed similar frontocortical CB(1)R density in the rat and the CD-1 mouse. Still, the evoked release of [(3)H]serotonin was modulated by neither CB(1)R agonists nor antagonists in wild-type CD-1 or C57BL/6J mice. Altogether, this is the first study to demonstrate functional presynaptic CB(1)Rs in frontocortical glutamatergic and serotonergic terminals, revealing species differences.
It has long been promulgated that microglial cells serve beneficial roles in the central nervous system (CNS). The beneficial role of microglial cells is considered to be linked with microglial activation and consequent up-regulation of various trophic factors. However, what triggers microglial activation and consequent elevated level of trophic factors, especially brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), following traumatic CNS injury has become a crucial but elusive issue. Furthermore, an effort still remains in understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying the endogenous neuroprotection of activated microglial cells. In this study, we demonstrated that mechanically-injured astrocyte conditioned medium (ACM) could provoke beneficial activation of microglial cells and thus promote the transcription, synthesis and release of BDNF in cultured microglial cells. The microglia-derived BDNF can exerted a demonstrable biological role in promoting neurite outgrowth and intimate terminal contacts of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons co-cultured with microglial cells. Moreover, ACM induced remarkable p38MAPK phosphorylation in cultured microglial cells that preceded the burst of BDNF. Activating p38-MAPK by anisomycin resulted in salutary effects similar to those seen with ACM, whereas specific inhibition of the p38MAPK by SB203580 abrogated all the positive effects of ACM, including BDNF promotion and subsequent neurite outgrowth of DRG neurite outgrowth of DRG neurons and their intimate terminal contacts with microglial cells. Together, our results indicated that the neuroprotection of the microglial source is mainly caused by micro-environmental soluble molecules released from injured astrocytes, and ACM-induced BDNF production and release from microglial cells may be mediated through p38-MAPK signaling pathway. Therefore, these findings may lay a foundation to further investigations on the microglial beneficial activation role in the repair of traumatic CNS injury and neurodegenerative diseases.
Acetyl-L-carnitine (ALCAR), the short-chain ester of carnitine, is a common dietary supplement readily available in health food stores, claimed to improve energy levels and muscle strength. ALCAR has numerous effects on brain and muscle metabolism, protects against neurotoxic insults and may be an effective treatment for certain forms of depression. However, little is known about the effect of chronic ALCAR supplementation on the brain metabolism of healthy mice. Here, we investigated ALCAR's effect on cerebral energy and neurotransmitter metabolism after supplementing the drinking water of mice with ALCAR for 25 days, providing a daily dose of about 0.5 g/kg. Thereafter the animals were injected with [1-(13)C]glucose, and (13)C incorporation into and levels of various metabolites were quantified in extracts of the hippocampal formation (HF) and cortex using (1)H- and (13)C-nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy and high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Increased glucose levels were detected in both regions together with a decreased amount of [3-(13)C]lactate, but no alterations in incorporation of (13)C derived from [1-(13)C]glucose into the amino acids glutamate, GABA and glutamine. These findings are consistent with decreased metabolism of glucose to lactate but not via the TCA cycle. Higher amounts of the sum of adenosine nucleotides, phosphocreatine and the phosphocreatine/creatine ratio found in the cortex of ALCAR-treated mice are indicative of increased energy levels. Furthermore, ALCAR supplementation increased the levels of the neurotransmitters noradrenaline in the HF and serotonin in cortex, consistent with ALCAR's potential efficacy for depressive symptoms. Other ALCAR-induced changes observed included reduced amounts of GABA in the HF and increased myo-inositol. In conclusion, chronic ALCAR supplementation decreased glucose metabolism to lactate, resulted in increased energy metabolite and altered monoamine neurotransmitter levels in the mouse brain.
Our previous study demonstrated that morphine dose- and time-dependently elevated dopamine (DA) concentrations in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) during the expression of morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) in rats. However, still unknown are how DA concentrations dynamically change during the morphine-induced CPP test and whether tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activity in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) plays a vital role in this process. In the present study, we measured dynamic changes in TH and phosphorylated TH serine 40 (pTH Ser(40)) and pTH Ser(31) proteins in the VTA, and DA concentrations in the NAc at 5 min intervals during a 30 min morphine-induced CPP test. Rats that underwent morphine-induced CPP training significantly preferred the morphine-paired chamber during the CPP expression test, an effect that lasted at least 30 min in the drug-free state. DA concentrations in the NAc markedly increased at 15 min when the rats were returned to the CPP boxes to assess the expression of preference for the previously drug-paired chamber. DA concentrations then declined 2 h after the CPP test. TH and pTH Ser(40) levels, but not pTH Ser(31) levels, in the VTA were enhanced during the CPP test. These results indicated that TH and the phosphorylation of TH Ser(40) in the VTA may be responsible for DA synthesis and release in the NAc during the behavioral expression of conditioned reward elicited by a drug-associated context.

Gastroparesis is often divided into subsets based on etiology and pathophysiology; however, the utility of these subsets in the diagnosis and treatment of gastro-paresis is not well defined. The objectives are to consider the subsets of gastroparesis from the perspectives of etiology and pathogenesis, pathophysiology, histopathology, and clinical associations, with particular focus on similarities and differences between diabetic and idiopathic gastroparesis and consideration of the potential subset of painful gastroparesis. We conclude that idiopathic and diabetic gastroparesis has similar initial presentations and manifestations, except that idiopathic gastroparesis tends to be associated more frequently with pain. Myopathic disorders are uncommon. Extrinsic denervation was considered the most common etiology; however, with the decline in surgery for peptic ulceration and in-depth study of full-thickness gastric biopsies, the most common intrinsic defects are being recognized in the interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC-opathy) and with immune infiltration and neuronal changes (intrinsic neuropathic gastroparesis). Histomorphological differences at the microscopic level between diabetic and idiopathic gastroparesis are still of unclear significance. Two gastroparesis subsets worthy of special mention, because they are potentially reversible with identification of the cause, are postviral gastroparesis, which has a generally good prognosis, and iatrogenic gastroparesis, especially in patients with non-surgical gastroparesis, such as diabetics exposed to incretins such as pramlintide and exenatide.





X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT1X) is the second most common inherited neuropathy, caused by mutations in gap junction beta-1 (GJB1). Males have a uniformly moderately severe phenotype while females have a variable phenotype, suggested to be due to X inactivation. We aimed to assess X inactivation pattern in females with CMT1X and correlate this with phenotype using the CMT examination score to determine whether the X inactivation pattern accounted for the variable phenotype in females with CMT1X. We determined X inactivation pattern in 67 females with CMT1X and 24 controls using the androgen receptor assay. We were able to determine which X chromosome carried the GJB1 mutation in 30 females. There was no difference in X inactivation pattern between patients and controls. In addition, there was no correlation between X inactivation pattern in blood and phenotype. A possible explanation for these findings is that the X inactivation pattern in Schwann cells rather than in blood may explain the variable phenotype in females with CMT1X.
There have been suggestions from previous studies that patients with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) have weaker dominant hand muscles. Since all studies to date have included a heterogeneous group of CMT patients we decided to analyse hand strength in 43 patients with CMT1X. We recorded handedness and the MRC scores for the first dorsal interosseous and abductor pollicis brevis muscles, median and ulnar nerve compound motor action potentials and conduction velocities in dominant and non-dominant hands. Twenty-two CMT1X patients (51%) had a weaker dominant hand; none had a stronger dominant hand. Mean MRC scores were significantly higher for first dorsal interosseous and abductor pollicis brevis in non-dominant hands compared to dominant hands. Median nerve compound motor action potentials were significantly reduced in dominant compared to non-dominant hands. We conclude that the dominant hand is weaker than the non-dominant hand in patients with CMT1X.
Urocortin 3 (Ucn3) is an anorexigenic neuropeptide with high affinity for the type 2 corticotropin-releasing factor receptor (CRF-R). How the expression of hypothalamic Ucn3 is regulated by fasting and refeeding in genetically obese (fa/fa) Zucker rats is not known. Obese Zucker rats develop early hyperphagia associated with low expression of CRF-R in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus (VMH) in this phenotype. Although lean (Fa/?) Zucker rats have strong basal expression of CRF-R in the VMH, and normally consume less food compared to their obese littermates, at the beginning of refeeding, the lean rats ingested almost the same amount of food as the obese animals. The present study was designed to investigate the dynamics of the expression of CRF-R and Ucn3 in the brain of lean and obese Zucker rats fed ad libitum, food-deprived for 48 h, or refed for 1 and 24 h. The levels of expression of Ucn3 mRNA were analyzed in the rostral perifornical hypothalamus (rPFH) and dorsal medial amygdala (MeD), and CRF-R mRNA in the VMH and lateral septum (LS) using in situ hybridization. The results showed that in the ad libitum-fed state, both phenotypes had comparable levels of expression of rPFH Ucn3, but the obese rats had lower levels of expression of VMH CRF-R. Food deprivation decreased hypothalamic expression of Ucn3 and CRF-R in lean but not obese rats. One hour of refeeding triggered expression of rPFH Ucn3 but not VMH CRF-R in lean rats, and at 24 h of refeeding the levels of hypothalamic expression of Ucn3 and CRF-R returned to those seen in the ad libitum-fed state in both phenotypes. In the LS, the levels of expression of CRF-R were not affected by feeding and phenotype. In the MeD, the Ucn3 transcript increased by food deprivation in obese but not lean rats. Therefore, the increase of Ucn3 expression in the MeD in obese food-deprived rats may reflect stronger behavioral effects of food deprivation in this phenotype. The hypothalamic expression of Ucn3 and CRF)-R was modulated by the feeding states in lean but not obese rats. The low levels of VMH CRF-R may limit anorexigenic Ucn3 effects in the obese phenotype. The low VMH CRF-R levels at the beginning of refeeding in lean rats may allow them to ingest a considerable amount of food regardless of the rapidly increased expression of rPFH Ucn3 by refeeding in this phenotype. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Central Control of Food Intake'.
Numerosity and duration processing have been shown to be underlain by a single representational mechanism, namely an accumulator, and to rely on a common cerebral network located principally in areas around the right intraparietal sulcus. However, recent neuropsychological findings reveal a dissociation between numerosity and duration processing, which suggests the existence of partially distinct mechanisms. In this study, we tested the idea of partially common and distinct mechanisms by investigating, for the first time, both numerical and temporal processing abilities in non-demented Parkinson's disease (PD) patients known to suffer from duration impairment and in healthy elderly adults known to have impaired performance in duration tasks. The aim was to assess whether this impaired duration processing would extend to numerosity processing. The participants had to compare either the numerosity of flashed dot sequences or the duration of single dot displays. The results demonstrate an effect of aging on duration comparison, healthy elderly participants making significantly more errors than healthy young participants. Importantly, the performance of PD patients on the duration task was worse than that of the healthy young and elderly groups, whereas no difference was found for numerosity comparison. This dissociation supports the idea that partly independent systems underlie the processing of numerosity and duration.
Dyslexia in alphabetic languages has been extensively investigated and suggests a central deficit in orthography to phonology mapping in the left hemisphere. Compared to dyslexia in alphabetic languages, the central deficit for Chinese dyslexia is still unclear. Because of the logographic nature of Chinese characters, some have suggested that Chinese dyslexia should have larger deficits in the semantic system. To investigate this, Chinese children with reading disability (RD) were compared to typically developing (TD) children using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) on a rhyming judgment task and on a semantic association judgment task. RD children showed less activation for both tasks in right visual (BA18, 19) and left occipito-temporal cortex (BA 37), suggesting a deficit in visuo-orthographic processing. RD children also showed less activation for both tasks in left inferior frontal gyrus (BA44), which additionally showed significant correlations with activation of bilateral visuo-orthographic regions in the RD group, suggesting that the abnormalities in frontal cortex and in posterior visuo-orthographic regions may reflect a deficit in the connection between brain regions. Analyses failed to reveal larger differences between groups for the semantic compared to the rhyming task, suggesting that Chinese dyslexia is similarly impaired in the access to phonology and to semantics from the visual orthography.
In general, declarative learning is associated with the activation of the medial temporal lobes (MTL), while the basal ganglia (BG) are considered the substrate for procedural learning. More recently it has been demonstrated the distinction of these systems may not be as absolute as previously thought and that not only the explicit or implicit nature of the memory task alone is important for the distinction of MTL or BG systems. Nevertheless, patients with BG dysfunction - such as patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) or Huntington's disease (HD) - are considered to be impaired at implicit learning. However, a more recent study demonstrated that one implicit learning task, probabilistic classification learning (examples include the weather prediction (WPT) and Mr. Potato Head tasks) is only impaired in PD when it involves learning with corrective feedback (FB) but not when it involves learning in a paired associate (PA) manner, without feedback. Therefore, it has been argued that the presence of feedback rather than the implicit nature of these tasks determines whether or not the BG are recruited. As patients with HD as well as those with PD, have also been shown to be impaired on the standard FB based version of probabilistic classification learning, the question remains as to whether or not there is a similar selective deficit in FB but not PA based probabilistic classification learning in HD. 18 patients with early HD and 18 healthy controls completed FB and PA versions of the WPT task. Relative to controls, HD patients were selectively impaired at WPT learning with feedback. These findings are consistent with previous evidence from studies of probabilistic classification learning in PD. Unlike PD, selective deficits in WPT learning in HD cannot be attributed to the effects of dopaminergic medication and must be directly related to BG dysfunction; for instance even in early HD, only 50% of the neurons in the medial head of caudate remain. We conclude that the striatum is important for WPT learning with feedback. Our findings are consistent with imaging evidence showing recruitment of the caudate during FB based WPT learning, while the MTL is associated with PA based learning.
This paper reports the first ever detailed study about eye movement patterns during single object recognition in visual agnosia. Eye movements were recorded in a patient with an integrative agnosic deficit during two recognition tasks: common object naming and novel object recognition memory. The patient showed normal directional biases in saccades and fixation dwell times in both tasks and was as likely as controls to fixate within object bounding contour regardless of recognition accuracy. In contrast, following initial saccades of similar amplitude to controls, the patient showed a bias for short saccades. In object naming, but not in recognition memory, the similarity of the spatial distributions of patient and control fixations was modulated by recognition accuracy. The study provides new evidence about how eye movements can be used to elucidate the functional impairments underlying object recognition deficits. We argue that the results reflect a breakdown in normal functional processes involved in the integration of shape information across object structure during the visual perception of shape.
The present study aimed to uncover the neural activity associated with specific in-group and out-group word related stimuli, to examine the neuroanatomical basis of group membership concept representation, and investigate to what extent neural processes represent 'in-group' differently from 'out-group'. Participants' brain activity was measured with functional MRI while they had to categorize social, in-group and out-group words and non-social, living and non-living words. The results showed that a network of brain regions previously identified as the 'social brain', including the cortical midline structures, tempo-parietal junction and the anterior temporal gyrus showed enhanced activation for social words versus non-social words. Crucially, the processing of in-group words compared to the out-group words activated a specific network including the ventral medial prefrontal and anterior and dorsal cingulate cortex. These regions correspond to a neural network previously identified as the 'personal self'. Our results suggest that the 'social' and 'personal self' are closely related and that we derive our self image from the groups we belong to.
To elucidate the role of the hippocampus in unaware relational memory, the present study examined the performance of amnesic patients with medial temporal lobe (MTL) lesions on a cued category-exemplar generation task. In contrast to a prior study in which amnesic patients showed impaired performance (Verfaellie et al., Cognitive, Affective, and Behavioral Neuroscience, 2006, 6, 91-101), the current study employed a task that required active processing of the context word at test. In this version of the task, amnesic patients, like control participants, showed enhanced category exemplar priming when the context word associated with the target at study was reinstated at test. The finding of intact implicit memory for novel associations following hippocampal lesions in a task that requires flexible use of retrieval cues is inconsistent with a relational memory view that suggests that the hippocampus is critical for all forms of relational memory, regardless of awareness. Instead, it suggests that unaware memory for within-domain associations does not require MTL mediation.
We investigated the influences of phonological similarity on the time course of spoken word processing in Mandarin Chinese. Event related potentials were recorded while adult native speakers of Mandarin (N=19) judged whether auditory words matched or mismatched visually presented pictures. Mismatching words were of the following nature: segmental (e.g., picture: hua1 'flower'; sound: hua4 'painting'); cohort (e.g., picture: hua1 'flower'; sound: hui1 'gray'); rhyme (e.g., picture: hua1 'flower'; sound: gua1 'melon'); tonal (e.g., picture: hua1 'flower'; sound: jing1 'whale'); unrelated (e.g., picture: hua1 'flower'; sound: lang2 'wolf'). Expectancy violations in the segmental condition showed an early-going modulation of components (starting at 250 ms post-stimulus onset), suggesting that listeners used tonal information to constrain word recognition as soon as it became available, just like they did with phonemic information in the cohort condition. However, effects were less persistent and more left-lateralized in the segmental than cohort condition, suggesting dissociable cognitive processes underlie access to tonal versus phonemic information. Cohort versus rhyme mismatches showed distinct patterns of modulation which were very similar to what has been observed in English, suggesting onsets and rimes are weighted similarly across the two languages. Last, we did not observe effects for whole-syllable mismatches above and beyond those for mismatches in individual components, suggesting the syllable does not merit a special status in Mandarin spoken word recognition. These results are discussed with respect to modifications needed for existing models to accommodate the tonal languages spoken by a large proportion of the world's speakers.
The aim of this experiment was to examine the preattentive processing of syllables in 9-11-year-old children with dyslexia and matched controls using the Mismatch Negativity (MMN), an auditory Event-Related brain potential (ERP) related to preattentive discrimination. Children were presented with a sequence of syllables that included standards (the syllable &quot;Ba&quot;) and deviants in vowel frequency, vowel duration and Voice Onset Time (VOT) that were either close to or far from the standard (Small and Large deviants). No between-group differences were found for frequency deviants. However, whilst normal-reading children showed larger MMNs to Large than to Small deviants in vowel duration and VOT, no such deviance size effect was found in children with dyslexia. These results are taken to indicate that the preattentive processing of vowel duration and VOT is impaired in children with dyslexia, with no impairment in the processing of vowel frequency deviants. By revealing processing deficits of both duration and VOT deviants, these results suggest a strong link between acoustical and phonological processing.
Processing in one sensory modality may modulate processing in another. Here we investigate how simply viewing the hand can influence the sense of touch. Previous studies showed that non-informative vision of the hand enhances tactile acuity, relative to viewing an object at the same location. However, it remains unclear whether this Visual Enhancement of Touch (VET) involves a phasic enhancement of tactile processing circuits triggered by the visual event of seeing the hand, or more prolonged, tonic neuroplastic changes, such as recruitment of additional cortical areas for tactile processing. We recorded somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) evoked by electrical stimulation of the right middle finger, both before and shortly after viewing either the right hand, or a neutral object presented via a mirror. Crucially, and unlike prior studies, our visual exposures were unpredictable and brief, in addition to being non-informative about touch. Viewing the hand, as opposed to viewing an object, enhanced tactile spatial discrimination measured using grating orientation judgements, and also the P50 SEP component, which has been linked to early somatosensory cortical processing. This was a trial-specific, phasic effect, occurring within a few seconds of each visual onset, rather than an accumulating, tonic effect. Thus, somatosensory cortical modulation can be triggered even by a brief, non-informative glimpse of one's hand. Such rapid multisensory modulation reveals novel aspects of the specialised brain systems for functionally representing the body.
The recognition of facial expressions of emotion is impaired in semantic dementia (SD) and is associated with right-sided brain atrophy in areas known to be involved in emotion processing, notably the amygdala. Whether patients with SD also experience difficulty recognizing emotions conveyed by other media, such as music, is unclear. Prior studies have used excerpts of known music from classical or film repertoire but not unfamiliar melodies designed to convey distinct emotions. Patients with SD (n = 11), Alzheimer's disease (n = 12) and healthy control participants (n = 20) underwent tests of emotion recognition in two modalities: unfamiliar musical tunes and unknown faces as well as volumetric MRI. Patients with SD were most impaired with the recognition of facial and musical emotions, particularly for negative emotions. Voxel-based morphometry showed that the labelling of emotions, regardless of modality, correlated with the degree of atrophy in the right temporal pole, amygdala and insula. The recognition of musical (but not facial) emotions was also associated with atrophy of the left anterior and inferior temporal lobe, which overlapped with regions correlating with standardized measures of verbal semantic memory. These findings highlight the common neural substrates supporting the processing of emotions by facial and musical stimuli but also indicate that the recognition of emotions from music draws upon brain regions that are associated with semantics in language.
While Parkinson's disease (PD) has traditionally been described as a movement disorder, there is growing evidence of cognitive and social deficits associated with the disease. However, few studies have looked at multi-modal social cognitive deficits in patients with PD. We studied lateralization of both prosodic and facial emotion recognition (the ability to recognize emotional valence from either tone of voice or from facial expressions) in PD. The Comprehensive Affect Testing System (CATS) is a well-validated test of human emotion processing that has been used to study emotion recognition in several major clinical populations, but never before in PD. We administered an abbreviated version of CATS (CATS-A) to 24 medicated PD participants and 12 age-matched controls. PD participants were divided into two groups, based on side of symptom onset and unilateral motor symptom severity: left-affected (N = 12) or right-affected PD participants (N = 12). CATS-A is a computer-based button press task with eight subtests relevant to prosodic and facial emotion recognition. Left-affected PD participants with inferred predominant right-hemisphere pathology were expected to have difficulty with prosodic emotion recognition since there is evidence that the processing of prosodic information is right-hemisphere dominant. We found that facial emotion recognition was preserved in the PD group, however, left-affected PD participants had specific impairment in prosodic emotion recognition, especially for sadness. Selective deficits in prosodic emotion recognition suggests that (1) hemispheric effects in emotion recognition may contribute to the impairment of emotional communication in a subset of people with PD and (2) the coordination of neural networks needed to decipher temporally complex social cues may be specifically disrupted in PD.
Predictable sensorimotor perturbations can lead to cerebellum-dependent adaptation--i.e., recalibration of the relationship between sensory input and motor output. Here we asked if the cerebellum is also needed to recalibrate the relationship between two sensory modalities, vision and proprioception. We studied how people with and without cerebellar damage use visual and proprioceptive signals to estimate their hand's position when the sensory estimates disagree. Theoretically, the brain may resolve the discrepancy by recalibrating the relationship between estimates (sensory realignment). Alternatively, the misalignment may be dealt with by relying less on one sensory estimate and more on the other (a weighting strategy). To address this question, we studied subjects with cerebellar damage and healthy controls as they performed a series of tasks. The first was a prism adaptation task that involves motor adaptation to compensate for a visual perturbation and is known to require the cerebellum. As expected, people with cerebellar damage were impaired relative to controls. The same subjects then performed two experiments in which they reached to visual and proprioceptive targets while a visuoproprioceptive misalignment was gradually imposed. Surprisingly, cerebellar patients performed as well as controls when the task invoked only sensory realignment, but were impaired relative to controls when motor adaptation was also possible. Additionally, individuals with cerebellar damage were able to use a weighting strategy similarly to controls. These results demonstrate that, unlike motor adaptation, sensory realignment and weighting are not cerebellum-dependent.





Recent attempts to model the addiction process in rodents have focused on cocaine self-administration procedures that provide extended daily access. Such procedures produce a characteristic loading phase during which blood levels rapidly rise and then are maintained within an elevated range for the duration of the session. The present experiments tested the hypothesis that multiple fast-rising spikes in cocaine levels contribute to the addiction process more robustly than constant, maintained drug levels. Here, we compared the effects of various cocaine self-administration procedures that produced very different patterns of drug intake and drug dynamics on Pmax, a behavioral economic measure of the motivation to self-administer drug. Two groups received intermittent access (IntA) to cocaine during daily 6-h sessions. Access was limited to twelve 5-min trials that alternated with 25-min timeout periods, using either a hold-down procedure or a fixed ratio 1 (FR1). Cocaine levels could not be maintained with this procedure; instead the animals experienced 12 fast-rising spikes in cocaine levels each day. The IntA groups were compared with groups given 6-h FR1 long access and 2-h short access sessions and two other control groups. Here, we report that cocaine self-administration procedures resulting in repeatedly spiking drug levels produce more robust increases in Pmax than procedures resulting in maintained high levels of cocaine. These results suggest that rapid spiking of brain-cocaine levels is sufficient to increase the motivation to self-administer cocaine.
Acute SSRI (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor) treatment has been shown to attenuate the abuse-related effects of cocaine; however, SSRIs have had limited success in clinical trials for cocaine abuse, possibly due to neurobiological changes that occur during chronic administration. In order to better understand the role of serotonin (5HT) in cocaine abuse and treatment, we examined the effects of chronic treatment with the SSRI fluoxetine at clinically relevant serum concentrations on cocaine-related neurobiology and behavior. Rhesus macaques self-administering cocaine underwent a 6-week dosing regimen with fluoxetine designed to approximate serum concentrations observed in humans. Self-administration and reinstatement were monitored throughout the treatment and washout period. In vivo microdiaylsis was used to assess changes in dopaminergic and serotonergic neurochemistry. Positron emission tomography was used to assess changes in the 5HT transporter and 2A receptor binding potential (BP). Functional output of the 5HT system was assessed using prolactin levels. Cocaine-primed reinstatement and cocaine-elicited dopamine overflow were significantly suppressed following chronic fluoxetine treatment. 5HT2A receptor BP was increased in the frontal cortex following treatment while prolactin release was blunted, suggesting desensitization of the 5HT2A receptor. These effects persisted after a 6-week washout period. Measures of pre-synaptic serotonergic function and cocaine self-administration were unaffected. These data demonstrate that acute and chronic fluoxetine treatments exert different effects on cocaine-related behavior. Furthermore, chronic fluoxetine treatment causes alterations in 5HT2A receptors in the frontal cortex that may selectively disrupt cocaine-primed reinstatement. Fluoxetine may not be useful for treatment of ongoing cocaine abuse but may be useful in relapse prevention.

Recent neuroscientific evidence has confirmed the important role of cognitive and behavioral factors in the development and treatment of chronic pain. Neuropathic and musculoskeletal pain are associated with substantial reorganization of the primary somatosensory and motor cortices as well as regions such as the anterior cingulate cortex and insula. What is more, in patients with chronic low back pain and fibromyalgia, the amount of reorganizational change increases with chronicity; in phantom limb pain and other neuropathic pain syndromes, cortical reorganization correlates with the magnitude of pain. These findings have implications for both our understanding of chronic pain and its prevention and treatment. For example, central alterations may be viewed as pain memories that modulate the processing of both noxious and nonnoxious input to the somatosensory system and outputs of the motor and other response systems. The cortical plasticity that is clearly important in chronic pain states also offers potential targets for rehabilitation. The authors review the cortical changes that are associated with chronic pain and the therapeutic approaches that have been shown to normalize representational changes and decrease pain and discuss future directions to train the brain to reduce chronic pain.
Individuals vary in their initial reactions to drugs of abuse in ways that may contribute to the likelihood of subsequent drug use. In humans, most drugs of abuse produce positive subjective states such as euphoria and feelings of well-being, which may facilitate repeated use. In nonhumans, many drugs initially increase locomotor activity and produce discriminative stimulus effects, both of which have been considered to be models of human stimulant and subjective states. Both humans and nonhumans vary in their sensitivity to early acute drug effects in ways that may predict future use or self-administration, and some of these variations appear to be genetic in origin. However, it is not known exactly how the initial responses to drugs in either humans or nonhumans relate to subsequent use or abuse. In humans, positive effects of drugs facilitate continued use of a drug while negative effects discourage use, and in nonhumans, greater genetic risk for drug intake is predicted by reduced sensitivity to drug aversive effects; but whether these initial responses affect escalation of drug use, and the development of dependence is currently unknown. Although early use of a drug is a necessary step in the progression to abuse and dependence, other variables may be of greater importance in the transition from use to abuse. Alternatively, the same variables that predict initial acute drug effects and early use may significantly contribute to continued use, escalation and dependence. Here we review the existing evidence for relations between initial direct drug effects, early use, and continued use. Ultimately, these relations can only be determined from systematic longitudinal studies with comprehensive assessments from early drug responses to progression of problem drug use. In parallel, additional investigation of initial responses in animal models as predictors of drug use will shed light on the underlying mechanisms.
Exposure of the fetal brain to ionizing radiation causes congenital brain abnormalities. Normal brain formation requires regionally and temporally appropriate proliferation and differentiation of neural stem cells (NSCs) into neurons and glia. Here, we investigated the effects of X-irradiation on proliferating homogenous NSCs prepared from mouse ES cells. Cells irradiated with X-rays at a dose of 1Gy maintained the capabilities for proliferation and differentiation but stopped proliferation temporarily. In contrast, the cells ceased proliferation following irradiation at a dose of &gt;5Gy. These results suggest that irradiation of the fetal brain at relatively low doses may cause congenital brain abnormalities as with relatively high doses.
Quickly detecting changes in the surrounding environment is one of the most important functions of sensory processing. Comparison of a new event with preceding sensory conditions is necessary for the change-detection process. A sudden change in a continuous sound elicits auditory evoked potentials that peak approximately 100 ms after the onset of the change (Change-N1). In the present study, we recorded Change-N1 under an oddball paradigm in 19 healthy subjects using an abruptly moving sound (SM-stimulus) as a deviant stimulus and investigated effects of the probability of the SM-stimulus to reveal whether Change-N1 is a memory-based response. We compared the amplitude and latency of Change-N1 elicited by the SM-stimulus among three probability conditions (33, 50 and 100%). As the probability of the SM-stimulus decreased, the amplitude of Change-N1 increased and its latency decreased. The present results indicate that the preceding sensory history affects Change-N1 elicited by the SM-stimulus.
Following neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI) serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) levels are decreased in the brain. The regulation of brain 5-HT is dependent on the serotonin transporter (SERT) localised at the neuronal pre-synaptic cell membrane. However SERT can also traffic away from the cell membrane into the cytosol and, after injury, may contribute to the cell's inability to maintain 5-HT levels. Whether this occurs after neonatal HI brain injury is not known. In addition, there is contradictory evidence that glial cells may also contribute to the clearance of 5-HT in the brain. Using a postnatal day 3 (P3) HI rat pup model (right carotid ligation+30 min 6% O(2)), we found, in both control and P3 HI animals, that SERT is retained on the cell membrane and is not internalised in the cytosol. In addition, SERT was only detected on neurons. We found no evidence of SERT co-localisation on microglia or astrocytes. We conclude that neuronal SERT is the primary regulator of synaptic 5-HT availability in the intact and P3 HI-injured neonatal brain. Furthermore, since concomitant reductions in 5-HT, SERT and serotonergic neurons occur after neonatal HI, it is plausible that the decrease in brain 5-HT is a consequence of SERT being lost as neurons degenerate as opposed to remaining neurons internalising SERT or clearance by glial cells.
Major affective disorders are common widespread conditions associated with multiple psychosocial impairments and suicidal risk in the general population. At least 3-4% of all depressive individuals die by suicide. At a molecular level, affective disorders and suicidal behavior are recently associated with disturbances in structural and synaptic plasticity. A recent hypothesis suggested that small non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs), in particular microRNAs (miRNAs), play a critical role in the translational regulation at the synapse. We performed a selective overview of the current literature on miRNAs putative subcellular localization and sites of action in mature neurons analyzing their role in neurogenesis, synaptic plasticity, pathological stress changes, major affective disorders and suicidal behavior. miRNAs have played a fundamental role in the evolution of brain functions. The perturbation of some intracellular mechanisms as well as impaired assembly, localization, and translational regulation of specific RNA binding proteins may affect learning and memory, presumably contributing to the pathogenesis of major affective disorders and perhaps suicidal behavior. Also, miRNA dys-regulation has also been linked to several neuropsychiatric diseases. However, further evidence are needed in order to directly clarify the role of miRNAs in major affective disorders and suicidal behavior.
The hippocampus and the striatum have been traditionally considered as part of different and independent memory systems despite growing evidence supporting that both brain regions may even compete for behavioral control in particular learning tasks. In this regard, it has been reported that the hippocampus could be necessary for the use of idiothetic cues in several types of spatial learning tasks. Accordingly, the ventral striatum receives strong anatomical projections from the hippocampus, suggesting a participation of both regions in goal-directed behavior. Our work examined the role of the dorsal and ventral hippocampus on a response learning task. Cytochrome c oxidase (C.O.) quantitative histochemistry was used as an index of brain oxidative metabolism. In addition, determination of C.O. subunit I levels in the hippocampus by western blot analysis was performed to assess the contribution of this subunit to overall C.O. activity. Increased brain oxidative metabolism was found in most of the studied hippocampal subregions when experimental group was compared with a swim control group. However, no differences were found in the amount of C.O. subunit I expressed in the hippocampus by western blot analysis. Our results support that both the dorsal and ventral hippocampus are associated with the use of response strategies during response learning.






Ramsay Hunt syndrome is an infection of the head and neck caused by varicella zoster virus involving the facial nerve; less commonly, other cranial nerves might be involved. We report a case of Ramsay Hunt syndrome in an immune compromised patient, with classic facial nerve palsy and ipsilateral ear vesicles, which rapidly evolved to involve multiple cranial neuropathies, and improved dramatically with antiviral therapy and corticosteroids. Varicella zoster virus should be considered as a cause of multiple cranial neuropathies in an immune compromised patient, and abrupt treatment with acyclovir should be initiated once this diagnosis is suspected.
Crossed cerebellar diaschisis and bright pulvinar are rare in patients with status epilepticus. We present a case of a 53-year-old man who was found confused, incontinent, and nonverbal. The EEG findings were consistent with non-convulsive status epilepticus. The brain MR images showed findings consistent with crossed cerebellar diaschisis and bright pulvinar. We report and discuss this case to increase the awareness of these MRI signs in confused and obtunded patients.
Most resting-state functional MRI studies of epilepsy are conducted in the interictal phase as the ictal phase is not suitable. We report and discuss a 13-year-old female epilepsy patient who had ictal examination. She was diagnosed with simple partial seizure epilepsy and on regular anti-epileptic drugs. There were no significant symptoms after careful treatment. We conclude that analysis of the amplitude of low frequency fluctuations may provide a useful tool in the functional MRI study of epilepsy.
Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome (BVVLS) is a rare type of motor neuron disease, characterized by bilateral deafness, and multiple cranial nerve involvement. The disease is more frequent in females, but rapid deterioration was attributed to male gender or early onset. Herein, we report a man with BVVLS who had a longer than expected interval between onset of deafness and other motor symptoms that culminated to diagnosis. Six years later, he had gradual worsening and death. Along with potential new developing therapeutic options, this case emphasizes considering the diagnosis of BVVLS especially after a long period of stability, even in men.
Intracranial calcification has a variety of etiologies; among those are environmental and metabolic disturbances involving calcium homeostasis. The main environmental factors resulting in intracranial calcification are congenital infections with toxoplasmosis, and cytomegalovirus. There are increasing reports on cases showing pictures of congenital infection in the absence of confirmative positive TORCH screen, and there are many cases reported worldwide sharing the same presentation labeled as autosomal recessive congenital infection-like syndrome or pseudo-TORCH syndrome (OMIM 600158).






Delirium is among the most common potentially preventable neurological disorders encountered in diverse patient populations, especially in critical care units and the elderly. It may present with highly variable clinical features, prolong hospital stay, and herald a poor prognosis. It is also a source of distress for patients and their caregivers. A high degree of clinical suspicion is required for detecting delirium and a detailed history, physical examination, and targeted investigations are necessary to determine the underlying etiology and ensure proper management. The following article is a comprehensive review outlining the various aspects of delirium.
This study aimed to systematically review the data related to the treatment of tic disorders through aripiprazole administration, an atypical antipsychotic. The databases of MEDLINE/PubMed and Google Scholar were searched using the key words: &quot;aripiprazole,&quot; &quot;tic,&quot; and &quot;Tourette,&quot; and the relevant titles retrieved. Thirty-five articles met the inclusion criteria and were further scrutinized. Most of the articles were case reports, and only 2 published trials included control groups. The number of randomized double-blind controlled clinical trials was zero, therefore, no strong evidence, provided by one, or more well-designed randomized controlled clinical trials, was found. Current evidence suggests that aripiprazole is effective for treating tic and Tourette disorders in both children and adolescents. Moreover, it seems that its adverse effect profile is safer than pimozide and some other antipsychotics. Therefore, double-blind randomized placebo-controlled studies are needed to provide strong evidence on the issue.

Comparative effectiveness research (CER) is the basis for some of the fiercest rhetoric of the current political era. While it is a relatively old and previously academic pursuit, CER may well become the foundation upon which the future of health care in the US is based. The actual impact of CER on-and uptake among-doctors, patients, hospitals, and health insurers, however, remains to be seen. Political considerations and compromises have led to the removal of key aspects of CER implementation from policy legislation to prevent alienating stakeholders critical to the success of health care reform. Health care providers, including specialists such as neurosurgeons, will need to understand both the policies and political implications of CER as its practices becomes an indelible part of the future health care landscape.
As health care reform continues to evolve, demonstrating the cost effectiveness of spinal fusion procedures will be of critical value. Posterior subaxial cervical fusion with lateral mass screw and rod instrumentation is a well-established fixation technique. Subaxial transarticular facet fixation is a lesser known fusion technique that has been shown to be biomechanically equivalent to lateral mass screws for short constructs. Although there has not been a widespread adoption of transarticular facet screws, the screws potentially represent a cost-effective alternative to lateral mass rod and screw constructs. In this review, the authors describe an institutional experience with the use of lateral mass screws and provide a theoretical cost comparison with the use of transarticular facet screws.
Foramen magnum meningioma poses a challenge for neurosurgeons. Prognosis has generally improved with diagnostic and surgical advances over the past two decades; however, it may ultimately depend more on the surgeon's ability to tailor the approach and interpret intraoperative risks in single cases. The series comprised 64 patients operated on for ventral and ventrolateral foramen magnum meningioma. All patients underwent preoperative magnetic resonance imaging and received surgery via the dorsolateral route, rendering the series homogeneous in neuroradiological workup and surgical treatment. Particular to this series was that the majority of patients were of advanced age (n=29; age, &gt;65 years), had serious functional impairment (n=30, Karnofski score &lt;70), and large tumors (mean diameter, 3.5 cm). Total tumor removal was achieved in 52 (81 %) patients; operative mortality was nil. Early outcome varied depending on difficulties encountered at surgery (cranial nerve position and type of involvement in particular) and type of preoperative dysfunction. Long-tract signs and cerebellar deficits improved in 74 and 77 % of cases, respectively, but only 27 % of cranial nerve deficits did so. Surgical complications most often involved the cranial nerves: cranial nerve impairment, especially of the 9th through the 12th cranial nerves, due to stretching or encasement was noted in 44 cases. At final outcome assessment, two thirds of the cranial nerve deficits cleared, and all but two patients returned to a normal productive life. One patient was reoperated on during the follow-up period. Foramen magnum meningiomas behave like clival or spinal tumors depending on their prevalent extension. A dorsolateral approach tailored to tumor position and extension and meticulous surgical technique allow for definitive control of surgical complications. Scrupulous postoperative care may prevent dysphagia, a major persistent complication of surgery. Long-term observation of indolent tumor behavior at follow-up suggests that incomplete resection may be a viable surgical treatment option.
This article describes a comprehensive meta-analysis that was conducted to estimate the prevalence of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), as defined by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fourth edition (DSM-IV). A systematic literature review identified 86 studies of children and adolescents (N=163,688 individuals) and 11 studies of adults (N=14,112 individuals) that met inclusion criteria for the meta-analysis, more than half of which were published after the only previous meta-analysis of the prevalence of ADHD was completed. Although prevalence estimates reported by individual studies varied widely, pooled results suggest that the prevalence of DSM-IV ADHD is similar, whether ADHD is defined by parent ratings, teacher ratings, or a best estimate diagnostic procedure in children and adolescents (5.9-7.1%), or by self-report measures in young adults (5.0%). Analyses of diagnostic subtypes indicated that the predominantly inattentive type is the most common subtype in the population, but individuals with the combined type are more likely to be referred for clinical services. Additional research is needed to determine the etiology of the higher prevalence of ADHD in males than females and to clarify whether the prevalence of ADHD varies as a function of socioeconomic status or ethnicity. Finally, there were no significant prevalent differences between countries or regions of the world after controlling for differences in the diagnostic algorithms used to define ADHD. These results provide important support for the diagnostic validity of ADHD, and argue against the hypothesis that ADHD is a cultural construct that is restricted to the United States or any other specific culture.
Ghrelin is a pleiotropic neuropeptide that has been recently implicated in epilepsy. Animal studies performed to date indicate that ghrelin has anticonvulsant properties; however, its mechanism of anticonvulsant action is unknown. Here we show that the anticonvulsant effects of ghrelin are mediated via the growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHSR). To our surprise, however, we found that the GHSR knockout mice had a higher seizure threshold than their wild-type littermates when treated with pilocarpine. Using both in vivo and in vitro models, we further discovered that inverse agonism and desensitization/internalization of the GHSR attenuate limbic seizures in rats and epileptiform activity in hippocampal slices. This constitutes a novel mechanism of anticonvulsant action, whereby an endogenous agonist reduces the activity of a constitutively active receptor.
Alzheimer disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the accumulation of  amyloid (A) aggregates. A induces the inflammatory activation of glia, inducing secretion of Interleukin 1 (IL1), nitric oxide (NO) and superoxide radicals. The specific receptor responsible for the induction of inflammatory activation by A, is still an open question. We propose that scavenger receptors (SR) participate in the activation of glia by A. We assessed production of NO, synthesis of IL1 and activation of ERK, JNK and NF-B signaling pathways by Western blot, in primary rat glial cultures exposed to SR ligands (fucoidan and Poly I), LPS+IFN (LI), and A. Poly I but not fucoidan nor fibrillar A increased threefold NO production by astrocytes in a time-dependent manner. Fucoidan and Poly I increased 5.5- and 3.5-fold NO production by microglia, and co-stimulation with A increased an additional 60% NO induced by SR ligands. Potentiation by A was observed later for astrocytes than for microglia. In astrocytes, co-stimulation with A potentiated ERK and JNK activation in response to Fucoidan and Poly I, whereas it reduced induction of JNK activation by LI and left unaffected NF-B activation induced by LI. Levels of pro-IL1 in astrocytes increased with A, SR ligands and LI, and were potentiated by co-stimulation with A. Our results suggest that SRs play a role on inflammatory activation, inducing production of NO and IL1, and show potentiation by A. Potentiation of the inflammatory response of A could be meaningful for the activation of glia observed in AD.
Both metabolic syndrome and sleep disorder are major health problems. Leptin, orexin, ghrelin are implicated in regulation of energy homeostasis and sleep/wakefulness. The levels of these substances exhibit circadian fluctuations, and abnormalities in these rhythms were observed in those disorders. Serum leptin levels were increased during night. Cerebrospinal fluid orexin A levels were increased during active phase. Plasma ghrelin concentrations were increased before meals and during night. High concentrations of leptin during sleep might help keeping sleep by inhibition of feeding behavior and arousal through inhibition of neuropeptide Y and orexin neurons. On the contrary, high concentrations of ghrelin before meal might enhance wakefulness through activation of orexin neurons. These results suggest that the circadian rhythms of these substances are important for maintenance of normal energy homeostasis and sleep/wakefulness.
With a dataset of more than 600 million small RNAs deeply sequenced from mouse hippocampal and staged sets of mouse cells that underwent reprogramming to induced pluripotent stem cells, we annotated the stem-loop precursors of the known miRNAs to identify isomoRs (miRNA-offset RNAs), loops, non-preferred strands, and guide strands. Products from both strands were readily detectable for most miRNAs. Changes in the dominant isomiR occurred among the cell types, as did switches of the preferred strand. The terminal nucleotide of the dominant isomiR aligned well with the dominant off-set sequence suggesting that Drosha cleavage generates most miRNA reads without terminal modification. Among the terminal modifications detected, most were non-templated mono- or di-nucleotide additions to the 3'-end. Based on the relative enrichment or depletion of specific nucleotide additions in an Ago-IP fraction there may be differential effects of these modifications on RISC loading. Sequence variation of the two strands at their cleavage sites suggested higher fidelity of Drosha than Dicer. These studies demonstrated multiple patterns of miRNA processing and considerable versatility in miRNA target selection.
Nuclear receptors (NRs) regulate gene expression by binding specific DNA sequences consisting of AG[G/T]TCA or AGAACA half site motifs in a variety of configurations. However, those motifs/configurations alone do not adequately explain the diversity of NR function in vivo. Here, a systematic examination of DNA binding specificity by protein-binding microarrays (PBMs) of three closely related human NRs--HNF4, retinoid X receptor alpha (RXR) and COUPTF2--reveals an HNF4-specific binding motif (H4-SBM), xxxxCAAAGTCCA, as well as a previously unrecognized polarity in the classical DR1 motif (AGGTCAxAGGTCA) for HNF4, RXR and COUPTF2 homodimers. ChIP-seq data indicate that the H4-SBM is uniquely bound by HNF4 but not 10 other NRs in vivo, while NRs PXR, FXR, Rev-Erb appear to bind adjacent to H4-SBMs. HNF4-specific DNA recognition and transactivation are mediated by residues Asp69 and Arg76 in the DNA-binding domain; this combination of amino acids is unique to HNF4 among all human NRs. Expression profiling and ChIP data predict  100 new human HNF4 target genes with an H4-SBM site, including several Co-enzyme A-related genes and genes with links to disease. These results provide important new insights into NR DNA binding.



Procedural pain is associated with poorer neurodevelopment in infants born very preterm ( 32 weeks gestational age), however, the etiology is unclear. Animal studies have demonstrated that early environmental stress leads to slower postnatal growth; however, it is unknown whether neonatal pain-related stress affects postnatal growth in infants born very preterm. The aim of this study was to examine whether greater neonatal pain (number of skin-breaking procedures adjusted for medical confounders) is related to decreased postnatal growth (weight and head circumference [HC] percentiles) early in life and at term-equivalent age in infants born very preterm. Participants were n=78 preterm infants born  32 weeks gestational age, followed prospectively since birth. Infants were weighed and HC measured at birth, early in life (median: 32 weeks [interquartile range 30.7-33.6]) and at term-equivalent age (40 weeks [interquartile range 38.6-42.6]). Weight and HC percentiles were computed from sex-specific British Columbia population-based data. Greater neonatal pain predicted lower body weight (Wald (2)=7.36, P=0.01) and HC (Wald (2)=4.36, P=0.04) percentiles at 32 weeks postconceptional age, after adjusting for birth weight percentile and postnatal risk factors of illness severity, duration of mechanical ventilation, infection, and morphine and corticosteroid exposure. However, later neonatal infection predicted lower weight percentile at term (Wald (2)=5.09, P=0.02). Infants born very preterm undergo repetitive procedural pain during a period of physiological immaturity that appears to impact postnatal growth, and may activate a downstream cascade of stress signaling that affects later growth in the neonatal intensive care unit.
Glutamate is an essential transmitter in pain pathways. However, its broad usage in the central and peripheral nervous system prevents us from designing efficient glutamate-based pain therapies without causing harmful side effects. The discovery of vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUT1-3) has been a crucial step in describing specific glutamatergic neuronal subpopulations and glutamate-dependent pain pathways. To assess the role of VGLUT2-mediated glutamatergic contribution to pain transmission from the entire primary sensory population, we crossed our Vglut2(f/f) line with the Ht-Pa-Cre line. Such Vglut2-deficient mice showed significantly decreased, but not completely absent, acute nociceptive responses. The animals were less prone to develop an inflammatory-related state of pain and were, in the partial sciatic nerve ligation chronic pain model, much less hypersensitive to mechanical stimuli and did not develop cold allodynia or heat hyperalgesia. To take advantage of this neuropathic pain-resistant model, we analyzed Vglut2-dependent transcriptional changes in the dorsal spinal cord after nerve injury, which revealed several novel candidate target genes potentially relevant for the development of neuropathic pain therapeutics. Taken together, we conclude that VGLUT2 is a major mediator of nociception in primary afferents, implying that glutamate is the key somatosensory neurotransmitter.
The NMDA and TRPV1 receptors that are expressed in sensory neurons have been independently demonstrated to play important roles in peripheral pain mechanisms. In the present study, we investigated whether the 2 receptor-channel systems form a functional complex that provides the basis for the development of mechanical hyperalgesia. In the masseter muscle, direct application of NMDA induced a time-dependent increase in mechanical sensitivity, which was significantly blocked when the muscle was pretreated with a specific TRPV1 antagonist, AMG9810. The NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor and TRPV1 were coexpressed in 32% of masseter afferents in trigeminal ganglia (TG). Furthermore, NR1 and NR2B formed protein-protein complexes with TRPV1 in TG as demonstrated by coimmunoprecipitation experiments. Calcium imaging analyses further corroborated that NMDA and TRPV1 receptors functionally interact. In TG culture, application of NMDA resulted in phosphorylation of serine, but not threonine or tyrosine, residues of TRPV1 in a time course similar to that of the development of NMDA-induced mechanical hyperalgesia. The NMDA-induced phosphorylation was significantly attenuated by CaMKII and PKC inhibitors, but not by a PKA inhibitor. Consistent with the biochemical data, the NMDA-induced mechanical hyperalgesia was also effectively blocked when the muscle was pretreated with a CaMKII or PKC inhibitor. Thus, NMDA receptors and TRPV1 functionally interact via CaMKII and PKC signaling cascades and contribute to mechanical hyperalgesia. These data offer novel mechanisms by which 2 ligand-gated channels in sensory neurons interact and reinforce the notion that TRPV1 functions as a signal integrator under pathological conditions.
Antidepressants that block the reuptake of noradrenaline and/or serotonin are among the first-line treatments for neuropathic pain, although the mechanisms underlying this analgesia remain unclear. The noradrenergic locus coeruleus is an essential element of both the ascending and descending pain modulator systems regulated by these antidepressants. Hence, we investigated the effect of analgesic antidepressants on locus coeruleus activity in Sprague-Dawley rats subjected to chronic constriction injury (CCI), a model of neuropathic pain. In vivo extracellular recordings of locus coeruleus revealed that CCI did not modify the basal tonic activity of this nucleus, although its sensory-evoked response to noxious stimuli was significantly altered. Under normal conditions, noxious stimulation evokes an early response, corresponding to the activation of myelinated A fibers, which is followed by an inhibitory period and a subsequent late capsaicin-sensitive response, consistent with the activation of unmyelinated C fibers. CCI provokes an enhanced excitatory early response in the animals and the loss of the late response. Antidepressant administration over 7 days (desipramine, 10mg/kg/day or duloxetine, 5mg/kg/day, delivered by osmotic minipumps) decreased the excitatory firing rate of the early response in the CCI group. Moreover, in all animals, these antidepressants reduced the inhibitory period and augmented the late response. We propose that N-methyl-d-aspartate and alpha-2-adrenoceptors are involved in the analgesic effect of antidepressants. Antidepressant-mediated changes were correlated with behavioral effects indicative of analgesia in healthy and neuropathic rats.
Opioid analgesia is compromised by intracellular mediators such as protein kinase C (PKC). The phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis-coupled serotonin receptor 5-HT2 is ideally suited to promote PKC activation. We test the hypothesis that 5-HT2A and 5-HT2B receptors, which have been previously shown to become pro-excitatory after spinal nerve ligation (SNL), can negatively influence the ability of opioids to depress spinal excitation evoked by noxious input. Spinal superfusion with (100 nM) mu-opioid receptor (MOR)-agonist DAMGO significantly depressed C fiber-evoked spinal field potentials. Simultaneous administration of subclinical 5-HT2AR antagonist 4F 4PP (100 nM) or 5-HT2BR antagonist SB 204741 (100 nM) significantly reduced the IC50 value for DAMGO in nerve-ligated rats (97.56 nM  1.51 and 1.20 nM  1.28 respectively, relative to 104 nM  1.08 at the baseline condition), but not in sham-operated rats. Both antagonists failed to alter depression induced by delta-opioid receptor (DOR)-agonist D-ala2-deltorphin II after SNL as well as in the sham condition. Western blot analysis of dorsal horn homogenates revealed bilateral upregulation of 5-HT2AR and 5-HT2BR protein band densities after SNL. As assessed from double immunofluorescence labeling for confocal laser scanning microscopy, scarce dorsal horn cell processes showed co-localization color overlay for 5-HT2AR/MOR, 5-HT2BR/MOR, 5-HT2AR/DOR, or 5-HT2BR/DOR in sham-operated rats. Intensity correlation-based analyses showed significant increases in 5-HT2AR/MOR and 5-HT2BR/MOR co-localizations after SNL. These results indicate that plasticity of spinal serotonergic neurotransmission can selectively reduce spinal MOR mechanisms via 5-HT2A and 5-HT2B receptors, including upregulation of the latter and increased expression in dorsal horn neurons containing MOR.


Aphra Behn (1640-1689) has been called the first professional British female writer. Behn probably visited Surinam in the 1660s, but it was not until 1688 that she wrote Oroonoko: or, The Royal Slave, the novel for which she is best remembered. Although overlooked by historians of science, Oroonoko provided a description of the &quot;numb eel,&quot; effectively introducing many Europeans to the exotic and frightening creature that would become known as the &quot;electric eel&quot; during the second half of the 1700s, when it would play a central role in showing the reality of animal electricity, effectively putting neuromuscular physiology on its more modern course. This article examines Behn's early life, including why she might have gone to Surinam, the sources that might have helped her write her colorful description of the eel, and how what she had written circulated widely and continued to contribute to the changing scientific landscape after her death.



Using a small, but very instructive experiment, it is demonstrated that laser-Doppler flowmetry (LDF) at large interoptode spacing represents a unique tool for new investigations of thermoregulatory processes modulating the blood flow of small muscle masses in humans. It is shown on five healthy subjects that steady-state values of blood flow (perfusion) in the thenar eminence muscle group depend in a complex manner on both the local intramuscular temperature and local skin temperature, while the values of blood flow parameters measured during physiological transients, such as the post-ischaemic hyperhaemic response, depend only on the intramuscular temperature. In addition, it is shown that the so-called biological zero (i.e. remaining LDF signal during arterial occlusion) is influenced not only as expected by the intramuscular temperature, but also by the skin temperature. The proposed results reveal that the skeletal muscle has unique thermoregulatory characteristics compared, for example, to human skin. These and other observations represent new findings and we hope that they will serve as a stimulus for the creation of new experimental protocols leading to better understanding of blood flow regulation.
This review summarizes the brain mechanisms controlling sleep and wakefulness. Wakefulness promoting systems cause low-voltage, fast activity in the electroencephalogram (EEG). Multiple interacting neurotransmitter systems in the brain stem, hypothalamus, and basal forebrain converge onto common effector systems in the thalamus and cortex. Sleep results from the inhibition of wake-promoting systems by homeostatic sleep factors such as adenosine and nitric oxide and GABAergic neurons in the preoptic area of the hypothalamus, resulting in large-amplitude, slow EEG oscillations. Local, activity-dependent factors modulate the amplitude and frequency of cortical slow oscillations. Non-rapid-eye-movement (NREM) sleep results in conservation of brain energy and facilitates memory consolidation through the modulation of synaptic weights. Rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep results from the interaction of brain stem cholinergic, aminergic, and GABAergic neurons which control the activity of glutamatergic reticular formation neurons leading to REM sleep phenomena such as muscle atonia, REMs, dreaming, and cortical activation. Strong activation of limbic regions during REM sleep suggests a role in regulation of emotion. Genetic studies suggest that brain mechanisms controlling waking and NREM sleep are strongly conserved throughout evolution, underscoring their enormous importance for brain function. Sleep disruption interferes with the normal restorative functions of NREM and REM sleep, resulting in disruptions of breathing and cardiovascular function, changes in emotional reactivity, and cognitive impairments in attention, memory, and decision making.
Purpose: To determine the psychometric properties of the 11-item Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia (TSK-11) in patients with heterogeneous chronic pain. Methods: The study evaluated test-retest reliability (intra-class correlation coefficient), cross-sectional convergent construct validity (Pearson product-moment correlation between TSK-11 and the Pain Catastrophizing Scale [PCS] scores at admission), and sensitivity to change of the TSK-11 (area under the receiver operating characteristic [ROC] curve) in patients (n=74) with heterogeneous chronic pain. We used two data sets (retrospective, n=56; prospective, n=18). All patients attended the 4-week interdisciplinary chronic pain management programme at Chedoke Hospital, Hamilton Health Sciences, Hamilton, Ontario. Results: The test-retest reliability of the TSK-11 was 0.81 (95%CI, 0.58-0.93), the standard error of measurement was 2.41 (90%CI, 1.47-2.49), and the minimal detectible change score was 5.6. The correlation between TSK-11 and PCS at admission was 0.60 (95%CI, 0.43-0.73). The area under the ROC curve was 0.73 (95%CI, 0.57-0.88). Conclusions: The study results provide evidence for the test-retest reliability, cross-sectional convergent construct validity, and sensitivity to change of the TSK-11 in a population with heterogeneous chronic pain.
In studies on the pathogenesis of schizophrenia until last two decades of the twentieth century saw advances in knowledge about the neuroanatomical changes. In patients suffering from schizophrenia frequently reported enlarged ventricular system, the third ventricle enlargement, temporal anomalies of the upper comers and irregularities within the frontal lobes. One of the roads leading to the understanding of the lesions became also the assessment of changes occurring in healthy siblings, used as so-called endophenotype. Almost all the irregularities observed in healthy siblings, but to a lesser extent. Typically, their intensity was intermediate between siblings suffering and healthy subjects. Further research in the future may bring changes identification, typical for the disease, which help in the diagnosis of schizophrenia, but also will be helpful in risk assessment psychosis clinically healthy individuals.
(Full text is available at http://www.manu.edu.mk/prilozi). This paper outlines the topics that are on the intersection of neuroethics and neuroimaging domain. Materials and methods: An extensive search through Medline bibliographic database was performed for a period of 12 years (1997-2009), using a combination of 3 keywords (&quot;ethics&quot;, &quot;neuroethics&quot;, &quot;neuroimaging&quot;). The search returned 119 indexed articles, of which 102 were found relevant. The articles were classified in two main categories tackling ethical challenges in basic research (55 papers) and applied clinical research and practice (39 papers). Results and conclusions: For each of the categories, the majority of articles came under one of the following topics - the neural basis of emotion, reasoning and personality (30 papers) and ethics of neuroimaging in disorders of consciousness (15 papers). The appointed topics stand at the very intersection of the neuroethics and neuroimaging domain, evidencing their strong interdependent relationship. Furthermore, the number of topics and corresponding articles has been steadily increasing over the years (minimal in 1997, maximal in 2009). These data are in good acconcordance with other scientific findings. Also, they correspond to the period of progress in the investigated disciplines, giving rise to the fact that future advances in neuroethics are in strong correlation to the advances of neuroimaging technologies. Key words: ethical, moral, legal, neuroscience, research.
The mammalian central nervous system, due to its interaction with the environment, must be endowed with plasticity. Conversely, the nervous tissue must be substantially static to ensure connectional invariability. Structural plasticity can be viewed as a compromise between these requirements. In adult mammals, brain structural plasticity is strongly reduced with respect to other animal groups in the phylogenetic tree. It persists under different forms, which mainly consist of remodeling of neuronal shape and connectivity, and, to a lesser extent, the production of new neurons. Adult neurogenesis is mainly restricted within two neurogenic niches, yet some gliogenic and neurogenic processes also occur in the so-called non-neurogenic tissue, starting from parenchymal progenitors. In this review we focus on a population of immature, non-newly generated neurons in layer II of the cerebral cortex, which were previously thought to be newly generated since they heavily express the polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule and doublecortin. These unusual neurons exhibit characteristics defining an additional type of structural plasticity, different from either synaptic plasticity or adult neurogenesis. Evidences concerning their morphology, antigenic features, ultrastructure, phenotype, origin, fate, and reaction to different kind of stimulations are gathered and analyzed. Their possible role is discussed in the context of an enriched complexity and heterogeneity of mammalian brain structural plasticity.
Sexual behavior is critical to species survival, yet comparatively little is known about the neural mechanisms in the human brain. Here we systematically review the existing human brain imaging literature on sexual behavior and show that the functional neuroanatomy of sexual behavior is comparable to that involved in processing other rewarding stimuli. Sexual behavior clearly follows the established principles and phases for wanting, liking and satiety involved in the pleasure cycle of other rewards. The studies have uncovered the brain networks involved in sexual wanting or motivation/anticipation, as well as sexual liking or arousal/consummation, while there is very little data on sexual satiety or post-orgasmic refractory period. Human sexual behavior also interacts with other pleasures, most notably social interaction and high arousal states. We discuss the changes in the underlying brain networks supporting sexual behavior in the context of the pleasure cycle, the changes to this cycle over the individual's life-time and the interactions between them. Overall, it is clear from the data that the functional neuroanatomy of sex is very similar to that of other pleasures and that it is unlikely that there is anything special about the brain mechanisms and networks underlying sex.
Peripheral nerves injuries result in paralysis, anesthesia and lack of autonomic control of the affected body areas. After injury, axons distal to the lesion are disconnected from the neuronal body and degenerate, leading to denervation of the peripheral organs. Wallerian degeneration creates a microenvironment distal to the injury site that supports axonal regrowth, while the neuron body changes in phenotype to promote axonal regeneration. The significance of axonal regeneration is to replace the degenerated distal nerve segment, and achieve reinnervation of target organs and restitution of their functions. However, axonal regeneration does not always allows for adequate functional recovery, so that after a peripheral nerve injury, patients do not recover normal motor control and fine sensibility. The lack of specificity of nerve regeneration, in terms of motor and sensory axons regrowth, pathfinding and target reinnervation, is one the main shortcomings for recovery. Key factors for successful axonal regeneration include the intrinsic changes that neurons suffer to switch their transmitter state to a pro-regenerative state and the environment that the axons find distal to the lesion site. The molecular mechanisms implicated in axonal regeneration and pathfinding after injury are complex, and take into account the cross-talk between axons and glial cells, neurotrophic factors, extracellular matrix molecules and their receptors. The aim of this review is to look at those interactions, trying to understand if some of these molecular factors are specific for motor and sensory neuron growth, and provide the basic knowledge for potential strategies to enhance and guide axonal regeneration and reinnervation of adequate target organs.
Photoreceptors carry out the first step in vision by capturing light and transducing it into electrical signals. Rod and cone photoreceptors efficiently translate photon capture into electrical signals by light activation of opsin-type photopigments. Until recently, the central dogma was that, for mammals, all phototransduction occurred in rods and cones. However, the recent discovery of a novel photoreceptor type in the inner retina has fundamentally challenged this view. These retinal ganglion cells are intrinsically photosensitive and mediate a broad range of physiological responses such as photoentrainment of the circadian clock, light regulation of sleep, pupillary light reflex, and light suppression of melatonin secretion. Intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells express melanopsin, a novel opsin-based signaling mechanism reminiscent of that found in invertebrate rhabdomeric photoreceptors. Melanopsin-expressing retinal ganglion cells convey environmental irradiance information directly to brain centers such as the hypothalamus, preoptic nucleus, and lateral geniculate nucleus. Initial studies suggested that these melanopsin-expressing photoreceptors were an anatomically and functionally homogeneous population. However, over the past decade or so, it has become apparent that these photoreceptors are distinguishable as individual subtypes on the basis of their morphology, molecular markers, functional properties, and efferent projections. These results have provided a novel classification scheme with five melanopsin photoreceptor subtypes in the mammalian retina, each presumably with differential input and output properties. In this review, we summarize the evidence for the structural and functional diversity of melanopsin photoreceptor subtypes and current controversies in the field.
An extraordinary variety of experimental (e.g., flicker, magnetic fields) and clinical (epilepsy, migraine) conditions give rise to a surprisingly common set of elementary hallucinations, including spots, geometric patterns, and jagged lines, some of which also have color, depth, motion, and texture. Many of these simple hallucinations fall into a small number of perceptual geometries-the Klver forms-that (via a nonlinear mapping from retina to cortex) correspond to even simpler sets of oriented stripes of cortical activity (and their superpositions). Other simple hallucinations (phosphenes and fortification auras) are linked to the Klver forms and to pattern-forming cortical mechanisms by their spatial and temporal scales. The Klver cortical activity patterns are examples of self-organized pattern formation that arise from nonlinear dynamic interactions between excitatory and inhibitory cortical neurons; with reasonable modifications, this model accounts for a wide range of hallucinated patterns. The Klver cortical activity patterns are a subset of autonomous spatiotemporal cortical patterns, some of which have been studied with functional imaging techniques. Understanding the interaction of these intrinsic patterns with stimulus-driven cortical activity is an important problem in neuroscience. In line with this, hallucinatory pattern formation interacts with physical stimuli, and many conditions that induce hallucinations show interesting interactions with one another. Both types of interactions are predictable from neural and psychophysical principles such as localized processing, excitatory-inhibitory neural circuits, lateral inhibition, simultaneous and sequential contrast, saccadic suppression, and perceptual opponency. Elementary hallucinations arise from familiar mechanisms stimulated in unusual ways.

The efficient prediction of the behavior of others requires the recognition of their actions and an understanding of their action goals. In humans, this process is fast and extremely robust, as demonstrated by classical experiments showing that human observers reliably judge causal relationships and attribute interactive social behavior to strongly simplified stimuli consisting of simple moving geometrical shapes. While psychophysical experiments have identified critical visual features that determine the perception of causality and agency from such stimuli, the underlying detailed neural mechanisms remain largely unclear, and it is an open question why humans developed this advanced visual capability at all. We created pairs of naturalistic and abstract stimuli of hand actions that were exactly matched in terms of their motion parameters. We show that varying critical stimulus parameters for both stimulus types leads to very similar modulations of the perception of causality. However, the additional form information about the hand shape and its relationship with the object supports more fine-grained distinctions for the naturalistic stimuli. Moreover, we show that a physiologically plausible model for the recognition of goal-directed hand actions reproduces the observed dependencies of causality perception on critical stimulus parameters. These results support the hypothesis that selectivity for abstract action stimuli might emerge from the same neural mechanisms that underlie the visual processing of natural goal-directed action stimuli. Furthermore, the model proposes specific detailed neural circuits underlying this visual function, which can be evaluated in future experiments.
The detailed dynamics of action simulation was investigated using the occluder paradigm: a point light actor (PLA) was shown, then briefly occluded from view, during which period action simulation was generated. Following occlusion, the PLA reappeared, either a progression of the motion as it should be post-occlusion or temporally shifted earlier/later. Participants made judgements on whether the reappearing PLA was too early or too late to be a correct continuation (Experiments 1 and 3) or whether it was a veridical continuation or not (Experiment 2). Over three experiments we asked how action simulation is affected by motion information before, during and after occlusion. Reducing motion presented before occlusion retained the accuracy of action simulation judgements. Presenting 4 frames (67 ms) of PLA motion during the occluder duration dynamically updates or altogether regenerates the action simulation. Reducing the duration of the test motion after the occluder decreases judgement precision, which we interpret as a limitation in the process of postdictive motion judgments. Overall, this is further evidence that the action simulation process is remarkably adapted to making human motion predictions.
Social subordination in female macaques is imposed by harassment and the threat of aggression and produces reduced control over one's social and physical environment and a dysregulation of the limbic-hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis resembling that observed in people suffering from psychopathologies. These effects support the contention that this particular animal model is an ethologically relevant paradigm in which to investigate the etiology of stress-induced psychological illness related to women. Here, we sought to expand this model by performing a discriminate analysis (DA) on 33 variables within three domains; behavioral, metabolic/anthropomorphic, and neuroendocrine, collected from socially housed female rhesus monkeys in order to assess whether exposure to social subordination produces a distinct phenotype. A receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was also calculated to determine each domain's classification accuracy. DA found significant markers within each domain that differentiated dominant and subordinate females. Subordinate females received more aggression, showed more submissive behavior, and received less of affiliation from others than did dominant females. Metabolic differences included increased leptin, and reduced adiponectin in dominant compared to subordinate females. Dominant females exhibited increased sensitivity to hormonal stimulation with higher serum LH in response to estradiol, cortisol in response to ACTH, and increased glucocorticoid negative feedback. Serum oxytocin, CSF DOPAC and serum PACAP were all significantly higher in dominant females. ROC curve analysis accurately predicted social status in all three domains. Results suggest that socially house rhesus monkeys represent a cogent animal model in which to study the physiology and behavioral consequences of chronic psychosocial stress in humans.





Spontaneous mimicry is a marker of empathy. Conditions characterized by reduced spontaneous mimicry (e.g., autism) also display deficits in sensitivity to social rewards. We tested if spontaneous mimicry of socially rewarding stimuli (happy faces) depends on the reward value of stimuli in 32 typical participants. An evaluative conditioning paradigm was used to associate different reward values with neutral target faces. Subsequently, electromyographic activity over the Zygomaticus Major was measured whilst participants watched video clips of the faces making happy expressions. Higher Zygomaticus Major activity was found in response to happy faces conditioned with high reward versus low reward. Moreover, autistic traits in the general population modulated the extent of spontaneous mimicry of happy faces. This suggests a link between reward and spontaneous mimicry and provides a possible underlying mechanism for the reduced response to social rewards seen in autism.
A famous-face naming task was used to establish the electrophysiological characterization of the tip-of-the-tongue (TOT) state, successful naming (K), and nonrecognition (DK). The differences in the direct event-related potentials (ERPs) and in the lateralized readiness potential between those categories were studied. The ERP correlates of recognition and access to semantic and lexical information were similar between K and TOT, but showed amplitude differences with respect to DK. A delayed onset of the response selection was obtained in TOT in comparison with K, suggesting an insufficient activation of phonological information from 360 ms onwards. The continuous search for the name and the conflict monitoring in TOT led to differences in ERP amplitudes between TOT and the other categories from 750 ms onwards as well as to a delayed onset of response preparation, indicating a continuous engagement of processing resources.


The placenta is an essential but widely neglected organ. As the interface between the mother and her fetus, the placenta represents the platform for a healthy life. The majority of the major complications of pregnancy, including miscarriage, pre-eclampsia, intrauterine growth restriction and stillbirth, have their pathophysiological roots in poor placentation. In addition, there is now irrefutable evidence that low birthweight predisposes to a higher risk of cardiovascular and other disorders in later life. The Centre for Trophoblast Research was established in the University of Cambridge with the aim of generating new impetus and a fresh approach to address these problems. Placentation involves many different cell biological processes, some of which are unique to the trophoblast, as well as complex interactions with the maternal immune system. The Centre brings together academic clinicians and basic scientists working in diverse disciplines and provides a rich intellectual environment that facilitates novel collaborative links. The Centre also encourages new investigators into the field and fosters their careers through a number of initiatives, including support for studentships and fellowships, developing research resources, hosting an annual scientific meeting and running a training course in placental biology. Full details can be found at www.trophoblast.cam.ac.uk.
Acupuncture increases brain levels of arginine-vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OXT), which are known to be involved in the modulation of mammalian social behavior. Transcutaneous electrical acupoint stimulation (TEAS) is often used clinically to produce a similar stimulation to that of acupuncture on the acupoints. In the present study, TEAS was applied to children with autism to assess its therapeutic efficacy. Seventy-six autistic children receiving rehabilitation training were divided into 2 groups: a treatment group receiving TEAS 30min per day, 5 days per week for 12 weeks (n=37) and a control group without TEAS treatment (n=39). A series of rating scales was used in outcome assessment. Plasma levels of AVP and OXT were determined by enzyme immunoassay (EIA) before and after treatment. The TEAS group showed a significant improvement over the control in their emotional response, fear or anxiety, level/consistency of intellective relations and general impressions on the Childhood Autism Rating Scale (CARS) as well as improvements in the sensory and related factors in the Autism Behavior Checklist (ABC). In addition, the varieties of accepted food increased after TEAS treatment. It appears that TEAS was effective in autistic children who showed passive and aloof behavior, but not in those who were active but odd. The plasma level of AVP was significantly higher in the TEAS group than in the control group after the intervention. In addition, the change in the plasma AVP level paralleled the improvement of some of the behavior factors in CARS, including adaptation to environmental change, listening response, perceptive response and fear or anxiety. It is concluded that TEAS is effective for the treatment of autistic children with a passive and aloof social interaction style. Changes in plasma levels of AVP and possibly OXT may be involved in mediating the therapeutic effect of TEAS.
Metagenomic libraries represent subsamples of the total DNA found at a study site and offer unprecedented opportunities to study ecological and functional aspects of microbial communities. To examine the depth of a community sequencing effort, rarefaction analysis of the ribosomal small subunit (SSU/16S/18S) gene in the metagenome is usually performed. The fragmentary, non-overlapping nature of SSU sequences in metagenomic libraries poses a problem for this analysis, however. We introduce a software package - Megraft - that grafts SSU fragments onto full-length SSU sequences, accounting for observed and unobserved variability, for accurate assessment of species richness and sequencing depth in metagenomics endeavors.



Structural brain changes are amongst the most robust biological alterations in schizophrenia, and their investigation in unaffected relatives is important for an assessment of the contribution of genetic factors. In this cross-sectional morphometry study we investigated whether volume changes in SZ are linked with genetic vulnerability and whether these effects are separated from secondary illness effects. We compared density of grey and white matter using high-resolution 3D-anatomical MRI imaging data in 31 SZ patients, 29 first-degree relatives and 38 matched healthy controls, using Voxel-Based Morphometry (VBM) with SPM8. Volume of basal ganglia was also compared by manual segmentation. We found increased grey matter in the striatum, globus pallidus internus and thalamus and decreased grey matter in the parahippocampal and cingulate gyri both in SZ patients and relatives. Additionally, SZ patients had decreased volume of temporal, frontal and limbic grey and white matter in comparison with relatives and controls. Relatives showed intermediate values in many of these areas. Increased volume in the thalamus and parts of the basal ganglia and decreased volume of cortical areas and underlying white matter were thus associated with schizophrenia and its genetic vulnerability. These results suggest that brain morphological changes associated with SZ are in part determined by genetic risk factors and are not entirely explained by effects of medication or changes secondary to illness.


Neuropathic pain is a result of complex interactions between peripheral and central mechanisms with multiple potential therapeutic targets. However, the complexity of these mechanisms and relative youth of translational pain research, which is in its infancy, have prevented translation of successful basic bench research to human therapy. Most of the clinically available neuropathic pain treatments are borrowed from other therapeutic areas, such as antidepressants and antiepileptics, or involve application of older therapy, such as opioids. Exceptions are ziconotide, tapentadol, and the high-concentration capsaicin patch. Similar to all other analgesic agents, these provide only partial pain relief in subsets of patients. The standard of care for patients with chronic neuropathic pain is multimodal and multidisciplinary. For most patients to achieve and maintain satisfactory pain relief a combination of therapeutic agents is necessary, providing the empiric basis for rational polypharmacy, which has become a standard approach as well.
With a prevalence of 1 in 2500 people, inherited peripheral nerve diseases, collectively called Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT), are among the most common inherited neurologic disorders. Patients with CMT typically present with chronic muscle weakness and atrophy in limbs, sensory loss in the feet and hands, and foot deformities. Clinical similarities between patients often require genetic testing to achieve a precise diagnosis. In this article, the author reviews the clinical and pathologic features of CMT, and demonstrates how electrodiagnostic and genetic tools are used to assist in the diagnosis and symptomatic management of the diseases. Several cases are presented to illustrate the diagnostic processes.
This paper proposes an empirical hypothesis that in some cases of social interaction we have an immediate perceptual access to others' minds in the perception of their embodied intentionality. Our point of departure is the phenomenological insight that there is an experiential difference in the perception of embodied intentionality and the perception of non-intentionality. The other's embodied intentionality is perceptually given in a way that is different from the givenness of non-intentionality. We claim that the phenomenological difference in the perception of embodied intentionality and non-intentionality translates into an account of how, in some cases of social cognition, we perceive mental properties in the perception of embodied intentionality. The hypothesis derives support from a host of recent empirical studies in social neuroscience which demonstrate the importance of embodied engagements in understanding other minds. These studies reveal that embodied intersubjective interaction often builds on our ability to understand other minds in an immediate perceptual way not adequately investigated by theory-theory (TT) and simulation theories (ST) of mind-reading. We argue that there is a genuine, nontrivial difference in the informational content of the perception of embodied intentionality and the perception of non-intentionality which leads to a further difference in the way information is processed in the case of perception of embodied intentionality as opposed to the perception of non-intentionality. The full significance of such difference is appreciated only within an account of perception which views perception and action as tightly coupled. Thus, we propose an &quot;action-oriented account of social perception&quot; to develop a neurophilosophical account of the perceptual knowledge of other minds.
In the previous issue of Social Neuroscience, Lloyd-Fox and colleagues ( 2012 ) provide evidence that voice-sensitivity in temporal cortex emerges between 4 and 7 months of age. We discuss the implications of these findings and the overall progress that has been made in understanding the development of voice processing in infancy. In this commentary, we also examine important methodological and theoretical issues raised by this new work in the emerging field of developmental social neuroscience.


New neurons are continually produced after birth from neural stem/progenitor cells (NSCs/NPCs) in the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG). Recent studies have reported that fatty acid binding protein 7 (Fabp7/brain lipid binding protein (BLBP)) is required for the maintenance of embryonic NSCs/NPCs and have identified an association between the Fabp7 gene and behavioral paradigms that correlate with hippocampal functions. However, the specific roles of Fabps in postnatal neurogenesis remain unknown. Herein, we demonstrate the effects of Fabp7, and another Fabp, Fabp5, on postnatal neurogenesis. Fabp7 and Fabp5 were detected in the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the DG, and Fabp7+ cells were less differentiated than Fabp5+ cells. We analyzed the differentiation state of NSCs/NPCs in the SGZ of 4-week-old (4w) Fabp7 knockout (7KO), Fabp5 KO (5KO), and Fabp7/Fabp5 double KO (7/5KO) mice and found that the number of NSCs/NPCs was dramatically reduced compared with wild-type mice. Although the uptake of BrdU 1 day after injection was decreased in all KO mice, the survival of BrdU+ cells 1 month after injection was increased in the 7/5KO mice compared to other three genotypes. We also observed an enhancement of neuronal differentiation in all Fabp KO mice. In addition, the proliferation and survival of NSCs/NPCs differed along the anterior-posterior axis (A-P axis). A greater number of newborn cells in the posterior region became extinct, but this tendency was not apparent in the Fabps KO mice. These data suggest that Fabp7 and Fabp5 have differential roles for proliferation and survival of the NSCs/NPCs during postnatal DG neurogenesis.
Patients with inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs) have a higher risk of developing colorectal cancer (CRC) than the general population. Furthermore, chronic psychosocial stress increases the likelihood of developing IBD and multiple types of malignant neoplasms, including CRC. Here, for the first time, we investigate the effects of chronic psychosocial stress in male mice on an artificially induced CRC, by employing the chronic subordinate colony (CSC) housing paradigm in combination with the reliable azoxymethane (AOM)/dextran sodium sulfate (DSS) CRC model. Colonoscopy revealed that CSC mice showed accelerated macroscopic suspect lesions. In addition, more CSC mice developed low-grade dysplasia (LGD) and/or high-grade dysplasia (HGD) in the colonic tissue compared to the single-housed control mice (SHC). CSC mice showed an increased number of Ki67+ and a decreased number of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling epithelial cells in colonic tissue. Colonic liver receptor homolog-1 (LRH-1), cyclooxygenase II (COXII), tumor necrosis factor, forkhead box P3 (FoxP3) mRNA as well as colonic -catenin, COXII, and LRH-1 protein expression were also increased in CSC compared with SHC mice. Although the number of CD4+ Th cells was increased, a tendency toward a decreased colonic interferon- (IFN-) mRNA expression was observed. Furthermore, despite an increased percentage of CD3+ cells and CD3+/FoxP3+ double-positive cells within mesenteric lymph node cells of CSC mice, IFN- secretion from these cells was unaffected. Altogether, our results suggest that chronic psychosocial stress increases the risk for AOM/DSS-induced and, thus, inflammation-related CRC. Finally, assessment of additional time points may test whether the shift from tumor-protective Th1 cell to regulatory T-cell immunity represents a consequence of increased carcinogenesis or a causal factor involved in its development.




The sigma-1 receptor (Sig-1R) is a novel endoplasmic reticulum (ER) molecular chaperone that regulates protein folding and degradation. The Sig-1R activation by agonists is known to improve memory, promote cell survival, and exert an antidepressant-like action in animals. Cutamesine (SA4503), a selective Sig-1R ligand, was shown to increase BDNF in the hippocampus of rats. How exactly the intracellular chaperone Sig-1R or associated ligand causes the increase of BDNF or any other neurotrophins is unknown. We examined here whether the action of Sig-1Rs may relate to the post-translational processing and release of BDNF in neuroblastoma cell lines. We used in vitro assays and confirmed that cutamesine possesses the bona fide Sig-1R agonist property by causing the dissociation of BiP from Sig-1Rs. The C-terminus of Sig-1Rs exerted robust chaperone activity by completely blocking the aggregation of BDNF and GDNF in vitro. Chronic treatment with cutamesine in rat B104 neuroblastoma caused a time- and dose-dependent potentiation of the secretion of BDNF without affecting the mRNA level of BDNF. Cutamesine decreased the intracellular level of pro-BDNF and mature BDNF whereas increased the extracellular level of mature BDNF. The pulse-chase experiment indicated that the knockdown of Sig-1Rs decreased the secreted mature BDNF in B104 cells without affecting the synthesis of BDNF. Our findings indicate that, in contrast to clinically used antidepressants that promote the transcriptional upregulation of BDNF, the Sig-1R agonist cutamesine potentiates the post-translational processing of neurotrophins. This unique pharmacological profile may provide a novel therapeutic opportunity for the treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders.
Dystonia is a hyperkinetic movement disorder, characterized by involuntary and sustained contractions of opposing muscles causing twisting movements and abnormal postures. It is often a disabling disorder that has a significant impact on physical and psychosocial wellbeing. The medical therapeutic armamentarium used in practice is quite extensive, but for many of these interventions formal proof of efficacy is lacking. Exceptions are the use of botulinum toxin in patients with cervical dystonia, some forms of cranial dystonia (in particular, blepharospasm) and writer's cramp; deep brain stimulation of the pallidum in generalized and segmental dystonia; and high-dose trihexyphenidyl in young patients with segmental and generalized dystonia. In order to move this field forward, we not only need better trials that examine the effect of current treatment interventions, but also a further understanding of the pathophysiology of dystonia as a first step to design and test new therapies that are targeted at the underlying biologic and neurophysiologic mechanisms.
The mechanism of phagosome escape by intracellular pathogens is an important step in the infectious cycle. During the establishment of anthrax, Bacillus anthracis undergoes a transient intracellular phase in which spores are engulfed by local phagocytes. Spores germinate inside phagosomes and grow to vegetative bacilli, which emerge from their resident intracellular compartments, replicate and eventually exit from the plasma membrane. During germination, B. anthracis secretes multiple factors that can help its resistance to the phagocytes. Here the possible role of B. anthracis toxins, phospholipases, antioxidant enzymes and capsules in the phagosomal escape and survival, is analyzed and compared with that of factors of other microbial pathogens involved in the same type of process.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a devastating disease lacking an effective treatment. While the initial injury occurs within minutes, an inflammatory response contributes to ongoing tissue damage over hours to days. Relatively little is known about leukocyte trafficking into the brain in the hours after ICH onset. Understanding these events may lead to identification of new therapeutic targets. Using the blood injection mouse model of ICH, the numbers of leukocytes in the ipsilateral and contralateral brain were quantified by flow cytometry 12 hours after surgery. Perihematomal inflammation was confirmed by histology and chemokines and cytokines in the brain quantified by multiplex ELISA. Few neutrophils were detected in the brain 12 hours after ICH. The majority of leukocytes consisted of inflammatory macrophages (CD45.1(hi)CD3(-)Ly6G(-)CD11c(-)CD11b(+)Gr1(+) cells) and inflammatory dendritic cells (CD45.1(hi)CD3(-)Ly6G(-)CD11c(int)CD11b(+)Gr1(+) cells). Microglia numbers did not differ between the hemispheres. These results indicate that blood-derived monocyte populations traffic into brain early after ICH and outnumber neutrophils at 12 hours.
Hyperglycemia on admission has been associated with poor outcome after intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). However, the mechanistic links between hyperglycemia and poor outcome are not fully elucidated. We sought to determine the relationship between the serum glucose levels during the first 72h after ICH, and evolution of hematoma and perihematomal edema (PHE), and functional outcome at 3months and performed a retrospective review of prospectively collected data from 135 consecutive ICH patients. Patients were divided into two groups based on their mean glucose level-high (150mg/dl) vs. controlled (&lt;150mg/dl). We used Chi-square test and multiple logistic regressions to assess the relationship between glucose level and outcome variables, including hematoma expansion (HE), PHE growth, and modified Rankin Scale (mRS) score at 3months. The mean 72-h glucose level was 12316 for the controlled group and 19048mg/dl for the high-glucose group. The corresponding rates of HE were 23.4 vs. 25.9% (unadjusted p=0.80; adjusted p=0.08); PHE growth, 31.3 vs. 29.6% (unadjusted p=0.88; adjusted p=0.39); and poor outcome at 3months, defined as mRS score of 3, was 54 vs. 71% (unadjusted p=0.06; adjusted p=0.89). On multivariate analyses, the ICH score emerged as the major predictor for poor outcome, but not glucose. In conclusion, we found a trend for an association between mean 72h glucose levels and poor outcome at 3months, but this effect attenuated after adjusting for the ICH score. High glucose was not associated with HE or PHE growth. More preclinical and clinical studies are needed to elucidate the role of hyperglycemia in ICH before embarking on large and costly clinical trials of tight glucose control in ICH patients.
The representation and manipulation of structured relations is central to human reasoning. Recent work in computational modeling and neuroscience has set the stage for developing more detailed neurocomputational models of these abilities. Several key neural findings appear to dovetail with computational constraints derived from a model of analogical processing, 'Learning and Inference with Schemas and Analogies' (LISA). These include evidence that (i) coherent oscillatory activity in the gamma and theta bands enables long-distance communication between the prefrontal cortex and posterior brain regions where information is stored; (ii) neurons in prefrontal cortex can rapidly learn to represent abstract concepts; (iii) a rostral-caudal abstraction gradient exists in the PFC; and (iv) the inferior frontal gyrus exerts inhibitory control over task-irrelevant information.
A recent study by Bakker et al. shows that a low dose of the antiepileptic drug levetiracetam reduces hippocampal hyperactivity in elderly humans with amnestic mild cognitive impairment and improves hippocampal memory function. This points towards a new treatment strategy for age-related memory impairment by reducing deleterious overactivity of the hippocampus.
Disrupting the reactivation of hippocampal neurons during sleep impairs memory consolidation in rats. However, the functional importance of reactivation during awake states is unknown. An experiment in which awake reactivation was disrupted suggests that this phenomenon could adaptively guide behavior by linking previous learning with the current state of the world.
Many aspects of metabolism exhibit daily rhythmicity under the control of endogenous circadian clocks, and disruptions in circadian timing result in dysfunctions associated with the metabolic syndrome. Nocturnin (Noc) is a robustly rhythmic gene that encodes a deadenylase thought to be involved in the removal of polyA tails from mRNAs. Mice lacking the Noc gene display resistance to diet-induced obesity and hepatic steatosis, due in part to reduced lipid trafficking in the small intestine. In addition, Noc appears to play important roles in other tissues and has been implicated in lipid metabolism, adipogenesis, glucose homeostasis, inflammation and osteogenesis. Therefore, Noc is a potential key post-transcriptional mediator in the circadian control of many metabolic processes.
During the past 10 years, much attention has been focused towards elucidating the impact of Toll-like receptors (TLRs) in central nervous system (CNS) innate immunity. TLR signaling triggers the transcriptional activation of pro-interleukin-1 (pro-IL-1) and pro-IL-18 that are processed into their active forms by the inflammasome. Recent studies have demonstrated inflammasome involvement during CNS infection, autoimmune disease, and injury. This review will address inflammasome actions within the CNS and how cooperation between TLR and inflammasome signaling may influence disease outcome. In addition, the concept of alternative inflammasome functions independent of IL-1 and IL-18 processing are considered in the context of CNS disease.
Injury or insult to the adult nervous system often results in reactivation of signaling pathways that are normally only active during development. The p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)) is one such signaling molecule whose expression increases markedly following neural injury in many of the same cell types that express p75(NTR) during development. A series of studies during the past decade has demonstrated that p75(NTR) signaling contributes to neuronal and glial cell damage, axonal degeneration and dysfunction during injury and cellular stress. Why the nervous system reacts to injury by inducing a molecule that aids the demise of cells and axons is a biological paradox that remains to be explained satisfactorily. On the other hand, it may offer unique therapeutic opportunities for limiting the severity of nervous system injury and disease.

This study aimed to compare two different classifications of the risk of fracture/osteoporosis (OP) based on quantitative ultrasound (QUS). Analyses were based on data from the Epidemiological Study on the Prevalence of Osteoporosis, a cross-sectional study conducted in 2000 aimed at assessing the risk of OP in a representative sample of the Italian population. Subjects were classified into 5 groups considering the cross-classification found in previous studies; logistic regression models were defined separately for women and men to study the fracture risk attributable to groups defined by the cross-classification, adjusting for traditional risk factors. Eight-thousand six-hundred eighty-one subjects were considered in the analyses. Logistic regression models revealed that the two classifications seem to be able to identify a common core of individuals at low and at high risk of fractures, and the importance of a multidimensional assessment in older patients to evaluate clinical risk factors together with a simple, inexpensive, radiation-free device such as QUS.
The aim of present study was to validate the assessment of lower limit of cerebral autoregulation (LLCA) as derived from mean artery blood pressure (MABP) and cerebral zero flow pressure (ZFP) by means of transcranial Doppler (TCD) and to determine the accurate relationship between LLCA and MABP in stroke-prone renovascular hypertensive rats (RHRSP). We studied two groups of rats: RHRSP and normal controls. Blood flow velocity of middle cerebral artery was monitored by TCD and arterial blood pressure was recorded in right femoral artery to compute the ZFP. The value of LLCA was determined as the difference between MABP and ZFP and validated by the value determined by blood withdrawal-induced cerebral autoregulation. In normal rats, the LLCA derived from the new method was 69.8  8.7 mm Hg, from the change of blood velocity was 69.4  9.8 mmHg and from blood volume flow after blood withdrawal was 68.8  9.7 mmHg. In the RHRSP group, the corresponding values of LLCA were 109.1  17.2 mm Hg, 110.0  18.0 mm Hg and 109.0  19.3 mm Hg, respectively. In each group, there was no statistically significant difference among the three values. LLCA in RHRSP began to increase 6 weeks after hypertension-induced operation, significantly higher than controls (p &lt; 0.05), and stabilized at 110 mm Hg, 10 weeks after operation. The increase of LLCA was positively correlated with MABP, following an &quot;S&quot; curve, demonstrating that the change of LLCA was more obvious in the middle range of MABP in RHRSP (R(2)= 0.8848, p &lt; 0.05). In conclusion, TCD is a valid and noninvasive method for determination of LLCA compared with the classic method in rats. Our data demonstrated that the change of LLCA may be correlated with MABP, following an &quot;S&quot; curve relationship.

Face perception is thought to result from the dynamic interplay between holistic and featural modes of processing. What determines the engagement of each mode is currently unknown. Here, we investigated whether the discriminability of local feature cues is a critical determinant of holistic/featural processing engagement. We estimated the strength of holistic processing based on observers' failure to discriminate target features independently of the context of distracter features in a congruency paradigm. Feature discriminability was manipulated by varying the dissimilarity of target features parametrically, using morphing. We observed that the size of the congruency effect decayed monotonically as a function of the dissimilarity of the target features. In other words, the more similar the target features the stronger the holistic processing. A correlation analysis confirmed that local feature discriminability reliably predicted holistic engagement at upright orientation. In contrast, when a clear local feature difference was detected, perceptual contamination by the other surrounding features was prevented. This evidence firmly suggests that the interplay between holistic/featural processing depends on the discriminability of the signal provided at the local featural level.

Specific phobias (SPs) are common, with lifetime prevalence estimates of 10%. Our current understanding of their pathophysiology owes much to neuroimaging studies, which enabled us to construct increasingly efficient models of the underlying neurocircuitry. We provide an updated, comprehensive review and analyze the relevant literature of functional neuroimaging studies in specific phobias. Findings are presented according to the functional neuroanatomy of patients with SPs. We performed a careful search of the major medical and psychological databases by crossing SP with each neuroimaging technique. Functional neuroimaging, mostly using symptom provocation paradigms, showed abnormal activations in brain areas involved in emotional perception and early amplification, mainly the amygdala, anterior cingulate cortex, thalamus, and insula. The insula, thalamus and other limbic/paralimbic structures are particularly involved in SPs with prominent autonomic arousal. Emotional modulation is also impaired after exposure to phobic stimuli, with abnormal activations reported for the prefrontal, orbitofrontal and visual cortices. Other cortices and the cerebellum also appear to be involved in the pathophysiology of this disorder. Functional neuroimaging identified neural substrates that differentiate SPs from other anxiety disorders and separate SP subtypes from one another; the results support current Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th edition-Text Revision (DSM-IV-TR) diagnostic subtyping of SPs. Functional neuroimaging shows promise as a means of identifying treatment-response predictors. Improvement in these techniques may help in clarifying the neurocircuitry underlying SP, for both research and clinical-therapeutic purposes.
This study uses surfaced-based morphometry to investigate cortical thinning and its functional correlates in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). Subjects with MDD (N=36) and healthy control subjects (N=36) were enrolled in the study. Each subject received T1 structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), clinical evaluations, and neuropsychological examinations of executive functions with the Color Trail Test (CTT) and the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST). This study used an automated surface-based method (FreeSurfer) to measure cortical thickness and to generate the thickness maps for each subject. Statistical comparisons were performed using a general linear model. Compared with healthy controls, subjects with MDD showed the largest area of cortical thinning in the prefrontal cortex. This study also noted smaller areas of cortical thinning in the bilateral inferior parietal cortex, left middle temporal gyrus, left entorhinal cortex, left lingual cortex, and right postcentral gyrus. Regression analysis demonstrated cortical thinning in several frontoparietal regions, predicting worse executive performance measured by CTT 2, though the patterns of cortical thickness/executive performance correlation differed in healthy controls and MDD subjects. In conclusion, the results provide further evidence for the significant role of a prefrontal structural deficit and an aberrant structural/functional relationship in patients with MDD.
Recent neuroimaging evidence suggests that the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex is associated with creating deceptive responses. However, the neural basis of the preparatory processes that create deception has yet to be explored. Previous neuroimaging studies have demonstrated that the preparation for a certain task activates brain areas relevant to the execution of that task, leading to the question of whether dorsolateral prefrontal activity is observed during the preparation for deception. In the present study, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to determine whether dorsolateral prefrontal activity, which increases during the execution of deception compared with the execution of truth-telling, also increases during the preparation for deception compared with the preparation for truth-telling. Our data show that the execution of deception was associated with increased activity in several brain regions, including the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, compared with truth-telling, confirming the contribution of this region to the production of deceptive responses. The results also reveal that the preparations for both deception and truth-telling were associated with increased activity in certain brain regions, including the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. These findings suggest that the preparations for truth-telling and deception make similar demands on the brain and that the dorsolateral prefrontal activity identified in the preparation phase is associated with general preparatory processes, regardless of whether one is telling a lie or the truth.
The expression of GABA(A) receptors and the efficacy of GABAergic neurotransmission are subject to adaptive compensatory regulation as a result of changes in neuronal activity. Here, we show that activation of L-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels (VGCCs) leads to Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) phosphorylation of S383 within the 3 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor. Consequently, this results in rapid insertion of GABA(A) receptors at the cell surface and enhanced tonic current. Furthermore, we demonstrate that acute changes in neuronal activity leads to the rapid modulation of cell surface numbers of GABA(A) receptors and tonic current, which are critically dependent on Ca(2+) influx through L-type VGCCs and CaMKII phosphorylation of 3S383. These data provide a mechanistic link between activity-dependent changes in Ca(2+) influx through L-type channels and the rapid modulation of GABA(A) receptor cell surface numbers and tonic current, suggesting a homeostatic pathway involved in regulating neuronal intrinsic excitability in response to changes in activity.
p21-activated kinases (PAKs) are Cdc42 effectors found in metazoans, fungi and protozoa. They are subdivided into PAK1-like (group I) or PAK4-like (group II) kinases. Human PAK4 is widely expressed and its regulatory mechanism is unknown. We show that PAK4 is strongly inhibited by a newly identified auto-inhibitory domain (AID) formed by amino acids 20 to 68, which is evolutionarily related to that of other PAKs. In contrast to group I kinases, PAK4 is constitutively phosphorylated on Ser474 in the activation loop, but held in an inactive state until Cdc42 binding. Thus, group II PAKs are regulated through conformational changes in the AID rather than A-loop phosphorylation.
The recognition that dissociated sensory loss affecting selectively pain and temperature results from lesions of the operculo-insular cortex is due to Biemond in 1956. This contrasted with the prevailing view that the sensory aspects of pain did not imply regions above the thalamus. Anatomical data in non-human primates, as well as electrophysiology and functional imaging in humans have now abundantly demonstrated that the opercular-insular region is the main cortical target of the spinothalamic system, and a vast number of reports have confirmed the relation between lesions in this region and the development of dissociated sensory symptoms and central neuropathic pain. Operculo-insular pain (parasylvian pain) is a distinct entity that can be clinically suspected and objectively diagnosed with combined radiological and electrophysiological methods, in particular evoked potentials to spinothalamic (laser) input. The region comprising the posterior insula and medial operculum may deserve being considered as a third somatosensory cortex (S3) contributing to the spinothalamic attributes of somatic perception.
Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy has been used extensively in the study of various neurobiological disorders: depression, schizophrenia, autism, etc. But its application to chronic pain is relatively new. Not many studies in chronic pain have used (1)H-MRS. The unique ability of (1)H-MRS to assess both static and dynamic levels of glutamate and -aminobutyric acid (GABA) gives this method a unique position in neuroscience. Emerging evidence in chronic pain suggests an elevated excitatory/inhibitory neurotransmitter ratio is present within brain regions involved in pain processing. The combination of (1)H-MRS imaging with pharmacologic interventions holds significant promise as a direct one-to-one matching of disease pathology with drug mechanism of action can be made. As such (1)H-MRS may be useful in discovery of novel compounds for chronic pain. Research in these areas may lead to improved diagnosis and treatment of these complex patients.


Loss of the mitochondrial protease HtrA2 (Omi) in mice leads to mitochondrial dysfunction, neurodegeneration and premature death, but the mechanism underlying this pathology remains unclear. Using primary cultures from wild-type and HtrA2-knockout mice, we find that HtrA2 deficiency significantly reduces mitochondrial membrane potential in a range of cell types. This depolarisation was found to result from mitochondrial uncoupling, as mitochondrial respiration was increased in HtrA2-deficient cells and respiratory control ratio was dramatically reduced. HtrA2-knockout cells exhibit increased proton translocation through the ATP synthase, in combination with decreased ATP production and truncation of the F1 -subunit, suggesting the ATP synthase as the source of the proton leak. Uncoupling in the HtrA2-deficient mice is accompanied by altered breathing pattern and, on a cellular level, ATP depletion and vulnerability to chemical ischaemia. We propose that this vulnerability may ultimately cause the neurodegeneration observed in these mice.
Although inflammation in the brain is meant asa defense mechanism against neurotoxic stimuli, increasing evidence suggests that uncontrolled, chronic, and persistent inflammation contributes toneurodegeneration. Most neurodegenerative diseases have now been associated with chronic inflammation, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Whether anti-inflammatory approaches can be used to treat AD, however, is a major unanswered question. We recently demonstrated that monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL) hydrolyzes endocannabinoids to generate the primary arachidonic acid pool for neuroinflammatory prostaglandins. In this study, we show that genetic inactivation of MAGL attenuates neuroinflammation and lowers amyloid  levels and plaques in an AD mouse model. We also find that pharmacological blockade of MAGL recapitulates the cytokine-lowering effects through reduced prostaglandin production, rather than enhanced endocannabinoid signaling. Our findings thus reveal a role of MAGL in modulating neuroinflammation and amyloidosis in AD etiology and put forth MAGL inhibitors as a potential next-generation strategy for combating AD.
Optogenetic approaches allow the manipulation of neuronal activity patterns in space and time by light, particularly in small animals such as zebrafish. However, most techniques cannot control neuronal activity independently at different locations. Here we describe equipment and provide a protocol for single-photon patterned optical stimulation of neurons using a digital micromirror device (DMD). This method can create arbitrary spatiotemporal light patterns with spatial and temporal resolutions in the micrometer and submillisecond range, respectively. Different options to integrate a DMD into a multiphoton microscope are presented and compared. We also describe an ex vivo preparation of the adult zebrafish head that greatly facilitates optogenetic and other experiments. After assembly, the initial alignment takes about one day and the zebrafish preparation takes &lt;30 min. The method has previously been used to activate channelrhodopsin-2 and manipulate oscillatory synchrony among spatially distributed neurons in the zebrafish olfactory bulb. It can be adapted easily to a wide range of other species, optogenetic probes and scientific applications.

Reorganization of seizure networks during epileptogenesis involves cortico-subcortical and interhemispheric interactions. In the audiogenic kindling (AK) model of generalized tonic-clonic seizures, upstream seizure propagation along ascending brainstem-to-forebrain pathways determines progressive intensification of repeated sound-induced convulsions. Full-blown audiogenic seizures are bilaterally symmetric and their repetition results in bisynchronous recruiting the cortex in secondary epileptogenesis. The present study describes lateral asymmetry of initial behavioral and EEG manifestations of audiogenic seizures and AK in Wistar and WAG/Rij rats with acoustic hypersensitivity. These rats exhibit consistent individual lateralization of running seizures (run directionality) induced by repeated binaural stimulation. Since this initial preconvulsive running reflects seizure onset in the auditory brainstem, the running asymmetry suggests non-symmetric early epileptic activation of brainstem substrates by sound in these rats. Repetition of the asymmetric brainstem seizures led to asynchronous recruiting the cortex into seizure network and lateralization of running seizures was predictive for asymmetry of early cortical seizure manifestations in Wistar and WAG/Rij rats. Both electrographic markers of AK, spreading depression (SD) and post-running afterdischarge, first appeared in the cortex ipsilateral to run direction, suggesting lateralized brainstem-to-forebrain seizure generalization during AK. At the population level, no bias in lateralization of running and SD was found in Wistar and WAG/Rij rats but incidence of secondary cortical seizures varied, depending on strain and run laterality. Among Wistar rats, cortical seizures developed more rarely in right-runners than in left-runners, suggesting enhanced resistance of the right hemisphere to epileptogenesis in rats of this strain. WAG/Rij rats with mixed (absence and audiogenic) epilepsy showed weak lateralization of early cortical seizures and no left-right difference in their incidence during AK. Present findings suggest (1) lateralized brainstem-to-forebrain seizure propagation and hemispheric difference in its facility in Wistar rats, (2) alterations of intra- and interhemispheric seizure propagation in WAG/Rij rats with genetic absence epilepsy.
Peripherally restricted analgesics are desirable to avoid central nervous system (CNS) side effects of opioids. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs produce peripheral analgesia but have significant toxicity. GABA(B) receptors represent peripheral targets for analgesia but selective GABA(B) agonists like baclofen cross the blood-brain barrier. Recently, we found that the CNS-impermeant amino acid, isovaline, produces analgesia without apparent CNS effects. On observing that isovaline has GABA(B) activity in brain slices, we examined the hypothesis that isovaline produces peripheral analgesia mediated by GABA(B) receptors. We compared the peripheral analgesic and CNS effect profiles of isovaline, baclofen, and GABA (a CNS-impermeant, unselective GABA(B) agonist). All three amino acids attenuated allodynia induced by prostaglandin E2 injection into the mouse hindpaw and tested with von Frey filaments. The antiallodynic actions of isovaline, baclofen, and GABA were blocked by the GABA(B) antagonist, CGP52432, and potentiated by the GABA(B) modulator, CGP7930. We measured Behavioural Hyperactivity Scores and temperature change as indicators of GABAergic action in the CNS. ED(95) doses of isovaline and GABA produced no CNS effects while baclofen produced substantial sedation and hypothermia. In a mouse model of osteoarthritis, isovaline restored performance during forced exercise to baseline values. Immunohistochemical staining of cutaneous layers of the analgesic test site demonstrated co-localization of GABA(B1) and GABA(B2) receptor subunits on fine nerve endings and keratinocytes. Isovaline represents a new class of peripherally restricted analgesics without CNS effects, mediated by cutaneous GABA(B) receptors.
Cholinergic activities affect olfactory bulb (OB) information processing and associated learning and memory. However, the presence of intrinsic cholinergic interneurons in the OB remains controversial. As a result, morphological and functional properties of these cells are largely undetermined. We characterized cholinergic interneurons using transgenic mice that selectively mark choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-expressing cells and immunolabeling. We found a significant number of intrinsic cholinergic interneurons in the OB. These interneurons reside primarily in the glomerular layer (GL) and external plexiform layer (EPL) and exhibit diverse distribution patterns of nerve processes, indicating functional heterogeneity. Further, we found these neurons express ChAT and vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT), but do not immunoreact to glutamatergic, GABAergic or dopaminergic markers and are distinct from calretinin-expressing interneurons. Interestingly, the cholinergic population partially overlaps with the calbindin D28K-expressing interneuron population, revealing the neurotransmitter identity of this sub-population. Additionally, we quantitatively determined the density of VAChT labeled cholinergic nerve fibers in various layers of the OB, as well as the intensity of VAChT immunoreactivity within the GL, suggesting primary sites of cholinergic actions. Taken together, our results provide clear evidence showing the presence of a significant number of cholinergic interneurons and that these morphologically and distributionally diverse interneurons make up complex local cholinergic networks in the OB. Thus, our results suggest that olfactory information processing is modulated by dual cholinergic systems of local interneuron networks and centrifugal projections.
Noninvasive neural imaging has become an important tool in both applied and theoretical applications. The hemodynamic properties that are measured in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), for example, are generally used to infer neuronal characteristics. In an attempt to provide empirical data to connect the hemodynamic measurements with neural function, we have conducted previous studies in which neural activity and tissue oxygen metabolic functions are determined together in co-localized regions of the central visual pathway. A basic question in this procedure is whether oxygen responses are coupled linearly in space and time with neural activity. We have previously examined temporal factors, and in the current study, spatial characteristics are addressed. We have recorded from neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and striate cortex in anesthetized cats. In both structures, there is a classical receptive field (CRF) within which a neuron can be activated. There is also a region outside the CRF from which stimulation cannot activate the cell directly but can influence the response elicited from the CRF. In this investigation we have used several specific spatial stimulus patterns presented to either the CRF or the surrounding region or to both areas together in order to determine spatial response patterns. Within the CRF, we find that neural and metabolic responses sum in a nonlinear fashion but changes in these two measurements are closely coupled. For stimuli that extend beyond the CRF, neural activity is generally reduced while oxygen response exhibits uncoupled changes.
X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD) and pseudo neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy (P-NALD) are neurodegenerative demyelinating diseases resulting from the functional loss of the peroxisomal ATP-binding cassette transporter D (ABCD1) and from single peroxisomal enzyme deficiency (Acyl-CoA oxidase1: ACOX1), respectively. As these proteins are involved in the catabolism of very long chain fatty acids (VLCFA: C24:0, C26:0), X-ALD and P-NALD patients are characterized by the accumulation of VLCFA in plasma and tissues. Since peroxisomes are involved in the metabolism of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and nitrogen species (RNS), we examined the impact of VLCFA on the oxidative status of 158N murine oligodendrocytes expressing or not Abcd1 or Acox1. VLCFA triggers an oxidative stress characterized by an overproduction of ROS and RNS associated with lipid peroxidation, protein carbonylation, increased superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity, decreased catalase activity and glutathione level. SiRNA knockdown of Abcd1 or Acox1 increased ROS and RNS production even in the absence of VLCFA, and especially potentialized VLCFA-induced ROS overproduction. Moreover, mainly in cells with reduced Acox1 level, the levels of VLCFA and neutral lipids were strongly enhanced both in untreated and VLCFA - treated cells. Our data obtained on 158N murine oligodendrocytes highlight that VLCFA induce an oxidative stress, and demonstrate that Abcd1 or Acox1 knockdown contributes to disrupt RedOx equilibrium supporting a link between oxidative stress and the deficiency of Abcd1 or Acox1 peroxisomal proteins.

The periaqueductal gray (PAG) is part of a descending pain modulatory system that, when activated, produces widespread and profound antinociception. Microinjection of either opioids or cannabinoids into the PAG elicits antinociception. Moreover, microinjection of the cannabinoid 1 (CB1) receptor agonist HU-210 into the PAG enhances the antinociceptive effect of subsequent morphine injections, indicating a direct relationship between these two systems. The objective of this study was to characterize the distribution of CB1 receptors in the dorsolateral and ventrolateral PAG in relationship to mu-opioid peptide (MOP) receptors. Immunocytochemical analysis revealed extensive and diffuse CB1 receptor labeling in the PAG, 60% of which was found in somatodendritic profiles. CB1 and MOP receptor immunolabeling were co-localized in 32% of fluorescent Nissl-stained cells that were analyzed. Eight percent (8%) of PAG neurons that were MOP receptor-immunoreactive (-ir) received CB1 receptor-ir appositions. Ultrastructural analysis confirmed the presence of CB1 receptor-ir somata, dendrites and axon terminals in the PAG. These results indicate that behavioral interactions between cannabinoids and opioids may be the result of cellular adaptations within PAG neurons co-expressing CB1 and MOP receptors.
Trigeminal ganglia neurons express the GABA(A) receptor subunit alpha 6 (Gabr6) but the role of this particular subunit in orofacial hypersensitivity is unknown. In this report the function of Gabr6 was tested by reducing its expression in the trigeminal ganglia and measuring the effect of this reduction on inflammatory temporomandibular joint (TMJ) hypersensitivity. Gabr6 expression was reduced by infusing the trigeminal ganglia of male Sprague Dawley rats with small interfering RNA (siRNA) having homology to either the Gabr6 gene (Gabr6 siRNA) or no known gene (control siRNA). Sixty hours after siRNA infusion the rats received a bilateral TMJ injection of complete Freund's adjuvant to induce an inflammatory response. Hypersensitivity was then quantitated by measuring meal duration, which lengthens when hypersensitivity increases. Neuronal activity in the trigeminal ganglia was also measured by quantitating the amount of phosphorylated ERK. Rats in a different group that did not have TMJ inflammation had an electrode placed in the spinal cord at the level of C1 sixty hours after siRNA infusion to record extracellular electrical activity of neurons that responded to TMJ stimulation. Our results show that Gabr6 was expressed in both neurons and satellite glia of the trigeminal ganglia and that Gabr6 positive neurons within the trigeminal ganglia have afferents in the TMJ. Gabr6 siRNA infusion reduced Gabr6 gene expression by 30% and significantly lengthened meal duration in rats with TMJ inflammation. Gabr6 siRNA infusion also significantly increased p-ERK expression in the trigeminal ganglia of rats with TMJ inflammation and increased electrical activity in the spinal cord of rats without TMJ inflammation. These results suggest that maintaining Gabr6 expression was necessary to inhibit primary sensory afferents in the trigeminal pathway and reduce inflammatory orofacial nociception.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) can dramatically increase levels of intracellular calcium (Ca). The association between Wnt5a/Frizzled-2 (wingless-type mouse mammary tumor virus integration site family member 5a/Fzd2) signaling and Ca cellular homeostasis in lower vertebrates has been well documented. However, little is known about Wnt5a/Fzd2 signaling in mammalian nerve cells, or whether Ca accumulation after TBI is mediated through this pathway. We hypothesized that an activated Wnt5a/Fzd2 pathway following TBI may play a role in Ca overloading. To elucidate the influence of Fzd2 and the Wnt5a signal transduction pathway on an increase in intracellular Ca, we assessed the expression of Wnt5a/Fzd2 in rat hippocampal cells both in vitro and in vivo. We found that transfection of the rat Fzd2 gene in rat neonatal hippocampal astrocytes significantly increased gene expressions of both Wnt5a and Fzd2 by fourfold when compared to non-transfected cells (P&lt;0.01 in both cases). Expressions of the proteins Wnt5a and Fzd2 were significantly increased approximately two- and threefold, respectively, when compared to non-transfected control cells (P&lt;0.01 in both cases). Moreover, intracellular Ca, as manifested by the fluorescent intensity of the intracellular Ca indicator Fluo-3/AM, was significantly increased by 1.75-fold (P&lt;0.01). The blocking of Fzd2 signaling using Stealth RNAi markedly inhibited the elevated gene and protein expression of Wnt5a in the transfected cells by two- and fourfold, respectively (P&lt;0.01), and suppressed intracellular Ca by 1.5-fold (P&lt;0.01). Furthermore, in vivo, we demonstrated that TBI-induced dramatic upregulation of gene and protein expression of Wnt5a/Fzd2 by two- and fivefold (P&lt;0.01) in injured hippocampi, and intracellular Ca increased in isolated injured hippocampal cells. Whereas, the in vivo blocking of Fzd2 signaling by hippocampal delivery of Stealth RNAi and Invivofectamine significantly suppressed the increased gene and protein expression of Wnt5a and Fzd2 induced by TBI by 1- to 3.5-fold (P&lt;0.01) and also inhibited Ca accumulation by 1.5-fold (P&lt;0.01). These findings demonstrated that the Wnt5a/Fzd2 signaling pathway contributed to increasing intracellular Ca in nerve cells under physiological and pathological conditions. Furthermore, our findings provide evidence that specifically expressed components of this signal pathway, such as Wnt5a and Fzd2, are potential therapeutic targets following brain trauma.
Although short-term synaptic plasticity (STP) is ubiquitous in neocortical synapses its functional role in neural computations is not well understood. Critical to elucidating the function of STP will be to understand how STP itself changes with development and experience. Previous studies have reported developmental changes in STP using acute slices. It is not clear, however, to what extent the changes in STP are a function of local ontogenetic programs or the result of the many different sensory and experience-dependent changes that accompany development in vivo. To address this question we examined the in vitro development of STP in organotypic slices cultured for up to 4 weeks. Paired recordings were performed in L5 pyramidal neurons at different stages of in vitro development. We observed a shift in STP in the form of a decrease in the paired-pulse ratio (PPR) (less depression) from the second to fourth week in vitro. This shift in STP was not accompanied by a change in initial excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) amplitude. Fitting STP to a quantitative model indicated that the developmental shift is consistent with presynaptic changes. Importantly, despite the change in the PPR we did not observe changes in the time constant governing STP. Since these experiments were conducted in vitro our results indicate that the shift in STP does not depend on in vivo sensory experience. Although sensory experience may shape STP, we suggest that developmental shifts in STP are at least in part ontogenetically determined.
Hippocampal theta rhythm (4-12 Hz) can be observed during locomotor behavior, but findings on the relationship between locomotion speed and theta frequency are inconsistent if not contradictory. The inconsistency may be because of the difficulties that previous analyses and protocols have had excluding the effects of behavior training. We recorded the first or second voluntary wheel running each day, and assumed that theta frequency and activity are correlated with speed in different running phases. By simultaneously recording electroencephalography, physical activity, and wheel running speed, this experiment explored the theta oscillations during spontaneous running of the 12-h dark period. The recording was completely wireless and allowed the animal to run freely while being recorded in the wheel. Theta frequency and theta power of middle frequency were elevated before running and theta frequency, theta power of middle frequency, physical activity, and running speed maintained persistently high levels during running. The slopes of the theta frequency and theta activity (4-9.5 Hz) during the initial running were different compared to the same values during subsequent running. During the initial running, the running speed was positively correlated with theta frequency and with theta power of middle frequency. Over the 12-h dark period, the running speed did not positively correlate with theta frequency but was significantly correlated with theta power of middle frequency. Thus, theta frequency was associated with running speed only at the initiation of running. Furthermore, theta power of middle frequency was associated with speed and with physical activity during running when chronological order was not taken into consideration.
The neuromodulator adenosine maintains brain homeostasis and regulates complex behaviour via activation of inhibitory and excitatory adenosine receptors (ARs) in a brain region-specific manner. AR antagonists such as caffeine have been shown to ameliorate cognitive impairments in animal disease models but their effects on learning and memory in normal animals are equivocal. An alternative approach to reduce AR activation is to lower the extracellular tone of adenosine, which can be achieved by up-regulating adenosine kinase (ADK), the key enzyme of metabolic adenosine clearance. However, mice that globally over-express an Adk transgene ('Adk-tg' mice) were devoid of a caffeine-like pro-cognitive profile; they instead exhibited severe spatial memory deficits. This may be mechanistically linked to cortical/hippocampal N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) hypofunction because the motor response to acute MK-801 was also potentiated in Adk-tg mice. Here, we evaluated the extent to which the behavioural phenotypes of Adk-tg mice might be modifiable by up-regulating adenosine levels in the cortex/hippocampus. To this end, we investigated mutant 'fb-Adk-def' mice in which ADK expression was specifically reduced in the telencephalon leading to a selective increase in cortical/hippocampal adenosine, while the rest of the brain remained as adenosine-deficient as in Adk-tg mice. The fb-Adk-def mice showed an even greater impairment in spatial working memory and a more pronounced motor response to NMDAR blockade than Adk-tg mice. These outcomes suggest that maintenance of cortical/hippocampal adenosine homeostasis is essential for effective spatial memory and deviation in either direction is detrimental with increased expression seemingly more disruptive than decreased expression.
Autophagy, the bulk intracellular degradation of cytoplasmic constituents, can be a pro-survival or a pro-death mechanism depending on the context. A recent study showed that autophagy was activated in the phase of early brain injury following subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). However, whether autophagy activation after SAH is protective or harmful is still elusive. This study was undertaken to determine the potential role of autophagy pathway activation in early brain injury following SAH. The rats were pretreated with intracerebral ventricular infusion of either the autophagy inducer rapamycin (RAP) or inhibitor 3-methyladenine (3-MA) before SAH onset. The results from electron microscopic examinations showed that RAP administration caused the formation of autophagosomal vacuoles, and 3-MA induced neuronal apoptosis. RAP treatment significantly increased the expression of autophagic proteins Atg5 and Beclin 1, the ratio of microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3)-II to LC3-I and reduced caspase-3 activity, the number of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick end labeling (TUNEL)-positive cells, brain edema and neurological deficits after SAH. Conversely, 3-MA treatment exacerbated early brain injury. RAP treatment significantly increased the expression of the autophagic proteins Atg5 and Beclin 1, the ratio of LC3-II to LC3-I and reduced caspase-3 activity, the number of TUNEL-positive cells, brain edema and neurological deficits after SAH. Conversely, 3-MA treatment reversed these changes and exacerbated early brain injury. To further clarify the mechanism of autophagy protection, we investigated the expression levels of key apoptosis-related molecules. The results showed that RAP administration decreased Bax translocation to the mitochondria and downstream cytochrome c release from the mitochondria to the cytosol. Taken together, our study indicates that activation of autophagic pathways reduces early brain injury after SAH. This neuroprotective effect is likely exerted by anti-apoptotic mechanisms.
This study examined the relationship between head and trunk sway during quiet stance and compared this relationship with that of the pelvis to the trunk. Sixteen younger and 14 elderly subjects participated, performing four different sensory tasks: standing quietly on a firm or foam support surface, with eyes open or closed. Roll and pitch angular velocities were recorded with six body-worn gyroscopes; a set of two mounted at the upper trunk, an identical set at the hips, and another set on a head band. Angle correlation analysis was performed in three frequency bands: below 0.7 Hz (LP), above 3 Hz (HP) and in between (BP) using the integrated angle velocity signals. Angular velocities were spectrally analysed. Greater head than trunk motion was observed in angle correlations, power spectral density (PSD) ratios, and transfer functions (TFs). Head on trunk motion could be divided for all sensory conditions into a low-frequency (&lt;0.7 Hz) &quot;head locked to trunk&quot; inverted pendulum mode, a mid-frequency (ca. 3 Hz), resonant mode, and a slightly anti-phasic head motion on stabilised trunk, high-frequency (&gt;3 Hz) mode. There was coherent motion between head and trunk but not between head and pelvis. Trunk and pelvis data were consistent with previously reported in-phase and anti-phase movements between these segments. Significant age differences were not found. These data indicate that during quiet stance body motion increases in the order of pelvis, trunk, head and quiet stance involves control of at least two separate links: trunk on pelvis and head on trunk dominated by head resonance. The head is locked to the trunk for low-frequency motion possibly because motion is just supra-vestibular threshold. The head is not stabilised in space during stance, rather the pelvis is.
Preclinical as well as limited clinical studies indicate that ketamine, a non-competitive glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, may exert a quick and prolonged antidepressant effect. It has been postulated that ketamine action is due to inhibition of NMDA and stimulation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptors. Here, we sought to determine whether ketamine would exert antidepressant effects in Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats, a putative animal model of depression and whether this effect would be associated with changes in AMPA/NMDA receptor densities in the hippocampus. Adult female WKY rats and their control Wistar rats were subjected to acute and chronic ketamine doses and their locomotor activity (LMA) and immobility in the forced swim test (FST) were evaluated. Hippocampal AMPA and NMDA receptor densities were also measured following a chronic ketamine dose. Ketamine, both acutely (0.5-5.0 mg/kg i.p.) and chronically (0.5-2.5 mg/kg daily for 10 days) resulted in a dose-dependent and prolonged decrease in immobility in FST in WKY rats only, suggesting an antidepressant-like effect in this model. Chronic treatment with an effective dose of ketamine also resulted in an increase in AMPA/NMDA receptor density ratio in the hippocampus of WKY rats. LMA was not affected by any ketamine treatment in either strain. These results indicate a rapid and lasting antidepressant-like effect of a low ketamine dose in WKY rat model of depression. Moreover, the increase in AMPA/NMDA receptor density in the hippocampus could be a contributory factor to behavioral effects of ketamine. These findings suggest potential therapeutic benefit in simultaneous reduction of central NMDA and elevation of AMPA receptor function in treatment of depression.
In response to changing day lengths, small photoperiodic rodents have evolved a suite of adaptations to survive the energetic bottlenecks of winter. Among these adaptations are changes in metabolism, adiposity, and energy balance. Whereas hypothalamic and neuroendocrine regulation of these adaptations has been extensively studied, the impact of day length, and interaction of day length and stress, on the energy balance of neurons within the central nervous system remains unspecified. Thus, we exposed male Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus) to either short or long day lengths for 14 weeks to induce the full suite of adaptive responses, exposed them to 4h of restraint, and then measured relative mRNA expression in the hippocampus for low- and high-affinity glucocorticoid receptors (glucocorticoid receptor (GR), mineralocorticoid receptor (MR)), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and the neuron-specific glucose transporter GLUT3. Independent of photoperiod, restraint elevated plasma cortisol (CORT) concentrations and reduced expression of GR, MR, and BDNF. Neither restraint nor photoperiod significantly altered GLUT3 expression. Among all groups, plasma cortisol concentrations were negatively correlated with GR and MR expression. MR, BDNF, and GLUT3 levels were positively correlated with one another, even when controlling for photoperiod and CORT. Taken together, these results suggest that, as peripheral energy balance changes across day length in this photoperiodic species, the neurons of the hippocampus do not alter relative gene expression levels of three proteins involved in monitoring neuronal glucose regulation and morphology.
Oligodendrocytes generate large amounts of myelin by extension of their cell membranes. Though lipid is the major component of myelin, detailed lipid metabolism in the maintenance of myelin is not understood. We reported previously that miR-32 might be involved in myelin maintenance (Shin et al., 2009). Here we demonstrate a novel role for miR-32 in oligodendrocyte function and development through the regulation of SLC45A3 (solute carrier family 45, member 3) and other downstream targets such as CLDN-11. miR-32 is highly expressed in the myelin-enriched regions of the brain and mature oligodendrocytes, and it promotes myelin protein expression. We found that miR-32 directly regulates the expression of SLC45A3 by binding to the complementary sequence on the 3'UTR of cldn11 and slc45a3. As a myelin-enriched putative sugar transporter, SLC45A3 enhances intracellular glucose levels and the synthesis of long-chain fatty acids. Therefore, overexpression of SLC45A3 triggers neutral lipid accumulation. Interestingly, both overexpression and suppression of SLC45A3 reduces myelin protein expression in mature oligodendrocytes and alters oligodendrocyte morphology, indicating that tight regulation of SLC45A3 expression is necessary for the proper maintenance of myelin proteins and structure. Taken together, our data suggest that miR-32 and its downstream target SLC45A3 play important roles in myelin maintenance by modulating glucose and lipid metabolism and myelin protein expression in oligodendrocytes.
Alcoholism is a chronic disorder characterized by the appearance of a withdrawal syndrome following the abrupt cessation of alcohol intake that includes symptoms of physical and emotional disturbances, anxiety being the most prevalent symptom. In humans, it was shown that anxiety may increase the probability of relapse. In laboratory animals, however, the use of anxiety to predict alcohol preference has remained difficult. Excitatory amino acids as glutamate have been implicated in alcohol hangover and may be responsible for the seizures and anxiety observed during withdrawal. The dorsal periaqueductal gray (DPAG) is a midbrain region critical for the modulation/expression of anxiety- and fear-related behaviors and the propagation of seizures induced by alcohol withdrawal, the glutamate neurotransmission being one of the most affected. The present study was designed to evaluate whether low- (LA) and high-anxiety rats (HA), tested during the alcohol hangover phase, in which anxiety is the most prevalent symptom, are more sensitive to the reinforcing effects of alcohol when tested in a voluntary alcohol drinking procedure. Additionally, we were interested in investigating the main effects of reducing the excitatory tonus of the dorsal midbrain, after the blockade of the ionotropic glutamate receptors into the DPAG, on the voluntary alcohol intake of HA and LA motivated rats that were made previously experienced with the free operant response of alcohol drinking. For this purpose, we used local infusions of the N-metil D-Aspartato (NMDA) and -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)-kainate receptors antagonist DL-2-Amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid - DL-AP7 (10 nmol/0.2 l) and l-glutamic acid diethyl ester - GDEE (160 nmol/0.2 l), respectively. Alcohol intoxication was produced by 10 daily bolus intraperitonial (IP) injections of alcohol (2.0 g/kg). Peak-blood alcohol levels were determined by gas-chromatography analysis in order to assess blood-alcohol content. Unconditioned and conditioned anxiety-like behavior was assessed by the use of the fear-potentiated startle procedure (FPS). Data collected showed that anxiety and alcohol drinking in HA animals are positively correlated in animals that were made previously familiarized with the anxiolytic effects of alcohol. In addition, anxiety-like behavior induced during alcohol hangover seems to be an effect of changes in glutamatergic neurotransmission into DPAG possibly involving AMPA/kainate and NMDA receptors, among others.
The event-related potential (ERP) mainly reflecting activation of the frontal lobe was measured during periodic floor oscillation, and changes in postural preparation and attention to the postural disturbance according to this adaptation were investigated. The experiment consisted of two tasks with eyes closed: adaptation to floor oscillation and finger flexion coinciding with the anterior and posterior reversals of oscillation. Subjects were 20 healthy young adults. They maintained a standing posture for 1 min (1 trial) on the force platform which oscillated in the anteroposterior direction at 0.5 Hz and an amplitude of 2.5 cm. ERP from a Cz electrode, activity of postural muscles and the center of foot pressure in the anteroposterior direction (CoPy) were analyzed. In the adaptation task, the speeds of CoPy fluctuation gradually decreased and reached a plateau between 4th and 14th trials, with inter-subject differences. Posterior postural muscles were activated in response to the anterior reversal of oscillation according to adaptation and also in the finger flexion task, with the largest activation of the gastrocnemius (GcM). A negative ERP peak was observed to occur locally around the anterior reversal of oscillation after adaptation. The peak ERP time had the strongest positive correlation with the peak activation time of the GcM, and the amplitude of the negative peak decreased with adaptation. In the finger flexion task, a negative ERP peak was observed around each target point. This negative peak was related to the anticipatory attention directed to the reversal point and to motor preparation for finger flexion. It is conceivable that the increasing negative ERP in the adaptation task reflects the dynamics of motor preparation and attention mainly for the anterior reversal, where the negative ERP peak is closely related to anticipatory information processing of somatosensory stimuli arising around the time of the reversal.

In mammals, olfactory bulb granule cells (GCs) are generated throughout life in the subventricular zone. GABAergic inputs onto newborn neurons likely regulate their maturation, but the details of this process remain still elusive. Here, we investigated the differentiation, synaptic integration, and survival of adult-born GCs when their afferent GABAergic inputs are challenged by conditional gene targeting. Migrating GC precursors were targeted with Cre-eGFP-expressing lentiviral vectors in mice with a floxed gene encoding the GABA(A) receptor 2-subunit (i.e., Gabra2). Ablation of the 2-subunit did not affect GC survival but dramatically delayed their maturation. We found a reduction in postsynaptic 2-subunit and gephyrin clusters accompanied by a decrease in the frequency and amplitude of GABAergic postsynaptic currents beginning 14 d post-injection (dpi). In addition, mutant cells exhibited altered dendritic branching and spine density. Spine loss appeared with mislocation of glutamatergic synapses on dendritic shafts and a reduction of spontaneous glutamatergic postsynaptic currents, underscoring the relevance of afferent GABAergic transmission for a proper synaptic integration of newborn GCs. To test the role of GABAergic signaling during much early stages of GC maturation, we used a genetic strategy to selectively inactivate Gabra2 in precursor cells of the subventricular zone. In these mice, labeling of newborn GCs with eGFP lentiviruses revealed similar morphological alterations as seen on delayed Gabra2 inactivation in migrating neuroblasts, with reduced dendritic branching and spine density at 7 dpi. Collectively, these results emphasize the critical role of GABAergic synaptic signaling for structural maturation of adult-born GCs and formation of glutamatergic synapses.
Stellate cells in layer II of medial entorhinal cortex (mEC) are endowed with a large hyperpolarization-activated cation current [h current (I(h))]. Recent work using in vivo recordings from awake behaving rodents demonstrate that I(h) plays a significant role in regulating the characteristic spatial periodicity of &quot;grid cells&quot; in mEC. A separate, yet related, line of research demonstrates that grid field spacing changes as a function of behavioral context. To understand the neural mechanism or mechanisms that could be underlying these changes in grid spacing, we have conducted voltage-clamp recordings of I(h) in layer II stellate cells. In particular, we have studied I(h) under the influence of several neuromodulators. The results demonstrate that I(h) amplitude can be both upregulated and downregulated through activation of distinct neuromodulators in mEC. Activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors produces a significant decrease in the I(h) tail current and a hyperpolarizing shift in the activation, whereas upregulation of cAMP through application of forskolin produces a significant increase in the I(h) amplitude and a depolarizing shift in I(h) activation curve. In addition, there was evidence of differential modulation of I(h) along the dorsal-ventral axis of mEC. Voltage-clamp protocols were also used to determine whether M current is present in stellate cells. In contrast to CA1 pyramidal neurons, which express M current, the data demonstrate that M current is not present in stellate cells. The results from this study provide key insights into a potential mechanism that could be underlying changes seen in grid field spacing during distinct behavioral contexts.
Bone marrow contains heterogeneous cell types including end-lineage cells, committed tissue progenitors, and multipotent stem/progenitor cells. The immense plasticity of bone marrow cells allows them to populate diverse tissues such as the encephalon, and give rise to a variety of cell types. This unique plasticity makes bone marrow-derived cells good candidates for cell therapy aiming at restoring impaired brain circuits. In the present study, bone marrow cells were transplanted into P20 mice that exhibit selective olfactory degeneration in adulthood between P60 and P150. These animals, the so-called Purkinje Cell Degeneration (PCD) mutant mice, suffer from a progressive and specific loss of a subpopulation of principal neurons of the olfactory bulb, the mitral cells (MCs), sparing the other principal neurons, the tufted cells. As such, PCD mice constitute an interesting model to evaluate the specific role of MCs in olfaction and to test the restorative function of transplanted bone marrow-derived cells. Using precision olfactometry, we revealed that mutant mice lacking MCs exhibited a deficit in odorant detection and discrimination. Remarkably, the transplantation of wild-type bone marrow-derived cells into irradiated PCD mutant mice generated a large population of microglial cells in the olfactory bulb and reduced the degenerative process. The alleviation of MC loss in transplanted mice was accompanied by functional recovery witnessed by significantly improved olfactory detection and enhanced odor discrimination. Together, these data suggest that: (1) bone marrow-derived cells represent an effective neuroprotective tool to restore degenerative brain circuits, and (2) MCs are necessary to encode odor concentration and odor identity in the mouse olfactory bulb.
Sensory and motor systems interact closely during movement performance. Furthermore, proprioceptive feedback from ongoing movements provides an important input for successful learning of a new motor skill. Here, we show in humans that attention to proprioceptive input during a purely sensory task can influence subsequent learning of a novel motor task. We applied low-amplitude vibration to the abductor pollicis brevis (APB) muscle of eight healthy volunteers for 15 min while they discriminated either a small change in vibration frequency or the presence of a simultaneous weak cutaneous stimulus. Before and after the sensory attention tasks, we evaluated the following in separate experiments: (1) sensorimotor interaction in the motor cortex by testing the efficacy of proprioceptive input to reduce GABA(A)ergic intracortical inhibition using paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation, and (2) how well the same subjects learned a ballistic thumb abduction task using the APB muscle. Performance of the vibration discrimination task increased the interaction of proprioceptive input with motor cortex excitability in the APB muscle, whereas performance in the cutaneous discrimination task had the opposite effect. There was a significant correlation between the integration of proprioceptive input in the motor cortex and the motor learning gain: increasing the integration of proprioceptive input from the APB increased the rate of motor learning and reduced performance variability, while decreasing proprioceptive integration had opposite effects. These findings suggest that the sensory attention tasks transiently change how proprioceptive input is integrated into the motor cortex and that these sensory changes drive subsequent learning behavior in the human motor cortex.
Neural circuits associated with motivated declarative encoding and active threat avoidance have both been described, but the relative contribution of these systems to punishment-motivated encoding remains unknown. The current study used functional magnetic resonance imaging in humans to examine mechanisms of declarative memory enhancement when subjects were motivated to avoid punishments that were contingent on forgetting. A motivational cue on each trial informed participants whether they would be punished or not for forgetting an upcoming scene image. Items associated with the threat of shock were better recognized 24 h later. Punishment-motivated enhancements in subsequent memory were associated with anticipatory activation of right amygdala and increases in its functional connectivity with parahippocampal and orbitofrontal cortices. On a trial-by-trial basis, right amygdala activation during the motivational cue predicted hippocampal activation during encoding of the subsequent scene; across participants, the strength of this interaction predicted memory advantages due to motivation. Of note, punishment-motivated learning was not associated with activation of dopaminergic midbrain, as would be predicted by valence-independent models of motivation to learn. These data are consistent with the view that motivation by punishment activates the amygdala, which in turn prepares the medial temporal lobe for memory formation. The findings further suggest a brain system for declarative learning motivated by punishment that is distinct from that for learning motivated by reward.
Neural activity has been suggested to initially trigger ATP production by glycolysis, rather than oxidative phosphorylation, for three reasons: glycolytic enzymes are associated with ion pumps; neurons may increase their energy supply by activating glycolysis in astrocytes to generate lactate; and activity increases glucose uptake more than O uptake. In rat hippocampal slices, neuronal activity rapidly decreased the levels of extracellular O and intracellular NADH (reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide), even with lactate dehydrogenase blocked to prevent lactate generation, or with only 20% superfused O to mimic physiological O levels. Pharmacological analysis revealed an energy budget in which 11% of O use was on presynaptic action potentials, 17% was on presynaptic Ca entry and transmitter release, 46% was on postsynaptic glutamate receptors, and 26% was on postsynaptic action potentials, in approximate accord with theoretical brain energy budgets. Thus, the major mechanisms mediating brain information processing are all initially powered by oxidative phosphorylation, and an astrocyte-neuron lactate shuttle is not needed for this to occur.
New neurons are continuously generated from neural stem cells with astrocyte properties, which reside in close proximity to the ventricle in the postnatal and adult brain. In this study we found that microRNA-124 (miR-124) dictates postnatal neurogenesis in the mouse subventricular zone. Using a transgenic reporter mouse we show that miR-124 expression is initiated in the rapid amplifying progenitors and remains expressed in the resulting neurons. When we stably inhibited miR-124 in vivo, neurogenesis was blocked, leading to the appearance of ectopic cells with astrocyte characteristics in the olfactory bulb. Conversely, when we overexpressed miR-124, neural stem cells were not maintained in the subventricular zone and neurogenesis was lost. In summary, our results demonstrate that miR-124 is a neuronal fate determinant in the subventricular zone.
Although it is well established that remembering an item will bring to mind memories of other semantically related items (Bousfield, 1953), the neural basis of this phenomenon is poorly understood. We studied how the similarity relations among items influence their retrieval by analyzing electrocorticographic recordings taken as 46 human neurosurgical patients studied and freely recalled lists of words. We first identified semantic components of neural activity that varied systematically with the meanings of each studied word, as defined by latent semantic analysis (Landauer and Dumais, 1997). We then examined the dynamics of these semantic components as participants attempted to recall the previously studied words. Our analyses revealed that the semantic components of neural activity were spontaneously reactivated during memory search, just before recall of the studied words. Further, the degree to which neural activity correlated with semantic similarity during recall predicted participants' tendencies to organize the sequences of their responses on the basis of semantic similarity. Thus, our work shows that differences in the neural correlates of semantic information, and how they are reactivated before recall, reveal how individuals organize and retrieve memories of words.
Wrapping of the myelin sheath around axons by oligodendrocytes is critical for the rapid conduction of electrical signals required for the normal functioning of the CNS. Myelination is a multistep process where oligodendrocytes progress through a well coordinated differentiation program regulated by multiple extracellular growth and differentiation signals. The intracellular transduction of the extracellular signals that regulate myelination is poorly understood. Here we demonstrate a critical role for two important signaling molecules, extracelluar signal-regulated protein kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/ERK2), downstream mediators of mitogen-activated protein kinases, in the control of CNS myelin thickness. We generated and analyzed two lines of mice lacking both ERK1/ERK2 function specifically in oligodendrocyte-lineage cells. In the absence of ERK1/ERK2 signaling NG2 oligodendrocyte progenitor cells proliferated and differentiated on schedule. Mutant oligodendrocytes also ensheathed axons normally and made a few wraps of compact myelin. However, the subsequent increase in myelination that correlated myelin thickness in proportion to the axon caliber failed to occur. Furthermore, although the numbers of differentiated oligodendrocytes in the adult mutants were unchanged, they showed an inability to upregulate the transcription of major myelin genes that normally occurs during active myelination. Similarly, in vitro ERK1/ERK2-deficient oligodendrocytes differentiated normally but failed to form typical myelin-like membrane sheets. None of these effects were observed in single ERK1 or ERK2 mutants. These studies suggest that the predominant role of ERK1/ERK2 signaling in vivo is in promoting rapid myelin growth to increase its thickness, subsequent to oligodendrocyte differentiation and the initiation of myelination.
Hypothalamic gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons integrate the multiple internal and external cues that regulate sexual reproduction. In contrast to other neurons that exhibit extensive dendritic arbors, GnRH neurons usually have a single dendrite with relatively little branching. This largely precludes the integration strategy in which a single dendritic branch serves as a unit of integration. In the present study, we identify a gradient in L-type calcium channels in dendrites of mouse GnRH neurons and its interaction with GABAergic and glutamatergic inputs. Higher levels of L-type calcium channels are in somata/proximal dendrites (i.e., 0-26 m) and distal dendrites (130 m dendrite length), but intervening midlengths of dendrite (27-130 m) have reduced L-type calcium channels. Using uncaging of GABA, there is a decreasing GABAergic influence along the dendrite and the impact of GABA(A) receptors is dependent on activation of L-type calcium channels. This results in amplification of proximal GABAergic signals and attenuation of distal dendritic signals. Most interestingly, the intervening dendritic regions create a filter through which only relatively high-amplitude, low-frequency GABAergic signaling to dendrites elicits action potentials. The findings of the present study suggest that GnRH dendrites adopt an integration strategy whereby segments of single nonbranching GnRH dendrites create functional microdomains and thus serve as units of integration.


The water channel aquaporin-4 (AQP4) is important in brain water homeostasis, and is also involved in astrocyte growth and glial scar formation. It has been reported that AQP4 deficiency attenuates acute ischemic brain injury as a result of reducing cytotoxic edema. Here, we determined whether AQP4 deficiency influences chronic brain injury after focal cerebral ischemia induced by 30 min of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). AQP4(-/-) mice exhibited a lower survival rate and less body weight gain than wild-type mice, but their neurological deficits were similar to wild-type mice during 35 days after MCAO. At 35 days after MCAO, AQP4(-/-) mice showed more severe brain atrophy and cavity formation in the ischemic hemisphere as well as more neuronal loss in the hippocampus. Furthermore, astrocyte proliferation and glial scar formation were impaired in AQP4(-/-) mice. Therefore, AQP4 deficiency complicated by astrocyte dysfunction aggravates chronic brain injury after focal cerebral ischemia, suggesting that AQP4 may be important in the chronic phase of the post-ischemic recovery process.
The RNA-binding protein TDP-43 is strongly linked to neurodegeneration. Not only are mutations in the gene encoding TDP-43 associated with ALS and FTLD, but this protein is also a major constituent of pathological intracellular inclusions in these diseases. Recent studies have significantly expanded our understanding of TDP-43 physiology. TDP-43 is now known to play important roles in neuronal RNA metabolism. It binds to and regulates the splicing and stability of numerous RNAs encoding proteins involved in neuronal development, synaptic function and neurodegeneration. Thus, a loss of these essential functions is an attractive hypothesis regarding the role of TDP-43 in neurodegeneration. Moreover, TDP-43 is an aggregation-prone protein and, given the role of toxic protein aggregates in neurodegeneration, a toxic gain-of-function mechanism is another rational hypothesis. Importantly, ALS related mutations modulate the propensity of TDP-43 to aggregate in cell culture. Several recent studies have documented that cytoplasmic TDP-43 aggregates co-localize with stress granule markers. Stress granules are cytoplasmic inclusions that repress translation of a subset of RNAs in times of cellular stress, and several proteins implicated in neurodegeneration (i.e. Ataxin-2 and SMN) interact with stress granules. Thus, understanding the interplay between TDP-43 aggregation, stress granules and the effect of ALS-associated TDP-43 mutations may be the key to understanding the role of TDP-43 in neurodegeneration. We propose two models of TDP-43 aggregate formation. The &quot;independent model&quot; stipulates that TDP-43 aggregation is independent of stress granule formation, in contrast to the &quot;precursor model&quot; which presents the idea that stress granule formation contributes to a TDP-43 aggregate &quot;seed&quot; and that chronic stress leads to concentration-dependent TDP-43 aggregation. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: RNA-Binding Proteins.
Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), a neurodegenerative disease primarily affecting the frontal and temporal lobes, is one of the most common types of dementia. While the majority of FTLD cases are sporadic, approximately 10-40% of patients have an inherited form of FTLD. Mutations in the progranulin gene (GRN) have recently been identified as a major cause of FTLD with ubiquitin positive inclusions (FTLD-U). Because over 70 disease-linked GRN mutations cause abnormal deficiencies in the production of PGRN, a protein that plays a crucial role in embryogenesis, cell growth and survival, wound repair and inflammation, researchers now aim to design therapies that would increase PGRN levels in affected individuals, thereby alleviating the symptoms associated with disease. Several compounds and genetic factors, as well as PGRN receptors, have recently been identified because of their ability to regulate PGRN levels. Strict quality control measures are needed given that extreme PGRN levels at either end of the spectrum - too low or too high - can lead to neurodegeneration or cancer, respectively. The aim of this review is to highlight what is known regarding PGRN biology; to improve understanding of the mechanisms involved in regulating PGRN levels and highlight studies that are laying the groundwork for the development of effective therapeutic modulators of PGRN. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled RNA-Binding Proteins.
Acute infectious and chronic diarrheal diseases are important public health problems. A recent study by Fiskerstrand and colleagues identified a family with a rare early onset familial diarrhea. By linkage analysis and exon sequencing, the authors identified a heterozygous missense mutation in GUCY2C, encoding the guanylate cyclase C receptor, which is involved in intestinal secretion. This newly identified gene in the etiology of a familial diarrhea provides a candidate target for the development not only of new treatments for diarrhea, but also of a new drug class to treat constipation.
It is well known that anesthesia alters neural response properties in various regions of the brain. In the auditory system, fundamental response properties of brainstem neurons including threshold, frequency specificity, and inhibitory sidebands are altered in significant ways under anesthesia. These observations prompted physiologists to seek ways to record from single neurons without the contaminating effects of anesthesia. One result was a decerebrate preparation, where the brainstem was completely transected at the level of the midbrain. The drawbacks of this preparation are a formidable surgery, the elimination of descending projections from the forebrain, and an inability to use sensory stimulation to examine structures above the midbrain. A different strategy has been to implant electrode arrays chronically to record from single neurons and multiunit clusters while the animal is awake and/or behaving. These techniques however are not compatible with injecting tracer dyes after first electrophysiologically characterizing a brain structure. To avoid altering neural response properties with anesthetics while recording electrophysiological response properties from single neurons, we have adapted a head restraint technique long used in bats to mouse. Using this method, we are able to conduct electrophysiological recordings over several days in the unanesthetized mouse. At the end of the recording sessions, we can then inject a dye to reconstruct electrode positions and recording sites or inject a tracer so that pathways to and from the recording loci can be determined. This method allows for well isolated single neuron recordings over multiple days without the use anesthetics.
Information acquired during waking can be reactivated during sleep, promoting memory stabilization. After people learned to produce two melodies in time with moving visual symbols, we enhanced relative performance by presenting one melody during an afternoon nap. Electrophysiological signs of memory processing during sleep corroborated the notion that appropriate auditory stimulation that does not disrupt sleep can nevertheless bias memory consolidation in relevant brain circuitry.
As the racial composition of the population changes, intergroup interactions are increasingly common. To understand how we perceive and categorize race and the attitudes that flow from it, scientists have used brain imaging techniques to examine how social categories of race and ethnicity are processed, evaluated and incorporated in decision-making. We review these findings, focusing on black and white race categories. A network of interacting brain regions is important in the unintentional, implicit expression of racial attitudes and its control. On the basis of the overlap in the neural circuitry of race, emotion and decision-making, we speculate as to how this emerging research might inform how we recognize and respond to variations in race and its influence on unintended race-based attitudes and decisions.
Evolution by natural selection, the unifying theory of all biological sciences, provides a basis for understanding how phenotypic variability is generated at all levels of organization from genes to behavior. However, it is important to distinguish what is the target of selection vs. what is transmitted across generations. Physical traits, behaviors, and the extended phenotype are all selected features of an individual, but genes that covary with different aspects of the targets of selection are inherited. Here we review the variability in cortical organization, morphology, and behavior that have been observed across species and describe similar types of variability within species. We examine sources of variability and the constraints that limit the types of changes that evolution has and can produce. Finally, we underscore the importance of how genes and genetic regulatory networks are deployed and interact within an individual, and their relationship to external, physical forces within the environment that shape the ultimate phenotype.
Assembly of a functioning neuronal synapse requires the precisely coordinated synthesis of many proteins. To understand the evolution of this complex cellular machine, we tracked the developmental expression patterns of a core set of conserved synaptic genes across a representative sampling of the animal kingdom. Coregulation, as measured by correlation of gene expression over development, showed a marked increase as functional nervous systems emerged. In the earliest branching animal phyla (Porifera), in which a nearly complete set of synaptic genes exists in the absence of morphological synapses, these &quot;protosynaptic&quot; genes displayed a lack of global coregulation although small modules of coexpressed genes are readily detectable by using network analysis techniques. These findings suggest that functional synapses evolved by exapting preexisting cellular machines, likely through some modification of regulatory circuitry. Evolutionarily ancient modules continue to operate seamlessly within the synapses of modern animals. This work shows that the application of network techniques to emerging genomic and expression data can provide insights into the evolution of complex cellular machines such as the synapse.
Understanding the evolution of centralized nervous systems requires an understanding of metazoan phylogenetic interrelationships, their fossil record, the variation in their cephalic neural characters, and the development of these characters. Each of these topics involves comparative approaches, and both cladistic and phenetic methodologies have been applied. Our understanding of metazoan phylogeny has increased greatly with the cladistic analysis of molecular data, and relaxed molecular clocks generally date the origin of bilaterians at 600-700 Mya (during the Ediacaran). Although the taxonomic affinities of the Ediacaran biota remain uncertain, a conservative interpretation suggests that a number of these taxa form clades that are closely related, if not stem clades of bilaterian crown clades. Analysis of brain-body complexity among extant bilaterians indicates that diffuse nerve nets and possibly, ganglionated cephalic neural systems existed in Ediacaran organisms. An outgroup analysis of cephalic neural characters among extant metazoans also indicates that the last common bilaterian ancestor possessed a diffuse nerve plexus and that brains evolved independently at least four times. In contrast, the hypothesis of a tripartite brain, based primarily on phenetic analysis of developmental genetic data, indicates that the brain arose in the last common bilaterian ancestor. Hopefully, this debate will be resolved by cladistic analysis of the genomes of additional taxa and an increased understanding of character identity genetic networks.
A fundamental problem in meta-analysis is how to systematically combine information from multiple statistical tests to rigorously evaluate a single overarching hypothesis. This problem occurs in systems biology when attempting to map genomic attributes to complex phenotypes such as behavior. Behavior and other complex phenotypes are influenced by intrinsic and environmental determinants that act on the transcriptome, but little is known about how these determinants interact at the molecular level. We developed an informatic technique that identifies statistically significant meta-associations between gene expression patterns and transcription factor combinations. Deploying this technique for brain transcriptome profiles from ca. 400 individual bees, we show that diverse determinants of behavior rely on shared combinations of transcription factors. These relationships were revealed only when we considered complex and variable regulatory rules, suggesting that these shared transcription factors are used in distinct ways by different determinants. This regulatory code would have been missed by traditional gene coexpression or cis-regulatory analytic methods. We expect that our meta-analysis tools will be useful for a broad array of problems in systems biology and other fields.
The cyclin-dependent kinase Cdc28 is the master regulator of the cell cycle in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Cdc28 initiates the cell cycle by activating cell-cycle-specific transcription factors that switch on a transcriptional program during late G1 phase. Cdc28 also has a cell-cycle-independent, direct function in regulating basal transcription, which does not require its catalytic activity. However, the exact role of Cdc28 in basal transcription remains poorly understood, and a function for its kinase activity has not been fully explored. Here we show that the catalytic activity of Cdc28 is important for basal transcription. Using a chemical-genetic screen for mutants that specifically require the kinase activity of Cdc28 for viability, we identified a plethora of basal transcription factors. In particular, CDC28 interacts genetically with genes encoding kinases that phosphorylate the C-terminal domain of RNA polymerase II, such as KIN28. ChIP followed by high-throughput sequencing (ChIP-seq) revealed that Cdc28 localizes to at least 200 genes, primarily with functions in cellular homeostasis, such as the plasma membrane proton pump PMA1. Transcription of PMA1 peaks early in the cell cycle, even though the promoter sequences of PMA1 (as well as the other Cdc28-enriched ORFs) lack cell-cycle elements, and PMA1 does not recruit Swi4/6-dependent cell-cycle box-binding factor/MluI cell-cycle box binding factor complexes. Finally, we found that recruitment of Cdc28 and Kin28 to PMA1 is mutually dependent and that the activity of both kinases is required for full phosphorylation of C-terminal domain-Ser5, for efficient transcription, and for mRNA capping. Our results reveal a mechanism of cell-cycle-dependent regulation of basal transcription.
The mathematical theory of compressed sensing (CS) asserts that one can acquire signals from measurements whose rate is much lower than the total bandwidth. Whereas the CS theory is now well developed, challenges concerning hardware implementations of CS-based acquisition devices--especially in optics--have only started being addressed. This paper presents an implementation of compressive sensing in fluorescence microscopy and its applications to biomedical imaging. Our CS microscope combines a dynamic structured wide-field illumination and a fast and sensitive single-point fluorescence detection to enable reconstructions of images of fluorescent beads, cells, and tissues with undersampling ratios (between the number of pixels and number of measurements) up to 32. We further demonstrate a hyperspectral mode and record images with 128 spectral channels and undersampling ratios up to 64, illustrating the potential benefits of CS acquisition for higher-dimensional signals, which typically exhibits extreme redundancy. Altogether, our results emphasize the interest of CS schemes for acquisition at a significantly reduced rate and point to some remaining challenges for CS fluorescence microscopy.
Several psychiatric conditions, both internalizing and externalizing, have been documented in comorbidity with Asperger Syndrome (AS) and High Functioning Autism (HFA). In this review we examine the interplay between psychiatric comorbidities and AS/HFA. In particular, we will focus our attention on three main issues. First, we examine which psychiatric disorders are more frequently associated with AS/HFA. Second, we review which diagnostic tools are currently available for clinicians to investigate and diagnose the associated psychiatric disorders in individuals with AS/HFA. Third, we discuss the challenges that clinicians and researchers face in trying to determine whether the psychiatric symptoms are phenotypic manifestations of AS/HFA or rather they are the expression of a distinct, though comorbid, disorder. We will also consider the role played by the environment in the manifestation and interpretation of these symptoms. Finally, we will propose some strategies to try to address these issues, and we will discuss therapeutic implications.
Mental fatigue is for many a distressing and long-term problem after stroke. This mental fatigue will make it more difficult for the person to return to work and previous activities. The intention with this study is to investigate mental fatigue in relation to depression and cognitive functions. We examined 24 well-rehabilitated stroke subjects, who suffered from mental fatigue one year or more after a stroke, and 24 healthy controls. Subjects were examined using self-assessment scales for mental fatigue, depression and anxiety, and cognitive tests. The results showed a highly increased rating for mental fatigue for the stroke group (P &lt; 0.001). These participants also had a significantly higher rating on the depression (P &lt; 0.001) and anxiety (P &lt; 0.001) scales. Furthermore, they had a slower information processing speed (P &lt; 0.001) and made more errors in a demanding attention and speed test (P &lt; 0.05). Among the cognitive tests, processing speed and errors made in an attention and speed test were significant predictors for mental fatigue. We suggest mental fatigue following a stroke to be related to cognitive impairments, primarily information processing speed. Mental fatigue should also be treated as a separate phenomenon and should be differentiated from, and not confused with, depression, even if overlapping symptoms exist.
A central function of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is to coordinate protein biosynthetic and secretory activities in the cell. Alterations in ER homeostasis cause accumulation of misfolded/unfolded proteins in the ER. To maintain ER homeostasis, eukaryotic cells have evolved the unfolded protein response (UPR), an essential adaptive intracellular signaling pathway that responds to metabolic, oxidative stress, and inflammatory response pathways. The UPR has been implicated in a variety of diseases including metabolic disease, neurodegenerative disease, inflammatory disease, and cancer. Signaling components of the UPR are emerging as potential targets for intervention and treatment of human disease.
One of the most remarkable advances in translational neuroscience of the last few years has been the emergence of cell-based approaches for a wide range of neurological disease and injuries. Molecular approaches designed for the treatment of neurological injuries and insults such as stroke, spinal cord injury and multiple sclerosis have proven to be of limited effectiveness in large part because it has become clear that there is not a single &quot;magic bullet&quot; that allows for neuronal survival, axonal regeneration and/or remyelination. Rather the pathogenesis of insults such as stroke, spinal cord injury and MS are complex, engaging multiple cell types and signaling pathways and as a result require the simultaneous intervention in multiple arenas in order to facilitate functional recovery. Cell therapies, because of their inherent complexity offer the opportunity to intervene at several points in the pathological process and thus may provide a more effective treatment strategy. Among the multiple cell types assessed as therapeutic treatment for neural insults, stem cells have emerged as possibly the most effective class. The particular characteristics of stem cells, namely their ability to self-renew and generate multiple cell types promoted their use as sources of cell replacement in the injured CNS. It is likely, however that the major advance that stem cells have over more restricted cell types is their ability to modulate the responses of the immune system and to influence endogenous tissue stem cells to accentuate repair. While preclinical studies are moving extremely rapidly, the effective translation of these studies to the clinical arena remains extremely challenging.
In a previous study, we reported a rat model of early-life limbic seizures which resulted in a loss of GABA(B) receptor inhibition in the hippocampus. Since gating of auditory evoked potentials in the hippocampus (auditory gating) requires GABA(B) receptors and spatial behaviors depend on the hippocampus, we hypothesize that rats with early-life limbic seizures manifest deficits of auditory gating and spatial behaviors. Seizure rats were given a single injection of GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP56999A (1-1.2 mg/kg i.p.) on postnatal day (PND) 15, which induced multiple limbic seizures in 8h; control rats were given saline injection. When tested at 3-9 weeks after seizure/control treatment, seizure as compared to control rats showed no difference in finding a hidden platform in the water maze, but were deficient in learning and maintaining consecutive criterion performance in the 8-arm radial arm maze. Auditory gating, as measured by paired-click (conditioning followed by test click) average auditory evoked potentials in the hippocampus, revealed a significant difference between seizure rats and controls. Seizure as compared to control rats showed an increased ratio of the test to conditioning click response as adolescents (50 days old) or adults (70 days old). Heterosynaptic electric paired-pulse depression of hippocampal population excitatory postsynaptic potential in freely moving rats, a measure of hippocampal GABA(B)-receptor mediated inhibition, was decreased in seizure as compared to control rats. Seizure as compared to control rats showed increased locomotor activity in a novel open field for the first 10 min, and decreased activity at 15-60 min. However, auditory prepulse inhibition, a measure of sensorimotor gating, revealed no difference between seizure and control rats. In conclusion, early-life limbic seizures induced a long-lasting deficit in auditory gating, likely caused by GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibition loss in the hippocampus. Auditory gating loss is a symptom of schizophrenia, and thus GABA(B) receptor inhibition loss in the hippocampus provides a mechanism linking early-life seizures to a psychiatric symptom.
Lateral habenula (LHb) projections to the ventral midbrain, including the rostromedial tegmental nucleus (RMTg), convey negative reward-related information, but the behavioral ramifications of selective activation of this pathway remain unexplored. We found that exposure to aversive stimuli in mice increased LHb excitatory drive onto RMTg neurons. Furthermore, optogenetic activation of this pathway promoted active, passive and conditioned behavioral avoidance. Thus, activity of LHb efferents to the midbrain is aversive but can also serve to negatively reinforce behavioral responding.

The majority of bird taxa perform water bathing, but little is known about the adaptive value of this behaviour. If bathing is important for feather maintenance then birds that have not bathed should have poorer feather condition, compromised escape ability and therefore increased responsiveness to cues of predation. We conducted two experiments examining the behaviour of captive starlings responding to conspecific alarm calls. Birds that had no access to bathing water showed a decreased willingness to feed and increased their vigilance behaviour following an alarm call. We argue that birds denied access to bathing water interpreted an ambiguous cue of threat as requiring more caution than birds that had access, consistent with higher levels of anxiety. Our results support the provision of bathing water for captive birds as an important welfare measure.





Axon pruning and synapse elimination promote neural connectivity and synaptic plasticity. Stereotyped pruning of axons that originate in the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) and extend along the infrapyramidal tract (IPT) occurs during postnatal murine development by neurite retraction and resembles axon repulsion. The chemorepellent Sema3F is required for IPT axon pruning, dendritic spine remodeling, and repulsion of DG axons. The signaling events that regulate IPT axon pruning are not known. We find that inhibition of the small G protein Rac1 by the Rac GTPase-activating protein (GAP) 2-Chimaerin (2Chn) mediates Sema3F-dependent pruning. The Sema3F receptor neuropilin-2 selectively binds 2Chn, and ligand engagement activates this GAP to ultimately restrain Rac1-dependent effects on cytoskeletal reorganization. 2Chn is necessary for axon pruning both in vitro and in vivo, but it is dispensable for axon repulsion and spine remodeling. Therefore, a Npn2/2Chn/Rac1 signaling axis distinguishes DG axon pruning from the effects of Sema3F on repulsion and dendritic spine remodeling.
Secretory fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) and their receptors are known for their regulatory function in the early stages of neural development. FGF13, a nonsecretory protein of the FGF family, is expressed in cerebral cortical neurons during development and is a candidate gene for syndromal and nonspecific forms of X-chromosome-linked mental retardation (XLMR). However, its function during development remains unclear. We show that FGF13 acts intracellularly as a microtubule-stabilizing protein required for axon and leading process development and neuronal migration in the cerebral cortex. FGF13 is enriched in axonal growth cones and interacts directly with microtubules. Furthermore, FGF13 polymerizes tubulins and stabilizes microtubules. The loss of FGF13 impairs neuronal polarization and increases the branching of axons and leading processes. Genetic deletion of FGF13 in mice results in neuronal migration defects in both the neocortex and the hippocampus. FGF13-deficient mice also exhibit weakened learning and memory, which is correlated to XLMR patients' intellectual disability.
The localization of estrogen receptor (ER) in mitochondria suggests ER-dependent regulation of genes, which is poorly understood. Here, we analyzed the ER interacting mitochondrial as well as nuclear proteins in mouse brain using pull-down assay and matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectroscopy (MALDI-MS). In the case of mitochondria, ER interacted with six proteins of 35-152 kDa, its transactivation domain (TAD) interacted with four proteins of 37-172 kDa, and ligand binding domain (LBD) interacted with six proteins of 37-161 kDa. On the other hand, in nuclei, ER interacted with seven proteins of 30-203 kDa, TAD with ten proteins of 31-160 kDa, and LBD with fourteen proteins of 42-179 kDa. For further identification, these proteins were cleaved by trypsin into peptides and analyzed by MALDI-MS using mascot search engine, immunoprecipitation, immunoblotting, and far-Western blotting. To find the consensus binding motifs in interacting proteins, their unique tryptic peptides were analyzed by the motif scan software. All the interacting proteins were found to contain casein kinase (CK) 2, phosphokinase (PK)C phosphorylation, and N-myristoylation sites. These were further confirmed by peptide pull-down assays using specific mutations in the interacting sites. Thus, the present findings provide evidence for the interaction of ER with specific mitochondrial and nuclear proteins through consensus CK2, PKC phosphorylation, and N-myristoylation sites, and may represent an essential step toward designing selective ER modulators for regulating estrogen-mediated signaling.
The N170 event-related potential (ERP) component reflects visual perceptual processes and is known to have a source in the lateral occipital cortex (LOC) and temporal lobe regions. Convergent evidence from neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies suggests that the LOC is recruited for action tasks in which visibility of a target is unavailable and a perceptual memory of the target's characteristics must be used instead. We tested the hypothesis that the N170 reflects the contribution of additional ventral stream processes required for performing actions in which vision of a target is occluded. We predicted that the amplitude of the ERP in the latency range of the N170 would be larger when perceptual mechanisms are engaged to a greater extent. Participants were auditorily cued to touch target dots appearing on a touchscreen. Two viewing conditions varied with respect to the contribution of the ventral visuomotor stream during response initiation. In condition 1, the target disappeared with movement initiation whereas in condition 2, it disappeared with the cue to respond. The N170 during the response-initiation phase of trials was larger in amplitude for condition 2. The effect was observed over temporal electrode sites bilaterally, likely reflecting an overlap between auditory cue-related processes and additional perceptual processes within regions in the inferior-temporal cortex. Thus, the N170 may be a marker of neural activity within the ventral stream, further supporting the notion that actions initiated in the absence of a visual target rely more on perceptual representations than those directed towards visually available targets.
Although our knowledge of the pathophysiology of schizophrenia has increased, treatments for this devastating illness remain inadequate. Here, we critically assess rodent models and behavioural end points used in schizophrenia drug discovery and discuss why these have not led to improved treatments. We provide a perspective on how new models, based on recent advances in the understanding of the genetics and neural circuitry underlying schizophrenia, can bridge the translational gap and lead to the development of more effective drugs. We conclude that previous serendipitous approaches should be replaced with rational strategies for drug discovery in integrated preclinical and clinical programmes. Validation of drug targets in disease-based models that are integrated with translationally relevant end point assessments will reduce the current attrition rate in schizophrenia drug discovery and ultimately lead to therapies that tackle the disease process.

To maintain well-being, all organisms require the ability to re-establish homeostasis in the presence of adverse physiological or psychological experiences. The regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis during stress is important in preventing maladaptive responses that may increase susceptibility to affective disorders. Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) is a central stress hormone in the HPA axis pathway and has been implicated in stress-induced psychiatric disorders, reproductive and cardiac function, as well as energy metabolism. In the context of psychiatric disorders, CRH dysfunction is associated with the occurrence of post-traumatic stress disorder, major depression, anorexia nervosa, and anxiety disorders. Here, we review the synthesis, molecular signaling and regulation, as well as synaptic activity of CRH. We go on to summarize studies of altered CRH signaling in mutant animal models. This assembled data demonstrate an important role for CRH in neuroendocrine, autonomic, and behavioral correlates of adaptation and maladaptation. Next, we present findings regarding human genetic polymorphisms in CRH pathway genes that are associated with stress and psychiatric disorders. Finally, we discuss a role for regulators of CRH activity as potential sites for therapeutic intervention aimed at treating maladaptive behaviors associated with stress.

The complement system, a major component of the innate immune system, is becoming increasingly recognised as a key participant in physiology and disease. The awareness that immunological mediators support various aspects of both normal central nervous system (CNS) function and pathology has led to a renaissance of complement research in neuroscience. Various studies have revealed particularly novel findings on the wide-ranging involvement of complement in neural development, synapse elimination and maturation of neural networks, as well as the progression of pathology in a range of chronic neurodegenerative disorders, and more recently, neurotraumatic events, where rapid disruption of neuronal homeostasis potently triggers complement activation. The purpose of this review is to summarise recent findings on complement activation and acquired brain or spinal cord injury, i.e. ischaemic-reperfusion injury or stroke, traumatic brain injury (TBI) and spinal cord injury (SCI), highlighting the potential for complement-targeted therapeutics to alleviate the devastating consequences of these neurological conditions.
This paper describes the fabrication and use of a microfluidic device for performing whole-animal chemical screens using non-invasive electrophysiological readouts of neuromuscular function in the nematode worm, C. elegans. The device consists of an array of microchannels to which electrodes are attached to form recording modules capable of detecting the electrical activity of the pharynx, a heart-like neuromuscular organ involved in feeding. The array is coupled to a tree-like arrangement of distribution channels that automatically delivers one nematode to each recording module. The same channels are then used to perfuse the recording modules with test solutions while recording the electropharyngeogram (EPG) from each worm with sufficient sensitivity to detect each pharyngeal contraction. The device accurately reported the acute effects of known anthelmintics (anti-nematode drugs) and also correctly distinguished a specific drug-resistant mutant strain of C. elegans from wild type. The approach described here is readily adaptable to parasitic species for the identification of novel anthelmintics. It is also applicable in toxicology and drug discovery programs for human metabolic and degenerative diseases for which C. elegans is used as a model.
Isolated brain tissue, especially brain slices, are valuable experimental tools for studying neuronal function at the network, cellular, synaptic, and single channel levels. Neuroscientists have refined the methods for preserving brain slice viability and function and converged on principles that strongly resemble the approach taken by engineers in developing microfluidic devices. With respect to brain slices, microfluidic technology may 1) overcome the traditional limitations of conventional interface and submerged slice chambers and improve oxygen/nutrient penetration into slices, 2) provide better spatiotemporal control over solution flow/drug delivery to specific slice regions, and 3) permit successful integration with modern optical and electrophysiological techniques. In this review, we highlight the unique advantages of microfluidic devices for in vitro brain slice research, describe recent advances in the integration of microfluidic devices with optical and electrophysiological instrumentation, and discuss clinical applications of microfluidic technology as applied to brain slices and other non-neuronal tissues. We hope that this review will serve as an interdisciplinary guide for both neuroscientists studying brain tissue in vitro and engineers as they further develop microfluidic chamber technology for neuroscience research.
A fundamental challenge in social cognition is how humans learn another person's values to predict their decision-making behavior. This form of learning is often assumed to require simulation of the other by direct recruitment of one's own valuation process to model the other's process. However, the cognitive and neural mechanism of simulation learning is not known. Using behavior, modeling, and fMRI, we show that simulation involves two learning signals in a hierarchical arrangement. A simulated-other's reward prediction error processed in ventromedial prefrontal cortex mediated simulation by direct recruitment, being identical for valuation of the self and simulated-other. However, direct recruitment was insufficient for learning, and also required observation of the other's choices to generatea simulated-other's action prediction error encoded in dorsomedial/dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. These findings show that simulation uses a core prefrontal circuit for modeling the other's valuation to generate prediction and an adjunct circuit for tracking behavioral variation to refine prediction.
The basic, still unanswered question about visual object representation is this: what specific information is encoded by neural signals? Theorists have long predicted that neurons would encode medial axis or skeletal object shape, yet recent studies reveal instead neural coding of boundary or surface shape. Here, we addressed this theoretical/experimental disconnect, using adaptive shape sampling to demonstrate explicit coding of medial axis shape in high-level object cortex (macaque monkey inferotemporal cortex or IT). Our metric shape analyses revealed a coding continuum, along which most neurons represent a configuration of both medial axis and surface components. Thus, IT response functions embody a rich basis set for simultaneously representing skeletal and external shape of complex objects. This would be especially useful for representing biological shapes, which are often characterized by both complex, articulated skeletal structure and specific surface features.
Pyramidal cells of the cerebral cortex are born in the ventricular zone and migrate through the intermediate zone to enter into the cortical plate. In the intermediate zone, these migrating precursors move tangentially and initiate the extension of their axons by transiently adopting a characteristic multipolar morphology. We observe that expression of the forkhead transcription factor FoxG1 is dynamically regulated during this transitional period. By utilizing conditional genetic strategies, we show that the downregulation of FoxG1 at the beginning of the multipolar cell phase induces Unc5D expression, the timing of which ultimately determines the laminar identity of pyramidal neurons. In addition, we demonstrate that the re-expression of FoxG1 is required for cells to transit out of the multipolar cell phase and to enter into the cortical plate. Thus, the dynamic expression of FoxG1 during migration within the intermediate zone is essential for the proper assembly of the cerebral cortex.
Growth of new dendritic spines contributes to experience-dependent circuit plasticity in the cerebral cortex. Yet the signaling mechanisms leading tonew spine outgrowth remain poorly defined. Increasing evidence supports that the proteasome is an important mediator of activity-dependent neuronal signaling. We therefore tested the role of the proteasome in activity-dependent spinogenesis. Using pharmacological manipulations, glutamate uncaging, and two-photon imaging of GFP-transfected hippocampal pyramidal neurons, we demonstrate that acute inhibition of the proteasome blocks activity-induced spine outgrowth. Remarkably, mutation of serine 120 to alanine of the Rpt6 proteasomal subunit in individual neurons was sufficient to block activity-induced spine outgrowth. Signaling through NMDA receptors and CaMKII, but not PKA, is required to facilitate spine outgrowth. Moreover, abrogating CaMKII binding to the NMDA receptor abolished activity-induced spinogenesis. Our data support a model in which neural activity facilitates spine outgrowth via an NMDA receptor- and CaMKII-dependent increase in local proteasomal degradation.
Selective ligands are lacking for many neuronal signaling proteins. Photoswitched tethered ligands (PTLs) have enabled fast and reversible control of specific proteins containing a PTL anchoring site and have been used to remote control overexpressed proteins. We report here a scheme for optical remote control of native proteins usinga &quot;photoswitchable conditional subunit&quot; (PCS), which contains the PTL anchoring site as well as a mutation that prevents it from reaching the plasma membrane. In cells lacking native subunits for the protein, the PCS remains nonfunctional internally. However, in cells expressing native subunits, the native subunit and PCS coassemble, traffic to the plasma membrane, and place the native protein under optical control provided by the coassembled PCS. We apply this approach to the TREK1 potassium channel, which lacks selective, reversible blockers. We find that TREK1, typically considered to be a leak channel, contributes to the hippocampal GABA(B) response.
The glopus pallidus is a central nucleus of the basal ganglia, pivotal to their function in health and disease. In this issue of Neuron, Mallet etal. (2012) reveal that this structure is more diverse than previously thought, and identify a novel cell type that projects from pallidum to striatum providing massive GABAergic innervation. These findings invite new views on basal ganglia processing.
Lowering mutant Huntingtin is a consensus therapeutic strategy for Huntington's disease. In this issue of Neuron, Kordasiewicz etal. (2012) show the benefit of transient antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) therapy to degrade Huntingtin mRNA and elicit sustained therapeutic benefit in HD mice.
Pro-nociceptive ON-cells in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) facilitate nociceptive processing and contribute to descending serotonergic controls. We use RVM injections of neurotoxic dermorphin-saporin (Derm-SAP) in rats to evaluate the role of putative ON-cells, or -opioid receptor-expressing (MOR) neurones, in visceral pain processing. Our immunohistochemistry shows that intra-RVM Derm-SAP locally ablates a substantial proportion of MOR and serotonergic cells. Given the co-localization of these neuronal markers, some RVM ON-cells are serotonergic. We measure visceromotor responses in the colorectal distension (CRD) model in control and Derm-SAP rats, and using the 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist ondansetron, we demonstrate pro-nociceptive serotonergic modulation of visceral nociception and a facilitatory drive from RVM MOR cells. The (2) calcium channel ligand pregabalin produces state-dependent analgesia in neuropathy and osteoarthritis models relating to injury-specific interactions with serotonergic facilitations from RVM MOR cells. Although RVM MOR cells mediate noxious mechanical visceral input, we show that their presence is not a permissive factor for pregabalin analgesia in acute visceral pain.

A large number of studies has investigated the hypothesis that DRD4 48 bp variable number of tandem repeat (VNTR) polymorphism is involved in the etiology of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. However, the results are inconsistent likely due to genetic and phenotypic heterogeneity. Age at onset (AAO) is considered an important alternate phenotype for genetic investigations of psychiatric disorders. In the present study, the DRD4 VNTR 7 repeat allele (7R) was examined in 477 patients with major psychoses. Age at onset was defined as the age of first psychotic episode for schizophrenia and the age at appearance of first clinically recognized symptoms for the bipolar sample. Our results showed an interaction between sex and DRD4 genotypes among schizophrenia patients (n=203, =.213, p=.017). On comparing AAO between carriers and non-carriers of the 7R, we observed that females with 7R present had later onset (p=.021). The effect was not observed for males. In the sample with bipolar disorder, we observed significant association between DRD4 7R-genotype and AAO (n=274, =-.148, p=.012). No interaction was observed between sex and genotypic groups of the bipolar sample. The 7R was associated with early onset of the bipolar illness (p=.028). In summary, our results suggest that the 7R is associated with AAO in both schizophrenia and bipolar disorders. The effect was observed across both sexes in bipolar disorder, but specifically in females for schizophrenia.


A major challenge in neuroscience is finding which genes affect brain integrity, connectivity, and intellectual function. Discovering influential genes holds vast promise for neuroscience, but typical genome-wide searches assess approximately one million genetic variants one-by-one, leading to intractable false positive rates, even with vast samples of subjects. Even more intractable is the question of which genes interact and how they work together to affect brain connectivity. Here, we report a novel approach that discovers which genes contribute to brain wiring and fiber integrity at all pairs of points in a brain scan. We studied genetic correlations between thousands of points in human brain images from 472 twins and their nontwin siblings (mean age: 23.7  2.1 SD years; 193 male/279 female). We combined clustering with genome-wide scanning to find brain systems with common genetic determination. We then filtered the image in a new way to boost power to find causal genes. Using network analysis, we found a network of genes that affect brain wiring in healthy young adults. Our new strategy makes it computationally more tractable to discover genes that affect brain integrity. The gene network showed small-world and scale-free topologies, suggesting efficiency in genetic interactions and resilience to network disruption. Genetic variants at hubs of the network influence intellectual performance by modulating associations between performance intelligence quotient and the integrity of major white matter tracts, such as the callosal genu and splenium, cingulum, optic radiations, and the superior longitudinal fasciculus.
Motor pools comprise a heterogeneous population of motor neurons that innervate distinct intramuscular targets. While the organization of motor neurons into motor pools has been well described, the time course and mechanism of motor pool diversification into functionally distinct classes remains unclear. -Motor neurons (-MNs) and -motor neurons (-MNs) differ in size, molecular identity, synaptic input and peripheral target. While -MNs innervate extrafusal skeletal muscle fibers to mediate muscle contraction, -MNs innervate intrafusal fibers of the muscle spindle, and regulate sensitivity of the muscle spindle in response to stretch. In this study, we find that the secreted signaling molecule Wnt7a is selectively expressed in -MNs in the mouse spinal cord by embryonic day 17.5 and continues to molecularly distinguish -from -MNs into the third postnatal week. Our data demonstrate that Wnt7a is the earliest known -MN marker, supporting a model of developmental divergence between - and -MNs at embryonic stages. Furthermore, using Wnt7a expression as an early marker of -MN identity, we demonstrate a previously unknown dependence of -MNs on a muscle spindle-derived, GDNF-independent signal during the first postnatal week.
Adult-generated granule cells (GCs) in the dentate gyrus (DG) exhibit a period of heightened plasticity 4-6 weeks postmitosis. However, the functional contribution of this critical window of plasticity to hippocampal neurogenesis and behavior remains unknown. Here, we show that deletion of NR2B-containing NMDA receptors from adult-born GCs impairs a neurogenesis-dependent form of LTP in the DG and reduces dendritic complexity of adult-born GCs, but does not impact their survival. Mice in which the NR2B-containing NMDA receptor was deleted from adult-born GCs did not differ from controls in baseline anxiety-like behavior or discrimination of very different contexts, but were impaired in discrimination of highly similar contexts. These results indicate that NR2B-dependent plasticity of adult-born GCs is necessary for fine contextual discrimination and is consistent with their proposed role in pattern separation.
Genetic disorders arising from copy number variations in the ERK (extracellular signal-regulated kinase) MAP (mitogen-activated protein) kinases or mutations in their upstream regulators that result in neuro-cardio-facial-cutaneous syndromes are associated with developmental abnormalities, cognitive deficits, and autism. We developed murine models of these disorders by deleting the ERKs at the beginning of neurogenesis and report disrupted cortical progenitor generation and proliferation, which leads to altered cytoarchitecture of the postnatal brain in a gene-dose-dependent manner. We show that these changes are due to ERK-dependent dysregulation of cyclin D1 and p27(Kip1), resulting in cell cycle elongation, favoring neurogenic over self-renewing divisions. The precocious neurogenesis causes premature progenitor pool depletion, altering the number and distribution of pyramidal neurons. Importantly, loss of ERK2 alters the intrinsic excitability of cortical neurons and contributes to perturbations in global network activity. These changes are associated with elevated anxiety and impaired working and hippocampal-dependent memory in these mice. This study provides a novel mechanistic insight into the basis of cortical malformation which may provide a potential link to cognitive deficits in individuals with altered ERK activity.
The function of the claustrum is a fundamental issue in neuroscience. Anatomical data indicate that the rat claustrum is part of an interhemispheric circuit that could be involved in the bilateral coordination of whisker movements. Given that whisking is a somesthetic-guided motor behavior, the goal of the current study was to elucidate the connections of the claustrum with respect to the whisker representations in the primary somatosensory (wSI) and motor (wMI) cortical areas. Anterograde tracer injections showed that wMI projects most densely to the claustrum in the contralateral hemisphere, whereas wSI does not project to the claustrum in either hemisphere. Injections of different retrograde tracers into wMI and wSI of the same animal revealed intermingled populations of labeled neurons in the claustrum, as well as many double-labeled neurons. This indicates that the same part of the claustrum projects to the whisker representations in both SI and MI. Finally, injections of different anterograde tracers in the wMI regions of both hemispheres were combined with a retrograde tracer injection in wSI, and this produced dense terminal labeling around retrogradely labeled neurons in the claustrum of both hemispheres. Although the rodent claustrum is probably involved in the interhemispheric coordination of the MI and SI whisker representations, it does not receive inputs from both of these cortical regions. Hence, the claustrum should not be universally regarded as an integrator of somesthetic and motor information.
Hypertension is a major risk factor for coronary artery disease, stroke, and kidney failure. However, the etiology of hypertension in most patients is poorly understood. Increased sympathetic drive emanating from the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) plays a major role in the development of hypertension. Na(+)-K(+)-2Cl(-) cotransporter-1 (NKCC1) in the brain is critically involved in maintaining chloride homeostasis and in neuronal responses mediated by GABA(A) receptors. Here we present novel evidence that the GABA reversal potential (E(GABA)) of PVN presympathetic neurons undergoes a depolarizing shift that diminishes GABA inhibition in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs). Inhibition of NKCC1, but not KCC2, normalizes E(GABA) and restores GABA inhibition of PVN neurons in SHRs. The mRNA and protein levels of NKCC1, but not KCC2, in the PVN are significantly increased in SHRs, and the NKCC1 proteins on the plasma membrane are highly glycosylated. Inhibiting NKCC1 N-glycosylation restores E(GABA) and GABAergic inhibition of PVN presympathetic neurons in SHRs. Furthermore, NKCC1 inhibition significantly reduces the sympathetic vasomotor tone and augments the sympathoinhibitory responses to GABA(A) receptor activation in the PVN in SHRs. These findings suggest that increased NKCC1 activity and glycosylation disrupt chloride homeostasis and impair synaptic inhibition in the PVN to augment the sympathetic drive in hypertension. This information greatly improves our understanding of the pathogenesis of hypertension and helps to design better treatment strategies for neurogenic hypertension.
Semaphorin-3A (Sema3A) is a major guidance cue in the developing nervous system. Previous studies have revealed a dependence of responses to Sema3A on local protein synthesis (PS) in axonal growth cones, but a recent study has called this dependence into question. To understand the basis of this discrepancy we used the growth cone collapse assay on chick dorsal root ganglion neurons. We show that the dependence of growth cone collapse on protein synthesis varies according to Sema3A concentration, from near-total at low concentration (&lt;100 ng/ml) to minimal at high concentration (&gt;625 ng/ml). Further, we show that neuropilin-1 (NP-1) mediates both PS-dependent and PS-independent collapse. Our findings are consistent with the operation of at least two distinct Sema3A signaling pathways: one that is PS-dependent, involving mammalian target of rapamycin, and one that is PS-independent, involving GSK-3 activation and operative at all concentrations of Sema3A examined. The results provide a plausible explanation for the discrepancy in PS-dependence reported in the literature, and indicate that different signaling pathways activated within growth cones can be modulated by changing the concentration of the same guidance cue.
Loss of a sensory modality elicits both unimodal changes in the deprived cortex and cross-modal alterations in the remaining sensory systems. Unimodal changes are proposed to recruit the deprived cortex for processing the remaining senses, while cross-modal changes are thought to refine processing of spared senses. Hence coordinated unimodal and cross-modal changes are likely beneficial. Despite this expectation, we report in mice that losing behaviorally relevant patterned vision is sufficient to trigger cross-modal synaptic changes in the primary somatosensory cortex barrel fields, but is insufficient to drive unimodal synaptic plasticity in visual cortex (V1), which requires a complete loss of visual activity. In addition, cross-modal changes depend on whisker inputs. Our results demonstrate that unimodal and cross-modal synaptic plasticity occur independently of each other and rely on distinct sensory requirements.

Evidence suggests that two regions of the striatum contribute differential support to instrumental response selection. The dorsomedial striatum (DMS) is thought to support expectancy-mediated actions, and the dorsolateral striatum (DLS) is thought to support habits. Currently it is unclear whether these regions store task-relevant information or just coordinate the learning and retention of these solutions by other brain regions. To address this issue, we developed a two-lever concurrent variable-interval reinforcement operant conditioning task and used it to assess the trained rat's sensitivity to contingency shifts. Consistent with the view that these two regions make different contributions to actions and habits, injecting the NMDA antagonist DL-AP5 into the DMS just prior to the shift impaired the rat's performance but enhanced performance when injected into the DLS. To determine if these regions support memory content, we first trained rats on a biased concurrent schedule (Lever 1: VI 40&quot; and Lever 2: VI 10&quot;). With the intent of &quot;erasing&quot; the memory content stored in striatum, after this training we inhibited the putative memory-maintenance protein kinase C isozyme protein kinase M (PKM). Infusing zeta inhibitory peptide (ZIP) into the DLS enhanced the rat's ability to adapt to the contingency shift 2 d later, whereas injecting it into the DMS had the opposite effect. Infusing GluR2(3Y) into the DMS 1 h before ZIP infusions prevented ZIP from impairing the rat's sensitivity to the contingency shift. These results support the hypothesis that the DMS stores information needed to support actions and the DLS stores information needed to support habits.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is considered to be an autoimmune, inflammatory disease of the CNS. In most patients, the disease follows a relapsing-remitting course and is characterized by dynamic inflammatory demyelinating lesions in the CNS. Although on the surface MS may appear consistent with a primary autoimmune disease, questions have been raised as to whether inflammation and/or autoimmunity are really at the root of the disease, and it has been proposed that MS might in fact be a degenerative disorder. We argue that MS may be an 'immunological convolution' between an underlying primary degenerative disorder and the host's aberrant immune response. To better understand this disease, we might need to consider non-inflammatory primary progressive MS as the 'real' MS, with inflammatory forms reflecting secondary, albeit very important, reactions.
The availability of neuroimaging technology has spurred a marked increase in the human cognitive neuroscience literature, including the study of cognitive ageing. Although there is a growing consensus that the ageing brain retains considerable plasticity of function, currently measured primarily by means of functional MRI, it is less clear how age differences in brain activity relate to cognitive performance. The field is also hampered by the complexity of the ageing process itself and the large number of factors that are influenced by age. In this Review, current trends and unresolved issues in the cognitive neuroscience of ageing are discussed.
Over the past five years the field of neurogenetics has yielded a wealth of data that have facilitated a much greater understanding of the aetiology of many neurological diseases. Most of these advances are a result of improvements in technology that have allowed us to determine whole-genome structure and variation and to examine its impact on phenotype in an unprecedented manner. Genome-wide association studies have provided information on how common genetic variability imparts risk for the development of various complex diseases. Moreover, the identification of rare disease-causing mutations have led to the discovery of novel biochemical pathways that are involved in disease pathogensis. Here, we review these advances and discuss how they have changed the approaches being used to study neurological disorders.


Research suggests that emotional intelligence capacities may be related to the functional integrity of the corticolimbic regions including the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, insula, and amygdala. No study has yet examined regional brain volumes in relation to the two dominant models of emotional intelligence: the Ability model, which posits a set of specific demonstrable capabilities for solving emotional problems, and the Trait model, which proposes a set of stable emotional competencies that can be assessed through subjectively rated self-report scales. In 36 healthy participants, we correlated scores on the Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test (an Ability measure) and the Bar-On Emotional Quotient Inventory (a Trait measure) with regional brain volumes using voxel-based morphometry. Total Mayer-Salovey-Caruso Emotional Intelligence Test scores were positively correlated with the left insula grey matter volume. The Strategic emotional intelligence subscale correlated positively with the left ventromedial prefrontal cortex and insular volume. In contrast, for the Bar-On Emotional Quotient Inventory, Stress Management scores correlated positively with the bilateral ventromedial prefrontal cortex volume. Amygdala volumes were unrelated to emotional intelligence measures. Findings support the role of the ventromedial prefrontal cortex and insula as key nodes in the emotional intelligence circuitry.


We have localized the spinocerebellar neuron groups in C57BL/6J mice by injecting the retrograde neuronal tracer Fluoro-Gold into the cerebellum and examined the distribution of SMI 32 and the calcium-binding proteins (CBPs), calbindin-D-28K (Cb), calretinin (Cr), and parvalbumin (Pv) in the spinal precerebellar nuclei. The spinal precerebellar neuron clusters identified were the dorsal nucleus, central cervical nucleus, lumbar border precerebellar nucleus, lumbar precerebellar nucleus, and sacral precerebellar nucleus. Some dispersed neurons in the deep dorsal horn and spinal laminae 6-8 also projected to the cerebellum. Cb, Cr, Pv, and SMI 32 were present in all major spinal precerebellar nuclei and Pv was the most commonly observed CBP. A number of genes expressed in hindbrain precerebellar nuclei are also expressed in spinal precerebellar groups, but there were some differences in gene expression profile between the different spinal precerebellar nuclei, pointing to functional diversity amongst them.
To define the antiepileptic mechanisms of levetiracetam (LEV), the present study determined the concentration-dependent effects of locally perfused LEV on the releases of norepinephrine, dopamine, serotonin, l-glutamate and GABA induced by 50 mMK(+)-evoked stimulation and agonists of ryanodine receptor (RyR) and inositol-triphosphate receptor (IP3R) in the median prefrontal cortex (mPFC) using in vivo microdialysis. Local perfusion with LEV (10, 30 and 100 M) alone did not affect the extracellular levels of all neurotransmitters in the mPFC. The release of neurotransmitters induced by K(+)-evoked stimulation was inhibited by perfusion with LEV in a concentration-dependent manner, and those induced by agonists of RyR and IP3R were also inhibited by LEV. Specifically, the RyR-induced release was inhibited by 10 M LEV, whereas the IP3R-induced release was inhibited by 100 M LEV, but not by 10 or 30 M LEV. The above results suggest that LEV has little effect on the components of normal synaptic transmission but selectively inhibits transmission induced by neuronal hyperactivation. Thus, the mechanisms of the antiepileptic and neuroprotective actions of LEV seem to be mediated, at least in part, through the combination of these two inhibitory effects on depolarization-induced and CICR-associated neurotransmitter releases.

Another person's caress is one of the most powerful of all emotional social signals. How much the primary somatosensory cortices (SIs) participate in processing the pleasantness of such social touch remains unclear. Although ample empirical evidence supports the role of the insula in affective processing of touch, here we argue that SI might be more involved in affective processing than previously thought by showing that the response in SI to a sensual caress is modified by the perceived sex of the caresser. In a functional MRI study, we manipulated the perceived affective quality of a caress independently of the sensory properties at the skin: heterosexual males believed they were sensually caressed by either a man or woman, although the caress was in fact invariantly delivered by a female blind to condition type. Independent analyses showed that SI encoded, and was modulated by, the visual sex of the caress, and that this effect is unlikely to originate from the insula. This suggests that current models may underestimate the role played by SI in the affective processing of social touch.


Cascade of youth? Resveratrol, the celebrated phytoalexin of red wine, was known to activate AMPK indirectly, but how this happened was unclear. In a paper recently published in Cell, S.-J. Park, J. H. Chung and co-workers identify the signalling cascade, which begins with the inhibition of phosphodiesterases, in particular PDE4. But questions remain, even while new perspectives open up.



There is currently great interest in the use of Extracorporeal Shock Wave Therapy (ESWT) and in clarifying the mechanisms of action in tendon pathologies. The success rate ranges from 60% to 80% in epicondylitis, plantar fasciitis, cuff tendinitis, trocanteritis, Achilles tendinitis or jumper's knee. In contrast to urological treatments (lithotripsy), where shockwaves are used to disintegrate renal stones, in musculoskeletal treatments (orthotripsy), shockwaves are not being used to disintegrate tissues, but rather to microscopically cause interstitial and extracellular biological responses and tissue regeneration. The researchers are interesting to investigate the biological effects which support the clinical successes. Some authors speculated that shockwaves relieve pain in insertional tendinopathy by hyper-stimulation analgesia. Many recent studies demonstrated the modulations of shockwave treatment including neovascularization, differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells and local release of angiogenetic factors. The experimental findings confirm that ESWT decrease the expression of high levels of inflammatory mediators (matrix metalloproteinases and inter-leukins). Therefore, ESWT produces a regenerative and tissue-repairing effect in musculoskeletal tissues, not merely a mechanical disintegrative effect as generally before assumed. Based on the encouraging results of clinical and experimental studies, the potential of ESWT appears to be emerging. The promising outcome after this non-invasive treatment option in tendinitis care justifies the indication of shockwave therapy. Further studies have to be performed in order or determine optimum treatment parameters and will bring about an improvement in accordance with evidence-based medicine. Finally, meta-analysis studies are necessary to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of ESWT in treating tendinopathies.
Identifying effective behavioral treatments to improve memory in persons with learning and memory impairment is a primary goal for neurorehabilitation researchers. Memory deficits are the most common cognitive symptom in multiple sclerosis (MS), and hold negative professional and personal consequences for people who are often in the prime of their lives when diagnosed. A 10-session behavioral treatment, the modified Story Memory Technique (mSMT), was studied in a randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial. Behavioral improvements and increased fMRI activation were shown after treatment. Here, connectivity within the neural networks underlying memory function was examined with resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) in a subset of participants from the clinical trial. We hypothesized that the treatment would result in increased integrity of connections within two primary memory networks of the brain, the hippocampal memory network, and the default network (DN). Seeds were placed in left and right hippocampus, and the posterior cingulate cortex. Increased connectivity was found between left hippocampus and cortical regions specifically involved in memory for visual imagery, as well as among critical hubs of the DN. These results represent the first evidence for efficacy of a behavioral intervention to impact the integrity of neural networks subserving memory functions in persons with MS.
Gap junction coupling and neuromuscular transmission to smooth muscle were studied in the first 4 h after preparations were set up in vitro. Intracellular recordings were made from smooth muscle cells of guinea pig ileum. Fast inhibitory junction potentials (IJPs) were small (1.3  1.0 mV) in the first 30 min but increased significantly over the first 120 min to 15.8  0.9 mV (n = 12, P &lt; 0.001). Comparable increases in slow IJPs and excitatory junction potentials were also observed. During the same period, resting membrane potential depolarized from -58.8  1.4 to -47.2  0.4 mV (n = 12, P &lt; 0.001). Input resistance, estimated by intracellular current injection, decreased in parallel (P &lt; 0.05), and dye coupling, measured by intracellular injection of carboxyfluorescein, increased (P &lt; 0.001). Input resistance was higher and dye coupling was less in longitudinal than circular smooth muscle cells. Gap junction blockers [carbenoxolone (100 M), 18-glycyrrhetinic acid (10 M), and 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate (50 M)] hyperpolarized coupled circular smooth muscle cells, reduced the amplitude of fast and slow IJPs and excitatory junction potentials, increased input resistance, and reduced dye coupling. Local application of ATP (10 mM) mimicked IJPs and showed comparable increases in amplitude over the first 120 min; carbenoxolone and 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate significantly reduced ATP-evoked hyperpolarizations in coupled cells. In contrast, synaptic transmission between myenteric neurons was not suppressed during the first 30 min. Gap junction coupling between circular smooth muscle cells in isolated preparations was initially disrupted but recovered over the next 120 min to a steady level. This was associated with potent effects on neuromuscular transmission and responses to exogenous ATP.
Understanding the physiological role of the auditory cortex (AC) in acoustic perception is an essential issue in auditory neuroscience. By comparing sound discrimination behaviors in animals before and after AC lesion, many studies have demonstrated that AC is necessary for the perceptual process of human vowels and animal vocalizations, but is not necessary to discriminate simple acoustic parameters such as sound onset, intensity and duration. Because a lesion study cannot fully reveal the function of AC under normal conditions, in this study, we combined electrophysiological recording and psychophysical experiments on the same animal to investigate whether AC is involved in a simple auditory task. We recorded the neural activities of the primary auditory cortex (A1) using implanted electrodes, while freely-moving cats performed a tone-detection task in which they were required to lick a metal tube to obtain a food reward after hearing a tone pip. The performance of the cats' behavioral response increased with the increase of tone intensity, and the neural activities of A1 covaried with the behavioral performance. Also, whether the tone-detection behavior was interfered by a wideband noise was dependent on whether the tone-evoked neural response was masked by the noise-evoked response. Our results did not support that A1 neurons directly associate with the cat's behavioral decision; instead, they may mainly generate a neural representation of stimulus amplitude for further processing to determine whether a tone occurred or not.
The potential of zebrafish as a comparative model in behavioural neuroscience is currently hampered only by the lack of reliable and validated behavioural assays available to researchers. In the present experiment, we describe the performance of zebrafish in a test of attentional set formation. The fish were initially trained on a two-choice colour discrimination. Upon reaching acquisition criterion, the reinforced alternative was switched to the previously unreinforced alternative. Again, upon reaching criterion, the cues were replaced with a novel pair of colours (intra-dimensional shift) and reversed again on reaching criteria. We found that zebrafish show a steady decrease in trials-to-criteria over the four phases of the experiment, suggesting that they are forming and maintaining an attentional set, as has previously been demonstrated with mammals. Reversal learning deficits have been implicated in a variety of human psychological disorders (e.g., disorders of impulse control) and as such, we propose that performance of zebrafish in this procedure may represent a useful comparative model to complement existing rodent models.
Imposed social subordination, such as that which accompanies physical defeat or alienation, has been associated with impaired cognitive function in both human and non-human animals. Here we examined whether domain-specific and/or domain-general learning abilities (c.f. general intelligence) are differentially influenced by the imposition of social subordination. Furthermore, we assessed whether the impact of subordination on cognitive abilities was the result of imposed subordination per se, or if it reflected deficits intrinsically expressed in subjects that are predisposed to subordination. Subordinate and dominant behaviors were assessed in two groups of CD-1 male mice. In one group (Imposed Stratification), social stratification was imposed (through persistent physical defeat in a colonized setting) prior to the determination of cognitive abilities, while in the second group (Innate Stratification), an assessment of social stratification was made after cognitive abilities had been quantified. Domain-specific learning abilities were measured as performance on individual learning tasks (odor discrimination, fear conditioning, spatial maze learning, passive avoidance, and egocentric navigation) while domain-general learning abilities were determined by subjects' aggregate performance across the battery of learning tasks. We observed that the imposition of subordination prior to cognitive testing decreased exploratory tendencies, moderately impaired performance on individual learning tasks, and severely impaired general cognitive performance. However, similar impairments were not observed in subjects with a predisposition toward a subordinate phenotype (but which had not experienced physical defeat at the time of cognitive testing). Mere colonization, regardless of outcome (i.e., stratification), was associated with an increase in stress-induced serum corticosterone (CORT) levels, and thus CORT elevations were not themselves adequate to explain the effects of imposed stratification on cognitive abilities. These findings indicate that absent the imposition of subordination, individuals with subordinate tendencies do not express learning impairments. This observation could have important ramifications for individuals in environments where social stratification is prevalent (e.g., schools or workplace settings).
It is well established that estradiol (E2) decreases food intake and body weight in young female rats. However, it is not clear if female rats retain responsiveness to the anorexigenic effect of E2 during middle age. Because middle-aged females exhibit reduced responsiveness to E2, manifesting as a delayed and attenuated luteinizing hormone surge, it is plausible that middle-aged rats are less responsive to the anorexigenic effect of E2. To test this we monitored food intake in ovariohysterectomized young and middle-aged rats following E2 treatment. E2 decreased food intake and body weight to a similar degree in both young and middle-aged rats. Next, we investigated whether genes that mediate the estrogenic inhibition of food intake are similarly responsive to E2 by measuring gene expression of the anorexigenic genes corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), proopiomelanocortin (POMC), the long form of the leptin receptor (Lepr) and serotonin 2C receptors (5HT2CR) and the orexigenic genes agouti-related peptide (AgRP), neuropeptide Y (NPY), prepromelanin-concentrating hormone (pMCH) and orexin in the hypothalamus of young and middle-aged OVX rats treated with E2. As expected, E2 increased expression of all anorexigenic genes while decreasing expression of all orexigenic genes in young rats. Although CRH, 5HT2CR, Lepr, AgRP, NPY and orexin were also sensitive to E2 treatment in middle-aged rats, POMC and pMCH expression were not influenced by E2 in middle-aged rats. These data demonstrate that young and middle-aged rats are similarly sensitive to the anorexigenic effect of E2 and that most, but not all feeding-related genes retain sensitivity to E2.
Vestibular stimulation induced acetylcholine release in the hippocampus, and acetylcholine is known to facilitate long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus. Thus, we hypothesize that vestibular stimulation enhances LTP in CA1 in freely behaving rats, and this enhancement depends on the activation of septohippocampal cholinergic neurons. Field excitatory postsynaptic potentials were recorded in CA1 area of behaving rats following stimulation of the basal dendritic afferents. LTP was induced by a single stimulation train (100 pulses at 200 Hz) during passive whole-body rotation or during awake-immobility. LTP induced during rotation was significantly larger than that induced during immobility. Pretreatment with cholinergic antagonist atropine sulfate (50mg/kg i.p.) abolished the facilitation of LTP during rotation as compared to immobility. Selective lesion of cholinergic cells in the medial septum (MS) with 192 IgG-saporin (0.49 g in 1.4 l) also abolished the difference in LTP induced during rotation and immobility, which was found in sham-lesion rats. 192 IgG-saporin lesioned rats, as compared to sham-lesion rats, revealed a depletion of MS cells immunopositive to choline acetyltransferase and paling of acetylcholinesterase staining in the hippocampus, without significant change in the number of parvalbumin-immunopositive cells. We conclude that enhancement of LTP during vestibular stimulation is mediated by the activation of cholinergic septohippocampal cells. This is the first direct evidence that vestibular stimulation facilitates hippocampal synaptic plasticity via a cholinergic input.
Early brain damage, such as white matter damage (WMD), resulting from perinatal hypoxia-ischemia in preterm and low birth weight infants represents a high risk factor for mortality and chronic disabilities, including sensory, motor, behavioral and cognitive disorders. In previous studies, we developed a model of WMD based on prenatal ischemia (PI), induced by unilateral ligation of uterine artery at E17 in pregnant rats. We have shown that PI reproduced some of the main deficits observed in preterm infants, such as white and gray matter damage, myelination deficits, locomotor, sensorimotor, and short-term memory impairments, as well as related musculoskeletal and neuroanatomical histopathologies [1-3]. Here, we determined the deleterious impact of PI on several behavioral and cognitive abilities in adult rats, as well as on the neuroanatomical substratum in various related brain areas. Adult PI rats exhibited spontaneous exploratory and motor hyperactivity, deficits in information encoding, and deficits in short- and long-term object memory tasks, but no impairments in spatial learning or working memory in watermaze tasks. These results were in accordance with white matter injury and damage in the medial and lateral entorhinal cortices, as detected by axonal degeneration, astrogliosis and neuronal density. Although there was astrogliosis and axonal degeneration in the fornix, hippocampus and cingulate cortex, neuronal density in the hippocampus and cingulate cortex was not affected by PI. Levels of spontaneous hyperactivity, deficits in object memory tasks, neuronal density in the medial and lateral entorhinal cortices, and astrogliosis in the fornix correlated with birth weight in PI rats. Thus, this rodent model of WMD based on PI appears to recapitulate the main neurobehavioral and neuroanatomical human deficits often observed in preterm children with a perinatal history of ischemia.
Attention to stimuli associated with a rewarding outcome may be mediated by the incentive motivational properties that the stimulus acquires during conditioning. Other theories of attention state that the prediction error (the discrepancy between the expected and the actual outcome) during conditioning guides attention; once the outcome is fully predicted, attention should be abolished for the conditioned stimulus. The current study examined which of these mechanisms is dominant in conditioning when the outcome is highly rewarding. Allocation of attention to stimuli associated with cigarettes (the rewarding outcome) was tested in 16 smokers, who underwent a classical conditioning paradigm, where abstract visual stimuli were paired with a tobacco outcome. Stimuli were associated with 100% (stimulus A), 50% (stimulus B), or 0% (stimulus C) probability of receiving tobacco. Attention was measured using an eye-tracker device, and the appetitive value of the stimuli was measured with subjective pleasantness ratings during the conditioning process. Dwell time bias (duration of eye gaze) was greatest overall for the A stimulus, and increased over conditioning. Attention to stimulus A was dependent on the ratings of pleasantness that the stimulus evoked, and on the desire to smoke. These findings appear to support the theory that attention for conditioned stimuli is dominated by the incentive motivational qualities of the outcome they predict, and implicate a role for attention in the maintenance of addictive behaviours like smoking.
In this study, we investigated the effect of intracerebroventricular administration of ERK and p38 specific inhibitors, U0126 and PD169316, respectively, on learning and memory deficits induced by amyloid beta (A) in rats. To investigate the effects of these compounds on learning and memory, we performed Morris water maze (MWM) test. U0126 and/or PD169316 improved spatial learning in MWM in A-injected rats, 20 days after A-injection. To determine the mechanisms of action of U0126 and PD169316, we studies their effect on some intracellular signaling pathways such as Ca(+)/cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB), c-fos, and transcription factors that regulate mitochondrial biogenesis. Based on our data, CREB and c-fos levels decreased 7 days after A-injection, while U0126 and/or PD169316 pretreatments significantly increased these levels. Moreover, U0126 and PD169316 activated peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1a, nuclear respiratory factor 1, and mitochondrial transcription factor A, 7 days after A-injection. Surprisingly, these factors were returned to vehicle level, 20 days after A-injection. Our findings reinforce the potential neuroprotective effect of these inhibitors against the A toxicity.
The dendritic protein microtubule associated protein 2 (MAP-2), the presynaptic marker synaptophysin (SYN), and apolipoprotein E (APOE), a protein which plays a role in lipid transport and metabolism and affects synaptic activity show changes with age. We analyzed post-mortem tissue from aged female rhesus macaques cognitively tested in a spatial maze and classified as good spatial performers (GSP) or poor spatial performers (PSP) and behaviorally tested in a playroom and classified as bold or reserved animals. MAP2, SYN, and APOE mRNA and protein levels in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), hippocampus, and amygdala, were assessed using qRT-PCR and western blot. In the amygdala, bold monkeys had higher levels of MAP2 and SYN mRNA than reserved monkeys. MAP2 mRNA correlated positively with amygdala size on the right, left, and combined left and right sides, while SYN mRNA levels correlated positively with the size of the right amygdala. In the hippocampus, SYN and APOE protein levels were higher in GSP than PSP animals. Thus, in aged nonhuman primates, classification of measures of anxiety is associated with differences in selected mRNA, but not protein, levels. In contrast, classification of cognitive performance is associated with differences in selected protein, but not mRNA, levels.


Cortical oscillations in the theta (4-10 Hz) and gamma (30-100 Hz) frequency range have been hypothesized to play important roles in numerous cognitive processes and may be involved in psychiatric conditions including anxiety, schizophrenia, and autism. This review provides background information about these oscillations and their possible roles in psychiatric illness. Findings from recent studies that used optogenetic tools to demonstrate that 1) a particular class of inhibitory interneurons expressing the calcium binding protein parvalbumin plays a central role in gamma oscillations, 2) gamma oscillations can entrain rhythmic firing in pyramidal neurons, and 3) rhythmic firing at theta and gamma frequencies can enhance communication between neurons are described. Finally, how these findings may relate to the pathophysiology of psychiatric conditions, as well as questions for future studies, are discussed.
The manifestation of complex neuropsychiatric disorders, such as drug and alcohol addiction, is thought to result from progressive maladaptive alterations in neural circuit function. Clearly, repeated drug exposure alters a distributed network of neural circuit elements. However, a more precise understanding of addiction has been hampered by an inability to control and, consequently, identify specific circuit components that underlie addictive behaviors. The development of optogenetic strategies for selectively modulating the activity of genetically defined neuronal populations has provided a means for determining the relationship between circuit function and behavior with a level of precision that has been previously unobtainable. Here, we briefly review the main optogenetic studies that have contributed to elucidate neural circuit connectivity within the ventral tegmental area and the nucleus accumbens, two brain nuclei that are essential for the manifestation of addiction-related behaviors. Additional targeted manipulation of genetically defined neural populations in these brain regions, as well as afferent and efferent structures, promises to delineate the cellular mechanisms and circuit components required for the transition from natural goal-directed behavior to compulsive reward seeking despite negative consequences.

The objective of the present study was to investigate the involvement of dopamine D and D receptors of the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell in the anxiogenic-like effect of intra-central amygdala (CeA) nicotine administration. Male Wistar rats with cannula implants in the left CeA and the left shell of NAc were submitted to the elevated plus-maze (EPM). Intra-CeA injections of nicotine (1 g/rat) decreased % open arm time spent (%OAT) but not % open arm entries (%OAE) and locomotor activity, indicating the possibility of an anxiogenic-like response. Intra-NAc injection of D dopamine receptor antagonist, SCH23390 (0.5 g/rat) but not other doses of the antagonist (0.06, 0.125 and 0.25 g/rat) increased both %OAT and %OAE, showing an anxiolytic-like effect for the higher dose of the drug. Similar administration route of sulpiride (0.25, 0.5, 0.75 and 1 g/rat), a selective antagonist at dopamine D receptor, had no significant effect on OAT%, OAE% and locomotor activity. Moreover, intra-CeA injection of nicotine (1 g) with intra-NAc injection of sub-threshold doses of antagonists increased %OAT and %OAE without significant effect on locomotor activity. These findings may suggest the involvement of dopamine transmission, through D and D receptors of NAc shell, in the anxiogenic-like effect of nicotine in the EPM task.
Activity in non-nociceptive afferents is known to produce long-lasting decreases in nociceptive signaling, often referred to as gate control, but the cellular mechanisms mediating this form of neuroplasticity are poorly understood. In the leech, activation of non-nociceptive touch (T) mechanosensory neurons induces a heterosynaptic depression of nociceptive (N) synapses that is endocannabinoid-dependent. This heterosynaptic, endocannabinoid-dependent long-term depression (ecLTD) is observed where the T- and N-cells converge on a common postsynaptic target, in this case the motor neuron that innervates the longitudinal muscles (L-cells) that contributes to a defensive withdrawal reflex. Depression in the nociceptive synapse required both presynaptic and postsynaptic increases in intracellular Ca. Activation of the Ca-sensitive protein phosphatase calcineurin was also required, but only in the presynaptic neuron. Heterosynaptic ecLTD was unaffected by antagonists for NMDA or metabotropic glutamate receptors, but was blocked by the 5-HT receptor antagonist ritanserin. Depression was also blocked by the CB1 receptor antagonist rimonabant, but this is thought to represent an effect on a TRPV-like receptor. This heterosynaptic, endocannabinoid-dependent modulation of nociceptive synapses represents a novel mechanism for regulating how injury-inducing or painful stimuli are transmitted to the rest of the central nervous system.
-Catenin, a key component of the Wnt signaling pathway, has been implicated in the development of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) in mice, but its precise role in this process remains unclear. Here we use a -catenin gain-of-function mouse model to stabilize -catenin selectively in either skeletal muscles or motor neurons. We found that -catenin stabilization in skeletal muscles resulted in increased motor axon number and excessive intramuscular nerve defasciculation and branching. In contrast, -catenin stabilization in motor neurons had no adverse effect on motor innervation pattern. Furthermore, stabilization of -catenin, either in skeletal muscles or in motor neurons, had no adverse effect on the formation and function of the NMJ. Our findings demonstrate that -catenin levels in developing muscles in mice are crucial for proper muscle innervation, rather than specifically affecting synapse formation at the NMJ, and that the regulation of muscle innervation by -catenin is mediated by a non-cell autonomous mechanism.
Coordinated limb rhythmic movements take place through organized signaling in local spinal cord neuronal networks. The establishment of these circuitries during development is dependent on the correct guidance of axons to their targets. It has previously been shown that the well-known axon guidance molecule netrin-1 is required for configuring the circuitry that provides left-right alternating coordination in fictive locomotion. The attraction of commissural axons to the midline in response to netrin-1 has been shown to involve the netrin-1 receptor DCC (deleted in Colorectal Cancer). However, the role of DCC for the establishment of CPG coordination has not yet been resolved. We show that mice carrying a null mutation of DCC displayed an uncoordinated left-right activity during fictive locomotion accompanied by a loss of interneuronal subpopulations originating from commissural progenitors. Thus, DCC plays a crucial role in the formation of spinal neuronal circuitry coordinating left-right activities. Together with the previously published results from netrin-1 deficient mice, the data presented in this study suggest a role for the most ventral originating V3 interneurons in synchronous activities over the midline. Further, it provides evidence that axon crossing in the spinal cord is more intricately controlled than in previously suggested models of DCC-netrin-1 interaction.
The opioid peptide bovine adrenal medulla 22 (BAM22) is a cleavage product of proenkephalin and has been shown to be involved in inflammatory pain and morphine tolerance. This study was designed to investigate a role of BAM22 in neuropathic pain. L5 spinal nerve ligation (SNL) significantly reduced BAM22-immunoreactivity in small-sized neurons and depleted IB4 binding in injured L5 dorsal root ganglia (DRG) compared to sham rats. Double labeling study showed that the expression of BAM22-immunoreactivity was decreased mainly in IB4 neurons in the neighboring intact L4 and L6 DRGs following SNL. The nerve injury dramatically increased sensitivity of hindpaw to mechanical stimulation. Intrathecal (i.t.) administration of BAM22 on day 10 post-SNL attenuated mechanical allodynia in a dose-dependent manner (3-30 nmol) and the effect lasted for up to 90 min. Similar treatment with morphine at a dose of 30 nmol produced a mild and brief inhibition on pain hypersensitivity. Furthermore, i.t. administration of 30 nmol of BAM22 suppressed SNL-induced upregulation of interleukin-1 (IL-1) in the spinal dorsal horn. The present study suggests that the reduction of BAM22 expression in small-sized neurons in both injured and the adjacent DRGs may contribute to pain hypersensitivity in peripheral nerve injury as a result of loss of inhibition of IL-1 upregulation in the spinal dorsal horn. Our results support the hypothesis that a reduction of antinociceptive activity loses the counteraction against activity of pronociceptive mediators, enhancing pain hypersensitivity following peripheral nerve injury.

Catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (CPVT) is an inherited arrhythmogenic disease so far related to mutations in the cardiac ryanodine receptor (RYR2) or the cardiac calsequestrin (CASQ2) genes. Because mutations in RYR2 or in CASQ2 are not retrieved in all CPVT cases, we searched for mutations in the physiological protein partners of RyR2 and CSQ2 in a large cohort of CPVT patients with no detected mutation in these two genes. Based on a candidate gene approach, we focused our investigations on triadin and junctin, two proteins that link RyR2 and CSQ2. Mutations in the triadin (TRDN) and in the junctin (ASPH) genes were searched in a cohort of 97 CPVT patients. We identified three mutations in triadin which cosegregated with the disease on a recessive mode of transmission in two families, but no mutation was found in junctin. Two TRDN mutations, a 4 bp deletion and a nonsense mutation, resulted in premature stop codons; the third mutation, a p.T59R missense mutation, was further studied. Expression of the p.T59R mutant in COS-7 cells resulted in intracellular retention and degradation of the mutant protein. This was confirmed after in vivo expression of the mutant triadin in triadin knock-out mice by viral transduction. In this work, we identified TRDN as a new gene responsible for an autosomal recessive form of CPVT. The mutations identified in the two families lead to the absence of the protein, thereby demonstrating the importance of triadin for the normal function of the cardiac calcium release complex in humans.
Mitochondrial dysfunction is commonly observed in degenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease that are characterized by the progressive and selective loss of neuronal subpopulations. It is currently unclear, however, whether mitochondrial dysfunction is primary or secondary to other pathogenic processes that eventually lead to age-related neurodegeneration. Here we establish an in vivo Drosophila model of mitochondrial dysfunction by downregulating the catalytic subunit of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) polymerase in cholinergic, serotonergic and dopaminergic neurons. The resulting flies are characterized by lowered respiratory chain activity, premature aging, age-related motor deficits as well as adult onset, progressive and cell-type-specific, dopaminergic neurodegeneration. Using this model, we find that associated lethality can be partially rescued by targeting PINK1/parkin signaling or Drp1, both of which have been implicated in mitochondrial dynamics and Parkinson's disease. Bypassing mitochondrial complex III/IV deficiencies with Alternative oxidase (AOX), however, fully restores ATP levels and prevents dopaminergic neurodegeneration. In contrast, ATP levels and neurodegeneration are not rescued when mitochondrial complex I deficiencies are bypassed with NADH-Q oxidoreductase. Our results demonstrate that mtDNA-mediated mitochondrial dysfunction can cause age-related and cell-type-specific neurodegeneration which AOX is able to alleviate and indicate that AOX or its surrogates may prove useful as a therapeutic tool for limiting respiratory chain deficiencies caused by mtDNA decline in healthy aging and neurodegenerative disease.
Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCLs) comprise a heterogeneous group of metabolic storage diseases that present with the accumulation of autofluorescent lipopigment, neurodegeneration and premature death. Nine genes have been thus far identified as the cause of different types of NCL, with ages at onset ranging from around birth to adult, although the underlying etiology of the disease still remains elusive. We present a family with typical NCL pathology in which we performed exome sequencing and identified a single homozygous mutation in ATP13A2 that fully segregates with disease within the family. Mutations in ATP13A2 are a known cause of Kufor-Rakeb syndrome (KRS), a rare parkinsonian phenotype with juvenile onset. These data show that NCL and KRS may share etiological features and implicate the lysosomal pathway in Parkinson's disease.
A proline to serine mutation (P56S) in vesicle-associated membrane protein-associated protein B and C (VAPB) causes an autosomal dominant form of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We show that the mutation also causes a nuclear envelope defect. Transport of nucleoporins (Nups) and emerin (EMD) to the nuclear envelope is blocked, resulting in their sequestration in dilated cytoplasmic membranes. Simultaneous overexpression of the FFAT motif (two phenylalanine residues in an acidic track) antagonizes the effect of mutant VAPB and restores transport to the nuclear envelope. VAPB function is required for transport to the nuclear envelope, with knockdown of endogenous VAPB recapitulating this phenotype. Moreover, we identified the compartment into which the Nups and EMD were sequestered as the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC), with nuclear envelope membrane proteins transiting to the ERGIC before VAPB-dependent retrograde transport to the nuclear envelope.
There is biochemical, imaging and functional evidence that Rho GTPase signaling is a crucial regulator of actin-based structures such as lamellipodia and filopodia. However, although Rho GTPases are believed to serve similar functions in growth cones, the spatiotemporal dynamics of Rho GTPase signaling has not been examined in living growth cones in response to known axon guidance cues. Here we provide the first measurements of Cdc42 activity in living growth cones acutely stimulated with both growth-promoting and growth-inhibiting axon-guidance cues. Interestingly, we find that both permissive and repulsive factors can work by modulating Cdc42 activity, but in opposite directions. We find that the growth-promoting factors laminin and BDNF activate Cdc42, whereas the inhibitor Slit2 reduces Cdc42 activity in growth cones. Remarkably, we find that regulation of focal adhesion kinase (FAK) activity is a common upstream modulator of Cdc42 by BDNF, laminin and Slit. These findings suggest that rapid modulation of Cdc42 signaling through FAK by receptor activation underlies changes in growth cone motility in response to permissive and repulsive guidance cues.
1-containing integrins are required for persistent synaptic potentiation in hippocampus and regulate hippocampal-dependent learning. Based largely on indirect evidence, there is a prevailing assumption that 1-integrins are localized at synapses, where they contribute to synapse adhesion and signaling, but this has not been examined directly. Here we investigate the fine localization of 1-integrin in adult mouse hippocampus using high-resolution immunogold labeling, with a particular emphasis on synaptic labeling patterns. We find that 1-integrins localize to synapses in CA1 and are concentrated postsynaptically. At the postsynaptic membrane, 1-integrins are found more commonly clustered near active zone centers rather than at the peripheral edges. In mice harboring a conditional deletion of 1-integrins, labeling for N-cadherin and neuroligins increases. Western blots show increased levels of N-cadherin in total lysates and neuroligins increase selectively in synaptosomes. These data suggest there is a dynamic, compensatory adjustment of synaptic adhesion. Such adjustment is specific only for certain cell adhesion molecules (CAMs), because labeling for SynCAM is unchanged. Together, our findings demonstrate unequivocally that 1-integrin is an integral synaptic adhesion protein, and suggest that adhesive function at the synapse reflects a cooperative and dynamic network of multiple CAM families.
The pontine noradrenergic cell groups, A5, A6 (locus coeruleus), and A7, provide the only noradrenergic innervation of the spinal cord, but the individual contribution of each of these populations to the regional innervation of the spinal cord remains controversial. We used an adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector encoding green fluorescent protein under an artificial dopamine beta-hydroxylase (PRSx8) promoter to trace the spinal projections from the A5, A6, and A7 groups. Projections from all three groups travel through the spinal cord in both the lateral and ventral funiculi and in the dorsal surface of the dorsal horn, but A6 axons take predominantly the dorsal and ventral routes, whereas A5 axons take mainly a lateral and A7 axons a ventral route. The A6 group provides the densest innervation at all levels, and includes all parts of the spinal gray matter, but it is particularly dense in the dorsal horn. The A7 group provides the next most dense innervation, again including all parts of the spinal cord, but is it denser in the ventral horn. The A5 group supplies only sparse innervation to the dorsal and ventral horns and to the cervical and lumbosacral levels, but provides the densest innervation to the thoracic intermediolateral cell column, and in particular to the sympathetic preganglionic neurons. Thus, the pontine noradrenergic cell groups project in a roughly topographic and complementary fashion onto the spinal cord. The pattern of spinal projections observed suggests that the locus coeruleus might have the greatest effect on somatosensory transmission, the A7 group on motor function, and the A5 group on sympathetic function.
Kv7 (KCNQ) potassium channel openers (enhancers) decrease neuropathic pain in experimental models. Here we show that C-fibers, and their associated small-diameter neurons in the dorsal root ganglia (both IB4- and TrkA-positive), expressed Kv7.5. In contrast, C-fibers did not express detectable levels of Kv7.2 or Kv7.3, which are instead localized to nodes of Ranvier and the cell bodies of large sensory neurons. These data suggest that Kv7.5 provides the primary M current in nociceptive neurons.
Principal neurons that are partially denervated after brain injury remodel their synaptic connections and show biphasic changes in their dendritic spine density: during an early phase after denervation spine density decreases and during a late phase spine density recovers again. It has been hypothesized that these changes in spine density are caused by a period of increased spine loss followed by a period of increased spine formation. We have tested this hypothesis, which is based on data from fixed tissues, by using time-lapse imaging of denervated dentate granule cells in organotypic entorhino-hippocampal slice cultures of Thy1-GFP mice. Our data show that nondenervated granule cells turn over spines spontaneously while keeping their spine density constant. Denervation influenced this equilibrium and induced biphasic changes in the spine loss rate but not in the rate of spine formation: during the early phase after denervation the spine loss rate was increased and during the late phase after denervation the spine loss rate was decreased compared with nondenervated control cultures. In line with these observations, time-lapse imaging of identified spines formed after the lesion revealed that the stability of these spines was decreased during the early phase and increased during the late phase after the lesion. We conclude that biphasic changes in spine loss rate and spine stability but not in the rate of spine formation play a central role in the reorganization of dentate granule cells after entorhinal denervation in vitro.
The purpose of the current study was to determine whether a tropical ginger derived compound 1'-acetoxychavicol acetate (ACA), suppresses skin tumor promotion in K5.Stat3C mice. In a two-week study in which wild-type (WT) and K5.Stat3C mice were co-treated with either vehicle, ACA, galanga extract, or fluocinolone acetonide (FA) and tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate (TPA), only the galanga extract and FA suppressed TPA-induced skin hyperproliferation and wet weight. None of these agents were effective at suppressing p-Tyr705Stat3 expression. However, ACA and FA showed promising inhibitory effects against skin tumorigenesis in K5.Stat3C mice. ACA also suppressed phospho-p65 NF-B activation, suggesting a potential mechanism for its action.

Inflammatory response in intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is associated with poor outcome and could be a consequence of Toll-like receptor (TLR) activation. We investigated the influence of TLR2 and TLR4 expression on the outcome of ICH patients. Expression levels of TLR2 and TLR4 in monocytes at admission were independently associated with poor functional outcome. On the other hand, TLR2 and TLR4 expression at admission in both monocytes and neutrophils was independently associated with residual lesion volume. In conclusion, increased expression of TLR2 and TLR4 is associated with poor functional outcome and greater residual volume in ICH patients.
In general, measles virus (MV) immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody titres decline over time. However, we found that serum and CSF MV antibody titres increased with age (slope=0.038, p&lt;0.001 and slope=0.022, p=0.008), respectively, and disease duration (slope=0.031, p=0.002 and slope=0.032, p=0.005), respectively, in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) or clinically isolated syndrome (CIS). The age dependency of serum antibody levels differed between patients and controls (slope=0.038 versus -0.004, p&lt;0.001). The increasing MV antibody titres over time in MS/CIS patients support a general nonspecific stimulation of B cells and plasma cells that is not confined only to the CNS/CSF compartment.
Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) typically present with motor symptoms, but several non-motor symptoms, such as cognitive impairment, autonomic dysfunction and neuropsychiatric symptoms, are usually also present, when adequately looked for. The objective of this paper is to provide an up-to-date, comprehensive review of the influence of affective disorders, mainly depression and apathy, on cognitive functioning of PD patients. Reviewed empirical findings suggest that, although depression and apathy have differential neurobiological bases in PD, both are associated to an increased risk of cognitive impairment, especially of executive functions, in this clinical population. The potential influence of other affective disorders, as anxiety and alexithymia, on cognitive functioning of PD patients is actually almost unknown and needs further empirical investigation. The clinical implication of these findings is that the best assessment and management of PD patients should include both neuropsychological and neuropsychiatric evaluations and the presence of non-motor symptoms as cognitive disturbances and affective features should be investigated with patients and caregivers.

In this paper, we test the performance of a synchronicity estimator widely applied in Neuroscience, phase lag index (PLI), for brain network inference in EEG. We implement the four sphere head model to simulate the volume conduction problem present in EEG recordings and measure the activity at the scalp of surrogate sources located at the brain level. Then, networks are estimated under the null hypothesis (independent sources) using PLI, coherence (R) and phase coherence (PC) for the volume conduction and no volume conduction (NVC) cases. It is known that R and PC are highly influenced by volume conduction, leading to the inference of clustered grid networks. PLI was designed to solve this problem. Our simulations show that PLI is partially invariant to volume conduction. The networks found by PLI show small-worldness, with a clustering coefficient higher than random networks. On the contrary, PLI-NVC obtains networks whose distribution is closer to random networks indicating that the high clustering shown by PLI networks are caused by volume conduction. The influence of volume conduction in PLI might lead to biased results in brain network inference from EEG if this behaviour is ignored.
We used electrophysiological signals recorded by CMOS Micro Electrode Arrays (MEAs) at high spatial resolution to estimate the functional-effective connectivity of sparse hippocampal neuronal networks in vitro by applying a cross-correlation (CC) based method and ad hoc developed spatio-temporal filtering. Low-density cultures were recorded by a recently introduced CMOS-MEA device providing simultaneous multi-site acquisition at high-spatial (21 m inter-electrode separation) as well as high-temporal resolution (8 kHz per channel). The method is applied to estimate functional connections in different cultures and it is refined by applying spatio-temporal filters that allow pruning of those functional connections not compatible with signal propagation. This approach permits to discriminate between possible causal influence and spurious co-activation, and to obtain detailed maps down to cellular resolution. Further, a thorough analysis of the links strength and time delays (i.e., amplitude and peak position of the CC function) allows characterizing the inferred interconnected networks and supports a possible discrimination of fast mono-synaptic propagations, and slow poly-synaptic pathways. By focusing on specific regions of interest we could observe and analyze microcircuits involving connections among a few cells. Finally, the use of the high-density MEA with low density cultures analyzed with the proposed approach enables to compare the inferred effective links with the network structure obtained by staining procedures.
Effluents from sewage treatment plants contain a mixture of micropollutants with the potential of harming aquatic organisms. Thus, addition of advanced treatment techniques to complement existing conventional methods has been proposed. Some of the advanced techniques could, however, potentially produce additional compounds affecting exposed organisms by unknown modes of action. In the present study the aim was to improve our understanding of how exposure to different sewage effluents affects fish. This was achieved by explorative microarray and quantitative PCR analyses of hepatic gene expression, as well as relative organ sizes of rainbow trout exposed to different sewage effluents (conventionally treated, granular activated carbon, ozonation (5 or 15 mg/L), 5 mg/L ozone plus a moving bed biofilm reactor, or UV-light treatment in combination with hydrogen peroxide). Exposure to the conventionally treated effluent caused a significant increase in liver and heart somatic indexes, an effect removed by all other treatments. Genes connected to xenobiotic metabolism, including cytochrome p450 1A, were differentially expressed in the fish exposed to the conventionally treated effluents, though only effluent treatment with granular activated carbon or ozone at 15 mg/L completely removed this response. The mRNA expression of heat shock protein 70 kDa was induced in all three groups exposed to ozone-treated effluents, suggesting some form of added stress in these fish. The induction of estrogen-responsive genes in the fish exposed to the conventionally treated effluent was effectively reduced by all investigated advanced treatment technologies, although the moving bed biofilm reactor was least efficient. Taken together, granular activated carbon showed the highest potential of reducing responses in fish induced by exposure to sewage effluents.
The hippocampus is critical for spatial learning and memory. Hippocampal neurons in awake animals exhibit place field activity that encodes current location, as well as sharp-wave ripple (SWR) activity during which representations based on past experiences are often replayed. The relationship between these patterns of activity and the memory functions of the hippocampus is poorly understood. We interrupted awake SWRs in animals learning a spatial alternation task. We observed a specific learning and performance deficit that persisted throughout training. This deficit was associated with awake SWR activity, as SWR interruption left place field activity and post-experience SWR reactivation intact. These results provide a link between awake SWRs and hippocampal memory processes, which suggests that awake replay of memory-related information during SWRs supports learning and memory-guided decision-making.
Reentrant processing has been proposed as a critical mechanism in visual perception of an object's features. In order to test whether reentry is critical for visual awareness of object presence, the success of reentry was manipulated with object substitution masking (OSM) while participants performed a forced-choice target present-absent task and rated their subjective confidence in each trial. Signal detection analyses were performed on the data from the forced-choice task and on the subjective confidence ratings. The results showed that OSM reduced sensitivity to the presence of the target, indicating that reentry is critical for awareness of object presence. Consistent with the idea that OSM leaves feedforward processing intact, confidence ratings in reported target-absent trials were lower for misses (target present, no response) than for correct rejections (target absent, no response), implying that a target-related sensory signal was available for subjective ratings in spite of reported absence of the target. The results suggest that reentry is critical for encoding the target representation into a stable, consciously reportable form.



Kv4 channels regulate the backpropagation of action potentials (b-AP) and have been implicated in the modulation of long-term potentiation (LTP). Here we showed that blockade of Kv4 channels by the scorpion toxin AmmTX3 impaired reference memory in a radial maze task. In vivo, AmmTX3 intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) infusion increased and stabilized the EPSP-spike (E-S) component of LTP in the dentate gyrus (DG), with no effect on basal transmission or short-term plasticity. This increase in E-S potentiation duration could result from the combination of an increase in excitability of DG granular cells with a reduction of GABAergic inhibition, leading to a strong reduction of input specificity. Radioactive in situ hybridization (ISH) was used to evaluate the amounts of Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 mRNA in brain structures at different stages of a spatial learning task in naive, pseudoconditioned, and conditioned rats. Significant differences in Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 mRNA levels were observed between conditioned and pseudoconditioned rats. Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 mRNA levels were transiently up-regulated in the striatum, nucleus accumbens, retrosplenial, and cingulate cortices during early stages of learning, suggesting an involvement in the switch from egocentric to allocentric strategies. Spatial learning performance was positively correlated with the levels of Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 mRNAs in several of these brain structures. Altogether our findings suggest that Kv4 channels could increase the signal-to-noise ratio during information acquisition, thereby allowing a better encoding of the memory trace.
Stroke patients can recover upon intravenous thrombolysis but remain impaired in lacking recanalization. We sought to investigate the clinical effect of systemic thrombolysis with an intravenous bolus of 20 mg recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA) and an infusion of body-weight adjusted tirofiban for 48 hours in acute stroke. This prospective, open label study, included 192 patients (6813 years, 50% males) treated between 1 January 2005 and 31 December 2007. The neurological deficit was assessed with the National Institutes of Health stroke scale (NIHSS). Follow-up was performed using a telephone interview of modified Rankin Scale (mRS) and Barthel index. The site of cerebral artery occlusion was determined by computed tomography or magnetic resonance angiography. Data were analyzed by descriptive statistics and multiple regression analyses. Eighty-one percent of the patients had an infarct in the middle cerebral artery (MCA) territory and were severely affected with a median NIHSS of 10. During treatment on the Stroke Unit the patients improved (P&lt;0.0001) except for patients who deceased due to malignant infarction (n=10) or cerebral haemorrhage (n=6); 18 percent deceased within 100 days which was predicted by older age (76 + 10 years, P&lt;0.05) and more severe affection on admission (P&lt;0.0001). Also, these patients more frequently had atrial fibrillation (P&lt;0.03) than the surviving patients. The surviving patients had more frequently distal MCA occlusions and improved further (P&lt;0.0001). At follow-up 48% of the patients had a mRS of 0 and 1. Similarly to intravenous thrombolysis with body-weight adjusted rtPA, poor prognosis was predicted by higher age, more severe neurological deficit at stroke admission, and a proximal MCA occlusion. Half of the surviving patients improved to no or minimal impairment.
There is a growing interest for using quantitative EEG and LORETA current source density in clinical and research settings. Importantly, if these indices are to be employed in clinical settings then the reliability of these measures is of great concern. Neuroguide (Applied Neurosciences) is sophisticated software developed for the analyses of power, and connectivity measures of the EEG as well as LORETA current source density. To date there are relatively few data evaluating topographical EEG reliability contrasts for all 19 channels and no studies have evaluated reliability for LORETA calculations. We obtained 4 min eyes-closed and eyes-opened EEG recordings at 30-day intervals. The EEG was analyzed in Neuroguide and FFT power, coherence and phase was computed for traditional frequency bands (delta, theta, alpha and beta) and LORETA current source density was calculated in 1 Hz increments and summed for total power in eight regions of interest (ROI). In order to obtain a robust measure of reliability we utilized a random effects model with an absolute agreement definition. The results show very good reproducibility for total absolute power and coherence. Phase shows lower reliability coefficients. LORETA current source density shows very good reliability with an average 0.81 for ECB and 0.82 for EOB. Similarly, the eight regions of interest show good to very good agreement across time. Implications for future directions and use of qEEG and LORETA in clinical populations are discussed.
Chartier-Harlin and colleagues [2] recently reported mutations in the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4-gamma (EIF4G1) gene in families with parkinsonism. Large-scale screening found two mutations (p.R1205H and p.A502V) only in affected individuals, although their relative frequency was very low. The aim of this study was to investigate EIF4G1 parkinsonism-related variants in two separate cohorts and study coding variability across the gene. We first screened a series of familial Parkinson's Disease (PD) patients in an attempt to confirm previous results by showing segregation. Then, to determine the extent of coding variation in the gene, we first screened a cohort of sub-Saharan African individuals from the Centre d'Etude du Polymorphisme Humain - Human Genome Diversity Cell Line Panel (HGDP) [1] and then analyzed data from 5350 individuals National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) exome sequencing project. We failed to identify any PD-related mutations in the familial samples. Conversely we found the p.A502V variant in the NHLBI population. We observed a high number of coding polymorphism in the exons where the two PD variants have been previously reported. We conclude that either EIF4G1 variants are an extremely rare cause of familial PD in Caucasian cohorts, or that A502V is in fact a rare benign variant not involved in PD aetiology. Our data also suggests that the protein can tolerate some extent of variability particularly at this point of the gene.
After the establishment of the space age physicians, human factors engineers, neurologist and psychologists and their special attention to work on people's capability to meet up the physical, psychological, neuroscience and interpersonal strains of working in space, it has been regarded as an issue that seeks urgent consideration. Not study was conducted on effect of simulated Mars analog environment on stress and salivary amylase. So, this study aimed to confirm whether salivary amylase is act as stress biomarker in crew members who took part in Mars analog mission in an isolated and stressful environment. The 18 crew members were selected who took part in Mars Analog Research Station, Utah. Salivary amylase was measured using a biosensor of salivary amylase monitor and State-Trait Anxiety Inventory score at pre-extravehicular activity, post-extravehicular activity and on before mission. The state and trait anxiety scores at pre-extravehicular activity for each commander were elevated as compared to after extravehicular activity. There were significant differences in the state and trait anxiety scores between before extravehicular activity and after extravehicular activity of Commander and other members, also there were significant differences in values of before-extravehicular activity between commanders and other members. There were significant differences in values of salivary amylase at before extravehicular activity and after extravehicular activity between commander group and other members. There was significant correlation between salivary amylase and state and trait anxiety scores in all groups. Measuring salivary amylase level could be useful for stress assessment of crew members and population working in a stressful and isolated environment.
Sleep disorders such as narcolepsy, obstructive sleep apnea, and chronic insomnia have been associated with reduced gray matter volume of the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC). Functional neuroimaging and behavioral data also implicate this region as important in sleep-related problems and the ability to resist the impairing effects of sleep loss on cognition. However, no study has linked gray matter volume within this region to normal self-reported levels of daytime sleepiness. We therefore hypothesized that reduced gray matter volume within the VMPFC would be related to greater self-reported levels of general daytime sleepiness, as assessed by the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) in a sample of 36 healthy non-clinical participants. Using voxel-based morphometry, scores of the ESS were correlated with gray matter volume, after controlling for age, gender, and whole brain volume. Daytime sleepiness correlated negatively with gray matter volume in a cluster of voxels within the left gyrus rectus and medial orbitofrontal cortex. Findings converge with prior evidence to suggest that the VMPFC and medial orbitofrontal cortex may play a particularly important role in sleep-wake related phenomena including sleep disorders and trait-like individual differences in vulnerability to the impairing effects of sleep deprivation on neurobehavioral performance, and also in normal variations in self-reported daytime sleepiness.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays important roles in the development, maintenance, and plasticity of the mammalian forebrain. These functions include regulation of neuronal maturation and survival, axonal and dendritic arborization, synaptic efficacy, and modulation of complex behaviors including depression and spatial learning. Although analysis of mutant mice has helped establish essential developmental functions for BDNF, its requirement in the adult is less well documented. We have studied late-onset forebrain-specific BDNF knockout (CaMK-BDNF(KO)) mice, in which BDNF is lost primarily from the cortex and hippocampus in early adulthood, well after BDNF expression has begun in these structures. We found that although CaMK-BDNF(KO) mice grew at a normal rate and can survive more than a year, they had smaller brains than wild-type siblings. The CaMK-BDNF(KO) mice had generally normal behavior in tests for ataxia and anxiety, but displayed reduced spatial learning ability in the Morris water task and increased depression in the Porsolt swim test. These behavioral deficits were very similar to those we previously described in an early-onset forebrain-specific BDNF knockout. To identify an anatomical correlate of the abnormal behavior, we quantified dendritic spines in cortical neurons. The spine density of CaMK-BDNF(KO) mice was normal at P35, but by P84, there was a 30% reduction in spine density. The strong similarities we find between early- and late-onset BDNF knockouts suggest that BDNF signaling is required continuously in the CNS for the maintenance of some forebrain circuitry also affected by developmental BDNF depletion.
During exercise, intense brain activity orchestrates an increase in muscle tension. Additionally, there is an increase in cardiac output and ventilation to compensate the increased metabolic demand of muscle activity and to facilitate the removal of CO(2) from and the delivery of O(2) to tissues. Here we tested the hypothesis that a subset of pontomedullary and hypothalamic neurons could be activated during dynamic acute exercise. Male Wistar rats (250-350 g) were divided into an exercise group (n=12) that ran on a treadmill and a no-exercise group (n=7). Immunohistochemistry of pontomedullary and hypothalamic sections to identify activation (c-Fos expression) of cardiorespiratory areas showed that the no-exercise rats exhibited minimal Fos expression. In contrast, there was intense activation of the nucleus of the solitary tract, the ventrolateral medulla (including the presumed central chemoreceptor neurons in the retrotrapezoid/parafacial region), the lateral parabrachial nucleus, the Klliker-Fuse region, the perifornical region, which includes the perifornical area and the lateral hypothalamus, the dorsal medial hypothalamus, and the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus after running exercise. Additionally, we observed Fos immunoreactivity in catecholaminergic neurons within the ventrolateral medulla (C1 region) without Fos expression in the A2, A5 and A7 neurons. In summary, we show for the first time that after acute exercise there is an intense activation of brain areas crucial for cardiorespiratory control. Possible involvement of the central command mechanism should be considered. Our results suggest whole brain-specific mobilization to correct and compensate the homeostatic changes produced by acute exercise.
Gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA)ergic cells play an important inhibitory role in epilepsy. Until now, there are no reports on promoting transplanted bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) to differentiate into GABAergic cells for treatment of epilepsy. In this study, hairy and enhancer of split 1 (Hes1)-down regulated BMSCs (H-BMSCs) were transplanted into an epileptic rat model to induce GABAergic cells differentiation to improve the function recovery and neuronal regeneration. First, Hes1 expression in isolated BMSCs was down regulated by Hes1 siRNA. Then, the H-BMSCs were labeled with 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) and transplanted into the lateral ventricle of pilocarpine-induced epileptic rats. To evaluate the therapeutic effects, behavior and electroencephalography (EEG) of the recipient rats were monitored in the following 4 weeks, followed by histological confirmation. The results showed that the rate of mortality, frequency of spontaneous recurrent seizures (SRS) and incidence of epileptiform waves presented a tendency to decrease after H-BMSCs transplantation. The histology results showed that (1) the transplanted H-BMSCs which migrated to the adjacent parahippocampal cortical areas expressed glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) 67, neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and some glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and (2) the neuronal density of corresponding cortical areas was significantly increased (P&lt;0.01 VS. experimental group I or positive control group). Given these results and other advantages of BMSCs, such as easy harvest and minimal immunogenicity, transplantation of H-BMSCs could be a promising approach to improve the functional recovery and neuronal regeneration of epileptic model in the early stage.
MMP-9 deficiency protected against photochemical thrombosis-induced brain hemorrhagic transformation (HT), but it did not protect against tissue plasminogen activator-induced brain hemorrhage. The roles of MMP-2 and/or MMP-9 knockout (KO) in mechanical reperfusion induced HT after ischemia have not been investigated. Here we assessed the effects of MMP-2 KO, MMP-9 KO and MMP-2/9 double KO (dKO) in protecting against mechanical reperfusion induced HT and other brain injuries after the early stages of cerebral ischemia in mice of the same genetic background. Middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) was performed in mice. Reperfusion was started at 1 or 1.5h after onset of MCAO. All mice were sacrificed 8h after MCAO. We found that both pro- and active MMP-2 and MMP-9 levels were significantly elevated in the early ischemic brain. After the early stages of ischemia and reperfusion, the hemorrhagic incidence was reduced in the cortex of MMP-2 KO mice (p&lt;0.05 vs. WT). The hemorrhagic volume was significantly decreased in the cortexes of MMP-2 and/or -9 knockout mice (MMP-9 KO vs. WT: p&lt;0.01, MMP-2 KO and dKO vs. WT: p&lt;0.001). In the basal ganglia, MMP-2 KO and MMP-2/9 dKO mice displayed a remarkable decrease in hemorrhagic volume (p&lt;0.01 or 0.05 vs. WT), but MMP-9 KOs did not protect against hemorrhage. MMP-2 and/or -9 knockout mice displayed significantly decreased infarction volume in both the cortex and striatum, in addition to improved neurological function (p&lt;0.001 vs. WT). The results suggested that MMP-2 deficiency and MMP-2 and MMP-9 double deficiency were more protective than MMP-9 deficiency against HT after the early stages of ischemia and reperfusion. These studies increase our understanding of MMP-2 and MMP-9 in HT development and will help to selectively target MMPs to protect the post-ischemic brain from injury and HT.
It has been reported that central chemoreceptor cells in the medulla are distributed in close apposition to capillary blood vessels in the medulla. Phox2b-expressing neurons in the retrotrapezoid nucleus (RTN) respond to high CO(2)/H(+) stimulation and have been suggested to play an important role in central chemoreception. In newborn rats, the RTN overlaps at least partially with the parafacial respiratory group (pFRG), which consists predominantly of preinspiratory neurons. In the present study, we visualized the blood vessels in the ventral medulla of newborn rats using a neurobiotin method and examined the relationship between the blood vessels and the location of Phox2b-immunoreactive (-ir) neurons. We showed that Phox2b-ir neurons in the parafacial region of the rostral ventral medulla tended to assemble around capillary blood vessels. We also confirmed that pFRG/preinspiratory neurons that were sensitive to hypercapnic stimulation in the presence of tetrodotoxin were Phox2b-ir neurons and were tightly apposed to the blood vessels along the longitudinal axis. Our findings suggested that the location of Phox2b-ir neurons, including preinspiratory neurons of the pFRG, matched their role as sensors of blood CO(2) concentration.
Intermittent social defeat stress exposure augments behavioral response to psychostimulants in a process termed cross-sensitization. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mediates synaptic plasticity and cellular responses to stress and drugs of abuse. We previously showed that repeated social defeat stress persistently alters BDNF and activates FosB expression in mesocorticolimbic regions. Here, we hypothesized that social defeat stress would increase FosB expression in BDNF-containing mesocorticolimbic neurons at a time when cross-sensitization is evident. Because the ventral tegmental area (VTA) is critical for cross-sensitization, we similarly hypothesized that repeated social defeat stress would induce FosB in neurons of mesocorticolimbic terminal regions that innervate the VTA. We induced social defeat stress in rats by short confrontations with an aggressive resident rat every third day for 10 days. Control rats were handled according to the same schedule. Defeated rats exhibited sensitized locomotor response to amphetamine (1.0mg/kg, i.p.) 10 days after termination of stress exposure. Separate rats, which underwent stress procedures without amphetamine challenge, were used for histological assessments. Rats received intra-VTA infusion of the retrograde tracer, Fluorogold (FG), and brain tissue was collected 10 days after stress or handling for immunohistochemistry. Stress exposure increased BDNF immunoreactivity in anterior cingulate, prelimbic and infralimbic regions of the prefrontal cortex (PFC), medial amygdala (AMY), nucleus accumbens (NAc) and VTA; FosB labeling in anterior cingulate cortex (ACG) and nucleus accumbens; and FosB/BDNF co-expression in prelimbic cortex (PL), nucleus accumbens and medial amygdala. Infralimbic FosB-labeling was enhanced by stress in neurons innervating the VTA. Increased FosB/BDNF co-expression and persistent functional activation of corticolimbic neurons after stress may contribute to mechanisms underlying cross-sensitization to psychostimulants.
Elucidation of the 'fear circuit' has opened exciting avenues for understanding and treating human anxiety disorders. However, the translation of rodent to human studies, and vice versa, depends on understanding the homology in relevant circuits across species. Although abundant evidence indicates that the hippocampal-amygdala circuit mediates contextual fear learning, previous studies indicate that this pathway is more restricted in primates than in rodents. Moreover, cellular components of the amygdala differ across species. The paralaminar nucleus (PL) of the amygdala, a structure that is closely associated with the basal nucleus, is one example, having no clear homologue in rodents. In both human and nonhuman primates, the PL contains a subpopulation of immature-appearing neurons, which merge into the corticoamygdaloid transition area (CTA). To understand whether immature-appearing neurons are positioned to participate in fear circuitry, we first mapped the hippocampal-amygdala projection in the monkey. We then determined whether immature-appearing neurons were targets of this path. Retrograde results show that the hippocampal inputs to the amygdala originate in uncal region (CA1') and the rostral prosubiculum, consistent with earlier studies. The amygdalohippocampal area, ventral basal nucleus, the medial paralaminar nucleus, and its confluence with the CTA are the main targets of this projection. Immature neurons are prominent in the PL and CTA, and are overlapped by anterogradely labeled fibers from CA1', particularly in the medial PL and CTA. Hippocampal inputs to the amygdala are more focused in higher primates compared to rodents, supporting previous anatomic studies and recent data from human functional imaging studies of contextual fear. At the cellular level, a hippocampal interaction with immature neurons in the amygdala suggests a novel substrate for cellular plasticity, with implications for mechanisms underlying contextual learning and emotional memory processes.
Considerable sex differences occur in the incidence and prevalence of anxiety disorders where women are more anxious than men, particularly in situations where social interaction is required. In preclinical studies, the social interaction test represents a valid animal model to study sex differences in social anxiety. Indeed, female rats engage less in conspecific interactions than their male counterparts, which are behaviors indicative of higher social anxiety in female rats. In this work, we implicated extracellular signal-regulated kinase 2 (ERK2) in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) in mediating social interaction. Indeed, female rats' had lower ERK2 expression compared to male rats, and overexpression of ERK2 in the mPFC increases their social interaction to the level seen in their male counterparts. These data indicate that the sexually dimorphic expression of ERK2 mediates social anxiety-like behaviors.
The contribution of oxidative stress to diabetic complications including neuropathy is widely known. Mitochondrial and cellular damage are associated with the overproduction of reactive oxygen species and decreased levels or function of the cellular antioxidant mitochondrial manganese superoxide dismutase (SOD2). We hypothesized that targeted SOD2 deletion in the peripheral nervous system using cre-lox technology under control of the nestin promoter would accelerate neuropathy in a type 2 model of diabetes, the BKS.db/db mouse. SOD2-deficient mice, however, demonstrated severe gait deformities and seizures and died by 20 days of age. Examination of SOD2 expression levels revealed that SOD2 was lost in brain and reduced in the spinal cord, but appeared normal in dorsal root ganglia and peripheral nerves in SOD2-deficient mice. These findings indicate incomplete targeted knockout of SOD2. Morphological examination revealed cortical lesions similar to spongiform encephalopathy in the brain of SOD2-deficient mice. No lesions were evident in the spinal cord, but changes in myelin within the sciatic and sural nerves including a lack of cohesion between layers of compact myelin were observed. Together, these results indicate that targeted neuronal SOD2 knockout using the nestin promoter results in severe central nervous system degeneration and perinatal lethality in mice. A specific peripheral nervous system-targeting construct is required to examine the consequences of SOD2 knockout in diabetic neuropathy.
Postsynaptic densities (PSDs) are responsible for organizing receptors and signaling proteins that regulate excitatory transmission in the mammalian brain. To better understand the assembly and 3D organization of this synaptic structure, we employed electron cryotomography to visualize general and fine structural details of PSDs isolated from P2, P14, P21 and adult forebrain in the absence of fixatives and stains. PSDs at P2 are a loose mesh of filamentous and globular proteins and during development additional protein complexes are recruited onto the mesh. Quantitative analysis reveals that while the surface area of PSDs is relatively constant, the thickness and protein occupancy of the PSD volume increase dramatically between P14 and adult. One striking morphological feature is the appearance of lipid raft-like structures, first evident in PSDs from 14 day old animals. These detergent-resistant membranes stain for GM1 ganglioside and their terminations can be clearly seen embedded in protein &quot;bowls&quot; within the PSD complex. In total, these results lead to the conclusion that the PSD is assembled by the gradual recruitment and stabilization of proteins within an initial mesh that systematically adds complexity to the structure.
The purpose of this study was to examine whether mechanisms, involved during the maintenance of familiar movement information in memory, were influenced by the degree of familiarity of the display in which the movements were embedded. Twelve gymnasts who possessed high visual and motor familiarity with the movements employed in this study, were recruited. They were invited to retain for a short period of time familiar movements viewed previously and presented under different displays with the aim of recognizing them at a later stage. The first display was a realistic, familiar display which presented videos of movements. The second display was an unfamiliar impoverished display never experienced in every day life which showed point-light movements. Activity during the maintenance period was considered in five frequency bands (4-8 Hz, 8-10 Hz, 10-13 Hz, 13-20 Hz, 20-30 Hz) using a non-linear measure of functional connectivity. The results in the 13-20 Hz frequency band showed that functional connectivity was greater within the frontal and right temporal areas during the unfamiliar display (i.e., point-light maintenance condition) compared to the familiar display (i.e., video maintenance condition). Differences in functional connectivity between the two maintenance conditions in the beta frequency band are mainly discussed in the light of the process of anticipation. Subjects' perception of the expected difficulty of the upcoming recognition task is discussed.
Neonatal treatment of rat pups with clomipramine (CLI) has been shown to cause long-lasting and persistent depression-related behaviors and changes in sleep architecture and in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling in adult animals, producing an animal model of depression. However, the molecular mechanisms which mediate these effects of early-life CLI treatment on adult animals remain largely unknown. In order to characterize these further, we investigated in neonatally CLI-treated rats the sleep architecture as well as the extracellular and cellular levels of sleep regulators (nitric oxide, adenosine) and BDNF, respectively, in the basal forebrain (BF), i.e. the brain area which is implicated in sleep and depression. We found that CLI-treated rats exhibited a disturbed sleep architecture (REM sleep fragmentation was increased and NREM periods preceding REM were shorter) and reduced levels of BDNF and adenosine in the BF, whereas the levels of nitric oxide were elevated. Next, we examined sleep deprivation (SD)-induced homeostatic responses on sleep regulation and brain BDNF levels in CLI-treated rats. Compared to control rats, 3h of SD induced a smaller increase in the amount of NREM sleep during sleep recovery. At the molecular level, the normal homeostatic response was dissociated: the rise in the adenosine level was not accompanied by a rise in the nitric oxide concentration. Moreover, while BF BDNF levels decreased during SD in control rats, such a decline was not observed in CLI rats. Taken together, neonatal CLI treatment produces long-lasting functional changes in the sleep architecture and sleep regulation in adult rats, accompanied by dysregulated BDNF signaling in the BF.
Understanding the cellular events evoked at the peripheral boundary of cerebral ischemia is critical for therapeutic outcome against the insult of cerebral ischemia. The present study reports a repeated longitudinal imaging for cellular-scale changes of neuro-glia-vascular unit at the boundary of cerebral ischemia in mouse cerebral cortex in vivo. Two-photon microscopy was used to trace the longitudinal changes of cortical microvasculature and astroglia following permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). We found that sulforhodamine 101 (SR101), a previously-known marker of astroglia, provide a bright signal in the vessels soon after the intraperitoneal injection, and that intensity was sufficient to detect the microvasculature up to a depth of 0.8 mm. After 5-8 h from the injection of SR101, cortical astroglia was also imaged up to a depth of 0.4 mm. After 1 day from MCAO, some microvessels showed a closure of the lumen space in the occluded MCA territory, leading to a restructuring of microvascular networks up to 7 days after MCAO. At the regions of the distorted microvasculature, an increase in the number of cells labeled with SR101 was detected, which was found as due to labeled neurons. Immunohistochemical results further showed that ischemia provokes neuronal uptake of SR101, which delineate a boundary between dying and surviving cells at the peripheral zone of ischemia in vivo. Finally, reproducibility of the MCAO model was evaluated with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in a different animal group, which showed the consistent infarct volume at the MCA territory over the subjects.
Previous research has demonstrated that diabetes induced learning and memory deficits. However, the mechanism of memory impairment induced by diabetes is poorly understood. Dietary fatty acids, especially polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA), have been shown to enhance learning and memory and prevent memory deficits in various experimental conditions. Sprague-Dawley rats were used in the present study to investigate the effect of fish oil supplementation on spatial learning and memory of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats with the Morris Water Maze. The excitability of CA1 pyramidal neurons and the related ionic currents was also examined. Diabetes impaired spatial learning and memory of rats. Diabetes decreased the sodium currents and increased the potassium currents, and further led to the reduction of excitability of CA1 pyramidal neurons, effects which may contribute to the behavioral deficits. Fish oil dietary supplementation decreased the transient currents and Kv4.2 expression in the hippocampus and partially improved learning performance of diabetic rats. The results of the present study suggested that sodium and potassium currents contributed to the inhibitory effect of diabetes on neuron excitability, further influencing learning and memory processing. Dietary fish oil may modulate the membrane excitability and is a possible strategy for preventing the impairments of diabetes on hippocampal function.
Vision (V) and touch (T) help stabilize our standing body, but little is known on the time-interval necessary for the brain to process the sensory inflow (or its removal) and exploit the new information (or counteract its removal). We have estimated the latency of onset and the time-course of the changes in postural control mode following addition or withdrawal of sensory information and the effect of anticipation thereof. Ten subjects stood in tandem position. They wore LCD goggles that allowed or removed vision, or lightly touched (eyes-closed) with the index finger (haptic stimulation) a pad that could be suddenly lowered (passive task). In different sessions, sensory shifts were deliberately produced by opening (or closing) the eyes or touching the pad (or lifting the finger) (active task). We recorded eyelid movement and finger force (&lt;1N), sway of center of foot pressure (CoP), electromyogram (EMG) of soleus, tibialis and peroneus muscle, bilaterally, and of extensor indicis. The latency of the CoP and EMG changes following the shifts were statistically estimated on the averaged traces of 50 repetitions per condition. Muscle activity and sway adaptively decreased in amplitude on adding stabilizing visual or haptic information. The time-interval from the sensory shift to decrease in EMG and sway was 0.5-2 s under both conditions. It was shorter for tibialis than peroneus or soleus and shorter for visual than haptic shift. CoP followed the tibialis by 0.2 s. Slightly shorter intervals were observed following active sensory shifts. Latencies of EMG and postural changes were the shortest on removal of both haptic and visual information. Subsequently, the time taken to reach the steady-state was 1-3 s under both active and passive tasks. A startle response at 100 ms could precede EMG changes. Reaction-time contractions in response to sensory shifts appeared at 200 ms, earlier than the adaptive changes. Changes in postural behavior require a finite amount of time from visual or haptic shift, much longer than reflexes or rapid voluntary responses, suggesting a time-consuming central integration process. This process is longer on addition than removal of haptic information, indicating a heavier computational load. These findings should be taken into account when considering problems of sensorimotor integration in elderly subjects or patients and when designing simulation models of human balance.
We investigated the effects of swimming and treadmill exercise on the level of nerve growth factor (NGF) protein and neurogenesis in the hippocampus, and cognitive function of adult rats over a period of 8 weeks. We divided 144 male Sprague-Dawley rats into 3 groups: (1) a control group (COG; total n=48, n=8 for each time-point), (2) a swimming exercise group (SEG; total n=48; n=8 for each time-point), and (3) a treadmill exercise group (TEG; total n=48, n=8 for each time-point). The SEG and TEG were made to perform their respective exercise type for 5 days per week over a period of 8 weeks. The level of NGF on the second day, and after the first, second, and fourth weeks increased significantly in the SEG and TEG, compared to the COG (p&lt;0.001 for each time-point). Specifically, a significant increase was observed in the SEG at the 2-day, 2-week, and 4-week time-points. A significant difference in the number of BrdU-positive cells was found between groups at all time-points (6 months: p&lt;0.05; 2 days, 2 weeks, 4 weeks, and 3 months: p&lt;0.01; 1 week: p&lt;0.001). Specifically, a significant increase was observed in the SEG at the 1-week and 4-week time-points. The number of NeuN-positive cells in the SEG increased significantly at all time-points (2 weeks: p&lt;0.01; 2 days, 1 week, 4 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months: p&lt;0.001). The number of DCX-positive cells between groups was also significantly different at all time-points, except for the fourth week, (6 months: p&lt;0.05; 2 days: p&lt;0.01; 1 week, 2 weeks, 3 months: p&lt;0.001). Specifically, a significant increase was observed in the SEG at the 3-month time-point. These results show that regular exercise in adult rats increased the level of NGF in the hippocampus, increased the number of newly proliferated nerve cells, and extended the period of neuron survival and maintenance. Furthermore, this phenomenon was more apparent when the exercise form was swimming.
In this study, we investigated effects of intra-central amygdala (intra-CeA) administrations of a cannabinoid agonist, WIN55,212-2 by itself and its interaction with 1-adrenoceptor agents on memory consolidation. We used a step-through inhibitory avoidance (IA) task to assess memory in male Wistar rats. The results showed that post-training intra-CeA administrations of different doses of WIN55,212-2 at doses of 0.1 and 0.25 g/rat impaired memory consolidation (or induced amnesia) as revealed by a decrease in step-through latency on the test day. Post-training intra-CeA injections of a 1-adrenoceptor agonist, isoprenaline (0.01, 0.025, 0.05 g/rat) by itself had no significant effect on memory consolidation, while at all doses prevented the amnesia induced by post-training injections of WIN55,212-2 (0.25 g/rat). Although, post-training intra-CeA administrations of 1-adrenoceptor antagonist, atenolol alone at different doses (0.01, 0.025, 0.05 and 0.1 g/rat) had no significant effect, but its co-administrations at doses of 0.05 and 0.1 g/rat along with an ineffective dose of WIN55,212-2 (0.05 g/rat) induced amnesia, and at dose of 0.1 g/rat along with an effective dose of WIN55,212-2 (0.25 g/rat) increased amnesia that induced by the later drug. Moreover, the improving effect of isoprenaline (0.025 g/rat) on amnesia induced by WIN55,212-2 (0.25 g/rat) was prevented by intra-CeA co-injections of atenolol at doses of 0.01 and 0.025 g/rat. The present results suggest that a 1-adrenoeceptor mechanism in the central amygdala (CeA) is involved in amnesia induced by post-training intra-CeA injections of WIN55,212-2.
Proglucagon-derived glucagon-like peptide-2 (GLP-2) is released from enteroendocrine cells and neurons. GLP-2 regulates energy absorption and epithelial integrity in the gastrointestinal tract, but its effect on blood-pressure regulation remains unknown. In the present study, we found that GLP-2 administered both peripherally and centrally dose-dependently reduced mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) in male Wistar rats anesthetized with urethane and -chloralose. Immunohistochemical detection of the c-fos protein (Fos) revealed that the peripherally and centrally administered GLP-2 induced Fos-immunoreactivity (Fos-IR) in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) and the caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVLM). In contrast, Fos-IR in brainstem catecholamine neurons decreased after the administration of GLP-2. These results suggest that GLP-2 acts on specific brain nuclei to inhibit sympathetic nerve activity and this leads to hypotension.
The vestibular system contributes to the control of posture and eye movements and is also involved in various cognitive functions including spatial navigation and memory. These functions are subtended by projections to a vestibular cortex, whose exact location in the human brain is still a matter of debate (Lopez and Blanke, 2011). The vestibular cortex can be defined as the network of all cortical areas receiving inputs from the vestibular system, including areas where vestibular signals influence the processing of other sensory (e.g. somatosensory and visual) and motor signals. Previous neuroimaging studies used caloric vestibular stimulation (CVS), galvanic vestibular stimulation (GVS), and auditory stimulation (clicks and short-tone bursts) to activate the vestibular receptors and localize the vestibular cortex. However, these three methods differ regarding the receptors stimulated (otoliths, semicircular canals) and the concurrent activation of the tactile, thermal, nociceptive and auditory systems. To evaluate the convergence between these methods and provide a statistical analysis of the localization of the human vestibular cortex, we performed an activation likelihood estimation (ALE) meta-analysis of neuroimaging studies using CVS, GVS, and auditory stimuli. We analyzed a total of 352 activation foci reported in 16 studies carried out in a total of 192 healthy participants. The results reveal that the main regions activated by CVS, GVS, or auditory stimuli were located in the Sylvian fissure, insula, retroinsular cortex, fronto-parietal operculum, superior temporal gyrus, and cingulate cortex. Conjunction analysis indicated that regions showing convergence between two stimulation methods were located in the median (short gyrus III) and posterior (long gyrus IV) insula, parietal operculum and retroinsular cortex (Ri). The only area of convergence between all three methods of stimulation was located in Ri. The data indicate that Ri, parietal operculum and posterior insula are vestibular regions where afferents converge from otoliths and semicircular canals, and may thus be involved in the processing of signals informing about body rotations, translations and tilts. Results from the meta-analysis are in agreement with electrophysiological recordings in monkeys showing main vestibular projections in the transitional zone between Ri, the insular granular field (Ig), and SII.

Polyphenol compounds found in berry fruits, in particular flavonoids, have been associated with health benefits including improvement in cognition and neuronal function with aging. Concord grape juice contains polyphenols, including anthocyanins and flavanols, and previous research has shown improvement in a number of human health conditions with grape juice supplementation. In the current study, older adult subjects with mild cognitive impairment consumed Concord grape juice or placebo for 16 weeks and were administered assessments of memory function and brain activation pre- and postintervention. Participants who consumed grape juice showed reduced semantic interference on memory tasks. Relatively greater activation in anterior and posterior regions of the right hemisphere was also observed with functional magnetic resonance imaging in the grape juice treated subjects. These findings provide further evidence that Concord grape juice can enhance neurocognitive function in older adults with mild memory decline.
Diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) studies in humans have shown that seniors exhibit reduced white matter integrity compared with young adults, with the most pronounced change occurring in frontal white matter. It is generally assumed that this structural deterioration underlies inhibitory control deficits in old age, but specific evidence from a structural neuroscience perspective is lacking. Cognitive action control is thought to rely on an interconnected network consisting of right inferior frontal cortex (r-IFC), pre-supplementary motor area (preSMA), and the subthalamic nucleus (STN). Here we performed probabilistic DWI tractography to delineate this cognitive control network and had the same individuals (20 young, 20 older adults) perform a task probing both response inhibition and action reprogramming. We hypothesized that structural integrity (fractional anisotropy) and connection strength within this network would be predictive of individual and age-related differences in task performance. We show that the integrity of r-IFC white matter is an age-independent predictor of stop-signal reaction time (SSRT). We further provide evidence that the integrity of white matter projecting to STN predicts both outright stopping (SSRT) and transient braking of response initiation to buy time for action reprogramming (stopping interference effects). These associations remain even after controlling for Go task performance, demonstrating specificity to the Stop component of this task. Finally, a multiple regression analysis reveals bilateral preSMA-STN tract strength as a significant predictor of SSRT in older adults. Our data link age-related decline in inhibitory control with structural decline of STN projections.
Our choices often require appropriate actions to obtain a preferred outcome, but the neural underpinnings that link decision making and action selection remain largely undetermined. Recent theories propose that action selection occurs simultaneously, i.e., parallel in time, with the decision process. Specifically, it is thought that action selection in motor regions originates from a competitive process that is gradually biased by evidence signals originating in other regions, such as those specialized in value computations. Biases reflecting the evaluation of choice options should thus emerge in the motor system before the decision process is complete. Using transcranial magnetic stimulation, we sought direct physiological evidence for this prediction by measuring changes in corticospinal excitability in human motor cortex during value-based decisions. We found that excitability for chosen versus unchosen actions distinguishes the forthcoming choice before completion of the decision process. Both excitability and reaction times varied as a function of the subjective value-difference between chosen and unchosen actions, consistent with this effect being value-driven. This relationship was not observed in the absence of a decision. Our data provide novel evidence in humans that internally generated value-based decisions influence the competition between action representations in motor cortex before the decision process is complete. This is incompatible with models of serial processing of stimulus, decision, and action.
Objects in the visual world can be represented in both egocentric and allocentric coordinates. Previous studies have found that allocentric representation can affect the accuracy of spatial judgment relative to an egocentric frame, but not vice versa. Here we asked whether egocentric representation influenced the processing speed of allocentric perception. We measured the manual reaction time of human subjects in a position discrimination task in which the behavioral response purely relied on the target's allocentric location, independent of its egocentric position. We used two conditions of stimulus location: the compatible condition-allocentric left and egocentric left or allocentric right and egocentric right; the incompatible condition-allocentric left and egocentric right or allocentric right and egocentric left. We found that egocentric representation markedly influenced allocentric perception in three ways. First, in a given egocentric location, allocentric perception was significantly faster in the compatible condition than in the incompatible condition. Second, as the target became more eccentric in the visual field, the speed of allocentric perception gradually slowed down in the incompatible condition but remained unchanged in the compatible condition. Third, egocentric-allocentric incompatibility slowed allocentric perception more in the left egocentric side than the right egocentric side. These results cannot be explained by interhemispheric visuomotor transformation and stimulus-response compatibility theory. Our findings indicate that each hemisphere preferentially processes and integrates the contralateral egocentric and allocentric spatial information, and the right hemisphere receives more ipsilateral egocentric inputs than left hemisphere does.
Alzheimer's disease (AD)-linked presenilin (PS) mutations result in pronounced endoplasmic reticulum calcium disruptions that occur before detectable histopathology and cognitive deficits. More subtly, these early AD-linked calcium alterations also reset neurophysiological homeostasis, such that calcium-dependent presynaptic and postsynaptic signaling appear functionally normal yet are actually operating under aberrant calcium signaling systems. In these 3xTg-AD mouse brains, upregulated ryanodine receptor (RyR) activity is associated with a shift toward synaptic depression, likely through a reduction in presynaptic vesicle stores and increased postsynaptic outward currents through small-conductance calcium-activated potassium SK2 channels. The deviant RyR-calcium involvement in the 3xTg-AD mice also compensates for an intrinsic predisposition for hippocampal long-term depression (LTD) and reduced long-term potentiation (LTP). In this study, we detail the impact of disrupted RyR-mediated calcium stores on synaptic transmission properties, LTD, and calcium-activated membrane channels of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons in presymptomatic 3xTg-AD mice. Using electrophysiological recordings in young 3xTg-AD and nontransgenic (NonTg) hippocampal slices, we show that increased RyR-evoked calcium release in 3xTg-AD mice &quot;normalizes&quot; an altered synaptic transmission system operating under a shifted homeostatic state that is not present in NonTg mice. In the process, we uncover compensatory signaling mechanisms recruited early in the disease process that counterbalance the disrupted RyR-calcium dynamics, namely increases in presynaptic spontaneous vesicle release, altered probability of vesicle release, and upregulated postsynaptic SK channel activity. Because AD is increasingly recognized as a &quot;synaptic disease,&quot; calcium-mediated signaling alterations may serve as a proximal trigger for the synaptic degradation driving the cognitive loss in AD.
The critical role of oligodendrocytes in producing and maintaining myelin that supports rapid axonal conduction in CNS neurons is well established. More recently, additional roles for oligodendrocytes have been posited, including provision of trophic factors and metabolic support for neurons. To investigate the functional consequences of oligodendrocyte loss, we have generated a transgenic mouse model of conditional oligodendrocyte ablation. In this model, oligodendrocytes are rendered selectively sensitive to exogenously administered diphtheria toxin (DT) by targeted expression of the diphtheria toxin receptor in oligodendrocytes. Administration of DT resulted in severe clinical dysfunction with an ascending spastic paralysis ultimately resulting in fatal respiratory impairment within 22 d of DT challenge. Pathologically, at this time point, mice exhibited a loss of 26% of oligodendrocyte cell bodies throughout the CNS. Oligodendrocyte cell-body loss was associated with moderate microglial activation, but no widespread myelin degradation. These changes were accompanied with acute axonal injury as characterized by structural and biochemical alterations at nodes of Ranvier and reduced somatosensory-evoked potentials. In summary, we have shown that a death signal initiated within oligodendrocytes results in subcellular changes and loss of key symbiotic interactions between the oligodendrocyte and the axons it ensheaths. This produces profound functional consequences that occur before the removal of the myelin membrane, i.e., in the absence of demyelination. These findings have clear implications for the understanding of the pathogenesis of diseases of the CNS such as multiple sclerosis in which the oligodendrocyte is potentially targeted.
The activity of sensory circuits is shaped by neuromodulators, which can have downstream consequences for both sensorimotor integration and behavioral output. Recent evidence indicates that brain-derived estrogens (&quot;neuroestrogens&quot;) can act as local circuit modulators in the songbird auditory forebrain. Specifically, neuroestrogens fluctuate in the auditory caudomedial nidopallium (NCM) during social interactions and in response to song stimuli. Within minutes of elevation, neuroestrogens also enhance auditory response properties of NCM neurons, and acute blockade of estrogen production in NCM disrupts behavioral song preferences. Here, we test the hypothesis that fluctuating neuroestrogens within NCM influence stimulus selectivity in a downstream sensorimotor nucleus (HVC, used as a proper name) that receives indirect auditory input from NCM. Dual extracellular recordings coupled with retrodialysis delivery show that song selectivity in HVC is rapidly enhanced by increasing neuroestrogens in NCM in adult males. Conversely, inhibiting neuroestrogen production in NCM causes a rapid decline in song selectivity in HVC, demonstrating the endogenous nature of this modulatory network. In contrast, HVC selectivity is unaffected by neuroestrogen delivery to either nearby caudomedial mesopallium or into HVC itself, indicating that neuroestrogen actions are restricted to NCM. In juvenile males, identical neuroestrogen treatment in NCM also does not alter HVC selectivity, consistent with a developmental maturation of the auditory network. Lastly, the rapid actions of estrogens leading to enhanced HVC selectivity appear to be mediated by membrane-bound receptors in NCM. These findings indicate that steroid-dependent modulation of sensory processing is not locally restricted and can be transmitted transynaptically to influence downstream sensorimotor and premotor targets.
We subjected rats to either partial midcervical or complete upper thoracic spinal cord transections and examined whether combinatorial treatments support motor axonal regeneration into and beyond the lesion. Subjects received cAMP injections into brainstem reticular motor neurons to stimulate their endogenous growth state, bone marrow stromal cell grafts in lesion sites to provide permissive matrices for axonal growth, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor gradients beyond the lesion to stimulate distal growth of motor axons. Findings were compared with several control groups. Combinatorial treatment generated motor axon regeneration beyond both C5 hemisection and T3 complete transection sites. Yet despite formation of synapses with neurons below the lesion, motor outcomes worsened after partial cervical lesions and spasticity worsened after complete transection. These findings highlight the complexity of spinal cord repair and the need for additional control and shaping of axonal regeneration.
Cognitive models have long distinguished between &quot;automatic&quot; associative processes that can be triggered in a bottom-up fashion, and &quot;controlled&quot; processes, where internal goals guide information processing in a deliberate, top-down manner. However, recent behavioral studies have cast doubt on the validity of this dichotomy, showing that implicit contextual cues can modulate performance in a way suggestive of an associative triggering of specific top-down control states. Here, we harnessed functional magnetic resonance imaging in humans to test whether these behavioral findings truly reflect online, bottom-up priming of top-down attentional control settings. Using a flanker interference task where stimulus location cued the likelihood of incongruent trials, we found that the behavioral phenomenon of implicit, context-specific improvements in interference resolution was mirrored in hemodynamic activity in the medial superior parietal lobule (mSPL), previously implicated in voluntary (as opposed to primed) attention shifts. Moreover, the mSPL displayed context-specific functional coupling with visual regions involved in processing the flanker stimuli, and the modulation of the latter was predictive of the behavioral effects. Finally, the implementation of this contextual control was &quot;on the fly,&quot; that is, it was primed online by a switch to the context associated with high conflict. These results suggest that top-down control states can be bound into episodic event representations and can subsequently be primed by other features of those representations. Together, our findings illustrate a more intimate link between associative and controlled processing than is traditionally assumed, and place the neural substrate of that linkage in the posterior parietal cortex.
Oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) in the postnatal mouse corpus callosum (CC) and motor cortex (Ctx) reportedly generate only oligodendrocytes (OLs), whereas those in the piriform cortex may also generate neurons. OPCs have also been subdivided based on their expression of voltage-gated ion channels, ability to respond to neuronal activity, and proliferative state. To determine whether OPCs in the piriform cortex have inherently different physiological properties from those in the CC and Ctx, we studied acute brain slices from postnatal transgenic mice in which GFP expression identifies OL lineage cells. We whole-cell patch clamped GFP-expressing (GFP(+)) cells within the CC, Ctx, and anterior piriform cortex (aPC) and used prelabeling with 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) to assess cell proliferation. After recording, slices were immunolabeled and OPCs were defined by strong expression of NG2. NG2(+) OPCs in the white and gray matter proliferated and coexpressed PDGFR and voltage-gated Na(+) channels (I(Na)). Approximately 70% of OPCs were capable of generating regenerative depolarizations. In addition to OLIG2(+) NG2(+) I(Na)(+) OPCs and OLIG2(+) NG2(neg) I(Na)(neg) OLs, we identified cells with low levels of NG2 limited to the soma or the base of some processes. These cells had a significantly reduced I(Na) and a reduced ability to incorporate EdU when compared with OPCs and probably correspond to early differentiating OLs. By combining EdU labeling and lineage tracing using Pdgfr-CreER(T2) : R26R-YFP transgenic mice, we double labeled OPCs and traced their fate in the postnatal brain. These OPCs generated OLs but did not generate neurons in the aPC or elsewhere at any time that we examined.
The stress-activated protein kinase c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) is a central regulator in neuronal death cascades. In animal models of cerebral ischemia, acute inhibition of JNK reduces infarction and improves outcomes. Recently however, emerging data suggest that many neuronal death mediators may have biphasic properties-deleterious in the acute stage but potentially beneficial in the delayed stage. Here, we hypothesized that JNK may also have biphasic actions, so some caution may be required in the development of JNK inhibitors for stroke. Sprague Dawley rats underwent 90 min transient occlusions of the middle cerebral artery. Acute treatment (10 min poststroke) with the JNK inhibitor SP600125 reduced infarction volumes. In contrast, delayed treatment (7 d poststroke) worsened infarction volumes and neurological outcomes. Immunostaining of peri-infarct cortex showed that JNK inhibition suppressed surrogate markers of neurovascular remodeling, including matrix metalloproteinase-9 in GFAP-positive astrocytes and microvascular density. Consistent with these in vivo data, SP600125 significantly suppressed in vitro angiogenesis in rat brain endothelial cultures. Our data provide initial proof-of-concept that the neuronal death target JNK may also participate in endogenous processes of neurovascular remodeling and recovery after cerebral ischemia.



A visual target is more difficult to recognize when it is surrounded by other, similar objects. This breakdown in object recognition is known as crowding. Despite a long history of experimental work, computational models of crowding are still sparse. Specifically, few studies have examined crowding using an ideal-observer approach. Here, we compare crowding in ideal observers with crowding in humans. We derived an ideal-observer model for target identification under conditions of position and identity uncertainty. Simulations showed that this model reproduces the hallmark of crowding, namely a critical spacing that scales with viewing eccentricity. To examine how well the model fits quantitatively to human data, we performed three experiments. In Experiments 1 and 2, we measured observers' perceptual uncertainty about stimulus positions and identities, respectively, for a target in isolation. In Experiment 3, observers identified a target that was flanked by two distractors. We found that about half of the errors in Experiment 3 could be accounted for by the perceptual uncertainty measured in Experiments 1 and 2. The remainder of the errors could be accounted for by assuming that uncertainty (i.e., the width of internal noise distribution) about stimulus positions and identities depends on flanker proximity. Our results provide a mathematical restatement of the crowding problem and support the hypothesis that crowding behavior is a sign of optimality rather than a perceptual defect.




Seeing words involves the activity of neural circuitry within a small region in human ventral temporal cortex known as the visual word form area (VWFA). It is widely asserted that VWFA responses, which are essential for skilled reading, do not depend on the visual field position of the writing (position invariant). Such position invariance supports the hypothesis that the VWFA analyzes word forms at an abstract level, far removed from specific stimulus features. Using functional MRI pattern-classification techniques, we show that position information is encoded in the spatial pattern of VWFA responses. A right-hemisphere homolog (rVWFA) shows similarly position-sensitive responses. Furthermore, electrophysiological recordings in the human brain show position-sensitive VWFA response latencies. These findings show that position-sensitive information is present in the neural circuitry that conveys visual word form information to language areas. The presence of position sensitivity in the VWFA has implications for how word forms might be learned and stored within the reading circuitry.
The extent and temporal characteristics of G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling are shaped by the regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins, which promote G protein deactivation. With hundreds of GPCRs and dozens of RGS proteins, compartmentalization plays a key role in establishing signaling specificity. However, the molecular details and mechanisms of this process are poorly understood. In this paper, we report that the R7 group of RGS regulators is controlled by interaction with two previously uncharacterized orphan GPCRs: GPR158 and GPR179. We show that GPR158/179 recruited RGS complexes to the plasma membrane and augmented their ability to regulate GPCR signaling. The loss of GPR179 in a mouse model of night blindness prevented targeting of RGS to the postsynaptic compartment of bipolar neurons in the retina, illuminating the role of GPR179 in night vision. We propose that the interaction of RGS proteins with orphan GPCRs promotes signaling selectivity in G protein pathways.
We describe a case of factitious disorder with physical and psychological symptoms comorbid with bipolar I disorder in a 37-year-old woman. Since the onset of bipolar disorder, which occurred at the age of 31, she increasingly complained of physical symptoms, compulsively seeking medical and surgical interventions. She has been hospitalised several times and her Munchausen-type factitious disorder recently appeared to be developing into Munchausen by proxy, involving her 11-year-old daughter. The patient adhered poorly to stabilising and antipsychotic drug treatment and did not improve through the years. We here analyse her mood phases, which were always associated with changes in the quality of factitious symptoms, according to whether the disorder was in its depressive phase (somatic complaints and suicidal ideation prevail), or in its manic or mixed phase (medical intervention-seeking and manipulation of clinicians to obtain surgical interventions). We also briefly discuss some important forensic issues to consider in similar cases, mainly stemming from the psychotic aspects of these two co-occurring disorders. Clinicians should be aware of some patients' ability to produce signs and symptoms of physical and/or psychological illness and consult psychiatrists before giving consent to invasive diagnostic procedures or surgery.




Vascular Early Response Gene (Verge) is an immediate early gene (IEG) that is up-regulated in endothelial cells in response to a number of stressors, including ischemic stroke. Endothelial cell lines that stably express Verge show enhanced permeability. Increased Verge expression has also been associated with blood brain barrier breakdown. In this study we investigated the role of Verge in ischemic injury induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in both Verge knockout (KO) and wild type (WT) mice. Verge KO mice had significantly less cerebral edema formation after MCAO compared to WT mice. However, stroke outcome (infarct size and neurological deficit scores) evaluated at either 24 or 72 hours after stroke showed no differences between the two genotypes. Verge deletion leads to decreased edema formation after ischemia; however acute stroke outcomes were unchanged.
Inclusion body myositis, the most common muscle disorder in the elderly, is partly characterized by abnormal expression of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and intracellular accumulation of its proteolytic fragments collectively known as -amyloid. The present study examined the effects of -amyloid accumulation on mitochondrial structure and function of skeletal muscle from transgenic mice (MCK-APP) engineered to accumulate intramyofiber -amyloid. Electron microscopic analysis revealed that a large fraction of myofibers from 2-3-month-old MCK-APP mice contained numerous, heterogeneous alterations in mitochondria, and other cellular organelles. [(1)H-decoupled](13)C NMR spectroscopy showed a substantial reduction in TCA cycle activity and indicated a switch from aerobic to anaerobic glucose metabolism in the MCK-APP muscle. Isolated muscle fibers from the MCK-APP mice also exhibited a reduction in cytoplasmic pH, an increased rate of ROS production, and a partially depolarized plasmalemma. Treatment of MCK-APP muscle cells with Ru360, a mitochondrial Ca(2+) uniporter antagonist, reversed alterations in the plasmalemmal membrane potential (V(m)) and pH. Consistent with altered redox state of the cells, treatment of MCK-APP muscle cells with glutathione reversed the effects of -amyloid accumulation on Ca(2+) transient amplitudes. We conclude that structural and functional alterations in mitochondria precede the reported appearance of histopathological and clinical features in the MCK-APP mice and may represent key early events in the pathogenesis of inclusion body myositis.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is widely expressed in the central and peripheral nervous systems and is proliferative for a range of cells types in vitro. NPY plays a key role in regulating adult hippocampal neurogenesis in vivo under both basal and pathological conditions, although the underlying mechanisms are largely unknown. We have investigated the role of nitric oxide (NO) on the neurogenic effects of NPY. Using postnatal rat hippocampal cultures, we show that the proliferative effect of NPY on nestin(+) precursor cells is NO-dependent. As well as the involvement of neuronal nitric-oxide synthase, the proliferative effect is mediated via an NO/cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)/cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 signaling pathway. We show that NPY-mediated intracellular NO signaling results in an increase in neuroproliferation. By contrast, extracellular NO had an opposite, inhibitory effect on proliferation. The importance of the NO-cGMP-PKG signaling pathway in ERK1/2 activation was confirmed using Western blotting. This work unites two significant modulators of hippocampal neurogenesis within a common signaling framework and provides a mechanism for the independent extra- and intracellular regulation of postnatal neural precursors by NO.
Human embryonic stem (hES) cells activate a rapid apoptotic response after DNA damage but the underlying mechanisms are unknown. A critical mediator of apoptosis is Bax, which is reported to become active and translocate to the mitochondria only after apoptotic stimuli. Here we show that undifferentiated hES cells constitutively maintain Bax in its active conformation. Surprisingly, active Bax was maintained at the Golgi rather than at the mitochondria, thus allowing hES cells to effectively minimize the risks associated with having preactivated Bax. After DNA damage, active Bax rapidly translocated to the mitochondria by a p53-dependent mechanism. Interestingly, upon differentiation, Bax was no longer active, and cells were not acutely sensitive to DNA damage. Thus, maintenance of Bax in its active form is a unique mechanism that can prime hES cells for rapid death, likely to prevent the propagation of mutations during the early critical stages of embryonic development.
In this review we propose that there are sex differences in how men and women enter onto the path that can lead to addiction. Males are more likely than females to engage in risky behaviors that include experimenting with drugs of abuse, and in susceptible individuals, they are drawn into the spiral that can eventually lead to addiction. Women and girls are more likely to begin taking drugs as self-medication to reduce stress or alleviate depression. For this reason women enter into the downward spiral further along the path to addiction, and so transition to addiction more rapidly. We propose that this sex difference is due, at least in part, to sex differences in the organization of the neural systems responsible for motivation and addiction. Additionally, we suggest that sex differences in these systems and their functioning are accentuated with addiction. In the current review we discuss historical, cultural, social and biological bases for sex differences in addiction with an emphasis on sex differences in the neurotransmitter systems that are implicated.

Infections during pregnancy and adolescent cannabis use have both been identified as environmental risk factors for schizophrenia. We combined these factors in an animal model and looked at their effects, alone and in combination, on serotonin 5HT1A receptor binding (5HT1AR) binding longitudinally from late adolescence to adulthood. Pregnant rats were exposed to the viral mimic poly I:C on embryonic day 15. Adolescent offspring received daily injections of the cannabinoid HU210 for 14 days starting on postnatal day (PND) 35. Hippocampal and cortical 5HT1AR binding was quantified autoradiographically using [(3)H]8-OH-DPAT, in late adolescent (PND 55), young adult (PND 65) and adult (PND 90) rats. Descendants of poly I:C treated rats showed significant increases of 15-18% in 5HT1AR in the hippocampus (CA1) compared to controls at all developmental ages. Offspring of poly I:C treated rats exposed to HU210 during adolescence exhibited even greater elevations in 5HT1AR (with increases of 44, 29, and 39% at PNDs 55, 65, and 90). No effect of HU210 alone was observed. Our results suggest a synergistic effect of prenatal infection and adolescent cannabinoid exposure on the integrity of the serotoninergic system in the hippocampus that may provide the neurochemical substrate for abnormal hippocampal-related functions relevant to schizophrenia.
Using measurements based on particle image velocimetry in combination with a novel compact theoretical framework to describe hair mechanics, we found that spider and cricket air motion sensing hairs work close to the physical limit of sensitivity and energy transmission in a broad range of relatively high frequencies. In this range, the hairs closely follow the motion of the incoming flow because a minimum of energy is dissipated by forces acting in their basal articulation. This frequency band is located beyond the frequency at which the angular displacement of the hair is maximum which is between about 40 and 600 Hz, depending on hair length (Barth et al. [1] Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B 340, 445-461 (doi:10.1098/rstb.1993.0084)). Given that the magnitude of natural airborne signals is known to decrease with frequency, our results point towards the possible existence of spectral signatures in the higher frequency range that may be weak but of biological significance.
Progress in the field of axonal regeneration research has been like the process of axonal growth itself: there is steady progress toward reaching the target, but there are episodes of mistargeting, misguidance along false routes, and connections that must later be withdrawn. This primer will address issues in the study of axonal growth after central nervous system injury in an attempt to provide guidance toward the goal of progress in the field. We address definitions of axonal growth, sprouting and regeneration after injury, and the research tools to assess growth.
The Mg2+ block of NMDA-type glutamate receptors (NMDARs) is crucial to their function as synaptic coincidence detectors. An analysis of Drosophila expressing a Mg2+-independent NMDAR by in this issue of Neuron concludes that the Mg2+ block is required primarily for long-term memory.
Gap-junction (GJ) channels formed of connexin (Cx) proteins provide a direct pathway for electrical and metabolic cell-cell interaction. Each hemichannel in the GJ channel contains fast and slow gates that are sensitive to transjunctional voltage (Vj). We developed a stochastic 16-state model (S16SM) that details the operation of two fast and two slow gates in series to describe the gating properties of homotypic and heterotypic GJ channels. The operation of each gate depends on the fraction of Vj that falls across the gate (VG), which varies depending on the states of three other gates in series, as well as on parameters of the fast and slow gates characterizing 1), the steepness of each gate's open probability on VG; 2), the voltage at which the open probability of each gate equals 0.5; 3), the gating polarity; and 4), the unitary conductances of the gates and their rectification depending on VG. S16SM allows for the simulation of junctional current dynamics and the dependence of steady-state junctional conductance (gj,ss) on Vj. We combined global coordinate optimization algorithms with S16SM to evaluate the gating parameters of fast and slow gates from experimentally measured gj,ss-Vj dependencies in cells expressing different Cx isoforms and forming homotypic and/or heterotypic GJ channels.
We used optical tweezers to analyze the effect of jasplakinolide and cyclodextrin on the force exerted by lamellipodia from developing growth cones (GCs) of isolated dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons. We found that 25nM of jasplakinolide, which is known to inhibit actin filament turnover, reduced both the maximal exerted force and maximal velocity during lamellipodia leading-edge protrusion. By using atomic force microscopy, we verified that cyclodextrin, which is known to remove cholesterol from membranes, decreased the membrane stiffness of DRG neurons. Lamellipodia treated with 2.5mM of cyclodextrin exerted a larger force, and their leading edge could advance with a higher velocity. Neither jasplakinolide nor cyclodextrin affected force or velocity during lamellipodia retraction. The amplitude and frequency of elementary jumps underlying force generation were reduced by jasplakinolide but not by cyclodextrin. The action of both drugs at the used concentration was fully reversible. These results support the notion that membrane stiffness provides a selective pressure that shapes force generation, and confirm the pivotal role of actin turnover during protrusion.

Stimulation with pulsed magnetic fields (PMF) is a non-invasive technique that can modulate neural activity and has the potential to facilitate functional recovery and tissue preservation/repair following brain injury. The effect of low intensity (8 mT) PMF on functional recovery and infarct tissue volume was assessed in a middle cerebral artery occlusion model of transient focal ischemia in Spontaneously Hypertensive rats. Rats received a combination of PMF protocols, including high and low frequencies and recovery was monitored over eight days. PMF treatment had no effect on functional recovery or infarct volume. Infarcted tissue accounted for 8% of total brain volume, encompassing both cortical and subcortical structures. The microglial and astrocytic response to PMF treatment was monitored and there was no change in glial scarring, however there was increased macrophage infiltration in animals that received chronic high (6-9 Hz) and low (1 Hz) stimulation. There was no effect of PMF on the degree of cell death observed within the ischemic core, with no TUNEL positive cells observed in the non-infarcted tissue. No detrimental side-effects of PMF were observed, indicating that low-intensity PMF may have limited safety concerns for future human and animal studies.
In absence of their natural ligand, 11-cis-retinal, cone opsin G-protein-coupled receptors fail to traffic normally, a condition associated with photoreceptor degeneration and blindness. We created a mouse with a point mutation (F81Y) in cone S-opsin. As expected, cones with this knock-in mutation respond to light with maximal sensitivity red-shifted from 360 to 420 nm, consistent with an altered interaction between the apoprotein and ligand, 11-cis-retinal. However, cones expressing F81Y S-opsin showed an 3-fold reduced absolute sensitivity that was associated with a corresponding reduction in S-opsin protein expression. The reduced S-opsin expression did not arise from decreased S-opsin mRNA or cone degeneration, but rather from enhanced endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-associated degradation of the nascent protein. Exogenously increased 11-cis-retinal restored F81Y S-opsin protein expression to normal levels, suggesting that ligand binding in the ER facilitates proper folding. Immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy of normal retinas showed that Mueller cells, which synthesize a precursor of 11-cis-retinal, are closely adjoined to the cone ER, so they could deliver the ligand to the site of opsin synthesis. Together, these results suggest that the binding of 11-cis-retinal in the ER is important for normal folding during cone opsin biosynthesis.
Numerous species possess cortical regions that are most sensitive to vocalizations produced by their own kind (conspecifics). In humans, the superior temporal sulci (STSs) putatively represent homologous voice-sensitive areas of cortex. However, superior temporal sulcus (STS) regions have recently been reported to represent auditory experience or &quot;expertise&quot; in general rather than showing exclusive sensitivity to human vocalizations per se. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging and a unique non-stereotypical category of complex human non-verbal vocalizations-human-mimicked versions of animal vocalizations-we found a cortical hierarchy in humans optimized for processing meaningful conspecific utterances. This left-lateralized hierarchy originated near primary auditory cortices and progressed into traditional speech-sensitive areas. Our results suggest that the cortical regions supporting vocalization perception are initially organized by sensitivity to the human vocal tract in stages before the STS. Additionally, these findings have implications for the developmental time course of conspecific vocalization processing in humans as well as its evolutionary origins.
Balance in the body's hormonal axes depends on feedback onto neuroendocrine hypothalamic neurons. This phenomenon involves transcriptional and biosynthetic effects, yet less is known about the potential rapid modulation of electrical properties. Here, we investigated this issue in the lactotrophic axis, in which the pituitary hormone prolactin is tonically inhibited by tuberoinfundibular dopamine (TIDA) neurons located in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus. Whole-cell recordings were performed on slices of the rat hypothalamus. In the presence of prolactin, spontaneously oscillating TIDA cells depolarized, switched from phasic to tonic discharge, and exhibited broadened action potentials. The underlying prolactin-induced current is composed of separate low- and high-voltage components that include the activation of a transient receptor potential-like current and the inhibition of a Ca(2+)-dependent BK-type K(+) current, respectively, as revealed by ion substitution experiments and pharmacological manipulation. The two components of the prolactin-induced current appear to be mediated through distinct signaling pathways as the high-voltage component is abolished by the phosphoinositide 3-kinase blocker wortmannin, whereas the low-voltage component is not. This first description of the central electrophysiological actions of prolactin suggests a novel feedback mechanism. By simultaneously enhancing the discharge and spike duration of TIDA cells, increased serum prolactin can promote dopamine release to limit its own secretion with implications for the control of lactation, sexual libido, fertility, and body weight.
Human hearing is constructive. For example, when a voice is partially replaced by an extraneous sound (e.g., on the telephone due to a transmission problem), the auditory system may restore the missing portion so that the voice can be perceived as continuous (Miller and Licklider, 1950; for review, see Bregman, 1990; Warren, 1999). The neural mechanisms underlying this continuity illusion have been studied mostly with schematic stimuli (e.g., simple tones) and are still a matter of debate (for review, see Petkov and Sutter, 2011). The goal of the present study was to elucidate how these mechanisms operate under more natural conditions. Using psychophysics and electroencephalography (EEG), we assessed simultaneously the perceived continuity of a human vowel sound through interrupting noise and the concurrent neural activity. We found that vowel continuity illusions were accompanied by a suppression of the 4 Hz EEG power in auditory cortex (AC) that was evoked by the vowel interruption. This suppression was stronger than the suppression accompanying continuity illusions of a simple tone. Finally, continuity perception and 4 Hz power depended on the intactness of the sound that preceded the vowel (i.e., the auditory context). These findings show that a natural sound may be restored during noise due to the suppression of 4 Hz AC activity evoked early during the noise. This mechanism may attenuate sudden pitch changes, adapt the resistance of the auditory system to extraneous sounds across auditory scenes, and provide a useful model for assisted hearing devices.
When people make decisions quickly, accuracy suffers. Traditionally, speed-accuracy tradeoffs (SATs) have been almost exclusively ascribed to changes in the amount of sensory evidence required to support a response (&quot;response caution&quot;) and the neural correlates associated with the later stages of decision making (e.g., motor response generation and execution). Here, we investigated whether performance decrements under speed pressure also reflect suboptimal information processing in early sensory areas such as primary visual cortex (V1). Human subjects performed an orientation discrimination task while emphasizing either response speed or accuracy. A model of choice behavior revealed that the rate of sensory evidence accumulation was selectively modulated when subjects emphasized accuracy, but not speed, suggesting that changes in sensory processing also influence the SAT. We then used fMRI and a forward encoding model to derive orientation-selective tuning functions based on activation patterns in V1. When accuracy was emphasized, the extent to which orientation-selective tuning profiles exhibited a theoretically optimal gain pattern predicted both response accuracy and the rate of sensory evidence accumulation. However, these relationships were not observed when subjects emphasized speed. Collectively, our findings suggest that, in addition to lowered response thresholds, the performance decrements observed during speeded decision making may result from a failure to optimally process sensory signals.
Neurons have characteristic dendritic arborization patterns that contribute to information processing. One essential component of dendritic arborization is the formation of a specific number of branches. Although intracellular pathways promoting dendritic growth and branching are being elucidated, the mechanisms that negatively regulate the branching of dendrites remain enigmatic. In this study, using gain-of-function and loss-of-function studies, we show that phospholipase D1 (PLD1) acts as a negative regulator of dendritic branching in cultured hippocampal neurons from embryonic day 18 rat embryos. Overexpression of wild-type PLD1 (WT-PLD1) decreases the complexity of dendrites, whereas knockdown or inhibition of PLD1 increases dendritic branching. We further demonstrated that PLD1 acts downstream of RhoA, one of the small Rho GTPases, to suppress dendritic branching. The restriction of dendritic branching by constitutively active RhoA (V14-RhoA) can be partially rescued by knockdown of PLD1. Moreover, the inhibition of dendritic branching by V14-RhoA and WT-PLD1 can be partially ameliorated by reducing the level of phosphatidic acid (PA), which is the enzymatic product of PLD1. Together, these results suggest that RhoA-PLD1-PA may represent a novel signaling pathway in the restriction of dendritic branching and may thus provide insight into the mechanisms of dendritic morphogenesis.
Analysis of constitutive Engrailed (En) null mice previously implicated the two En homeobox paralogs in the development of serotonin (5-HT) neurons. An unresolved question is whether En plays intrinsic roles in these neurons. Here, we show that En1 and En2 are expressed in maturing 5-HT neurons that will form the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) and part of the median raphe nucleus. Although En1 expression in 5-HT neurons persists postnatally, En2 expression is extinguished by embryonic day 17.5. To investigate intrinsic serotonergic functions for En1/2, we generated compound conditional En mutants with floxed alleles and a cre recombinase line that becomes active in postmitotic fetal 5-HT neurons. We present evidence in support of a requirement for En1/2 in the maturation of DRN cytoarchitecture. The disruption of DRN cytoarchitecture appears to result from a defect in secondary migration of serotonergic cell bodies toward the midline rather than disruption of their primary ventral migration away from the ventricular zone. Furthermore, En1/2 are required for perinatal maintenance of serotonergic identity and postnatal forebrain 5-HT levels. Increased numbers of caspase-3-expressing cells and loss of significant numbers of 5-HT neuron cell bodies, indicative of apoptosis, occurred after loss of serotonergic identity. Analysis of an allelic series of conditional mutants showed that En1 is the predominant functional En paralog in maturing 5-HT neurons, although a small contribution from En2 was reproducibly detected. Together, our findings reveal complex intrinsic functions for En in maturing 5-HT neurons, hence necessitating a reinterpretation of their roles in 5-HT system development.

Food ensures our survival and is a potential source of pleasure and general well-being. In order to survive, the human brain is required to optimize the resource allocation such that rewards are pursued when relevant. This means that food intake follows a similar cyclical time course to other rewards with phases related to expectation, consummation and satiety. Here we develop a multilevel model for the full cycle of eating behavior based on the evidence for the brain networks and mechanisms initiating, sustaining and terminating the various phases of eating. We concentrate on how the underlying reward mechanisms of wanting, liking and learning lead to how human food intake is governed by both hedonic and homeostatic principles. We describe five of the main processing principles controlling food intake: hunger and attentional signal processing; motivation-independent discriminative processing; reward representations; learning-dependent multimodal sensory representations and hedonic experience. Overall, the evidence shows that while human food intake is complex, we are making progress in understanding the underlying mechanisms and that the brain networks supporting the food pleasure cycle are remarkably similar to those underlying the processing of other rewards.
Binge alcohol (ethanol) drinking is a destructive pattern of ethanol consumption that may precipitate ethanol dependence-a chronic, debilitating, and prevalent health problem. While an abundance of research has focused on the neurochemical underpinnings of ethanol dependence, relatively little is known about the mechanisms underlying the heavy consumption characteristic of binge ethanol drinking. Recently, a simple preclinical model termed &quot;drinking in the dark&quot; (DID) was developed to examine binge-like ethanol consumption in a rodent population. This assay capitalizes on the predisposition of C57BL/6J mice to voluntarily consume substantial quantities of a high concentration (20% v/v) ethanol solution, resulting in pharmacologically relevant blood ethanol concentrations (BECs). This review provides a comprehensive overview of recent literature utilizing this model to investigate the neuromodulatory systems that may influence binge ethanol drinking. Studies examining the glutamatergic and opioidergic systems not only provide evidence for these systems in the modulation of binge-like ethanol consumption, but also suggest this preclinical model has predictive validity and may be an appropriate tool for screening novel pharmacological compounds aimed at treating binge ethanol drinking in the human population. Additionally, this review presents evidence for the involvement of the GABAergic, dopaminergic, nicotinic, and endocannabinoid systems in modulating binge-like ethanol consumption. Finally, recent evidence shows that corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), agouti-related protein (AgRP), neuropeptide Y (NPY), and ghrelin are also implicated as impacting this pattern of ethanol consumption.
1,4-Dihydroxy-2-naphthoyl coenzyme A (DHNA-CoA) synthase, or MenB, catalyzes a carbon-carbon bond formation reaction in the biosynthesis of both vitamin K1 and K2. Bicarbonate is crucial to the activity of a large subset of its orthologues but lacks a clearly defined structural and mechanistic role. Here we determine the crystal structure of the holoenzymes from Escherichia coli at 2.30  and Synechocystis sp. PCC6803 at 2.04 , in which the bicarbonate cofactor is bound to the enzyme active site at a position equivalent to that of the side chain carboxylate of an aspartate residue conserved among bicarbonate-insensitive DHNA-CoA synthases. Binding of the planar anion involves both nonspecific electrostatic attraction and specific hydrogen bonding and hydrophobic interactions. In the absence of bicarbonate, the anion binding site is occupied by a chloride ion or nitrate, an inhibitor directly competing with bicarbonate. These results provide a solid structural basis for the bicarbonate dependence of the enzymatic activity of type I DHNA-CoA synthases. The unique location of the bicarbonate ion in relation to the expected position of the substrate -proton in the enzyme's active site suggests a critical catalytic role for the anionic cofactor as a catalytic base in enolate formation.

Overt exploration or sampling behaviors, such as whisking, sniffing, and saccadic eye movements, are often characterized by a rhythm. In addition, the electrophysiologically recorded theta or alpha phase predicts global detection performance. These two observations raise the intriguing possibility that covert selective attention samples from multiple stimuli rhythmically. To investigate this possibility, we measured change detection performance on two simultaneously presented stimuli, after resetting attention to one of them. After a reset flash at one stimulus location, detection performance fluctuated rhythmically. When the flash was presented in the right visual field, a 4 Hz rhythm was directly visible in the time courses of behavioral performance at both stimulus locations, and the two rhythms were in antiphase. A left visual field flash exerted only partial reset on performance and induced rhythmic fluctuation at higher frequencies (6-10 Hz). These findings show that selective attention samples multiple stimuli rhythmically, and they position spatial attention within the family of exploration behaviors.
Reduced pain perception while being distracted from pain is an everyday example of how cognitive processes can interfere with pain perception. Previous neuroimaging studies showed distraction-related modulations of pain-driven activations in various cortical and subcortical brain regions, but the precise neuronal mechanism underlying this phenomenon is unclear. Using high-resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging of the human cervical spinal cord in combination with thermal pain stimulation and a well-established working memory task, we demonstrate that this phenomenon relies on an inhibition of incoming pain signals in the spinal cord. Neuronal responses to painful stimulation in the dorsal horn of the corresponding spinal segment were significantly reduced under high working memory load compared to low working memory load. At the individual level, reductions of neuronal responses in the spinal cord predicted behavioral pain reductions. In a subsequent behavioral experiment, using the opioid antagonist naloxone in a double-blind crossover design with the same paradigm, we demonstrate a substantial contribution of endogenous opioids to this mechanism. Taken together, our results show that the reduced pain experience during mental distraction is related to a spinal process and involves opioid neurotransmission.
Histamine H(3) receptor antagonists have been widely reported to improve performance in preclinical models of cognition, but more recently efficacy in pain models has also been described. Here, A-960656 ((R)-2-(2-(3-(piperidin-1-yl)pyrrolidin-1-yl)benzo[d]thiazol-6-yl)pyridazin-3(2H)-one) was profiled as a new structural chemotype. A-960656 was potent in vitro in histamine H(3) receptor binding assays (rat K(i)=76 nM, human K(i)=21 nM), and exhibited functional antagonism in blocking agonist-induced [(35)S]GTPS binding (rat H(3) K(b)=107 nM, human H(3) K(b)=22 nM), and was highly specific for H(3) receptors in broad screens for non-H(3) sites. In a spinal nerve ligation model of neuropathic pain in rat, oral doses of 1 and 3mg/kg were effective 60 min post dosing with an ED(50) of 2.17 mg/kg and a blood EC(50) of 639 ng/ml. In a model of osteoarthritis pain, oral doses of 0.1, 0.3, and 1mg/kg were effective 1h post dosing with an ED(50) of 0.52 mg/kg and a blood EC(50) of 233 ng/ml. The antinociceptive effect of A-960656 in both pain models was maintained after sub-chronic dosing up to 12 days. A-960656 had excellent rat pharmacokinetics (t(1/2)=1.9h, 84% oral bioavailability) with rapid and efficient brain penetration, and was well tolerated in CNS behavioral safety screens. In summary, A-960656 has properties well suited to probe the pharmacology of histamine H(3) receptors in pain. Its potency and efficacy in animal pain models provide support to the notion that histamine H(3) receptor antagonists are effective in attenuating nociceptive processes.
Recent clinical and experimental studies have highlighted a complex role for the immune system in the pathophysiological changes that occur after acute stroke. Sensors of the innate immune system such as Toll-like receptors, or effectors such as the lectin pathway of complement activation and innate immune cells, are activated by brain ischaemia and tissue damage, leading to amplification of the inflammatory cascade. Activation of the adaptive arm of the immune system, mediated by lymphocyte populations including T and B cells, regulatory T cells, and T cells, in response to stroke can lead to deleterious antigen-specific autoreactive responses but can also have cytoprotective effects. Increased incidence of infections is observed after acute stroke, and might result from activation of long-distance feedback loops between the CNS and peripheral immune organs, which are thought to play a part in stroke-induced immunodepression. Ongoing clinical trials are investigating whether the preventive use of antibiotics improves functional outcome after stroke. This Review discusses the multifaceted role of the immune system in the pathophysiology of acute stroke.

Whereas short-term (minutes) facilitation at Aplysia sensory-motor neuron synapses is presynaptic, long-term (days) facilitation involves synaptic growth, which requires both presynaptic and postsynaptic mechanisms. How are the postsynaptic mechanisms recruited, and when does that process begin? We have been investigating the possible role of spontaneous transmitter release from the presynaptic neuron. In the previous paper, we found that spontaneous release is critical for the induction of long-term facilitation, and this process begins during an intermediate-term stage of facilitation that is the first stage to involve postsynaptic as well as presynaptic mechanisms. We now report that increased spontaneous release during the short-term stage acts as an orthograde signal to recruit postsynaptic mechanisms of intermediate-term facilitation including increased IP3, Ca(2+), and membrane insertion and recruitment of clusters of AMPA-like receptors, which may be first steps in synaptic growth during long-term facilitation. These results suggest that the different stages of facilitation involve a cascade of pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms, which is initiated by spontaneous release and may culminate in synaptic growth.
Long-term plasticity can differ from short-term in recruiting the growth of new synaptic connections, a process that requires the participation of both the presynaptic and postsynaptic components of the synapse. How does information about synaptic plasticity spread from its site of origin to recruit the other component? The answer to this question is not known in most systems. We have investigated the possible role of spontaneous transmitter release as such a transsynaptic signal. Until recently, relatively little has been known about the functions of spontaneous release. In this paper, we report that spontaneous release is critical for the induction of a learning-related form of synaptic plasticity, long-term facilitation in Aplysia. In addition, we have found that this signaling is engaged quite early, during an intermediate-term stage that is the first stage to involve postsynaptic as well as presynaptic molecular mechanisms. In a companion paper, we show that spontaneous release from the presynaptic neuron acts as an orthograde signal to recruit the postsynaptic mechanisms of intermediate-term facilitation and initiates a cascade that can culminate in synaptic growth with additional stimulation during long-term facilitation. Spontaneous release could make a similar contribution to learning-related synaptic plasticity in mammals.
Homeodomain-containing transcription factors play a fundamental role in the regulation of numerous developmental and cellular processes. Their multiple regulatory functions are accomplished through context-dependent inputs of target DNA sequences and collaborating protein partners. Previous studies have well established the sequence-specific DNA binding to homeodomains; however, little is known about how protein partners regulate their functions through targeting homeodomains. Here we report the solution structure of the Hox homeodomain in complex with the cell-cycle regulator, Geminin, which inhibits Hox transcriptional activity and enrolls Hox in cell proliferative control. Side-chain carboxylates of glutamates and aspartates in the C terminus of Geminin generate an overall charge pattern resembling the DNA phosphate backbone. These residues provide electrostatic interactions with homeodomain, which combine with the van der Waals contacts to form the stereospecific complex. We further showed that the interaction with Geminin is homeodomain subclass-selective and Hox paralog-specific, which relies on the stapling role of residues R43 and M54 in helix III and the basic amino acid cluster in the N terminus. Interestingly, we found that the C-terminal residue Ser184 of Geminin could be phosphorylated by Casein kinase II, resulting in the enhanced binding to Hox and more potent inhibitory effect on Hox transcriptional activity, indicating an additional layer of regulation. This structure provides insight into the molecular mechanism underlying homeodomain-protein recognition and may serve as a paradigm for interactions between homeodomains and DNA-competitive peptide inhibitors.
The mature optic nerve cannot regenerate when injured, leaving victims of traumatic nerve damage or diseases such as glaucoma with irreversible visual losses. Recent studies have identified ways to stimulate retinal ganglion cells to regenerate axons part-way through the optic nerve, but it remains unknown whether mature axons can reenter the brain, navigate to appropriate target areas, or restore vision. We show here that with adequate stimulation, retinal ganglion cells are able to regenerate axons the full length of the visual pathway and on into the lateral geniculate nucleus, superior colliculus, and other visual centers. Regeneration partially restores the optomotor response, depth perception, and circadian photoentrainment, demonstrating the feasibility of reconstructing central circuitry for vision after optic nerve damage in mature mammals.
Certain types of nonpsychoactive cannabinoids can potentiate glycine receptors (GlyRs), an important target for nociceptive regulation at the spinal level. However, little is known about the potential and mechanism of glycinergic cannabinoids for chronic pain treatment. We report that systemic and intrathecal administration of cannabidiol (CBD), a major nonpsychoactive component of marijuana, and its modified derivatives significantly suppress chronic inflammatory and neuropathic pain without causing apparent analgesic tolerance in rodents. The cannabinoids significantly potentiate glycine currents in dorsal horn neurons in rat spinal cord slices. The analgesic potency of 11 structurally similar cannabinoids is positively correlated with cannabinoid potentiation of the 3 GlyRs. In contrast, the cannabinoid analgesia is neither correlated with their binding affinity for CB1 and CB2 receptors nor with their psychoactive side effects. NMR analysis reveals a direct interaction between CBD and S296 in the third transmembrane domain of purified 3 GlyR. The cannabinoid-induced analgesic effect is absent in mice lacking the 3 GlyRs. Our findings suggest that the 3 GlyRs mediate glycinergic cannabinoid-induced suppression of chronic pain. These cannabinoids may represent a novel class of therapeutic agents for the treatment of chronic pain and other diseases involving GlyR dysfunction.
Neurite loss is one of the cardinal features of neuronal injury. Apart from neuroprotection, reorganization of the lost neuronal network in the injured brain is necessary for the restoration of normal physiological functions. Neuritogenic activity of endogenous molecules in the brain such as nerve growth factor is well documented and supported by scientific studies which show innumerable compounds having neurite outgrowth activity from natural sources. Since the damaged brain lacks the reconstructive capacity, more efforts in research are focused on the identification of compounds that promote the reformation of neuronal networks. An abundancy of natural resources along with the corresponding activity profiles have shown promising results in the field of neuroscience. Recently, importance has also been placed on understanding neurite formation by natural products in relation to neuronal injury. Arrays of natural herbal products having plentiful active constituents have been found to enhance neurite outgrowth. They act synergistically with neurotrophic factors to promote neuritogenesis in the diseased brain. Therefore use of natural products for neuroregeneration provides new insights in drug development for treating neuronal injury. In this study, various compounds from natural sources with potential neurite outgrowth activity are reviewed in experimental models.


The ability to make inferences about the current state of a dynamic process requires ongoing assessments of the stability and reliability of data generated by that process. We found that these assessments, as defined by a normative model, were reflected in nonluminance-mediated changes in pupil diameter of human subjects performing a predictive-inference task. Brief changes in pupil diameter reflected assessed instabilities in a process that generated noisy data. Baseline pupil diameter reflected the reliability with which recent data indicate the current state of the data-generating process and individual differences in expectations about the rate of instabilities. Together these pupil metrics predicted the influence of new data on subsequent inferences. Moreover, a task- and luminance-independent manipulation of pupil diameter predictably altered the influence of new data. Thus, pupil-linked arousal systems can help to regulate the influence of incoming data on existing beliefs in a dynamic environment.
Action potential generation and conduction requires large quantities of energy to restore Na(+) and K(+) ion gradients. We investigated the subcellular location and voltage dependence of this metabolic cost in rat neocortical pyramidal neurons. Using Na(+)/K(+) charge overlap as a measure of action potential energy efficiency, we found that action potential initiation in the axon initial segment (AIS) and forward propagation into the axon were energetically inefficient, depending on the resting membrane potential. In contrast, action potential backpropagation into dendrites was efficient. Computer simulations predicted that, although the AIS and nodes of Ranvier had the highest metabolic cost per membrane area, action potential backpropagation into the dendrites and forward propagation into axon collaterals dominated energy consumption in cortical pyramidal neurons. Finally, we found that the high metabolic cost of action potential initiation and propagation down the axon is a trade-off between energy minimization and maximization of the conduction reliability of high-frequency action potentials.


The neurosurgical management of patients with intrinsic glial cancers is one of the most rapidly evolving areas of practice. This has been fuelled by advances in surgical technique not only in cytoreduction but also in drug delivery. Further innovation will depend on a deeper understanding of the biology of the disease and an appreciation of the limitations of current knowledge. Here we review the controversial topic of cancer stem cells applied to glioma to provide neurosurgeons with a working overview. It is now recognised that the adult human brain contains regionally specified cell populations capable of self-renewal that may contribute to tumour growth and maintenance following accumulated mutational change. Tumour cells adapted to maintain growth demonstrate some stem-like characteristics and as such constitute a legitimate therapeutic target. Cellular reprogramming technologies raise the potential of developing stem cells as novel surgical tools to target disease and possibly ameliorate some of the consequences of treatment. Achieving these goals remains a significant challenge to neurosurgical oncologists, not least in challenging how we think about treating brain cancer. This review will briefly examine our understanding of adult stem cells within the brain, the evidence that they contribute to the development of brain tumours as tumour-initiating cells, and the potential implications for therapy. It will also look at the role stem cells may play in the future management of glioma.


A preferential occurrence of attacks at night-time or during early morning is documented in migraine without aura, suggesting a relationship between migraine and sleep and an impairment of circadian rhythms. The objective of this study was to verify the occurrence of sleep-related migraine in a large sample of migraineurs divided in different age groups and to evaluate the possible role of physiological variables (i.e., aging, gender) and comorbidities (i.e., psychiatric diseases). 734 patients (519 women and 215 males), aged 21-70 years, fulfilling IHS criteria (2004) for migraine without aura, were enrolled. The population was divided into five groups according to decades of life and it was evaluated the percentage of sleep-related migraine (at least 75% migraine attacks occurring during night sleep and/or upon awakening) in the different age groups. Headache clinical diary, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index and Beck Depression Inventory were also used. The preferential emergence of attacks during night sleep and/or upon awakening progressively increased with aging, without gender predilection; the percentage of patients with sleep-related migraine was: 16% between 20 and 30 years, 27% between 31 and 40 years, 38% between 41 and 50 years, 45% between 51 and 60 years, and 58% between 61 and 70 years, respectively. Poor sleep quality and depression did not account for night-time and/or awakening migraine collocation. These data suggest the main role of aging in order to favor nocturnal/early morning emergence of migraine without aura and support the hypothesis of an involvement of impaired chronobiological mechanisms and sleep regulation.



Ubiquitin-immunoreactive neuronal inclusions composed of TAR DNA binding protein of 43 kDa (TDP-43) are a major pathological feature of frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD-TDP). In vivo studies with TDP-43 knockout mice have suggested that TDP-43 plays a critical, although undefined role in development. In the current report, we generated transgenic mice that conditionally express wild-type human TDP-43 (hTDP-43) in the forebrain and established a paradigm to examine the sensitivity of neurons to TDP-43 overexpression at different developmental stages. Continuous TDP-43 expression during early neuronal development produced a complex phenotype, including aggregation of phospho-TDP-43, increased ubiquitin immunoreactivity, mitochondrial abnormalities, neurodegeneration and early lethality. In contrast, later induction of hTDP-43 in the forebrain of weaned mice prevented early death and mitochondrial abnormalities while yielding salient features of FTLD-TDP, including progressive neurodegeneration and ubiquitinated, phospho-TDP-43 neuronal cytoplasmic inclusions. These results suggest that neurons in the developing forebrain are extremely sensitive to TDP-43 overexpression and that timing of TDP-43 overexpression in transgenic mice must be considered when distinguishing normal roles of TDP-43, particularly as they relate to development, from its pathogenic role in FTLD-TDP and other TDP-43 proteinopathies. Finally, our adult induction of hTDP-43 strategy provides a mouse model that develops critical pathological features that are directly relevant for human TDP-43 proteinopathies.
Oligodendrocyte gap junctions (GJs) are vital for central nervous system myelination, but their involvement in multiple sclerosis (MS) pathology remains unknown. The aim of this study was to examine alterations of oligodendrocyte and related astrocyte GJs in MS lesions and normal-appearing white matter (NAWM). Post-mortem brain samples from 9 MS and 11 age-matched non-MS control patients were studied. Tissue sections that included both chronic active and inactive lesions were characterized neuropathologically with Luxol Fast Blue staining and immunostaining for myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) and the microglial marker Iba1. We analyzed the expression of Cx32 and Cx47 in oligodendrocytes and of Cx43, the major astrocytic partner in oligodendrocyte-astrocyte (O/A) GJs by quantitative immunoblot and real-time PCR. Formation of GJ plaques was quantified by immunohistochemistry. Compared to control brains, both Cx32 and Cx47 GJ plaques and protein levels were reduced in and around MS lesions, while Cx43 was increased as part of astrogliosis. In the NAWM, Cx32 was significantly reduced along myelinated fibers whereas Cx47 showed increased expression mainly in oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs). However, OPCs showed only limited connectivity to astrocytes. Cx43 showed modestly increased levels in MS NAWM compared to controls, while GJ plaque counts were unchanged. Our findings indicate that oligodendrocyte GJs are affected not only in chronic MS lesions but also in NAWM, where disruption of Cx32 GJs in myelinated fibers may impair myelin structure and function. Moreover, limited O/A GJ connectivity of recruited OPCs in the setting of persistent inflammation and astrogliosis may prevent differentiation and remyelination.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is a morphologically heterogeneous tumor type with a median survival of only 15 months in clinical trial populations. However, survival varies greatly among patients. As part of a central pathology review, we addressed the question if patients with GBM displaying distinct morphologic features respond differently to combined chemo-radiotherapy with temozolomide. Morphologic features were systematically recorded for 360 cases with particular focus on the presence of an oligodendroglioma-like component and respective correlations with outcome and relevant molecular markers. GBM with an oligodendroglioma-like component (GBM-O) represented 15% of all confirmed GBM (52/339) and was not associated with a more favorable outcome. GBM-O encompassed a pathogenetically heterogeneous group, significantly enriched for IDH1 mutations (19 vs. 3%, p = 0.003) and EGFR amplifications (71 vs. 48%, p = 0.04) compared with other GBM, while co-deletion of 1p/19q was found in only one case and the MGMT methylation frequency was alike (47 vs. 46%). Expression profiles classified most of the GBM-O into two subtypes, 36% (5/14 evaluable) as proneural and 43% as classical GBM. The detection of pseudo-palisading necrosis (PPN) was associated with benefit from chemotherapy (p = 0.0002), while no such effect was present in the absence of PPN (p = 0.86). In the adjusted interaction model including clinical prognostic factors and MGMT status, PPN was borderline nonsignificant (p = 0.063). Taken together, recognition of an oligodendroglioma-like component in an otherwise classic GBM identifies a pathogenetically mixed group without prognostic significance. However, the presence of PPN may indicate biological features of clinical relevance for further improvement of therapy.


Angiogenesis is a hallmark of cancer, fundamental to its growth. The 'angiogenic switch' occurs when pro-angiogenic factors are not balanced by anti-angiogenic factors. A correlation between angiogenic properties and oncological prognosis (for laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC) too) was first hypothesized in the 1990s. An exhaustive literature review was performed to investigate available data on angiogenesis markers and their biological role and therapeutic potential in LSCC. The prognostic significance of microvascular density in LSCC was investigated with endothelial targets, e.g. CD105, CD34, and CD31. Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), VEGF receptor 2, angiogenin, hypoxia-inducible factor 1, and other biological markers were also studied. Only anti-EGFR therapy has been approved by the USFood and Drug Administration (FDA) for head and neck carcinoma in recent years, while several agents interfering with VEGF and its receptors are being studied. Experimental findings indicate that anti-CD105 monoclonal antibodies efficiently inhibit tumor angiogenesis. There are two main ways to approach the vascular profile of solid malignancies: by inhibiting new vessel formation (anti-angiogenic therapy) or selectively damaging neoplastic vessels (vascular targeting therapy). In advanced LSCC, both these strategies seem promising and warrant further preclinical and clinical investigation.



Students go to school to learn. How much, however, do students understand about the biological basis of this everyday process? Blackwell et al. (1) demonstrated a correlation between education about learning and academic achievement. Yet there are few studies investigating high school students' conceptions of learning. In this mixed-methods research study, written assessments were administered to 339 high school students in an urban school district after they completed their required biology education, and videotaped interviews were conducted with 15 students. The results indicated that the majority of students know little about the biological basis of learning, even with prompting, and they recall having learned little about it in school. Students appear to believe that people control their own ability to learn, and some have developed personal hypotheses to describe the learning process. On written assessments, 75% of participants demonstrated a nonbiological framework for learning, and, during interviews, 67% of participants revealed misconceptions about the biological basis of learning. Sample quotes of these interviews are included in this report, and the implications of these findings are discussed.
Small-conductance, calcium-activated potassium (K(Ca)2) channels influence neuronal firing properties, intrinsic excitability, and NMDA receptor-dependent synaptic responses and plasticity. In this mini-review, we discuss new evidence that chronic alcohol-associated plasticity critically involves K(Ca)2 channels in hippocampus, ventral tegmental area, and nucleus accumbens. K(Ca)2 channel activity can modulate the magnitude of excitation of midbrain dopamine neurons induced by acute alcohol exposure. Emerging evidence indicates that K(Ca)2 channels regulate neuroadaptations to chronic alcohol that contribute to withdrawal hyperexcitability and escalation of voluntary alcohol consumption. Restoring K(Ca)2 channel activity can attenuate the severity of the alcohol withdrawal syndrome in vivo and withdrawal-associated neurotoxicity in vitro. Pharmacological modulation of K(Ca)2 channels can bi-directionally influence drinking behavior in rat and mouse models of voluntary alcohol consumption. Collectively, these studies using various rodent models have clearly indicated a central role for K(Ca)2 channels in the neuroplasticity of chronic alcohol exposure. In addition, accumulating evidence suggests that K(Ca)2 channels are a novel therapeutic target to alleviate the symptoms of alcohol withdrawal and reduce high amounts of alcohol drinking.
This article represents one of five contributions focusing on the topic &quot;Plasticity and neuroadaptive responses within the extended amygdala in response to chronic or excessive alcohol exposure&quot; that were developed by awardees participating in the Young Investigator Award Symposium at the &quot;Alcoholism and Stress: A Framework for Future Treatment Strategies&quot; conference in Volterra, Italy on May 3-6, 2011 that was organized/chaired by Drs. Antonio Noronha and Fulton Crews and sponsored by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. This review discusses the dependence-induced neuroadaptations in affective systems that provide a basis for negative reinforcement learning and presents evidence demonstrating that escalated alcohol consumption during withdrawal is a learned, plasticity-dependent process. The review concludes by identifying changes within extended amygdala dynorphin/kappa-opioid receptor systems that could serve as the foundation for the occurrence of negative reinforcement processes. While some evidence contained herein may be specific to alcohol dependence-related learning and plasticity, much of the information will be of relevance to any addictive disorder involving negative reinforcement mechanisms. Collectively, the information presented within this review provides a framework to assess the negative reinforcing effects of alcohol in a manner that distinguishes neuroadaptations produced by chronic alcohol exposure from the actual plasticity that is associated with negative reinforcement learning in dependent organisms.
This review represents the focus of a symposium that was presented at the &quot;Alcoholism and Stress: AFramework for Future Treatment Strategies&quot; conference in Volterra, Italy on May 3-6, 2011 and organized/chaired by Dr. Brendan M. Walker. The primary goal of the symposium was to evaluate and disseminate contemporary findings regarding the emerging role of kappa-opioid receptors (KORs) and their endogenous ligands dynorphins (DYNs) in the regulation of escalated alcohol consumption, negative affect and cognitive dysfunction associated with alcohol dependence, as well as DYN/KOR mediation of the effects of chronic stress on alcohol reward and seeking behaviors. Dr. Glenn Valdez described a role for KORs in the anxiogenic effects of alcohol withdrawal. Dr. Jay McLaughlin focused on the role of KORs in repeated stress-induced potentiation of alcohol reward and increased alcohol consumption. Dr. Brendan Walker presented data characterizing the effects of KOR antagonism within the extended amygdala on withdrawal-induced escalation of alcohol self-administration in dependent animals. Dr. Georgy Bakalkin concluded with data indicative of altered DYNs and KORs in the prefrontal cortex of alcohol dependent humans that could underlie diminished cognitive performance. Collectively, the data presented within this symposium identified the multifaceted contribution of KORs to the characteristics of acute and chronic alcohol-induced behavioral dysregulation and provided a foundation for the development of pharmacotherapeutic strategies to treat certain aspects of alcohol use disorders.
NMDA receptors become a major contributor to acute ethanol intoxication effects at high concentrations as ethanol binds to a unique site on the receptor and inhibits glutamatergic activity in multiple brain areas. Although a convincing body of literature exists on the ability of NMDA receptor antagonists to mimic and worsen cellular and behavioral ethanol effects, receptor agonists have been less well-studied. In addition to a primary agonist site for glutamate, the NMDA receptor contains a separate co-agonist site that responds to endogenous amino acids glycine and d-serine. d-serine is both selective for this co-agonist site and potent in boosting NMDA dependent activity even after systemic administration. In this study, we hypothesized that exogenous d-serine might ameliorate some acute ethanol behaviors by opposing NMDA receptor inhibition. We injected adult male C57 mice with a high concentration of d-serine at various time windows relative to ethanol administration and monitored sedation, motor coordination and voluntary ethanol drinking. d-serine (2.7 g/kg, ip) prolonged latency to a loss of righting reflex (LoRR) and shortened LoRR duration when given 15 min before ethanol (3 g/kg) but not when it was injected with or shortly after ethanol. Blood samples taken at sedative recovery and at fixed time intervals revealed no effect of d-serine on ethanol concentration but an ethanol-induced decrease in l-serine and glycine content was prevented by acute d-serine pre-administration. d-serine had no effect on ethanol-induced (2 g/kg) rotarod deficits in young adult animals but independently and interactively degraded motor performance in a subset of older mice. Finally, a week-long series of daily ip injections resulted in a 50% decrease in free choice ethanol preference for d-serine treated animals compared to saline-injected controls in a two-bottle choice experiment.
It is widely accepted that stress, anxiety, depression and alcohol abuse-related disorders are in large part controlled by corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) receptors. However, evidence is accumulating that some of the actions on these receptors are mediated not by CRF, but by a family of related Urocortin (Ucn) peptides Ucn1, Ucn2 and Ucn3. The initial narrow focus on CRF as the potential main player acting on CRF receptors appears outdated. Instead it is suggested that CRF and the individual Ucns act in a complementary and brain region-specific fashion to regulate anxiety-related behaviors and alcohol consumption. This review, based on a symposium held in 2011 at the research meeting on &quot;Alcoholism and Stress&quot; in Volterra, Italy, highlights recent evidence for regulation of these behaviors by Ucns. In studies on stress and anxiety, the roles of Ucns, and in particular Ucn1, appear more visible in experiments analyzing adaptation to stressors rather than testing basal anxiety states. Based on these studies, we propose that the contribution of Ucn1 to regulating mood follows a U-like pattern with both high and low activity of Ucn1 contributing to high anxiety states. In studies on alcohol use disorders, the CRF system appears to regulate not only dependence-induced drinking, but also binge drinking and even basal consumption of alcohol. While dependence-induced and binge drinking rely on the actions of CRF on CRFR1 receptors, alcohol consumption in models of these behaviors is inhibited by actions of Ucns on CRFR2. In contrast, alcohol preference is positively influenced by actions of Ucn1, which is capable of acting on both CRFR1 and CRFR2. Because of complex distribution of Ucns in the nervous system, advances in this field will critically depend on development of new tools allowing site-specific analyses of the roles of Ucns and CRF.
Neuronal activity dependent pentraxin (Narp) interacts with -amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate (AMPA) glutamate receptors to facilitate excitatory synapse formation by aggregating them at established synapses. Alcohol is well-characterized to influence central glutamatergic transmission, including AMPA receptor function. Herein, we examined the influence of injected and ingested alcohol upon Narp protein expression, as well as basal Narp expression in mouse lines selectively bred for high blood alcohol concentrations under limited access conditions. Alcohol up-regulated accumbens Narp levels, concomitant with increases in levels of the GluR1 AMPA receptor subunit. However, accumbens Narp or GluR1 levels did not vary as a function of selectively bred genotype. We next employed a Narp knock-out (KO) strategy to begin to understand the behavioral relevance of alcohol-induced changes in protein expression in several assays of alcohol reward. Compared to wild-type mice, Narp KO animals: fail to escalate daily intake of high alcohol concentrations under free-access conditions; shift their preference away from high alcohol concentrations with repeated alcohol experience; exhibit a conditioned place-aversion in response to the repeated pairing of 3g/kg alcohol with a distinct environment and fail to exhibit alcohol-induced locomotor hyperactivity following repeated alcohol treatment. Narp deletion did not influence the daily intake of either food or water, nor did it alter any aspect of spontaneous or alcohol-induced motor activity, including the development of tolerance to its motor-impairing effects with repeated treatment. Taken together, these data indicate that Narp induction, and presumably subsequent aggregation of AMPA receptors, may be important for neuroplasticity within limbic subcircuits mediating or maintaining the rewarding properties of alcohol.
The recent study by Ding and colleagues (2012) utilized in vivo microdialysis to demonstrate that acute and repeated alcohol administration produces dose-dependent effects on extracellular levels of the glutamate in the posterior ventral tegmental area. These findings have important implications for interactions between glutamatergic and dopaminergic mediation of alcohol reinforcement in the ventral midbrain.






Recent evidence implicates placental endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress in the pathophysiological characteristics of preeclampsia. Herein, we investigate whether endothelin (ET)-1, which induces Ca(2+) release from the ER, can induce placental ER stress. Loss of ER Ca(2+) homeostasis impairs post-translational modification of proteins, triggering ER stress-response pathways. IHC confirmed the presence of both ET-1 and its receptors in the syncytiotrophoblast. Protein levels and immunoreactivity of ET-1 and the endothelin B receptor (ETBR) were increased in preeclamptic samples compared with normotensive controls. JEG-3 and BeWo choriocarcinoma cells treated with ET-1 displayed an increase in ER stress markers. ET-1 induced phospho-activation of the ETBR. Treating cells with BQ788, an ETBR antagonist, or small-interfering RNA knockdown of the receptor inhibited induction of ER stress. ET-1 also stimulated p-phospholipase C (PLC)1 levels. By using inhibitors of PLC activation, U73122, and the inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP(3)) receptor, xestospongin-C, we demonstrated that ET-1 induces ER stress via the PLC-IP(3) pathway. Furthermore, ET-1 levels increased in the syncytiotrophoblast of explants from normal placentas after hypoxia-reoxygenation in vitro. Conditioned medium from hypoxia-reoxygenation explants also contained higher ET-1 levels, which induced ER stress in JEG-3 cells that was abolished by an ET-1-neutralizing antibody. Collectively, the data show that ET-1 induced ER stress in trophoblasts via the ETBR and initiation of signaling through the PLC-IP(3) pathway, with the potential for autocrine stimulation.
Transient receptor potential melastatin 7 (TRPM7) channels were originally identified electrophysiologically when depletion of cytosolic Mg(2+) resulted in the gradual development of an outwardly rectifying cation current. Conversely, inclusion of millimolar Mg(2+) in internal solutions prevented activation of these channels in whole cell patch clamp. We recently demonstrated that the Jurkat T-cell whole cell TRPM7 channels are inhibited by internal Mg(2+) in a biphasic manner, displaying high [IC(50(1))  10 M] and low [IC(50(2))  165 M] affinity inhibitor sites. In that study, we had characterized the dependence of the maximum cell current density on intracellular Mg(2+) concentration. To characterize Mg(2+) inhibition in Jurkat T cells in more detail and compare it to whole cell results, we recorded single TRPM7 channels in cell-free membrane patches and investigated the dependence of their activity on Mg(2+) added on the cytoplasmic side. We systematically varied free Mg(2+) from 265 nM to 407 M and evaluated the extent of channel inhibition in inside-out patch for 58 patches. We found that the TRPM7 channel shows two conductance levels of 39.0 pS ((1)) and 18.6 pS ((2)) and that both are reversibly inhibited by internal Mg(2+). The 39.0-pS conductance is the dominant state of the channel, observed most frequently in this recording configuration. The dose-response relation in inside-out patches shows a steeper Mg(2+) dependence than in whole cell, yielding IC(50(1)) of 25.1 M and IC(50(2)) of 91.2 M.. Single-channel analysis shows that the primary effect of Mg(2+) in multichannel patches is a reversible reduction of the number of conducting channels (N(o)). Additionally, at high Mg(2+) concentrations, we observed a saturating 20% reduction in unitary conductance ((1)). Thus Mg(2+) inhibition in whole cell can be explained by a drop in individual participating channels and a modest reduction in conductance. We also found that TRPM7 channels in some patches were not sensitive to this ion at submaximal Mg(2+) concentrations. Interestingly, Mg(2+) inhibition showed the property of use dependence: with repeated applications, Mg(2+) effect became gradually more potent, which suggests that Mg(2+) sensitivity of the channel is a dynamic characteristic that depends on other membrane factors.
The aim of this study was to identify genes that influence iron regulation under varying dietary iron availability. Male and female mice from 20+ BXD recombinant inbred strains were fed iron-poor or iron-adequate diets from weaning until 4 mo of age. At death, the spleen, liver, and blood were harvested for the measurement of hemoglobin, hematocrit, total iron binding capacity, transferrin saturation, and liver, spleen and plasma iron concentration. For each measure and diet, we found large, strain-related variability. A principal-components analysis (PCA) was performed on the strain means for the seven parameters under each dietary condition for each sex, followed by quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis on the factors. Compared with the iron-adequate diet, iron deficiency altered the factor structure of the principal components. QTL analysis, combined with PosMed (a candidate gene searching system) published gene expression data and literature citations, identified seven candidate genes, Ptprd, Mdm1, Picalm, lip1, Tcerg1, Skp2, and Frzb based on PCA factor, diet, and sex. Expression of each of these is cis-regulated, significantly correlated with the corresponding PCA factor, and previously reported to regulate iron, directly or indirectly. We propose that polymorphisms in multiple genes underlie individual differences in iron regulation, especially in response to dietary iron challenge. This research shows that iron management is a highly complex trait, influenced by multiple genes. Systems genetics analysis of iron homeostasis holds promise for developing new methods for prevention and treatment of iron deficiency anemia and related diseases.
In a previous report (Schier et al., Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol 301: R1557-R1568, 2011), we demonstrated with a new behavioral procedure that rats exhibit stimulus-bound suppression of intake in response to an intraduodenal (ID) bitter tastant predicting subsequent malaise. With the use of the same modified taste aversion procedure, the present experiments evaluated whether the sweet taste properties of ID stimuli are likewise detected and encoded. Thirsty rats licked at sipper spouts for hypotonic NaCl for 30 min and received brief (first 6 min) yoked ID infusions of either the same NaCl or an isomolar lithium chloride (LiCl) solution in each session. An intestinal taste cue was mixed directly into the LiCl infusate for aversion training. Results showed that rats failed to detect intestinal sweet taste alone (20 mM Sucralose) but clearly suppressed licking in response to a nutritive sweet taste stimulus (234 mM sucrose) in the intestine that had been repeatedly paired with LiCl. Rats trained with ID sucrose in LiCl subsequently generalized responding to ID Sucralose alone at test. Replicating this, rats trained with ID Sucralose in compound with 80 mM Polycose rapidly suppressed licking to the 20 mM Sucralose alone in a later test. Furthermore, ID sweet taste signaling did not support the rapid negative feedback of sucrose or Polycose on intake when their digestion and transport were blocked. Together, these results suggest that other signaling pathways and/or transporters engaged by caloric carbohydrate stimuli potentiate detection of sweet taste signals in the intestine.
Depressive disorders are prevalent, costly, and poorly understood. Male rodents in stress paradigms are most commonly used as animal models, despite the two-fold increased prevalence of depression in women and sex differences in response to stress. Although these models have provided valuable insights, new models are needed to move the field forward. Social stress-associated behavioral depression in adult female cynomolgus macaques closely resembles human depression in physiological, neurobiological, and behavioral characteristics, including reduced body mass, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis perturbations, autonomic dysfunction, increased cardiovascular disease risk, reduced hippocampal volume, altered serotonergic function, decreased activity levels, and increased mortality. In addition, behaviorally depressed monkeys also have low ovarian steroid concentrations, even though they continue to have menstrual cycles. Although this type of ovarian dysfunction has not been reported in depressed women and is difficult to identify, it may be the key to understanding the high prevalence of depression in women. Depressive behavior in female cynomolgus monkeys is naturally occurring and not induced by experimental manipulation. Different social environmental challenges, including isolation vs. subordination, may elicit the depression-like response in some animals and not others. Similarly, social subordination is stressful and depressive behavior is more common in socially subordinate monkeys. Yet, not all subordinates exhibit behavioral depression, suggesting individual differences in sensitivity to specific environmental stressors and enhanced risk of behavioral depression in some individuals. The behavior and neurobiology of subordinates is distinctly different than that of behaviorally depressed monkeys, which affords the opportunity to differentiate between stressed and depressed states. Thus, behaviorally depressed monkeys exhibit numerous physiological, neurobiological, and behavioral characteristics same as those of depressed human beings. The nonhuman primate model represents a new animal model of depression with great promise for furthering our understanding of this prevalent and debilitating disease and identifying novel therapeutic targets.
A disorder of impulsive aggression has been included in DSM since the first edition. In DSM-III, this disorder was codified as intermittent explosive disorder, and it was thought to be rare. However, the diagnostic criteria for the disorder were poorly operationalized, and empirical research was limited until research criteria were developed a decade ago. Subsequently, renewed interest in disorders of impulsive aggression led to a recent series of community-based studies that have documented intermittent explosive disorder to be as common as many other psychiatric disorders. Other recent research indicates that compared with DSM-IV criteria for intermittent explosive disorder, research criteria for the disorder better identify individuals with elevated levels of aggression, impulsivity, familial risk of aggression, and abnormalities in neurobiological markers of aggression. In addition, other data strongly suggest important delimitation from other disorders previously thought to obscure the diagnostic uniqueness of intermittent explosive disorder. Overall, these data suggest that the diagnostic validity for the integrated research criteria is substantial and is now sufficient for recognition and inclusion in DSM-5.

Based on the evolution of human intelligence and the tremendous cognitive capacities arising from it, we have an innate tendency for the extreme thought content, thought form, and sensory perceptions of psychosis. During the conscious and awake state, cognitive regulatory control processes block these more extreme variants to facilitate reality congruency necessary for adaptive functioning. While asleep there is no need for reality congruency and the cognitive regulatory control processes are deactivated allowing psychotic equivalents to be expressed in dreams. This paper helps synthesize the two dominant perspectives regarding the etiology of psychosis: the neuroscience defect perspective and the psychoanalytic motivational perspective. Regarding the former, defective cognitive regulation arising from certain conditions, such as the deficit state of schizophrenia, allows extreme cognitive distortions, thought form variants, and sensory perceptual experiences to intrude into the conscious and awake state, thereby producing psychosis. Consistent with the psychoanalytic motivational perspective, defensive processes can motivate extreme cognitive distortions, thought form variants and sensory perceptual experiences, and also facilitate their expression by deactivating the relevant cognitive regulatory control processes.
Neuroepithelial papillary tumor of the pineal region (PTPR) has been defined as a distinct entity that is increasingly being recognized, with 96 cases now reported. This tumor shares morphologic features with both ependymomas and choroid plexus tumors. PTPR is characterized by an epithelial-like growth pattern in which the vessels are covered by layers of tumor cells forming perivascular pseudorosettes. These tumors exhibit various combinations of papillary and solid architecture, making the differential diagnosis of PTPR difficult to establish. We report the detailed description of the histopathologic features of a large series of PTPRs from 20 different centers and distinguish 2 subgroups of tumors with either a striking papillary growth pattern or a papillary and solid growth pattern. We highlight the findings that PTPRs have unusual vessels with multiple lumina and frequently show detachment of the border of the tumoral cells from the vascular wall. The 2 PTPR subgroups present similar clinical characteristics and immunophenotypes. We confirmed and extended the results of previous ultrastructural studies on the presence of intercellular junctions at the apical part of tumoral cells. The expression of the tight junction proteins claudin-1, claudin-2, and claudin-3 was investigated by immunohistochemistry. Claudin-1 and claudin-3, but not claudin-2, were expressed in PTPRs and in the fetal subcommissural organ, potentially the origin of this tumor. In contrast, all 3 claudins were expressed in choroid plexus papillomas. Claudin expression may help in the diagnosis of PTPRs and can be used in combination with other markers, such as CK18, NCAM, E-cadherin, MAP-2, and Kir 7.1.
Adaptive responses to predation are generally studied assuming only one predator type exists, but most prey species are depredated by multiple types. When multiple types occur, the optimal antipredator response level may be determined solely by the probability of attack by the relevant predator: &quot;specific responsiveness.&quot; Conversely, an increase in the probability of attack by one predator type might increase responsiveness to an alternative predator type: &quot;general wariness.&quot; We formulate a mathematical model in which a prey animal perceives a cue providing information on the probability of two predator types being present. It can perform one of two evasive behaviors that vary in their suitability as a response to the &quot;wrong&quot; predator type. We show that general wariness is optimal when incorrect behavioral decisions have differential fitness costs. Counterintuitively, difficulty in discriminating between predator types does not favor general wariness. We predict that where responses to predator types are mutually exclusive (e.g., referential alarm-calling), specific responsiveness will occur; we suggest that prey generalize their defensive responses based on cue similarity due to an assumption of response utility; and we predict, with relevance to conservation, that habituation to human disturbance should generalize only to predators that elicit the same antipredator response as humans.
The activation of the GABAergic system has been shown to protect brain tissues against the damage that occurs after cerebral ischaemia. On the other hand, the taurine analogues ()Piperidine-3-sulphonic- (PSA), 2-aminoethane phosphonic- (AEP), 2-(N-acetylamino) cyclohexane sulfonic-acids (ATAHS) and 2-aminobenzene sulfonate-acids (ANSA) have been reported to block GABA metabolism by inhibiting rabbit brain GABA aminotransferase and to increase GABA content in rabbit brain slices. The present investigation explored the neuroprotection provided by GABA, Vigabatrin (VIGA) and taurine analogues in the course of oxygen-glucose deprivation and reperfusion induced damage of rabbit brain slices. Tissue damage was assessed by measuring the release of glutamate and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) during reperfusion and by determining final tissue water gain, measured as the index of cell swelling. GABA (30-300M) and VIGA (30-300M) significantly antagonised LDH and glutamate release, as well as tissue water gain caused by oxygen-glucose deprivation and reperfusion. Lower (1-10M) or higher concentrations (up to 3,000M) were ineffective. ANSA, PSA and ATAHS significantly reduced glutamate and LDH release and tissue water gain in a range of concentrations between 30 and 300M. Lower (0-10M) or higher (up to 3,000M) concentrations were ineffective. Both mechanisms suggest hormetic (&quot;U-shaped&quot;) effects. These results indicate that the GABAergic system activation performed directly by GABA or indirectly through GABA aminotransferase inhibition is a promising approach for protecting the brain against ischemia and reperfusion-induced damage.
Familial amyloid polyneuropathy (FAP) is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by the extracellular deposition of transthyretin (TTR) fibrils in several tissues, particularly in the peripheral nervous system. The largest focus of the disease is in Portugal where the age of disease onset shows a wide range (17-78 years), with 80% of cases developing symptoms before age 40. The characteristic fiber length-dependent sensory-motor and autonomic neuropathy are the neurological hallmark of TTR-FAP. Additional cardiovascular, gastrointestinal (GI), renal and ocular symptoms are the main systemic manifestations that account for phenotypic heterogeneity.
Abstract Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is the most common form of motor neuron disease. We describe the case of a patient with a rapidly progressive form of ALS characterized by both upper and lower motor neuron impairment, no early bulbar signs and severe pain in all four extremities. The patient had a heterozygous c.271G &gt; A mutation in SOD1, leading to an amino acids substitution of asparagine to aspartate at position 90 of the protein chain (p.D90N). Our report confirms that ALS patients with D90 codon heterozygous mutations may be associated with rapid progression and a prominent pain syndrome.
The regular extract of Ginkgo biloba has been shown to possess neuroprotective properties in disorders like hypoxia, ischemia, seizure activity and peripheral nerve damage. Also, G. biloba has received attention as a potential cognitive enhancer for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, but there is not any documentation about the effect of an extract of G. biloba on astrocytes. Therefore, the aim of this study was examined the effects of G. biloba extract on the rat's hippocampal astrocytes after scopolamine based amnesia. In this study, 36 adult male Wistar rats were used. Rats were randomly distributed into control, sham, protective and treatment groups. The rats in the sham group only received scopolamine hydrobromide (3 mg/kg) intraperitoneally. The rats in the protective and treatment groups received G. biloba extract (40, 80 mg/kg) for 7 days intraperitoneally before and after scopolamine injection. Forty eight hours after the last injection, the brains of the rats were withdrawn and fixed with paraformaldehide, and then after histological processing, the slices were stained with phosphotungstic acid-haematoxylin for astrocytes. Data were analyzed by the analysis of variance (ANOVA) post hoc Tukey test; P&lt;0.05 was considered significant. Results showed that scopolamine can reduce the number of astrocytes in all areas of hippocampal formation compared with the control. However, G. biloba extract can compensate for the reduction in the number of astrocytes in the hippocampus before or after the encounter with scopolamine. We concluded that a pretreatment and treatment injection of G. biloba extract can have a protective effect for astrocytes in all areas of hippocampal formation.
Neurocritical care is an evolving subspecialty with many controversial topics. The focus of this review is (1) transfusion thresholds in patients with acute intracranial bleeding, including packed red blood cell transfusion, platelet transfusion, and reversal of coagulopathy; (2) indications for seizure prophylaxis and choice of antiepileptic agent; and (3) the role of specialized neurocritical care units and specialists in the care of critically ill neurology and neurosurgery patients.
ZO-2 is a membrane-associated guanylate kinase homologue (MAGUK) tight protein associated with the cytoplasmic surface of tight junctions. Here, we describe how ZO-2 is a multidomain molecule that binds to a variety of cell signaling proteins, to the actin cytoskeleton, and to gap, tight, and adherens junction proteins. In sparse cultures, ZO-2 is present at the nucleus and associates with molecules active in gene transcription and pre-mRNA processing. ZO-2 inhibits the Wnt signaling pathway, reduces cell proliferation, and promotes apoptosis; its absence, mutation, or overexpression is present in various human diseases, including deafness and cancer.
Somatic mutations in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) are hypothesized to play a role in Parkinson disease (PD), but large increases in mtDNA mutations have not previously been found in PD, potentially because neurons with high mutation levels degenerate and thus are absent in late stage tissue. To address this issue, we studied early stage PD cases and cases of incidental Lewy body disease (ILBD), which is thought to represent presymptomatic PD. We show for the first time that mtDNA mutation levels in substantia nigra neurons are significantly elevated in this group of early PD and ILBD cases.
Oligodendroglioma is characterized by mutations of IDH and CIC, 1p/19q loss, and slow growth. We found that NHE-1 on 1p is silenced in oligodendrogliomas secondary to IDH-associated hypermethylation and 1p allelic loss. Silencing lowers intracellular pH and attenuates acid load recovery in oligodendroglioma cells. Others have shown that rapid tumor growth cannot occur without NHE-1-mediated neutralization of the acidosis generated by the Warburg glycolytic shift. Our findings show for the first time that the pH regulator NHE-1 can be silenced in a human cancer and also suggest that pH deregulation may contribute to the distinctive biology of human oligodendroglioma.
Sensory-specific satiety (SSS) refers to the decrease of pleasure derived from a food with its consumption. In the current study it was examined whether SSS for a specific food can be dishabituated. To this end a total of 40 participants (10 males) received bite sized portions of a test food to repeatedly consume. This typically renders SSS for that food. After such established SSS, the participants ate a different test food repeatedly during a period of 10 min or played a computer game (i.e., Tetris), depending on the experimental condition. It was expected that the consumption of another food would induce dishabituation of SSS for the original test food. The participants indeed demonstrated SSS to the test food, but irrespective of condition this SSS proved stable. It is concluded that SSS is stimulus (i.e., food) specific but not subject to dishabituation.
The spatiotemporal dynamics of the hedonic response to chocolate images was investigated in healthy participants high and low in trait-chocolate craving employing high-density ERPs. There were two sessions: (1) before and (2) after satiety for chocolate. Among cravers, chocolate stimuli evoked a positive amplitude ERP enhancement over the anterior frontal scalp (250-350 ms) that was not modified by satiety and that source localized to the left lateral orbitofrontal cortex. Chocolate stimuli also elicited a later LPP over the posterior scalp (360-560 ms) which was of similar amplitude for high and low chocolate cravers, independent of satiety. Unexpectedly, in non-cravers, chocolate stimuli elicited an earlier (100-250 ms) negative ERP modulation over the frontomedial scalp, which disappeared after eating chocolate to satiety. These results confirm the role of OFC in unrestrained appetitive responses to chocolate in cravers, and suggest top-down influences from cognitive control mechanisms when attempting to restrain the urge to eat chocolate in non-cravers.
This study explored the efficacy of a mindfulness-based intervention for problematic eating behavior. A non-clinical sample of 26 women with disordered eating behavior was randomly assigned to an 8-week MBCT-based eating intervention or a waiting list control group. Data were collected at baseline and after 8 weeks. Compared to controls, participants in the mindfulness intervention showed significantly greater decreases in food cravings, dichotomous thinking, body image concern, emotional eating and external eating. These findings suggest that mindfulness practice can be an effective way to reduce factors that are associated with problematic eating behaviour.
The Letter Digit Substitution Test (LDST) was administered to a sample of N=296 healthy children (aged between 8.03 and 15.87). The aim of the present study was to evaluate the impact of age, gender, and parental educational level on LDST performance and to establish demographically corrected normative data. The results showed that the relationship between age and LDST performance was curvilinear (i.e., improvements in test performance were more pronounced for younger children than for older children) and was moderated by gender (i.e., the gender differences were small at younger ages but increased as a function of age, with girls outperforming boys). Moreover, children who had parents with a higher level of education outperformed their counterparts who had parents with a lower level of education. Regression-based normative LDST data were established, and an automatic scoring program was provided.




Clinical and pathological findings in leprosy are determined by the natural host immune response to Mycobacterium leprae. We previously described cases of painful neuropathy (PN) with no concurrent cause apart from a past history of leprosy successfully treated. Four leprosy previously treated patients who developed a PN years after multidrug therapy (MDT) are reported. The mean patient age was 52.75 years (47-64). The mean time interval of the recent neuropathy from the previous MDT was 19 years (12-26). A painful multiplex neuritis or polyneuropathy were observed respectively in two cases. Electrophysiological studies disclosed a sensory axonal neuropathy in two cases. Microvasculitis with no bacilli was seen in nerve biopsy. Neuropathic symptoms were improved with prednisone. We consider these cases as being a leprosy late-onset neuropathy (LLON) form of presentation. A delayed immune reaction could explain the late appearance of LLON.


Opioid dependence is a chronic relapsing condition which requires comprehensive care; pharmacological agents form the mainstay of its long term treatment. The two most popular approaches are the harm reduction method using agonists and the complete abstinence method using antagonists. Currently, particularly from the harm minimization perspective and the low feasibility of an abstinence based approach, there is an increasing trend toward agonist treatment. The use of buprenorphine has gained popularity in view of its safety profile and the availability of the buprenorphine-naloxone combination has made it popular as a take-home treatment. This review outlines the pharmacological advances and controversies in this area.
Protein folding stress is a salient feature of the most frequent neurodegenerative diseases. Although the accumulation of abnormally folded proteins is a well-characterized event underlying the pathology, the way cells respond to this phenomenon is not well understood. Signs of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress are a common marker of neurodegeneration in many diseases, which may represent two contrasting processes: cell protection events due to activation of adaptive programs, or a chronic stress state that culminates in apoptosis to eliminate irreversibly injured cells. Autophagy has been proposed as a protective mechanism to overcome neurodegeneration that is also modulated by ER stress. In this issue of autophagy Bertrand Mollereau's group provides novel evidence indicating that engagement of nonharmful levels of ER stress protects against experimental Parkinson disease. At the mechanistic level, a homeostatic crosstalk between ER stress signaling and the autophagy pathway was proposed to mediate the therapeutic effects. This study, together with recent findings, supports the involvement of a &quot;hormesis mechanism&quot; to handle degeneration through preconditioning mediated by a dynamic balance between ER stress and autophagy. The implications for aging and future therapeutic development are discussed.
Huntington disease (HD) is caused by an extended polyglutamine [poly(Q)] stretch in the Huntingtin (HTT) protein, and is associated with the accumulation of intracellular protein aggregates, onset of progressive chorea, psychiatric symptoms and dementia. Although the mechanism underlying the pathological effects of mutant HTT (mHTT) remains highly controversial, accumulating evidence suggest that protein-folding stress at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) may contribute to mHTT-mediated degeneration. ER stress is alleviated by the activation of an adaptive reaction known as the unfolded protein response (UPR), whereas chronic ER stress triggers apoptosis by the same pathway. However, most of the studies linking ER stress with HD in vivo are correlative. UPR signaling is initiated by the activation of at least three distinct stress sensors located at the ER membrane known as ERN1/IRE1, EIF2AK3/PERK and ATF6. These stress sensors control the expression of specialized transcription factors that modulate the upregulation of a variety of target genes involved in folding, protein quality control, autophagy and protein synthesis.


Several themes and principles of behavioural neuroscience are evident in the work of Phillip Teitelbaum. He has emphasised the importance of studying behaviour in simple preparations, of re-synthesising complex behavioural patterns from these elemental 'building-blocks' and understanding their often hierarchical organisation. He also more recently has become interested in the possible power of behavioural endophenotypes. His work has resulted in a new emphasis on animal neuropsychology which is highly relevant to human psychopathology. This article illustrates these themes from examples taken from animal models of sensory neglect, drug addiction and cognitive syndromes associated with schizophrenia and other neuropsychiatric disorders.
Over the course of my 50 years of brain-behavioral research, choicepoints presented themselves as to either follow my original hypothesis or follow my puzzling empirical findings. I trusted the latter more than the former because I believe it is where reality is to be found. Phil Teitelbaum's teachings had a major influence on those decisions. In the present essay, I describe the evolution of those choicepoints that led me from studies of hormone-brain-behavior interactions to a rhythmical brain-behavior connection, to sexual behavior, pain blockage, human brain-behavior interactions, and human brain imaging. Along this tortuous course, I learned that vaginal stimulation can block pain, the vagus nerve apparently can convey genital sensory activity to the brain, bypassing spinal cord injury, and all major brain systems evidently contribute to women's orgasm. An important message I learned is: pay attention to what you observe in your experiments, and have the courage to follow it up, particularly if what you observe is not what you were looking for...because it, rather than your hypothesis, is more likely to reveal reality.
Reaching-to-eat (skilled reaching) is a natural behaviour that involves reaching for, grasping and withdrawing a target to be placed into the mouth for eating. It is an action performed daily by adults and is among the first complex behaviours to develop in infants. During development, visually guided reaching becomes increasingly refined to the point that grasping of small objects with precision grips of the digits occurs at about one year of age. Integration of the hand, upper-limbs, and whole body are required for successful reaching, but the ontogeny of this integration has not been described. The present longitudinal study used Laban Movement Analysis, a behavioural descriptive method, to investigate the developmental progression of the use and integration of axial, proximal, and distal movements performed during visually guided reaching. Four infants (from 7 to 40 weeks age) were presented with graspable objects (toys or food items). The first prereaching stage was associated with activation of mouth, limb, and hand movements to a visually presented target. Next, reaching attempts consisted of first, the advancement of the head with an opening mouth and then with the head, trunk and opening mouth. Eventually, the axial movements gave way to the refined action of one upper-limb supported by axial adjustments. These findings are discussed in relation to the biological objective of reaching, the evolutionary origins of reaching, and the decomposition of reaching after neurological injury.
This paper is based on my experiences in 40 years of research in behavioral neuroscience. It is aimed at giving help to beginning graduate students with advice for how to do their research.
Philip Teitelbaum is one of the great physiological psychologists of his generation. His early research clarified key issues regarding the effects of electrolytic lesions of the ventromedial or ventrolateral hypothalamus on food intake in rats, a subject of paramount interest during the 1950s and 1960s. Perhaps best known were his extensive studies of the lateral hypothalamic syndrome in rats, which focused on the complex and changing array of symptoms after experimental brain damage. It soon became clear from later work that his research interests were not in the brain's control of food intake but in the effects of lesions to fragment behavior and thereby allow investigators to view its components. He was the foremost proponent of the use of exquisite behavioral analysis to reveal details in movement that allowed insights into brain function, and that approach - old fashioned physiological psychology made modern and at its finest - has infiltrated the entire field of experimental psychology, including studies of ingestive behavior, even while the new field of behavioral neuroscience emerged. He extended his analytic approach to neurological issues such as autism in humans, a promising arena that fully occupied his attention during the later phases of his career. But his influence on his scientific colleagues went well beyond his careful and powerful thinking; his articles and books have been models of clarity and concision. I write in behalf of a grateful field to salute his many great contributions.
As part of a festschrift issue for Philip Teitelbaum, I offer here the thesis that Teitelbaum deserves to be viewed as an important forefather to the contemporary field of affective neuroscience (which studies motivation, emotion and affect in the brain). Teitelbaum's groundbreaking analyses of motivation deficits induced by lateral hypothalamic damage, of roles of food palatability in revealing residual function, and of recovery of 'lost' functions helped shape modern understanding of how motivation circuits operate within the brain. His redefinition of the minimum requirement for identifying motivation raised the conceptual bar for thinking about the topic among behavioral neuroscientists. His meticulous analyses of patterned stages induced by brain manipulations, life development and clinical disorders added new dimensions to our appreciation of how brain systems work. His steadfast highlighting of integrative functions and behavioral complexity helped provide a healthy functionalist counterbalance to reductionist trends in science of the late 20th century. In short, Philip Teitelbaum can be seen to have made remarkable contributions to several domains of psychology and neuroscience, including affective neuroscience.
Aye-ayes (Daubentonia madagascerensis) have highly specialized hands with long digits, especially the thin middle one (D3), which is used for extracting food, such as beetle larvae, under bark. Due to the elongation of their fingers, including the thumb, it is presumed that aye-ayes have a rather limited capacity for delicate manipulation of objects. However, studies have reported independent movement of digits D3 and D4, and one report noted a seemingly independent thumb (D1) movement in holding food. Sixteen captive adult aye-ayes were videotaped feeding on a diverse range of foods so as to document how the thumb is used during food holding. To determine if the patterns observed were unique to aye-ayes, 24 individuals from 9 other species of lemurs were also videotaped. Two patterns of thumb use idiosyncratic to aye-ayes and one other lemur, the sifaka (Propithecus verreauxi), were identified: (1) when holding a food item in one hand, the thumb was used to secure the food, with the other digits playing a secondary role; (2) when holding a food item with both hands, the thumbs once again took a predominant role in securing the food. In the majority of these cases, whether held by one or two thumbs, the thumbs curled around the item, but some descriptive evidence is provided that suggests that aye-ayes exaggerate the role of the thumbs by shifting the hold to the outer edge. The novel uses of the thumbs in aye-ayes demonstrate that brain mechanisms can sometimes override the behavioral (or motor) limitations imposed by the morphology of the body.
Skilled reaching is a forelimb movement in which a subject reaches for a piece of food that is placed in the mouth for eating. It is a natural movement used by many animal species and is a routine, daily activity for humans. Its prominent features include transport of the hand to a target, shaping the digits in preparation for grasping, grasping, and withdrawal of the hand to place the food in the mouth. Studies on normal human adults show that skilled reaching is mediated by at least two sensory attention processes. Hand transport to the target and hand shaping are temporally coupled with visual fixation on the target. Grasping, withdrawal, and placing the food into the mouth are associated with visual disengagement and somatosensory guidance. Studies on nonhuman animal species illustrate that shared visual and somatosensory attention likely evolved in the primate lineage. Studies on developing infants illustrate that shared attention requires both experience and maturation. Studies on subjects with Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease illustrate that decomposition of shared attention also features compensatory visual guidance. The evolutionary, developmental, and neural control of skilled reaching suggests that associative learning processes are importantly related to normal adult attention sharing and so can be used in remediation. The economical use of sensory attention in the different phases of skilled reaching ensures efficiency in eating, reduces sensory interference between sensory reference frames, and provides efficient neural control of the advance and withdrawal components of skilled reaching movements.
Philip Teitelbaum's focus on detailed description of behavior, the interplay of analysis and synthesis in experimental investigations and the importance of converging lines of evidence in testing hypotheses has proven useful in fields distant from the physiological psychology that he studied throughout his career. Here we consider the social biasing of food choice in Norway rats as an instance of the application of Teitelbaum's principles of behavioral analysis and synthesis and the usefulness of convergent evidence as well as the contributions of detailed behavioral analysis of social influences on food choice to present understanding of both sensory processes and memory.
I reject Lindquist et al.'s implicit claim that all emotion theories other than constructionist ones subscribe to a &quot;brain locationist&quot; approach. The neural mechanisms underlying relevance detection, reward, attention, conceptualization, or language use are consistent with many theories of emotion, in particular componential appraisal theories. I also question the authors' claim that the meta-analysis they report provides support for the specific assumptions of constructionist theories.
Lindquist et al. have assumed that functional specialization requires a one-to-one mapping between brain regions and discrete emotions. This assumption is in tension with the fact that regions can have multiple functions in the context of different, possibly distributed, networks. Once we open the door to other forms of functional specialization, neuroimaging data no longer favor constructionist models over natural kind models.
Lindquist et al. argue that emotional categories do not map onto distinct regions within the brain, but rather, arise from basic psychological processes, including conceptualization, executive attention, and core affect. Here, we use examples from cultural neuroscience to argue that psychological constructionism, not locationism, captures the essential role of emotion in the social and cultural brain.
In matters of the mind, the opposition between what is mind-made or inside and natural or outside the mind is bound to misfire. Lindquist et al. build their analysis on a strong contrast between naturalism, which they reject, and psychologism, which they endorse. We challenge this opposition and indicate how adopting psychologism to combat a naturalistic view of emotional mind/brain areas is self-defeating. We briefly develop the alternative view of emotions as mental organs.
We challenge the classic experience/expression dichotomous account of emotions, according to which experiencing and expressing an emotion are two independent processes. By endorsing Dewey's and Mead's accounts of emotions, and capitalizing upon recent empirical findings, we propose that expression is part of the emotional experience. This proposal partly challenges the purely constructivist approach endorsed by the authors of the target article.
Researchers have wondered how the brain creates emotions since the early days of psychological science. With a surge of studies in affective neuroscience in recent decades, scientists are poised to answer this question. In this target article, we present a meta-analytic summary of the neuroimaging literature on human emotion. We compare the locationist approach (i.e., the hypothesis that discrete emotion categories consistently and specifically correspond to distinct brain regions) with the psychological constructionist approach (i.e., the hypothesis that discrete emotion categories are constructed of more general brain networks not specific to those categories) to better understand the brain basis of emotion. We review both locationist and psychological constructionist hypotheses of brain-emotion correspondence and report meta-analytic findings bearing on these hypotheses. Overall, we found little evidence that discrete emotion categories can be consistently and specifically localized to distinct brain regions. Instead, we found evidence that is consistent with a psychological constructionist approach to the mind: A set of interacting brain regions commonly involved in basic psychological operations of both an emotional and non-emotional nature are active during emotion experience and perception across a range of discrete emotion categories.
Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is caused by lack of paternally derived gene expression from the imprinted gene cluster on human chromosome 15q11-q13. PWS is characterized by severe hypotonia, a failure to thrive in infancy and, on emerging from infancy, evidence of learning disabilities and overeating behavior due to an abnormal satiety response and increased motivation by food. We have previously shown that an imprinting center deletion mouse model (PWS-IC) is quicker to acquire a preference for, and consume more of a palatable food. Here we examined how the use of this palatable food as a reinforcer influences learning in PWS-IC mice performing a simple appetitive learning task. On a nonspatial maze-based task, PWS-IC mice acquired criteria much quicker, making fewer errors during initial acquisition and also reversal learning. A manipulation where the reinforcer was devalued impaired wild-type performance but had no effect on PWS-IC mice. This suggests that increased motivation for the reinforcer in PWS-IC mice may underlie their enhanced learning. This supports previous findings in PWS patients and is the first behavioral study of an animal model of PWS in which the motivation of behavior by food rewards has been examined.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder in humans caused by an expansion of a CAG trinucleotide repeat that produces choreic movements, which are preceded by cognitive deficits. The HD transgenic rat (tgHD), which contains the human HD mutation with a 51 CAG repeat allele, exhibits motor deficits that begin when these rats are 12 months of age. However, there are no reports of cognitive dysfunction occurring prior to this. To assess whether cognitive dysfunction might precede motor deficits in tgHD rats, one group of 9-month-old male rats with homozygotic mutated genes and one group of wild-type (WT) rats underwent three testing phases in a unique Spatial Operant Reversal Test (SORT) paradigm, as well as assessment of spontaneous motor activity. After testing, morphological and histological examination of the brains were made. Results indicated that tgHD rats acquired the cued-response (Phase 1) portion of the SORT, but made significantly more errors during the reversal (Phase 2) and during the pseudorandomized reversals (Phase 3) portion of the study, when compared to WT rats. Analysis of the data using mathematical principles of reinforcement revealed no memory, motor, or motivational deficits. These results indicate that early cognitive dysfunction, as measured by the SORT, occur prior to motor deficits, gross anatomical changes, or cell loss in the tgHD rat with 51 CAG repeats, and suggest that this protocol could provide a useful screen for therapeutic studies.
Male rodents typically display an advantage over female conspecifics in tasks that assess memory for the identity or location of objects. However, the performance of female rodents on object recognition and object location tasks often is enhanced by elevated levels of ovarian steroids. The novel object-in-place task, combines elements of object recognition and object location tasks used to assess rodent object memory. Until now, only male rats have been tested on the object-in-place task, therefore, a study was conducted to compare the performance of males to females under different hormone conditions. Rats were given a sample phase to study the locations of four objects in an open field. After various delays, a test phase was administered with the locations of two objects reversed. Increased investigation of moved objects indicates memory for these objects and their original locations. Rats were able to discriminate moved from unmoved objects after a brief 5-min delay, regardless of biological sex or hormone status. However, gonadally intact males, but not diestrous females, were able to discriminate object locations after a 30-min delay. In contrast, ovariectomized females treated with estradiol and progesterone discriminated moved from unmoved objects after a 60-min delay while ovariectomized vehicle-treated females and gonadally intact males did not. Results indicate that female rats outperform males on a memory task that combines object recognition and location but only when circulating levels of the ovarian steroids, estradiol and progesterone, are elevated and only when memory is challenged by an extended retention interval.
The factors influencing sensitization to cocaine are complex and likely include both cellular and neural systems factors. Upregulation of the striatal dopamine cAMP-signaling pathway and enhanced accumbens adenosine tone are two mechanisms that have been proposed to underlie the development of cocaine sensitization. Isobutylmethylxanthine (IBMX) is a nonspecific inhibitor of phosphodiesterase (PDE) that may enhance the intracellular cAMP levels. However, IBMX may inhibit the PDE-mediated production of adenosine. In this study, intracerebroventricular IBMX did not affect the acute hyperlocomotor response to cocaine, but when coadministered with cocaine for 7 consecutive days, attenuated development of behavioral sensitization. These results suggest that IBMX inhibition of PDE-mediated adenosine production is a stronger influence on cocaine sensitization than inhibition of intracellular PDE-mediated cAMP metabolism.
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), 7-keto DHEA, and several comparison drugs (ethanol, chlordiazepoxide, rauwolscine, and RO15-4513) were administered to male rats responding under a multiple schedule of food and ethanol presentation to determine their selectivity for decreasing ethanol-maintained responding. DHEA and 7-keto DHEA significantly decreased both ethanol-maintained and food-maintained responding, compared with the control, while also decreasing the blood ethanol concentration (BEC). Acute ethanol administration also decreased responding for both food and ethanol; however, ethanol-maintained responding was more potently decreased than food-maintained responding. BEC remained relatively stable after increasing ethanol doses. Among the other drugs tested, RO15-4513 was the most selective for decreasing ethanol-maintained responding compared with food-maintained responding, and it decreased BECs as ethanol-maintained responding decreased. The largest dose of rauwolscine significantly decreased responding for food, whereas it did not affect ethanol-maintained responding compared with the control. Low to intermediate doses of rauwolscine produced small, nonsignificant increases in ethanol-maintained responding and BECs. Chlordiazepoxide produced significant decreases in food-maintained responding and the dose of ethanol presented, but only at the highest dose tested. Although DHEA and 7-keto DHEA did not decrease ethanol-maintained responding as selectively as ethanol or RO15-4513 under the multiple schedule, these neurosteroids may be valuable pharmacological tools in the development of new treatments for alcohol abuse and dependence.
Dopamine D3-preferring agonists are commonly used to treat Parkinson's disease and restless leg syndrome; however, laboratory animal studies suggest that they may possess a moderate abuse potential. These studies aimed to compare the highly selective, full D3 agonist PF-592,379 to the less selective D3 agonist 7-OH-DPAT, and the indirect dopamine agonist cocaine in drug self-administration and discrimination assays. Although rats readily acquired high rates of fixed ratio (FR)1 responding for cocaine, experimentally naive rats failed to acquire responding when 7-OH-DPAT or PF-592,379 was made available during an 18-session acquisition period. Cocaine also maintained dose-dependent levels of responding when available under a FR5 or a progressive ratio (PR) schedule of reinforcement. Although 7-OH-DPAT maintained modest levels of responding when substituted under a FR5, it failed to maintain significant levels of PR responding. PF-592,379 maintained saline-like rates of responding when substituted under FR5 or PR schedules of reinforcement. Similar behavioral profiles were observed in cocaine discrimination assays, with 7-OH-DPAT partially substituting for cocaine, and PF-592,379 producing saline-like effects over a wide range of doses. Together, the results of these studies predict that highly selective D3 agonists, such as PF-592,379, will have low abuse potential in humans.
Odors can have repulsive effects on rodents based on two complementary adaptive behaviors: the avoidance of predator odors (potentially dangerous) and the avoidance of trigeminal stimulants (potentially noxious). The present study aimed to compare the behavioral effects on mice of odors according to their trigeminal properties and ecological significance. We used three different odors: 2,4,5-trimethylthiazoline (TMT: a fox feces odor frequently used to elicit fear-induced behaviors), toluene (a strong stimulant of the trigeminal system) and phenyl ethyl alcohol (PEA: a selective stimulant of the olfactory system). First, we checked preference and avoidance behaviors in mice with and without anosmia towards these odors to ensure their olfactory/trigeminal properties. Secondly, we used a standard test (open-field and elevated plus-maze) to assess the behaviors of mice when exposed to these odors. The results show that the anosmic and control mice both avoided TMT and toluene odors. In the open-field and the elevated plus-maze, mice exhibited &quot;anxious&quot; behaviors when exposed to TMT. Conversely, exposure to PEA induced &quot;anxiolytic&quot; effects confirmed by low blood corticosterone levels resulting from completion of the elevated plus-maze. Compared with TMT exposure, toluene exposure induced moderate &quot;anxious&quot; effects.
Typical experiments in psychological and neurophysiological settings often require the accurate control of multiple input and output signals. These signals are often generated or recorded via computer software and/or external dedicated hardware. Dedicated hardware is usually very expensive and requires additional software to control its behavior. In the present article, I present some accuracy tests on a low-cost and open-source I/O board (Arduino family) that may be useful in many lab environments. One of the strengths of Arduinos is the possibility they afford to load the experimental script on the board's memory and let it run without interfacing with computers or external software, thus granting complete independence, portability, and accuracy. Furthermore, a large community has arisen around the Arduino idea and offers many hardware add-ons and hundreds of free scripts for different projects. Accuracy tests show that Arduino boards may be an inexpensive tool for many psychological and neurophysiological labs.

Lactoferrin (LF), an iron-binding glycoprotein expressed in most biological fluids, represents a major component of mammalian innate immune system. The multiple activities of LF rely not only on its capacity to bind iron but also to interact with molecular and cellular components of both the host and pathogens. LF can bind and sequester lipopolysaccharide thus preventing proinflammatory pathway activation, sepsis, and tissue damage. However, the interplay between LF and lipopolysaccharide is complex and may lead to different outcomes including both the suppression of inflammatory response and immune activation. Understanding the molecular basis and the functional consequences of this complex interaction is critically relevant in the development of LF-based therapeutic interventions in humans.
There is ample evidence of the biological changes produced by the sustained activation of opioid receptors. We evaluated the adaptive changes of cerebral Na(+),K(+)-ATPase in response to the sustained administration of morphine (minipumps, 45mg/kg/day, 6 days) in CD-1 mice and the functional role of these changes in opioid antinociception. The antinociceptive effect of morphine as determined with tail-flick tests was reduced in morphine-tolerant mice. There were no significant changes in the density of high-affinity Na(+),K(+)-ATPase  subunits labeled with [(3)H]ouabain in forebrain membranes from morphine-tolerant compared to those of morphine-naive animals. Western blot analysis showed that there were no significant differences between groups in the changes in relative abundance of (1) and (3) subunits of Na(+),K(+)-ATPase in the spinal cord or forebrain. However, the morphine-induced stimulation of Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity was significantly lower in brain synaptosomes from morphine-tolerant mice (EC(50)=1.790.10M) than in synaptosomes from morphine-naive mice (EC(50)=0.690.12M). Furthermore, adaptive alterations in the time-course of basal Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity were observed after sustained morphine treatment, with a change from a bi-exponential decay model (morphine-naive mice) to a mono-exponential model (morphine-tolerant mice). In behavioral studies the antinociceptive effects of morphine (s.c.) in the tail-flick test were dose-dependently antagonized by ouabain (1 and 10ng/mouse, i.c.v.) in morphine-naive mice, but not in morphine-tolerant mice. These findings suggest that during morphine tolerance, adaptive cellular changes take place in cerebral Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity which are of functional relevance for morphine-induced antinociception.
The objective of this study was to elucidate the effect of partial reduction of the mitochondrial fission protein, dynamin-related protein 1 (Drp1) on mitochondrial activity and synaptic viability. Recent knockout studies of Drp1 revealed that homozygote Drp1 knockout mice are embryonic lethal due to reduced mitochondrial fission, and that this reduced fission leads to developmental defects in the brain. In contrast, heterozygote Drp1 knockout mice appear to be normal in terms of lifespan, fertility, and viability, and phenotypically these animals are not different from wild-type mice. However, the effects of partial Drp1 reduction on mitochondrial function and synaptic activity are not well understood. In the present study, we sought to characterize synaptic, dendritic and mitochondrial proteins, and mitochondrial function and GTPase enzymatic activity, in Drp1 heterozygote knockout mice. Interestingly, we found no significant changes in synaptic, dendritic, and mitochondrial proteins in the Drp1 heterozygote knockout mice compared to the wild-type mice. Further, mitochondrial function and GTPase enzymatic activity appeared to be normal. However, H(2)O(2) and lipid peroxidation levels were significantly reduced in the Drp1 heterozygote knockout mice compared to the wild-type mice. These findings suggest that partial Drp1 reduction does not affect mitochondrial and synaptic viability and may have therapeutic use in treating patients with Alzheimer's disease and Huntington's disease.
Apoptosis is a crucial process that regulates the homeostasis of multicellular organisms. Impaired apoptosis contributes to cancer development, while enhanced apoptosis is detrimental in neurodegenerative diseases. The intrinsic apoptotic pathway is initiated by cytochrome c release from mitochondria. Research published in the recent decade has suggested that cytochrome c release can be influenced by the conducting states of VDAC, the channel in the mitochondrial outer membrane (MOM) responsible for metabolite flux. This review will describe the evidence that VDAC gating or blockage and subsequent changes in MOM permeability influence cytochrome c release and the onset of apoptosis. The blockage of VDAC by G3139, a proapoptotic phosphorothioate oligonucleotide, provides strong evidence for the role of VDAC in the initiation of apoptosis. The proapoptotic activity and VDAC blockage are linked in that both require the PS (phosphorothioate) modification, both are enhanced by an increase in oligonucleotide length, and both are insensitive to the nucleotide sequence. Thus, the mitochondrial outer membrane permeability regulated by VDAC gating may play an important role in mitochondrial function and in the control of apoptosis. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: VDAC structure, function, and regulation of mitochondrial metabolism.


The catastrophic system failure in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is characterized by progressive neurodegeneration within the corticospinal tracts, brainstem nuclei and spinal cord anterior horns, with an extra-motor pathology that has overlap with frontotemporal dementia. The development of computed tomography and, even more so, MRI has brought insights into neurological disease, previously only available through post-mortem study. Although largely research-based, radionuclide imaging has continued to provide mechanistic insights into neurodegenerative disorders. The evolution of MRI to use advanced sequences highly sensitive to cortical and white matter structure, parenchymal metabolites and blood flow, many of which are now applicable to the spinal cord as well as the brain, make it a uniquely valuable tool for the study of a multisystem disorder such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. This comprehensive review considers the full range of neuroimaging techniques applied to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis over the last 25 years, the biomarkers they have revealed and future developments.
The human brain displays oxidant and antioxidant markers with regional specificity that directly impinges on neuronal function in aging and in disease states. Similarly, the antioxidant activities might exhibit differential intracellular distribution rendering subcellular structures differentially vulnerable to toxic insults. To investigate the subcellular distribution of antioxidant activities in the human postmortem brain, we assayed superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione (GSH), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase (GR), and glutathione-S-transferase (GST) in the cytosol and synaptosomal fraction from the frontal cortex (FC) of 45 postmortem human brains. We also tested whether these activities were altered by premortem and postmortem factors, including increasing storage time (11.8-104.1 months), postmortem interval (PMI) (2.5-26h), age and gender differences, and agonal state [based on Glasgow coma scale (GCS): range: 3-15]. Overall, the antioxidant activities were found to be several folds lower in the synaptosomes compared to cytosol, which could make it more susceptible to degeneration. The activities were significantly affected mainly by age (SOD increased in synaptosomes, p=0.01; GSH decreased in cytosol, p=0.03; GPx decreased in cytosol and increased in synaptosomes, p=0.05; GST decreased in synaptosomes, p=0.05) and to a lesser extent by other premortem (GST decreased with GCS in synaptosomes, p=0.02) and postmortem factors (GSH decreased with PMI in cytosol, p=0.04). Increasing storage time or gender difference did not affect the antioxidant activities. We infer that premortem and postmortem factors in general, and increasing age in particular, significantly alter the antioxidant activities in subcellular fractions of postmortem brain with implications for studies on brain pathology employing stored human samples.


Neural tube defects (NTDs) such as spina bifida and anencephaly are some of the most common structural birth defects found in humans. These defects occur due to failures of neurulation, a process where the flat neural plate rolls into a tube. In spite of their prevalence, the causes of NTDs are poorly understood. The multifactorial threshold model best describes the pattern of inheritance of NTDs where multiple undefined gene variants interact with environmental factors to cause an NTD. To date, mouse models have implicated a multitude of genes as required for neurulation, providing a mechanistic understanding of the cellular and molecular pathways that control neurulation. However, the majority of these mouse models exhibit NTDs with a Mendelian pattern of inheritance. Still, many examples of multifactorial inheritance have been demonstrated in mouse models of NTDs. These include null and hypomorphic alleles of neurulation genes that interact in a complex fashion with other genetic mutations or environmental factors to cause NTDs. These models have implicated several genes and pathways for testing as candidates for the genetic basis of NTDs in humans, resulting in identification of putative pathogenic mutations in some patients. Mouse models also provide an experimental paradigm to gain a mechanistic understanding of the environmental factors that influence NTD occurrence, such as folic acid and maternal diabetes, and have led to the discovery of additional preventative nutritional supplements such as inositol. This review provides examples of how multifactorial inheritance of NTDs can be modeled in the mouse.
In recent years, the application of fibrin sealant has been shown to be efficacious in the management of intraoperative and postoperative hemostasis. We designed a prospective randomized controlled clinical trial to assess the efficacy of two different dosages of fibrin sealant (5 and 10 ml) in patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty, as compared with the untreated control group. A total of 90 patients entered the study, randomly assigned to one of the three groups: treatment with 5 ml fibrin sealant (30 patients), with 10 ml fibrin sealant (30 patients) or no treatment (30 patients). A statistically significant difference in the mean reduction of hemoglobin concentrations was found on the first postoperative day in the treated groups as compared with the controls: 5 ml fibrin sealant (2.6 mg/dl) and 10 ml fibrin sealant (2.5 mg/dl) vs. controls (3.7 mg/dl) (P = 0.024). The mean number of blood transfusions was significantly lower in the treated groups: 5 ml (0.5) and 10 ml (0.3) of fibrin sealant vs. controls (1) (P = 0.0019). Functional recovery was also better in the treated groups: on the seventh day, the joint ROM (range of motion) was statistically superior in the 5 ml group (96.5) and 10 ml group (98.8) as compared with the controls (75.5) (P &lt; 0.0001). This study supports the efficacy of administering fibrin sealant in the perioperative management of bleeding after total knee arthroplasty and shows that a 5 ml dosage yields a comparable outcome to the 10 ml dosage previously reported in the literature.

Historically, much drug discovery and development in psychopharmacology tended to be empirical. However, over the last 20 years it has primarily been target oriented, with synthesis and selection of compounds designed to act at a specific neurochemical site. Such compounds are then examined in functional animal models of disease. There is little evidence that this approach (which we call 'targetophilia') has enhanced the discovery process and some indications that it may have retarded it. A major problem is the weakness of many animal models in mimicking the disease and the lack of appropriate biochemical markers of drug action in animals and patients. In this review we argue that preclinical studies should be conducted as if they were clinical studies in design, analysis, and reporting, and that clinical pharmacologists should be involved at the earliest stages, to help ensure that animal models reflect as closely as possible the clinical disease. In addition, their familiarity with pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic integration (PK-PD) would help ensure that appropriate dosing and drug measurement techniques are applied to the discovery process, thereby producing results with relevance to therapeutics. Better integration of experimental and clinical pharmacologists early in the discovery process would allow observations in animals and patients to be quickly exchanged between the two disciplines. This non-linear approach to discovery used to be the way research proceeded, and it resulted in productivity that has never been bettered. It also follows that occasionally 'look-see' studies, a proven technique for drug discovery, deserve to be reintroduced.




The infection of brain and its coverings by larval stage of tapeworm Taenia solium leads to Neurocysticercosis (NCC). The intraventricular form of NCC (IVNCC) has a rapidly progressive course and seen in 15-54% cases. This demands prompt management, as the patients usually present with features of raised intracranial pressure because of cyst load or occlusion of CSF pathways due to associated ependymitis and basal arachnoiditis. The commonest site of occurrence is in fourth ventricle. Neuroimaging is mainstay of diagnosis of IVNCC. The treatment depends on clinical presentation, location within the ventricular system and evolutionary stage of parasite. However, the efficacy of antihelminthic treatment in IVNCC may require further collaborative clinical trials. The decision to operate in a viable intraventricular cyst depends on the presence of: (i) mass effect (ii) CSF obstruction (iii) fourth ventricular cysts. Recently, endoscopic approaches have been the favorable treatment option for IVNCC with hydrocephalus as the clinical results far outbetter those for open approaches used previously.
A patient marked preoperatively for ulnar nerve decompression under general anaesthesia was found to have symmetrical operative site markings. The correct skin mark was transferred to the other side by her sleeping position the night before surgery. Skin marking is an adjunct to safe surgery but is not failsafe.



Autosomal dominant congenital spinal muscular atrophy is characterized by predominantly lower limb weakness and wasting, and congenital or early-onset contractures of the hip, knee and ankle. Mutations in TRPV4, encoding a cation channel, have recently been identified in one large dominant congenital spinal muscular atrophy kindred, but the genetic basis of dominant congenital spinal muscular atrophy in many families remains unknown. It has been hypothesized that differences in the timing and site of anterior horn cell loss in the central nervous system account for the variations in clinical phenotype between different forms of spinal muscular atrophy, but there has been a lack of neuropathological data to support this concept in dominant congenital spinal muscular atrophy. We report clinical, electrophysiology, muscle magnetic resonance imaging and histopathology findings in a four generation family with typical dominant congenital spinal muscular atrophy features, without mutations in TRPV4, and in whom linkage to other known dominant neuropathy and spinal muscular atrophy genes has been excluded. The autopsy findings in the proband, who died at 14 months of age from an unrelated illness, provided a rare opportunity to study the neuropathological basis of dominant congenital spinal muscular atrophy. There was a reduction in anterior horn cell number in the lumbar and, to a lesser degree, the cervical spinal cord, and atrophy of the ventral nerve roots at these levels, in the absence of additional peripheral nerve pathology or abnormalities elsewhere along the neuraxis. Despite the young age of the child at the time of autopsy, there was no pathological evidence of ongoing loss or degeneration of anterior horn cells suggesting that anterior horn cell loss in dominant congenital spinal muscular atrophy occurs in early life, and is largely complete by the end of infancy. These findings confirm that dominant congenital spinal muscular atrophy is a true form of spinal muscular atrophy caused by a loss of anterior horn cells localized to lumbar and cervical regions early in development.
Neuromyelitis optica and neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders have been recently associated with the disease-specific autoantibody aquaporin-4, thought to be pathogenic. Identifying this antibody has allowed the clinical phenotype to be broadened. It is clear that some patients with similar clinical features do not have this antibody and may have a different condition with different outcomes and prognosis. Previous clinical neuromyelitis optica and neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder studies have included such patients. We investigated clinical outcomes and prognostic characteristics of 106 aquaporin-4 antibody-seropositive patients from the UK and Japan. We looked at predictors of disability outcomes, namely visual disability (permanent bilateral visual loss with visual acuity of &lt;6/36 in the best eye), motor disability (permanent inability to walk further than 100m unaided), wheelchair dependence and mortality. Data were collected largely retrospectively through review of case records. After median disease duration of 75 months, 18% had developed permanent bilateral visual disability, 34% permanent motor disability, 23% had become wheelchair dependent and 9% had died. Age at disease onset appeared to be an important predictor of disability type. Young-onset patients in the UK, but not the Japanese cohort, commonly presenting with optic neuritis, had a high risk of visual disability while older patients in both cohorts had a high risk of motor disability, regardless of their onset symptom. Genetic factors also appeared important. The UK cohort seemed to have more severe disease than the Japanese cohort, with more severe onset attacks, a higher relapse frequency and greater disability at follow-up, despite earlier immunosuppression. Moreover, within the UK cohort, there were important differences between ethnic groups, with Afro-Caribbean patients having a younger age at disease onset, more brain and multifocal attacks and higher likelihood of visual disability than Caucasian patients. Thus, age at disease onset and genetic factors are both likely to be important in determining clinical outcomes in aquaporin-4 disease. This has important implications for interpreting clinical neuromyelitis optica and neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder studies, since clinical features and outcomes appear not to be generic across populations and may need to be tailored to individual groups. These factors need to be explored further in future prospective neuromyelitis optica and neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder studies.
Central catecholamine deficiency characterizes -synucleinopathies such as Parkinson's disease. We hypothesized that cerebrospinal fluid levels of neuronal metabolites of catecholamines provide neurochemical biomarkers of these disorders. To test this hypothesis we measured cerebrospinal fluid levels of catechols including dopamine, norepinephrine and their main respective neuronal metabolites dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and dihydroxyphenylglycol in Parkinson's disease and two other synucleinopathies, multiple system atrophy and pure autonomic failure. Cerebrospinal fluid catechols were assayed in 146 subjects-108 synucleinopathy patients (34 Parkinson's disease, 54 multiple system atrophy, 20 pure autonomic failure) and 38 controls. In 14 patients cerebrospinal fluid was obtained before or within 2 years after the onset of parkinsonism. The Parkinson's disease, multiple system atrophy and pure autonomic failure groups all had lower cerebrospinal fluid dihydroxyphenylacetic acid [0.860.09 (SEM), 1.000.09, 1.320.12nmol/l] than controls (2.150.18nmol/l; P&lt;0.0001; P&lt;0.0001; P=0.0002). Dihydroxyphenylglycol was also lower in the three synucleinopathies (8.820.44, 7.750.42, 5.820.65nmol/l) than controls (11.00.62nmol/l; P=0.009, P&lt;0.0001, P&lt;0.0001). Dihydroxyphenylacetic acid was lower and dihydroxyphenylglycol higher in Parkinson's disease than in pure autonomic failure. Dihydroxyphenylacetic acid was 100% sensitive at 89% specificity in separating patients with recent onset of parkinsonism from controls but was of no value in differentiating Parkinson's disease from multiple system atrophy. Synucleinopathies feature cerebrospinal fluid neurochemical evidence for central dopamine and norepinephrine deficiency. Parkinson's disease and pure autonomic failure involve differential dopaminergic versus noradrenergic lesions. Cerebrospinal fluid dihydroxyphenylacetic acid seems to provide a sensitive means to identify even early Parkinson's disease.
Dystonia is typically considered a movement disorder characterized by motor manifestations, primarily involuntary muscle contractions causing twisting movements and abnormal postures. However, growing evidence indicates an important non-motor component to primary dystonia, including abnormalities in sensory and perceptual functions, as well as neuropsychiatric, cognitive and sleep domains. Here, we review this evidence and discuss its clinical and pathophysiological implications.
A recent paper (Zald &amp; Andreotti, 2010) reviewed neuropsychological tasks that assess the function of the orbital and ventromedial portions of the prefrontal cortex (OMPFC). Neuropathological studies have shown that the function of the OMPFC should be preserved in the early stages of Parkinson's disease (PD) but becomes affected in the advanced stages of PD. This pattern has also been suggested by studies that have shown that dopaminergic drugs impair the performance of early PD patients in OMPFC tasks that involve reinforcement learning but enhance the performance of advanced PD patients. Based on these empirical findings, we reviewed the neuropsychological evidence of OMPFC functions in PD patients to test two hypotheses regarding the following: (1) OMPFC functions at different stages of PD; (2) different effects of dopaminergic drugs on OMPFC functions based on PD stage and task demand. We focused our review only on the neuropsychological tasks that were specific and sensitive to the functions of the OMPFC and that were adopted at different stages of PD, such as reversal learning tasks, the Iowa Gambling Task and the affective Theory of Mind task. We found robust empirical evidence that in early PD, OMPFC functions are preserved and dopaminergic drugs result in a detrimental effect when the task involves reinforcement learning. Further studies are needed to verify the status of OMPFC functions in non-demented, advanced PD and to describe the longitudinal course of OMPFC functions in this clinical population.
Dravet syndrome (DS) is a severe epileptic encephalopathy beginning in infancy in which children have difficult to control seizures and cognitive impairment. The majority of children with DS carry mutations of the gene Scn1a, which codes for the alpha subunit of the type 1 voltage-gated sodium channel and is important for the function of interneurons. Interneurons have a critical role in the generation of brain rhythms involved in cognitive processing. We hypothesized that children with DS with Scn1a mutations would have abnormal oscillatory activity. To address this hypothesis, we used EEG power spectral analysis during the wakening to determine if frequency and power are altered in 23 EEGs from 12 children with DS compared to 18 age-matched controls. While there were few differences between the EEG power spectra in DS and controls in children under 2years, in older children group differences were apparent. In DS children between 3 and 5years there were significant decreases in percentage of alpha power compared to controls and in DS children over age 6years there was a marked increase of theta and decrease of alpha compared to controls. Developmental status paralleled the power spectral analysis with an increasing likelihood of having severe cognitive problems with increasing age. These results demonstrate that Scn1a mutations result in an age-dependent alteration in oscillatory process. Such abnormalities in developmental progression of oscillations may play an important role in poor cognitive development in children with DS.
Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI), also referred to as concussion, remains a controversial diagnosis because the brain often appears quite normal on conventional computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans. Such conventional tools, however, do not adequately depict brain injury in mTBI because they are not sensitive to detecting diffuse axonal injuries (DAI), also described as traumatic axonal injuries (TAI), the major brain injuries in mTBI. Furthermore, for the 15 to 30 % of those diagnosed with mTBI on the basis of cognitive and clinical symptoms, i.e., the &quot;miserable minority,&quot; the cognitive and physical symptoms do not resolve following the first 3 months post-injury. Instead, they persist, and in some cases lead to long-term disability. The explanation given for these chronic symptoms, i.e., postconcussive syndrome, particularly in cases where there is no discernible radiological evidence for brain injury, has led some to posit a psychogenic origin. Such attributions are made all the easier since both posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and depression are frequently co-morbid with mTBI. The challenge is thus to use neuroimaging tools that are sensitive to DAI/TAI, such as diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), in order to detect brain injuries in mTBI. Of note here, recent advances in neuroimaging techniques, such as DTI, make it possible to characterize better extant brain abnormalities in mTBI. These advances may lead to the development of biomarkers of injury, as well as to staging of reorganization and reversal of white matter changes following injury, and to the ability to track and to characterize changes in brain injury over time. Such tools will likely be used in future research to evaluate treatment efficacy, given their enhanced sensitivity to alterations in the brain. In this article we review the incidence of mTBI and the importance of characterizing this patient population using objective radiological measures. Evidence is presented for detecting brain abnormalities in mTBI based on studies that use advanced neuroimaging techniques. Taken together, these findings suggest that more sensitive neuroimaging tools improve the detection of brain abnormalities (i.e., diagnosis) in mTBI. These tools will likely also provide important information relevant to outcome (prognosis), as well as play an important role in longitudinal studies that are needed to understand the dynamic nature of brain injury in mTBI. Additionally, summary tables of MRI and DTI findings are included. We believe that the enhanced sensitivity of newer and more advanced neuroimaging techniques for identifying areas of brain damage in mTBI will be important for documenting the biological basis of postconcussive symptoms, which are likely associated with subtle brain alterations, alterations that have heretofore gone undetected due to the lack of sensitivity of earlier neuroimaging techniques. Nonetheless, it is noteworthy to point out that detecting brain abnormalities in mTBI does not mean that other disorders of a more psychogenic origin are not co-morbid with mTBI and equally important to treat. They arguably are. The controversy of psychogenic versus physiogenic, however, is not productive because the psychogenic view does not carefully consider the limitations of conventional neuroimaging techniques in detecting subtle brain injuries in mTBI, and the physiogenic view does not carefully consider the fact that PTSD and depression, and other co-morbid conditions, may be present in those suffering from mTBI. Finally, we end with a discussion of future directions in research that will lead to the improved care of patients diagnosed with mTBI.
Several neuropeptides, including galanin, orexin, melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH), urocortin-2, pituitary adenylate cyclase activating protein, and vasoactive intestinal peptide, have been implicated in the regulation of sleep/wakefulness states. In particular, neuropeptides produced in the hypothalamus, including galanin, orexin, and MCH, have been shown to play crucial roles. Galanin is localized to the prepotic area of the hypothalamus and is likely to be involved in the promotion and maintenance of sleep. MCH, which is expressed by neurons in the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA), seems to be implicated in rapid eye movement sleep regulation. Orexins are also localized in the LHA and have been established as one of the most important factors in the regulation of sleep/wakefulness states. A series of studies have suggested that orexin deficiency causes narcolepsy in humans and other mammalian species, highlighting the roles of this hypothalamic neuropeptide in the regulation of sleep and wakefulness. Studies of efferent and afferent systems of orexin-producing neurons have shown that the orexin neuronal system has close interactions with the systems that regulate emotion, energy homeostasis, reward, and arousal. These observations suggest that orexin neurons are involved in sensing the body's external and internal environments and regulate vigilance states accordingly.
Although sleep is a familiar phenomenon, its functions are yet to be elucidated. Understanding these functions of sleep is an important focus area in neuroscience. Electroencephalography (EEG) has been the predominantly used method in human sleep research but does not provide detailed spatial information about brain activation during sleep. To supplement the spatial information provided by this method, researchers have started using a combination of EEG and various advanced neuroimaging techniques that have been recently developed, including positron emission tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). In this paper, we will review the recent progress in sleep studies, especially studies that have used such advanced neuroimaging techniques. First, we will briefly introduce several neuroimaging techniques available for use in sleep studies. Next, we will review the spatiotemporal brain activation patterns during non-rapid eye movement (NREM) and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, the dynamics of functional connectivity during sleep, and the consolidation of learning and memory during sleep; studies on the neural correlates of dreams, which have not yet been identified, will also be discussed. Lastly, possible directions for future research in this area will be discussed.
Carotid bodies are peripheral chemoreceptors that detect lowering of arterial blood O(2) level. The carotid body comprises clusters of glomus (type I) cells surrounded by glial-like sustentacular (type II) cells. Hypoxia triggers depolarization and cytosolic [Ca(2+)] ([Ca(2+)](i)) elevation in glomus cells, resulting in the release of multiple transmitters, including ATP. While ATP has been shown to be an important excitatory transmitter in the stimulation of carotid sinus nerve, there is considerable evidence that ATP exerts autocrine and paracrine actions in carotid body. ATP acting via P2Y(1) receptors, causes hyperpolarization in glomus cells and inhibits the hypoxia-mediated [Ca(2+)](i) rise. In contrast, adenosine (an ATP metabolite) triggers depolarization and [Ca(2+)](i) rise in glomus cells via A(2A) receptors. We suggest that during prolonged hypoxia, the negative and positive feedback actions of ATP and adenosine may result in an oscillatory Ca(2+) signal in glomus cells. Such mechanisms may allow cyclic release of transmitters from glomus cells during prolonged hypoxia without causing cellular damage from a persistent [Ca(2+)](i) rise. ATP also stimulates intracellular Ca(2+) release in sustentacular cells via P2Y(2) receptors. The autocine and paracrine actions of ATP suggest that ATP has important roles in coordinating chemosensory transmission in the carotid body.
Although stem cell therapy holds promise as a potential treatment in a number of diseases, the tumorigenicity of embryonic stem cells (ESC) and induced pluripotent stem cells remains a major obstacle. In vitro predifferentiation of ESCs can help prevent the risk of teratoma formation, yet proliferating neural progenitors can generate tumors, especially in the presence of immunosuppressive therapy. In this study, we investigated the effects of the microenvironment on stem cell growth and teratoma development using undifferentiated ESCs. Syngeneic ESC transplantation triggered an inflammatory response that involved the recruitment of bone marrow (BM)-derived macrophages. These macrophages differentiated into an M2 or angiogenic phenotype that expressed multiple angiogenic growth factors and proteinases, such as macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF), VEGF, and matrix metalloproteinase 9, creating a microenvironment that supported the initiation of teratoma development. Genetic deletion of MIF from the host but not from ESCs specifically reduced angiogenesis and teratoma growth, and MIF inhibition effectively reduced teratoma development after ESC transplantation. Together, our findings show that syngeneic ESC transplantation provokes an inflammatory response that involves the rapid recruitment and activation of BM-derived macrophages, which may be a crucial driving force in the initiation and progression of teratomas.
Increased nuclear accumulation of -catenin, a mediator of canonical Wnt signaling, is found in numerous tumors and is frequently associated with tumor progression and metastasis. Inhibition of Wnt/-catenin signaling therefore is an attractive strategy for anticancer drugs. In this study, we have identified a novel small molecule inhibitor of the -catenin signaling pathway, JW55, that functions via inhibition of the PARP domain of tankyrase 1 and tankyrase 2 (TNKS1/2), regulators of the -catenin destruction complex. Inhibition of TNKS1/2 poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation activity by JW55 led to stabilization of AXIN2, a member of the -catenin destruction complex, followed by increased degradation of -catenin. In a dose-dependent manner, JW55 inhibited canonical Wnt signaling in colon carcinoma cells that contained mutations in either the APC (adenomatous polyposis coli) locus or in an allele of -catenin. In addition, JW55 reduced XWnt8-induced axis duplication in Xenopus embryos and tamoxifen-induced polyposis formation in conditional APC mutant mice. Together, our findings provide a novel chemotype for targeting canonical Wnt/-catenin signaling through inhibiting the PARP domain of TNKS1/2.
High-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) has been shown to be linked with immune stimulation, but is not well studied over the lifetime in opiate addiction. hs-CRP was measured by standard laboratory methods in substance use disorder (SUD) patients and non-SUD (NSUD) aged 18-48 years. Data were log transformed to improve normality. 1231 SUD were compared with 326 NSUD patients of comparable ages. hs-CRP was 7.46  14.24 versus 4.75  13.40 mg/l (mean  SD) significantly higher in the SUD group (P &lt; 0.0001), a difference which persisted after exclusion of acutely elevated hs-CRP values (P &lt; 0.0001). In multiple regression with age, addictive status was significant both by itself (P &lt; 0.0001) and in interaction with age (P &lt; 0.0001). At age 40 years, the SUD group had a mean hs-CRP of 3.68 which the NSUD group did not achieve till a modelled age of 157.09 years. In an interactive multivariate regression, interactions between age, addictive status, ALT and AST were significant. These data show that hs-CRP is elevated in opiate dependence both per se, and when controlled for age. Furthermore, they suggest that hs-CRP and immune stimulation seen in opiate addiction may underlie the acceleration of age-related multi-system chronic and coronary atherosclerotic disease well described in opiate dependence.
The secreted protease proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) binds to low-density lipid (LDL) receptor family members LDLR, very low density lipoprotein receptor (VLDLR) and apolipoprotein receptor 2 (ApoER2), and promotes their degradation in intracellular acidic compartments. In the liver, LDLR is a major controller of blood LDL levels, whereas VLDLR and ApoER2 in the brain mediate Reelin signaling, a critical pathway for proper development of the nervous system. Expression level of PCSK9 in the brain is highest in the cerebellum during perinatal development, but is also increased in the adult brain after ischemia. The mechanism of PCSK9 function and its involvement in neuronal apoptosis is poorly understood. We show here that RNAi-mediated knockdown of PCSK9 significantly reduced the death of potassium-deprived cerebellar granule neurons (CGN), as shown by reduced levels of nuclear phosphorylated c-Jun and activated caspase-3, as well as condensed apoptotic nuclei. ApoER2 protein levels were increased in PCSK9 RNAi cells. Knockdown of ApoER2 but not of VLDLR was sufficient to reverse the protection provided by PCSK9 RNAi, suggesting that proapoptotic signaling of PCSK9 is mediated by altered ApoER2 function. Pharmacological inhibition of signaling pathways associated with lipoprotein receptors suggested that PCSK9 regulates neuronal apoptosis independently of NMDA receptor function but in concert with ERK and JNK signaling pathways. PCSK9 RNAi also reduced staurosporine-induced CGN apoptosis and axonal degeneration in the nerve growth factor-deprived dorsal root ganglion neurons. We conclude that PCSK9 potentiates neuronal apoptosis via modulation of ApoER2 levels and related anti-apoptotic signaling pathways.
Termination and resolution of inflammation are tightly linked to the inactivation of one of its strongest inducers, NF-B. While canonical post-stimulus inactivation is achieved by upregulation of inhibitory molecules that relocate NF-B complexes to the cytoplasm, termination of the NF-B response can also be accomplished directly in the nucleus by posttranslational modifications, e.g., ubiquitination of the RelA subunit. Here we reveal a functional role for RelA monoubiquitination in regulating NF-B activity. By employing serine-to-alanine mutants, we found that hypo-phosphorylated nuclear RelA is monoubiquitinated on multiple lysine residues. Ubiquitination was reversed by IB expression and was reduced when nuclear translocation was inhibited. RelA monoubiquitination decreased NF-B transcriptional activity despite prolonged nuclear presence and independently of RelA degradation, possibly through decreased CREB-binding protein (CBP) co-activator binding. Polyubiquitin-triggered proteasomal degradation has been proposed as a model for RelA inactivation. However, here we show that proteasomal inhibition, similar to RelA hypo-phosphorylation, resulted in nuclear translocation and monoubiquitination of RelA. These findings indicate a degradation-independent mechanism for regulating the activity of nuclear RelA by ubiquitination.
Axon specification during neuronal polarization is closely associated with increased microtubule stabilization in one of the neurites of unpolarized neuron, but how this increased microtubule stability is achieved is unclear. Here, we show that extracellular matrix (ECM) component laminin promotes neuronal polarization via regulating directional microtubule assembly through 1 integrin (Itgb1). Contact with laminin coated on culture substrate or polystyrene beads was sufficient for axon specification of undifferentiated neurites in cultured hippocampal neurons and cortical slices. Active Itgb1 was found to be concentrated in laminin-contacting neurites. Axon formation was promoted and abolished by enhancing and attenuating Itgb1 signaling, respectively. Interestingly, laminin contact promoted plus-end microtubule assembly in a manner that required Itgb1. Moreover, stabilizing microtubules partially prevented polarization defects caused by Itgb1 downregulation. Finally, genetic ablation of Itgb1 in dorsal telencephalic progenitors caused deficits in axon development of cortical pyramidal neurons. Thus, laminin/Itgb1 signaling plays an instructive role in axon initiation and growth, both in vitro and in vivo, through the regulation of microtubule assembly. This study has established a linkage between an extrinsic factor and intrinsic cytoskeletal dynamics during neuronal polarization.
Microglia are highly motile cells that act as the main form of active immune defense in the central nervous system. Attracted by factors released from damaged cells, microglia are recruited towards the damaged or infected site, where they are involved in degenerative and regenerative responses and phagocytotic clearance of cell debris. ATP release from damaged neural tissues has been suggested to mediate the rapid extension of microglial process towards the site of injury. However, the mechanisms of the long-range migration of microglia remain to be clarified. Here, we found that lysosomes in microglia contain abundant ATP and exhibit Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis in response to various stimuli. By establishing an efficient in vitro chemotaxis assay, we demonstrated that endogenously-released ATP from microglia triggered by local microinjection of ATPS is critical for the long-range chemotaxis of microglia, a response that was significantly inhibited in microglia treated with an agent inducing lysosome osmodialysis or in cells derived from mice deficient in Rab 27a (ashen mice), a small GTPase required for the trafficking and exocytosis of secretory lysosomes. These results suggest that microglia respond to extracellular ATP by releasing ATP themselves through lysosomal exocytosis, thereby providing a positive feedback mechanism to generate a long-range extracellular signal for attracting distant microglia to migrate towards and accumulate at the site of injury.
Functional studies have shown that subsets of autonomic preganglionic neurons respond to ghrelin and ghrelin mimetics and in situ hybridisation has revealed receptor gene expression in the cell bodies of some preganglionic neurons. Our present goal has been to determine which preganglionic neurons express ghrelin receptors by using mice expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) under the control of the promoter for the ghrelin receptor (also called growth hormone secretagogue receptor). The retrograde tracer Fast Blue was injected into target organs of reporter mice under anaesthesia to identify specific functional subsets of postganglionic sympathetic neurons. Cryo-sections were immunohistochemically stained by using anti-EGFP and antibodies to neuronal markers. EGFP was detected in nerve terminal varicosities in all sympathetic chain, prevertebral and pelvic ganglia and in the adrenal medulla. Non-varicose fibres associated with the ganglia were also immunoreactive. No postganglionic cell bodies contained EGFP. In sympathetic chain ganglia, most neurons were surrounded by EGFP-positive terminals. In the stellate ganglion, neurons with choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity, some being sudomotor neurons, lacked surrounding ghrelin-receptor-expressing terminals, although these terminals were found around other neurons. In the superior cervical ganglion, the ghrelin receptor terminals innervated subgroups of neurons including neuropeptide Y (NPY)-immunoreactive neurons that projected to the anterior chamber of the eye. However, large NPY-negative neurons projecting to the acini of the submaxillary gland were not innervated by EGFP-positive varicosities. In the celiaco-superior mesenteric ganglion, almost all neurons were surrounded by positive terminals but the VIP-immunoreactive terminals of intestinofugal neurons were EGFP-negative. The pelvic ganglia contained groups of neurons without ghrelin receptor terminal innervation and other groups with positive terminals around them. Ghrelin receptors are therefore expressed by subgroups of preganglionic neurons, including those of vasoconstrictor pathways and of pathways controlling gut function, but are absent from some other neurons, including those innervating sweat glands and the secretomotor neurons that supply the submaxillary salivary glands.
The contribution of the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) to visually guided movements has been originally inferred from observations made in patients suffering from optic ataxia. Subsequent electrophysiological studies in monkeys and functional imaging data in humans have corroborated the key role played by the PPC in sensorimotor transformations underlying goal-directed movements, although the exact contribution of this structure remains debated. Here, we used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to interfere transiently with the function of the left or right medial part of the intraparietal sulcus (mIPS) in healthy volunteers performing visually guided movements with the right hand. We found that a &quot;virtual lesion&quot; of either mIPS increased the scattering in initial movement direction (DIR), leading to longer trajectory and prolonged movement time, but only when TMS was delivered 100-160 ms before movement onset and for movements directed toward contralateral targets. Control experiments showed that deficits in DIR consequent to mIPS virtual lesions resulted from an inappropriate implementation of the motor command underlying the forthcoming movement and not from an inaccurate computation of the target localization. The present study indicates that mIPS plays a causal role in implementing specifically the direction vector of visually guided movements toward objects situated in the contralateral hemifield.
Neuronal theories of neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs) of autism and mental retardation propose that abnormal connectivity underlies deficits in attentional processing. We tested this theory by studying unitary synaptic connections between layer 5 pyramidal neurons within medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) networks in the Fmr1-KO mouse model for mental retardation and autism. In line with predictions from neurocognitive theory, we found that neighboring pyramidal neurons were hyperconnected during a critical period in early mPFC development. Surprisingly, excitatory synaptic connections between Fmr1-KO pyramidal neurons were significantly slower and failed to recover from short-term depression as quickly as wild type (WT) synapses. By 4-5 weeks of mPFC development, connectivity rates were identical for both KO and WT pyramidal neurons and synapse dynamics changed from depressing to facilitating responses with similar properties in both groups. We propose that the early alteration in connectivity and synaptic recovery are tightly linked: using a network model, we show that slower synapses are essential to counterbalance hyperconnectivity in order to maintain a dynamic range of excitatory activity. However, the slow synaptic time constants induce decreased responsiveness to low-frequency stimulation, which may explain deficits in integration and early information processing in attentional neuronal networks in NDDs.
The perirhinal area is a rostrocaudally oriented cortical region involved in recognition and associative memory. It receives topographically organized transverse projections from high-order neocortical areas and is endowed with intrinsic longitudinal connections that distribute neocortical inputs rostrocaudally. Earlier work has revealed that neocortical inputs strongly recruit perirhinal interneurons located at the same transverse level, limiting the depolarization of principal cells. In contrast, at a distance, neocortical stimuli only evoke excitation because longitudinal perirhinal pathways do not engage interneurons. This raises the possibility that the perirhinal network allows for Hebbian-like associative interactions between coincident and spatially distributed inputs. To test this, we analyzed the effects of theta-frequency neocortical stimulation using simultaneous field potential recordings and optical imaging in the whole guinea pig brain in vitro. Theta-frequency stimulation (TFS) at one neocortical site resulted in a prolonged input-specific response depression at all perirhinal levels. In contrast, paired TFS of 2 distant neocortical sites resulted in a prolonged response potentiation to the paired inputs, suggesting that longitudinal perirhinal connections can support associative interactions between coincident but spatially distributed inputs. Moreover, we found that induction of these 2 forms of plasticity depended on the competing influence of glutamate group I metabotropic and NMDA receptors, respectively.
Subregions of the cingulate cortex represent prominent intersections in the structural networks of the primate brain. The relevance of the cingulate to the structure and dynamics of large-scale networks ultimately requires a link to functional connectivity. Here, we map fine-grained functional connectivity across the complete extent of the macaque (Macaca fascicularis) cingulate cortex and delineate subdivisions pertaining to distinct identifiable networks. In particular, we identified 4 primary networks representing the functional spectrum of the cingulate: somatomotor, attention-orienting, executive, and limbic. The cingulate nodes of these networks originated from separable subfields along the rostral-to-caudal axis and were characterized by positive and negative correlations of spontaneous blood oxygen level-dependent activity. These findings represent a critical component for understanding how the anterior and midcingulate cortices integrate and shape information processing during task performance. The connectivity patterns also suggest future electrophysiological targets that may reveal new functional representations including those involved in conflict monitoring.
Social interactions involve more than &quot;just&quot; language. As important is a more primitive nonlinguistic mode of communication acting in parallel with linguistic processes and driving our decisions to a much higher degree than is generally suspected. Amongst the &quot;honest signals&quot; that influence our behavior is perceived vocal attractiveness. Not only does vocal attractiveness reflect important biological characteristics of the speaker, it also influences our social perceptions according to the &quot;what sounds beautiful is good&quot; phenomenon. Despite the widespread influence of vocal attractiveness on social interactions revealed by behavioral studies, its neural underpinnings are yet unknown. We measured brain activity while participants listened to a series of vocal sounds (&quot;ah&quot;) and performed an unrelated task. We found that voice-sensitive auditory and inferior frontal regions were strongly correlated with implicitly perceived vocal attractiveness. While the involvement of auditory areas reflected the processing of acoustic contributors to vocal attractiveness (&quot;distance to mean&quot; and spectrotemporal regularity), activity in inferior prefrontal regions (traditionally involved in speech processes) reflected the overall perceived attractiveness of the voices despite their lack of linguistic content. These results suggest the strong influence of hidden nonlinguistic aspects of communication signals on cerebral activity and provide an objective measure of this influence.
Rules are widely used in everyday life to organize actions and thoughts in accordance with our internal goals. At the simplest level, single rules can be used to link individual sensory stimuli to their appropriate responses. However, most tasks are more complex and require the concurrent application of multiple rules. Experiments on humans and monkeys have shown the involvement of a frontoparietal network in rule representation. Yet, a fundamental issue still needs to be clarified: Is the neural representation of multiple rules compositional, that is, built on the neural representation of their simple constituent rules? Subjects were asked to remember and apply either simple or compound rules. Multivariate decoding analyses were applied to functional magnetic resonance imaging data. Both ventrolateral frontal and lateral parietal cortex were involved in compound representation. Most importantly, we were able to decode the compound rules by training classifiers only on the simple rules they were composed of. This shows that the code used to store rule information in prefrontal cortex is compositional. Compositional coding in rule representation suggests that it might be possible to decode other complex action plans by learning the neural patterns of the known composing elements.
The definition of Purkinje cell zones by their white matter compartments, their physiological properties, and their molecular identity and the birthdate of their Purkinje cells will be reviewed.
At the molecular and circuitry levels, the cerebellum exhibits a striking parasagittal zonation as exemplified by the spatial distribution of molecules expressed on Purkinje cells and the topography of the afferent and efferent projections. The physiology and function of the zonation is less clear. Activity-dependent optical imaging has proven a useful tool to examine the physiological properties of the parasagittal zonation in the intact animal. Recent findings show that zebrin II-positive and zebrin II-negative zones differ markedly in their responses to parallel fiber inputs. These findings suggest that cerebellar cortical excitability, information processing, and synaptic plasticity depend on the intrinsic properties of different parasagittal zones.
Cerebellar GABAergic projection neurons and interneurons originate from the ventricular neuroepithelium of the cerebellar primordium. However, while projection neurons are born within this germinal layer, interneurons derive from progenitors that delaminate into the prospective white matter. In spite of this common origin, the two main classes of GABAergic neurons are generated according to distinct strategies. Projection neurons are committed to their fate at early ontogenetic stages and acquire their mature phenotypes through cell-autonomous mechanisms. On the contrary, the different categories of cerebellar interneurons derive from a single pool of multipotent progenitors, whose fate choices, production rates and differentiation schedules are strongly influenced by environmental cues.
This paper posits that the brain evolved for the control of action rather than for the development of cognition per se. We note that the terms commonly used to describe brain-behavior relationships define, and in many ways limit, how we conceptualize and investigate them and may therefore constrain the questions we ask and the utility of the &quot;answers&quot; we generate. Many constructs are so nonspecific and over-inclusive as to be scientifically meaningless. &quot;Executive function&quot; is one such term in common usage. As the construct is increasingly focal in neuroscience research, defining it clearly is critical. We propose a definition that places executive function within a model of continuous sensorimotor interaction with the environment. We posit that control of behavior is the essence of &quot;executive function,&quot; and we explore the evolutionary advantage conferred by being able to anticipate and control behavior with both implicit and explicit mechanisms. We focus on the cerebellum's critical role in these control processes. We then hypothesize about the ways in which procedural (skill) learning contributes to the acquisition of declarative (semantic) knowledge. We hypothesize how these systems might interact in the process of grounding knowledge in sensorimotor anticipation, thereby directly linking movement to thought and &quot;embodied cognition.&quot; We close with a discussion of ways in which the cerebellum instructs frontal systems how to think ahead by providing anticipatory control mechanisms, and we briefly review this model's potential applications.
In this paper, we will review the anatomical components of the visuomotor cerebellum in human and, where possible, in non-human primates and discuss their function in relation to those of extracerebellar visuomotor regions with which they are connected. The floccular lobe, the dorsal paraflocculus, the oculomotor vermis, the uvula-nodulus, and the ansiform lobule are more or less independent components of the visuomotor cerebellum that are involved in different corticocerebellar and/or brain stem olivocerebellar loops. The floccular lobe and the oculomotor vermis share different mossy fiber inputs from the brain stem; the dorsal paraflocculus and the ansiform lobule receive corticopontine mossy fibers from postrolandic visual areas and the frontal eye fields, respectively. Of the visuomotor functions of the cerebellum, the vestibulo-ocular reflex is controlled by the floccular lobe; saccadic eye movements are controlled by the oculomotor vermis and ansiform lobule, while control of smooth pursuit involves all these cerebellar visuomotor regions. Functional imaging studies in humans further emphasize cerebellar involvement in visual reflexive eye movements and are discussed.
Drawing upon research in neuroscience, cognitive science, developmental psychology and education, as well as scholarship from contemplative traditions concerning the cultivation of positive development, we highlight a set of mental skills and socio-emotional dispositions that we believe are central to the aims of education in the 21(st) century. These include self-regulatory skills associated with emotion and attention, self-representations, and prosocial dispositions such as empathy and compassion. These positive qualities and dispositions can be strengthened through systematic contemplative practice. Such practice induces plastic changes in brain function and structure, supporting prosocial behavior and academic success in young people. These putative beneficial consequences call for focused programmatic research to better characterize which forms and frequencies of practice are most efficacious for which types of children and adolescents. Results from such research may help refine training programs to maximize their effectiveness at different ages and to document the changes in neural function and structure that might be induced.
Oppositional defiant disorder in childhood is a predictor of later mood disorders. This study assessed whether groups of children can be identified by their course of co-occurring oppositional and depressive symptoms in childhood using group based trajectory modeling. Participants were a cohort of 932 4 or 5year old offspring of women participating in the National Longitudinal Study of Youth whose symptom trajectories were modeled across ages 4-13years. Three co-occurring trajectory groups were found: oppositional symptoms only (23%), oppositional symptoms preceding increasing depressive symptoms over time (16%) and absence of any symptoms (61%). Of all children who developed depressive symptoms, all had moderate or high levels of pre-existing oppositional symptoms. Oppositional symptoms typically precede, or co-occur with depressive symptoms in childhood.
Youth homelessness is a growing concern in the United States. Despite difficulties studying this population due to inconsistent definitions of what it means to be a youth and homeless, the current body of research indicates that abuse, family breakdown, and disruptive family relationships are common contributing factors to youth homelessness. Moreover, the experience of homelessness appears to have numerous adverse implications and to affect neurocognitive development and academics, as well as mental and physical health. Substance use, sexually transmitted infections, and psychiatric disorders are particularly prevalent in this population. Whereas some of these problems may be short-lived, the chronic stress and deprivation associated with homelessness may have long-term effects on development and functioning. Further, difficulties accessing adequate and developmentally-appropriate health care contribute to more serious health concerns. Suggestions for future research and interventions are discussed.



Promotion of research is a key strategy of the National Health Service (NHS). Currently, many patients are not afforded the opportunity to participate in clinical studies. A register of research-interested patients has the potential to maximise inclusivity. We have established a register of research-interested patients with Parkinson's disease within the South West of England, with pragmatic inclusion criteria and multiple recruitment routes. We undertook an analysis of the register, investigation of its utility as a recruitment tool and a survey of recruiters. There were 529 active participants; 30% were self-referred and 70% were recruited by a healthcare practitioner. Response rate to annual questionnaires was 86.5%. Staff time required for pack preparation, recruitment and data entry was 15 min per new recruit and 5 min per follow-up questionnaire. In total, 85% of recruiters viewed the register positively. A single mailing to participants resulted in a recruitment rate that significantly exceeded that achieved by traditional recruitment methods.

Advances in technology in recent decades have contributed to rapid developments in non-invasive methods for imaging human anatomy, and advanced imaging methods are now one of the primary tools for clinical diagnosis after neurological trauma or disease. Here we review the current and upcoming capabilities of one of the most rapidly developing methods, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The underlying theory is introduced so that the reasons for the strengths, weaknesses, and future expectations of this method, can be explained. Current techniques for imaging anatomical changes, inflammation, and changes in white matter, axonal integrity, blood flow and function, are reviewed. Applications for specific purposes of assessing traumatic injury in the brain or spinal cord, and for multiple-sclerosis are also presented, and are used as examples of how the advanced techniques are being used in practice.
Restoring movement control after central nervous system injury requires reconnecting the brain and spinal motoneurons, and doing so with sufficient precision and strength to enable robust voluntary muscle recruitment. Whereas the connection between the upper motoneuron in motor cortex and alpha-motoneurons was thought to be the only important connection for normal motor function in humans, we know that a multiplicity of motor circuits are recruited during normal motor control. Multiplicity of functionally important motor circuits points to the myriad possibilities of intervention that restorative neurology can turn to for repairing motor systems connections to recover movement control after injury. New motor systems repair strategies in animal models and humans are tapping into distributed motor control functions of the spinal cord; neural activity-based approaches, especially for corticospinal tract repair; and circuit-selective activation approaches. I focus on studies harnessing activity-based therapeutic approaches to promote sprouting of spared corticospinal tract axons after injury and redirecting potentially maladaptive plasticity. I discuss that we can see on the near horizon, many different strategies for repairing motor systems connections after injury.
Following injury or disease, the central nervous system (CNS), to varying degrees, loses neurons, synaptic connections and conduction-promoting myelin insulation altering the neural circuitry assembled during development. This &quot;New Anatomy&quot; changes neural processing, bringing spasticity, paresis and paralysis to motor function and altered sensation, numbness and pain to sensory function. Focusing on the effects of CNS damage on the motor subsystems, this review offers a neurophysiological assessment perspective developed within the study of human spinal cord injury and extends it to other CNS disorders. It puts forward the concept that there are essential domains of CNS processing, altered by most neurological disorders, that are temporal, the speed of activation and deactivation, and spatial, the distribution across multiple muscles of motor units selected and activated. Measured through multiple-muscle recordings of selected motor-task performance, these domains can be useful in quantifying the severity of CNS damage and changes achieved through recovery or treatment.
The motoneuronal outputs from cortex and spinal cord have quite different patterns of organisation. The cortex consists of a highly intermixed mosaic of small output zones whereas the motoneurones in the cord are located in clearly defined columns of cells, that all project to the same muscle. I describe the pattern of innervation between cortex and cord, indicate the importance of cortical plasticity in allowing flexible control of spinal circuits, and show how these inputs interact. Finally I discuss some of the new methods of stimulating descending motor pathways in humans.
One of the central questions in neuroscience is how communication in the brain is organized under normal conditions and how this architecture breaks down in neurological disease. It has become clear that simple activation studies are no longer sufficient. There is an urgent need to understand the brain as a complex structural and functional network. Interest in brain network studies has increased strongly with the advent of modern network theory and increasingly powerful investigative techniques such as &quot;high-density EEG&quot;, MEG, functional and structural MRI. Modern network studies of the brain have demonstrated that healthy brains self-organize towards so-called &quot;small-world networks&quot; characterized by a combination of dense local connectivity and critical long-distance connections. In addition, normal brain networks display hierarchical modularity, and a connectivity backbone that consists of interconnected hub nodes. This complex architecture is believed to arise under genetic control and to underlie cognition and intelligence. Optimal brain network organization becomes disrupted in neurological disease in characteristic ways. This review gives an overview of modern network theory and its applications to healthy brain function and neurological disease, in particular using techniques from clinical neurophysiology, such as EEG and MEG.


Exposure to traumatic stress is associated with increased risk for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and alterations of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) function. Research linking traumatic stress with HPA function in PTSD has been inconsistent, however, in part due to (a) the inclusion of trauma-exposed individuals without PTSD (TE) in control groups and (b) a failure to consider comorbid major depressive disorder (MDD) and moderating variables. This meta-analysis of 47 studies (123 effect sizes, N=6008 individuals) revealed that daily cortisol output was lower for PTSD (d=-.36, SE=.15, p=.008) and PTSD+MDD (d=-.65, SE=.25, p=.008) groups relative to no trauma controls (NTC); TE and NTC groups did not differ significantly from each other. Afternoon/evening cortisol was lower in TE (d=-.25, SE=.09, p=.007) and PTSD (d=-.27, SE=.12, p=.021) groups and higher in PTSD+MDD groups (d=.49, SE=.24, p=.041) relative to NTC. Post-DST cortisol levels were lower in PTSD (d=-.40, SE=.12, p&lt;.001), PTSD+MDD (d=-.65, SE=.14, p&lt;.001), and TE groups (d=-.53, SE=.14, p&lt;.001) relative to NTC. HPA effect sizes were moderated by age, sex, time since index event, and developmental timing of trauma exposure. These findings suggest that enhanced HPA feedback function may be a marker of trauma-exposure rather than a specific mechanism of vulnerability for PTSD, whereas lower daily cortisol output may be associated with PTSD in particular.
Deficits in emotional processing have been widely described in schizophrenia. Associations of positive symptoms with poor emotional prosody comprehension (EPC) have been reported at the phenomenological, behavioral, and neural levels. This review focuses on the relation between emotional processing deficits and auditory verbal hallucinations (AVH). We explore the possibility that the relation between AVH and EPC in schizophrenia might be mediated by the disruption of a common mechanism intrinsic to auditory processing, and that, moreover, prosodic feature processing deficits play a pivotal role in the formation of AVH. The review concludes with proposing a mechanism by which AVH are constituted and showing how different aspects of our neuropsychological model can explain the constellation of subjective experiences which occur in relation to AVH.




A medication's pharmacokinetic properties can be as important as its efficacy in determining how successful a treatment is. Formulation plays a critical role in absorption, distribution, and elimination of a drug, which in turn can influence the clinical profile of a medication, including onset and duration of action, consistency of plasma levels, ability to cross the blood-brain barrier, and other factors. Advances in drug delivery technology mean that formulation is now an integral component in the development of a drug. Likewise, formulation is one of the factors that may influence selection of a medication to suit the needs of a particular patient. This article briefly reviews the technologies commonly applied in the development of psychotropic medications, with emphasis on the various oral modified-release formulations, and discusses how formulation can be used to optimize the efficacy and tolerability of psychotropic drugs.
While previous aging studies have focused on particular components of social perception (e.g., theory of mind, self-referencing), little is known about age-related differences specifically for the neural basis of perception of affiliation and isolation. This study investigates age-related similarities and differences in the neural basis of affiliation and isolation. Participants viewed images of affiliation (groups engaged in social interaction) and isolation (lone individuals), as well as nonsocial stimuli (e.g., landscapes), while making pleasantness judgments and undergoing functional neuroimaging (BOLD fMRI). Results indicated age-related similarities in response to affiliation and isolation in recruitment of regions involved in theory of mind and self-referencing (e.g., temporal pole, medial prefrontal cortex). Yet age-related differences also emerged in response to affiliation and isolation in regions implicated in the theory of mind, as well as self-referencing. Specifically, in response to isolation versus affiliation images, older adults showed greater recruitment than did younger adults of the temporal pole, a region that is important for retrieval of personally relevant memories utilized to understand others' mental states. Furthermore, in response to images of affiliation versus isolation, older adults showed greater recruitment than did younger adults of the precuneus, a region implicated in self-referencing. We suggest that age-related divergence in neural activation patterns underlying judgments of scenes depicting isolation versus affiliation may indicate that older adults' theory of mind processes are driven by retrieval of isolation-relevant information. Moreover, older adults' greater recruitment of the precuneus for affiliation versus isolation suggests that the positivity bias for emotional information may extend to social information involving affiliation.
Research in animal models has implicated N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors (NMDARs) in the control of food intake. Until now, these findings have been not replicated in humans. Here we describe a 22-year-old woman with anti-NMDAR encephalitis and no prior neurological or psychiatric history. Her clinical course was marked by successive eating disorders: anorexia followed by hyperphagia. We propose that, much as they do in other animals, NMDARs in humans interact with the neuroendocrine, homeostatic, and reward systems controlling food intake in the central and peripheral nervous system structures related to feeding and satiety.
Modeling of consciousness-related phenomena and neuroengineering are fields that are rapidly growing together. We review recent approaches and developments and point out some promising directions of future research: Understanding the dynamics of consciousness states and associated oscillations, pathological oscillations as well as their treatment by stimulation, neuroprosthetics and brain-computer-interface approaches, and stimulation approaches that probe, influence and strengthen memory consolidation. In all these fields, computational models connect theory, neurophysiology and neuroengineering research and pave a way towards medical applications.
There is now considerable evidence showing that the time to read a word out loud is influenced by an interaction between orthographic length and lexicality. Given that length effects are interpreted by advocates of dual-route models as evidence of serial processing this would seem to pose a serious challenge to models of single word reading which postulate a common parallel processing mechanism for reading both words and nonwords (Coltheart, Rastle, Perry, Langdon, &amp; Ziegler, 2001; Rastle, Havelka, Wydell, Coltheart, &amp; Besner, 2009). However, an alternative explanation of these data is that visual processes outside the scope of existing parallel models are responsible for generating the word-length related phenomena (Seidenberg &amp; Plaut, 1998). Here we demonstrate that a parallel model of single word reading can account for the differential word-length effects found in the naming latencies of words and nonwords, provided that it includes a mapping from visual to orthographic representations, and that the nature of those orthographic representations are not preconstrained. The model can also simulate other supposedly &quot;serial&quot; effects. The overall findings were consistent with the view that visual processing contributes substantially to the word-length effects in normal reading and provided evidence to support the single-route theory which assumes words and nonwords are processed in parallel by a common mechanism.
Long-term potentiation and long-term depression (LTP/LTD) can be elicited by activating N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptors, typically by the coincident activity of pre- and postsynaptic neurons. The early phases of expression are mediated by a redistribution of AMPA-type glutamate receptors: More receptors are added to potentiate the synapse or receptors are removed to weaken synapses. With time, structural changes become apparent, which in general require the synthesis of new proteins. The investigation of the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying these forms of synaptic plasticity has received much attention, because NMDA receptor-dependent LTP and LTD may constitute cellular substrates of learning and memory.
The synapse is the functional unit of the brain. During the last several decades we have acquired a great deal of information on its structure, molecular components, and physiological function. It is clear that synapses are morphologically and molecularly diverse and that this diversity is recruited to different functions. One of the most intriguing findings is that the size of the synaptic response in not invariant, but can be altered by a variety of homo- and heterosynaptic factors such as past patterns of use or modulatory neurotransmitters. Perhaps the most difficult challenge in neuroscience is to design experiments that reveal how these basic building blocks of the brain are put together and how they are regulated to mediate the information flow through neural circuits that is necessary to produce complex behaviors and store memories. In this review we will focus on studies that attempt to uncover the role of synaptic plasticity in the regulation of whole-animal behavior by learning and memory.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders. The condition causes a heavy burden both on those affected, as well as their families. Accurate diagnosis is critical and remains founded on clinical grounds as no specific diagnostic test is available so far. The clinical picture of PD is typical in many instances; however, features distinguishing it from other disorders should be thoroughly sought. Monogenic forms of PD also have some distinctive characteristics in many cases. This text is a roadmap to accurate diagnosis in PD, as it approaches clinical features, diagnostic methodology, and leading differential diagnoses. Therapeutic issues are also briefly discussed.
Sonic hedgehog (Shh) acts as a morphogen in normal development of various vertebrate tissues and organs. Shh signaling is essential for patterning and cell-fate specification, particularly in the central nervous system. Shh signaling plays different roles depending on its concentration, area, and timing of exposure. During the development of the neocortex, a low level of Shh is expressed in the neural stem/progenitor cells as well as in mature neurons in the dorsal telencephalon. Shh signaling in neocortex development has been shown to regulate cell cycle kinetics of radial glial cells and intermediate progenitor cells, thereby maintaining the proliferation, survival and differentiation of neurons in the neocortex. During the development of the telencephalon, endogenous Shh signaling is involved in the transition of slow-cycling neural stem cells to fast-cycling neural progenitor cells. It seems that high-level Shh signaling in the ventral telencephalon is essential for ventral specification, while low-level Shh signaling in the dorsal telencephalon plays important roles in the fine-tuning of cell cycle kinetics. The Shh levels and multiple functions of Shh signaling are important for proper corticogenesis in the developing brain. The present paper discusses the roles of Shh signaling in the proliferation and differentiation of neural stem/progenitor cells.
On the one hand, it is often assumed that the Rubber Hand Illusion (RHI) is constrained by a structural body model so that one cannot implement supernumerary limbs. On the other hand, several recent studies reported illusory duplication of the right hand in subjects exposed to two adjacent rubber hands. The present study tested whether spatial constraints may affect the possibility of inducing the sense of ownership to two rubber hands located side by side to the left of the subject's hand. We found that only the closest rubber hand appeared both objectively (proprioceptive drift) and subjectively (ownership rating) embodied. Crucially, synchronous touch of a second, but farther, rubber hand disrupted the objective measure of the RHI, but not the subjective one. We concluded that, in order to elicit a genuine RHI for multiple rubber hands, the two rubber hands must be at the same distance from the subject's hand/body.
Under normal circumstances, we experience that our center of awareness is located behind our eyes and inside our own body. To learn more about the perceptual processes that underlie this tight coupling between the spatial dimensions of our consciously perceived self and our physical body, we conducted a series of experiments using an 'out-of-body illusion'. In this illusion, the conscious sense of self is displaced in the testing room by experimental manipulation of the congruency of visual and tactile information and a change in the visual perspective. We demonstrate that when healthy individuals experience that they are located in a different place from their real body, they disown this body and no longer perceive it as part of themselves. Our findings are important because they reveal a relationship between the representation of self-location in the local environment and the multisensory representation of one's own body.
It is widely accepted among philosophers that neuroscientists are conducting a search for the neural correlates of consciousness, or NCC. Chalmers (2000) conceptualized this research program as the attempt to correlate the contents of conscious experience with the contents of representations in specific neural populations. A notable claim on behalf of this interpretation is that the neutral language of &quot;correlates&quot; frees us from philosophical disputes over the mind/body relation, allowing the science to move independently. But the experimental paradigms and explanatory canons of neuroscience are not neutral about the mechanical relation between consciousness and the brain. I argue that NCC research is best characterized as an attempt to locate a causally relevant neural mechanism and not as an effort to identify a discrete neural representation, the content of which correlates with some actual experience. It might be said that the first C in &quot;NCC&quot; should stand for &quot;causes&quot; rather than &quot;correlates.&quot;
The continual background awareness of duration is an essential structure of consciousness, conferring temporal extension to the many objects of awareness within the evanescent sensory present. Seeking the possible neural correlates of ubiquitous temporal awareness, this article reexamines fMRI data from off-task &quot;default mode&quot; (DM) periods in 25 healthy subjects studied by Grady et al. (&quot;Age-related Changes in Brain Activity across the Adult Lifespan,&quot;Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience 18(2), 2005). &quot;Brain reading&quot; using support vector machines detected information specifying elapsed time, and further analysis specified distributed networks encoding implicit time. These networks fluctuate; none are continuously active during DM. However, the aggregate regions of greatest variability closely resemble the default mode network. It appears that the default mode network has an important role as a state-dependent monitor of temporality.






Late onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) is a non-familial, progressive neurodegenerative disease and the most prominent form of dementia in the elderly. Accumulating evidence suggests that LOAD not only results from the combined effects of variation in a number of genes and environmental factors, but also from epigenetic abnormalities such as histone modifications or DNA methylation. In comparison to monogenic diseases, LOAD exhibits numerous anomalies that suggest an epigenetic component in disease etiology. Evidence against a monogenic course and for an epigenetic component include: 1) the dominance of sporadic cases over familial ones and the low estimated concordance rates for monozygotic twins; 2) gender specific susceptibility and course of disease; 3) parent-of-origin effects, and late age of onset; 4) brain chromatin abnormalities, non-Mendelian inheritance patterns, and atypical levels of folate and homocysteine; and 5) monoallelic expression patterns of susceptibility genes [1]. The epigenome is particularly susceptible to deregulation during early embryonic and neonatal periods and thus disturbances during these periods can have latent lasting effects. The Latent Early-life Associated Regulation (LEARn) model attempts to explain these consequences from a brain specific point of view. In the present review we present the evidence that support the role of epigenetics in the development of AD and explore the potential pathways and mechanisms that may be involved.
Late onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) is typical of the majority of Alzheimer's disease (AD) cases (~90%), and has no clear genetic association. Previous studies from our lab suggest that an epigenetic component could be involved. Developmental exposure of primates and rodents to lead (Pb) predetermined the expression of AD-related genes, such as the amyloid- precursor protein (APP), later in life. In addition to APP, the preponderance of genes that were reprogrammed was rich in CpG dinucleotides implicating DNA methylation and chromatin restructuring in their regulation. To examine the involvement of epigenetic intermediates in Pb-induced alterations in gene expression, differentiated SH-SY5Y cells were exposed to a series of Pb concentrations (5-100 M) for 48 h and were analyzed for the protein expression of APP, -site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1), specificity protein 1 and 3 (Sp1, Sp3) and epigenetic intermediates like DNA methyltransferase 1, 3a (Dnmt1, Dnmt3a) and methyl CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2) involved in DNA methylation six days after the exposure had ceased. Western blot analysis indicated a significant latent elevation in AD biomarkers as well as the transcription factors Sp1 and Sp3, accompanied by a significant reduction in the protein levels of DNA methylating enzymes. RT-PCR analysis of Dnmt1, Dnmt3a and MeCP2 indicated a significant down-regulation of the mRNA levels. These data suggest that Pb interferes with DNA methylating capacity in these cells, thus altering the expression of AD-related genes.
Epigenetic modifications have been proposed to underlie age-related dysfunction and associated disorders. 5- hydroxymethylcytosine (5-hmC) is a newly described epigenetic modification. It is generated by the oxidation of 5- methylcytosine (5-mC) by the ten-eleven translocation (TET) family of enzymes. Various studies have shown that 5-hmC is present in high levels in the brain. Its lower affinity to methyl-binding proteins as compared to 5-mC suggests that it might have a different role in the regulation of gene expression, while it is also implicated in the DNA demethylation process. Interestingly, various widely used methods for DNA methylation detection fail to discriminate between 5-hmC and 5-mC, while numerous specific techniques are currently being developed. Recent studies have indicated an increase of 5-hmC with age in the mouse brain as well as an age- and gene-expression-level-related enrichment of 5-hmC in genes implicated in neurodegeneration. These findings suggest that 5-hmC may play an important role in the etiology and course of age-related neurodegenerative disorders. The present perspective summarizes the current knowledge on 5-hmC, discusses methodological challenges related to its detection, and suggests future strategies for examining the functional role of this epigenetic modification and its possible implication in aging and Alzheimer's disease.
Aberrations in epigenetic marks have been associated with aging of the brain while caloric restriction (CR) and upregulation of endogenous antioxidants have been suggested as tools to attenuate the aging process. We have recently observed age-related increases in levels of 5-methylcytidine (5-mC) and DNA methyltransferase 3a (Dnmt3a) in the mouse hippocampus. Most of those age-related changes in these epigenetically relevant markers were prevented by CR but not by transgenic overexpression of the endogenous antioxidant superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1). As recent work has suggested a distinct role for hydroxymethylation in epigenetic regulation of gene expression in the brain, the current study investigated age-related changes of 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5-hmC) in the mouse hippocampus, and furthermore tested whether CR and transgenic upregulation of SOD1 affected any age-related changes in 5-hmC. Immunohistochemical analyses of 5-hmC in 12- and 24-month-old wild-type and transgenic mice overexpressing SOD1, which were kept under either a control or a calorie restricted diet, revealed an increase of 5-hmC immunoreactivity occurring with aging in the hippocampal dentate gyrus, CA3 and CA1-2 regions. Moreover, CR, but not overexpression of SOD1, prevented the age-related increase in the CA3 region. These findings indicate that the aging process in mice is connected with changes in epigenetic machinery in the hippocampus and suggest that CR acts by influencing epigenetic regulation.

The hereditary cerebellar ataxias are a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of disorders that primarily affect the cerebellum; often there are additional features such as neuropathy, cognitive decline, or maculopathy that help define the clinical subtype of ataxia. They are commonly classified according to their mode of inheritance into autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, X-linked, and mitochondrial forms. Great advances have been made in understanding the genetics of cerebellar ataxias in the last 15 years. At least 36 different forms of ADCA are known, 20 autosomal-recessive, two X-linked, and several forms of ataxia associated with mitochondrial defects are known to date. However, in about 40 % of suspected genetically determined ataxia cases, the underlying genetic defect remains undetermined. Although the majority of disease genes have been found in the last two decades, over the last 2 years the genetics has undergone a methodological revolution. New DNA sequencing technologies are enabling us to investigate the whole or large targeted proportions of the genome in a rapid, affordable, and comprehensive way. Exome and targeted sequencing has recently identified four new genes causing ataxia: TGM6, ANO10, SYT14, and rundataxin. This approach is likely to continue to discover new ataxia genes and make screening of existing genes more effective. Translating the genetic findings into isolated and overlapping disease pathways will help stratify patient groups and identify therapeutic targets for ataxia that have so far remained undiscovered.
In recent years, a growing interest has been dedicated to the study of the endocannabinoid system. The isolation of Cannabis sativa main psychotropic compound, (9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), has led to the discovery of an atypical neurotransmission system that modulates the release of other neurotransmitters and participates in many biological processes, including the cascade of inflammatory responses. In this context, cannabinoids have been studied for their possible therapeutic properties in neuroinflammatory diseases. In this review, historic and biochemical aspects of cannabinoids are discussed, as well as their function as modulators of inflammatory processes and therapeutic perspectives for neurodegenerative disorders, particularly, multiple sclerosis.
The evolution in the understanding of the neurobiology of most prevalent mental disorders such as major depressive disorder (MDD), bipolar disorder or schizophrenia has not gone hand in hand with the synthesis and clinical use of new drugs that would represent a therapeutic revolution such as that brought about by selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) or atypical antipsychotics. Although scientists are still a long way from understanding its true aetiology, the neurobiological concept of depression has evolved from receptor regulation disorder, to a neurodegenerative disorder with a hippocampal volume decrease with the controversial reduction in neurotrophins such as BDNF, to current hypotheses that consider depression to be an inflammatory and neuroprogressive process. As regards antidepressants, although researchers are still far from knowing their true mechanism of action, they have gone from monoaminergic hypotheses, in which serotonin was the main protagonist, to emphasising the anti-inflammatory action of some of these drugs, or the participation of p11 protein in their mechanism of action.In the same way, according to the inflammatory hypothesis of depression, it has been proposed that some NSAIDS such as aspirin or drugs like simvastatin that have an anti-inflammatory action could be useful in some depressive patients. Despite the fact that there may be some data to support their clinical use, common sense and the evidence advise us to use already tested protocols and wait for the future to undertake new therapeutic strategies.
Tetracyclines are a class of antibiotics which could act as neuroprotective molecules in several neurological disorders, such as Huntington disease, Parkinson disease, stroke and multiple sclerosis. The main biological effects of tetracyclines are the inhibition of microglial activation, the attenuation of apoptosis and the suppression of reactive oxygen species production. The anti-apoptotic effect of tetracyclines involves the mitochondrion, and the major target for neuroprotective effects of tetracyclines lies within the complex network that links mitochondria, oxidative stress and apoptosis.Neuromuscular disorders are due to dysfunction of motor neurons, peripheral nerves, neuromuscular junction, or skeletal muscle itself. Animal studies have shown that minocycline could play neuroprotective effects in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, but these positive findings have not been replicated in patients. Other neuromuscular disorders which tetracyclines may benefit are Guillain-Barr syndrome and other neuropathies, muscular dystrophies and mitochondrial disorders. However, well-designed double-blind controlled trials are still needed. Further studies are strongly needed to establish the most appropriate timing and dosage, as well as the indications for which tetracyclines could be effective and safe.Here, we review the neuroprotective effects of tetracyclines in animal models, the clinical studies in humans, and we focus on their potential application in patients with neuromuscular disorders.
In patients with brain tumor (BT), seizures are the onset symptom in 20-40% of patients, while a further 20-45% of patients will present them during the course of the disease. These patients present a complex therapeutic profile and require a unique and multidisciplinary approach. The choice of antiepileptic drugs is challenging for this particular patient population because brain tumor-related epilepsy (BTRE) is often drug-resistant, has a strong impact on the quality of life and weighs heavily on public health expenditures.In BT patients, the presence of epilepsy is considered the most important risk factor for long-term disability. For this reason, the problem of the proper administration of medications and their potential side effects is of great importance, because good seizure control can significantly improve the patient's psychological and relational sphere. In these patients, new generation drugs such as gabapentin, lacosamide, levetiracetam, oxcarbazepine, pregabalin, topiramate, zonisamide are preferred because they have fewer drug interactions and cause fewer side effects. Among the recently marketed drugs, lacosamide has demonstrated promising results and should be considered a possible treatment option. Therefore, it is necessary to develop a customized treatment plan for each individual patient with BTRE. This requires a vision of patient management concerned not only with medical therapies (pharmacological, surgical, radiological, etc.) but also with emotional and psychological support for the individual as well as his or her family throughout all stages of the illness.
Neurotransmitters and hormones regulate major immune functions, including the selection of T helper (Th)1 or Th2 cytokine responses, related to cell-mediated and humoral immunity, respectively. A role of imbalance and dynamic switching of Th1/Th2 system has been proposed, with relative displacement of the immune reserve in relation to complex interaction between Th1/Th2 and neuro-hormonal balance fluctuations, in the pathogenesis of various chronic human diseases, probably also including psychiatric disorders. Components of the stress system such as norepinephrine (NE) and glucocorticoids appear to mediate a Th2 shift, while serotonin (5-HT) and melatonin might mediate a Th1 shift. Some antidepressants would occur affecting these systems, acting on neurotransmitter balance (especially the 5-HT/NE balance) and expression levels of receptor subtypes, which in turn affect cytokine production and relative Th1/Th2 balance. It could be therefore hypothesized that the antidepressant-related increase in NE tone enhances the Th2 response, while the decrease in NE tone or the increase in 5-HT tone enhances the Th1 response. However, the neurotransmitter and Th1/Th2 balance modulation could be relative, aiming to restore physiological levels a previous imbalance in receptor sensitivity and cytokine production. The considerations on neuro-immunomodulation could represent an additional aid in the study of pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders and in the choice of specific antidepressants in specific clusters of symptoms, especially in comorbidity with internal pathologies. Furthermore limited data, reviewed here, have shown the effectiveness of some antidepressants as pure immunomodulators. However, these considerations are tentative and require experimental confirmation or refutation by future studies.
An intriguing set of neurodegenerative disease are the nine disorders caused by the expansion of a unstable trinucleotide CAG repeat where the repeat is located within the coding of the affected gene, that is, the polyglutamine (polyQ) diseases. A gain-of-function mechanism for toxicity in polyQ diseases is widely thought to have a major role in pathogenesis. Yet, the specific nature of this gain-of-function is a matter of considerable discussion. The basic issue concerns whether toxicity stems from the native or normal function of the affected protein versus a novel function induced by polyQ expansion. For at least three of the polyQ disease considerable evidence is accumulating that pathology is mediated by a polyQ-induced exaggeration of a native function of the host protein.
Beyond their well-established role as triggers for LTP and LTD of fast synaptic transmission mediated by AMPA receptors, an expanding body of evidence indicates that NMDA receptors (NMDARs) themselves are also dynamically regulated and subject to activity-dependent long-term plasticity. NMDARs can significantly contribute to information transfer at synapses particularly during periods of repetitive activity. It is also increasingly recognized that NMDARs participate in dendritic synaptic integration and are critical for generating persistent activity of neural assemblies. Here we review recent advances on the mechanisms and functional consequences of NMDAR plasticity. Given the unique biophysical properties of NMDARs, synaptic plasticity of NMDAR-mediated transmission emerges as a particularly powerful mechanism for the fine tuning of information encoding and storage throughout the brain.
AMPA receptors (AMPARs) mediate the majority of fast excitatory synaptic transmission in the brain. Dynamic changes in neuronal synaptic efficacy, termed synaptic plasticity, are thought to underlie information coding and storage in learning and memory. One major mechanism that regulates synaptic strength involves the tightly regulated trafficking of AMPARs into and out of synapses. The life cycle of AMPARs from their biosynthesis, membrane trafficking, and synaptic targeting to their degradation are controlled by a series of orchestrated interactions with numerous intracellular regulatory proteins. Here we review recent progress made toward the understanding the regulation of AMPAR trafficking, focusing on the roles of several key intracellular AMPAR interacting proteins.
Excitatory synaptic transmission is largely mediated by AMPA receptors (AMPARs) present at the postsynaptic density. Recent studies in single molecule tracking of AMPAR has revealed that extrasynaptic AMPARs are highly mobile and thus might serve as a readily available pool for their synaptic recruitment during synaptic plasticity events such as long-term potentiation (LTP). Because this hypothesis relies on the cell's ability to increase the number of diffusional traps or 'slots' at synapses during LTP, we will review a number of protein-protein interactions that might impact AMPARs lateral diffusion and thus potentially serve as slots. Recent studies have identified the interaction between the AMPAR-Stargazin complex and PSD-95 as the minimal components of the diffusional trapping slot. We will overview the molecular basis of this critical interaction, its activity-dependent regulation and its potential contribution to LTP.
Inhibitory neurotransmission is primarily governed by -aminobutyric acid (GABA) type A receptors (GABAARs). GABAARs are heteropentameric ligand-gated channels formed by the combination of 19 possible subunits. GABAAR subunits are subject to multiple types of regulation, impacting the localization, properties, and function of assembled receptors. GABAARs mediate both phasic (synaptic) and tonic (extrasynaptic) inhibition. While the regulatory mechanisms governing synaptic receptors have begun to be defined, little is known about the regulation of extrasynaptic receptors. We examine the contributions of GABAARs to the pathogenesis of neurodevelopmental disorders, schizophrenia, depression, epilepsy, and stroke, with particular focus on extrasynaptic GABAARs. We suggest that extrasynaptic GABAARs are attractive targets for the treatment of these disorders, and that research should be focused on delineating the mechanisms that regulate extrasynaptic GABAARs, promoting new therapeutic approaches.
Cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) linked to cytoskeleton generate stable cell-cell junctions. Cadherins provide a canonical example, but paradoxically, they participate in a multitude of transient and regulatable interactions. Their extracellular binding generates weak adhesion that is modified by clustering; interactions with F-actin are regulated, can be transient, and can alter F-actin dynamics. Additionally, cadherin recycling from the cell surface can modify the size and location of junctions and strength of adhesion. In epithelial cells, this ongoing dynamic behavior is important for maintaining stable junctions. Recent work supports that cadherins act similarly at synapses where their actions are likely to be shared by integrins and other actin-linked CAMs. Together the collaborative activities of such CAMs provide a stable, but flexible structure that can promote and support changes in synapse shape and size while maintaining stable junctions to permit information flow.
The search for genetic causes of intellectual disability has identified, over the past twenty years, numerous mutated genes that code for proteins concerned with synapse function. Functional studies have shown that these genes may be involved in synapse formation, the synthesis and degradation of specific synapse proteins, the regulation of dendritic spine morphology, or regulation of the synaptic cytoskeleton. It is now clear that even mild alterations in synapse morphology and function can give rise to intellectual disability, and pharmacological agents able to counteract these morphological and functional anomalies--and improve the symptoms of some of these conditions--now appear feasible. This paper reviews recent findings on the functions of some of the genes responsible for intellectual disability syndromes.
At excitatory synapses in the brain, glutamate released from nerve terminals binds to glutamate receptors to mediate signaling between neurons. Glutamate receptors expressed in heterologous cells show ion channel activity. Recently, native glutamate receptors were shown to contain auxiliary subunits that modulate the trafficking and/or channel properties. The AMPA receptor (AMPAR) can contain TARP and CNIHs as the auxiliary subunits, whereas kainate receptor (KAR) can contain the Neto auxiliary subunit. Each of these auxiliary subunits uniquely modulates the glutamate receptors, and determines properties of native glutamate receptors. A thorough elucidation of the properties of native glutamate receptor complexes is indispensable for the understanding of the molecular machinery that regulates glutamate receptors and excitatory synaptic transmission in the brain.
Since the initial findings that NMDA receptors play important roles in cellular models of learning as well as neurotoxicity, abnormal function of this receptor has been considered a potential mechanism in the pathophysiology underlying Alzheimer's disease. Treatment of Alzheimer's disease with an NMDA receptor antagonist began several years ago, with some limited success. More recent mechanistic studies have examined the role of NMDA receptors in the synaptic effects of beta amyloid (A).

The neuromuscular junction (NMJ) is a specialized synapse between motor neurons and skeletal muscle with a complex signaling network that assures highly reliable neuromuscular transmission. Diseases of the NMJ cause skeletal muscle fatigue and include inherited and acquired disorders that affect presynaptic, intrasynaptic or postsynaptic components. Moreover, fragmentation of the NMJ contributes to sarcopenia, the loss of muscle mass during aging. Studies from recent years indicate that the formation and stabilization of NMJs differs between various muscles and that this difference affects their response under pathological conditions. This review summarizes the most important mechanisms involved in the development, maintenance and dysfunction of the NMJ and it discusses their significance in myasthenic disorders and aging and as targets for possible future treatment of NMJ dysfunction.
TRP proteins constitute non-selective cation-permeable ion channels, most of which are permeable to Ca. In skeletal muscle, several isoforms of the TRPC (Canonical), TRPV (Vanilloid) and TRPM (Melastatin) subfamilies are expressed. In particular, TRPC1, C3 and C6, TRPV2 and V4, TRPM4 and TRPM7 have been consistently found in cultured myoblasts or in adult muscles. These channels seem to directly or indirectly respond to membrane stretch or to Ca stores depletion; some isoforms might also constitute unregulated Ca leak channels. Their function is largely unknown. TRPC1 and C3 have been involved in muscle development, in particular in myoblasts migration and differentiation. TRPC1 and V4 might allow a basal influx of Ca at rest. Their lack has consequences on muscle fatigue. TRPV2 seems to be stretch-sensitive. It localizes mainly in intracellular pools at rest, and translocates to the plasma membrane upon IGF-1 stimulation. TRP channels seem to be involved in the pathophysiology of muscle disorders. In particular in Duchenne muscular dystrophy, the lack of the cytoskeletal protein dystrophin induces a disregulation of several ion channels leading to an abnormal influx of Ca. We discuss here, the possible involvement of TRP channels in this abnormal influx of Ca.


The common marmoset is a new world primate belonging to the Callitrichidae family weighing between 350 and 400 g. The marmoset has been shown to be an outstanding model for studying aging, reproduction, neuroscience, toxicology, and infectious disease. With regard to their susceptibility to infectious agents, they are exquisite NHP models for viral, protozoan and bacterial agents, as well as prions. The marmoset provides the advantages of a small animal model in high containment coupled with the immunological repertoire of a nonhuman primate and susceptibility to wild type, non-adapted viruses.
The past decade has seen a significant expansion of our understanding of the interaction between the neural system and bone. While innervation of bone was long appreciated, the discovery of central relays from the hypothalamus to the cells of bone has seen the identification of a number of efferent neural pathways to bone. The neuropeptide Y (NPY) system has proven to represent a major central pathway, regulating the activity of osteoblasts and osteoclasts, through signaling of central and peripheral ligands, through specific receptors within the hypothalamus and the osteoblast. Moreover, this pathway is now recognized as acting to coordinate both skeletal and energy homeostasis. This review examines the mechanism and actions of the NPY pathway to regulate bone mass and bone cell activity.
Migraine and stroke are related in more than one way. Migraine with aura is a risk factor for ischemic stroke in women under age 45years, particularly when combined with other risk factors such as smoking and oral contraceptives. Further, individuals with migraine with aura seem to have more white matter lesions and ischemic infarctions than control patients. Migraine has been correlated to cervical artery dissection, the symptoms of which can mimic migraine. Correspondingly, migraine with aura sometimes is mistaken for stroke. Migrainous infarction is a rare but specific type of ischemic stroke developing during an attack of migraine with aura. It is important to recognize this unusual complication of migraine because the management probably is important. In this review, we will discuss the present knowledge of migrainous infarction, the clinical picture, possible mechanisms, and potential prevention and treatment.
We begin by reviewing the first characterization of fragile X syndrome, which ultimately led to cloning of the FMR1 gene. Discovery of the molecular basis of this disorder, including expansion of a trinucleotide repeat, gave insight not only into fragile X syndrome but also into the premutation syndromes. Features of fragile X syndrome are discussed including the patient phenotype down to the neuronal phenotype. The domain features of the fragile X mental retardation protein FMRP are described, as are the mRNAs bound by FMRP and the role of post-translational modifications as regulators of FMRP function. The relatively new role of FMRP in progenitor cells is reviewed, as is FMRP localization in cells and how FMRP is regulated by glutamatergic signaling in the brain. Understanding how metabotropic glutamate receptors impact FMRP has led to novel therapeutic approaches in treating this disorder.

In the vertebrate embryo, the neural crest forms transiently in the dorsal neural primordium to yield migratory cells that will invade nearly all tissues and later, will differentiate into bones and cartilages, neurons and glia, endocrine cells, vascular smooth muscle cells and melanocytes. Due to the amazingly diversified array of cell types it produces, the neural crest is an attractive model system in the stem cell field. We present here in vivo and in vitro studies of single cell fate, which led to the discovery and the characterization of stem cells in the neural crest of avian and mammalian embryos. Some of the key issues in neural crest cell diversification are discussed, such as the time of segregation of mesenchymal vs. neural/melanocytic lineages, and the origin and close relationships between the glial and melanocytic lineages. An overview is also provided of the diverse types of neural crest-like stem cells and progenitors, recently identified in a growing number of adult tissues in animals and humans. Current and future work, in which in vivo lineage studies and the use of injury models will complement the in vitro culture analysis, should help in unraveling the properties and function of neural crest-derived progenitors in development and disease.



Age-related memory loss is considered to commence at middle-age and coincides with reduced adult hippocampal neurogenesis and neurotrophin levels. Consistent physical activity at midlife may preserve brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels, new cell genesis, and learning. In the present study, 9-month-old female C57Bl/6J mice were housed with or without a running wheel and injected with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) to label newborn cells. Morris water maze learning, open field activity and rotarod behavior were tested 1 and 6 months after exercise onset. Here we show that long-term running improved retention of spatial memory and modestly enhanced rotarod performance at 15 months of age. Both hippocampal neurogenesis and mature BDNF peptide levels were elevated after long-term running. Thus, regular exercise from the onset and during middle-age may maintain brain function.
The members of the CIP/KIP family of cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitory proteins (CKIs), including p57(KIP2), p27(KIP1), and p21(CIP1), block the progression of the cell cycle by binding and inhibiting cyclin/CDK complexes of the G1 phase. In addition to this well-characterized function, p57(KIP2) and p27(KIP1) have been shown to participate in an increasing number of other important cellular processes including cell fate and differentiation, cell motility and migration, and cell death/survival, both in peripheral and central nervous systems. Increasing evidence over the past few years has characterized the functions of the newest CIP/KIP member p57(KIP2) in orchestrating cell proliferation, differentiation, and migration during neurogenesis. Here, we focus our discussion on the multiple roles played by p57(KIP2) during cortical development, making comparisons to p27(KIP1) as well as the INK4 family of CKIs.
The potential for nonembryonic cells to promote differentiation of neuronal cells has therapeutic implications for regeneration of neurons damaged by stroke or injury and avoids many ethical and safety concerns. The authors have assessed the capacity of human umbilical tissue-derived cells (hUTC) and human mesenchymal stromal cells (hMSC) to enhance differentiation of rodent hippocampal neurons. Co-culture of hippocampal cells with hUTC or hMSC in transwell inserts for 3 days resulted in increase of several dendritic parameters including the number and length of primary dendrites. The effect of hUTC or hMSC on dendritic maturation was only apparent on neurons grown for 2 weeks in vitro prior to co-culture. Changes in dendritic morphology in the presence of hUTC were also accompanied by increased expression of the presynaptic marker synaptotagmin and the postsynaptic marker postsynaptic density protein 95 kDa (PSD95) suggesting that there may also be an increase in the number of synapses formed in the presence of hUTC. The effect of hUTC and hMSC on hippocampal cells in co-culture was comparable to those induced by treatment with recombinant human brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) implying that a similar factor may be released from hUTC or hMSC. Analysis of hUTC-conditioned medium by ELISA demonstrated that BDNF was indeed secreted. An antibody that blocks the actions of BDNF partially inhibited the actions of hUTC on dendritic morphology suggesting that BDNF is at least one of the factors secreted from the cells to promote dendritic maturation. These results indicate that hUTC secrete biologically active BDNF, which can affect dendritic morphology.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) ergic interneurons are lost in conditions including epilepsy and central nervous system injury, but there are few culture models available to study their function. Toward the goal of obtaining renewable sources of GABAergic neurons, we used the molecular profile of a functionally incomplete GABAergic precursor clone to screen 17 new clones isolated from GFP(+) rat E14.5 cortex and ganglionic eminence (GE) that were generated by viral introduction of v-myc. The clones grow as neurospheres in medium with FGF2, and after withdrawal of FGF2, they exhibit varying patterns of differentiation. Transcriptional profiling and quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) indicated that one clone (GE6) expresses high levels of mRNAs encoding Dlx1, 2, 5, and 6, glutamate decarboxylases, and presynaptic proteins including neuropeptide Y and somatostatin. Protein expression confirmed that GE6 is a progenitor with restricted differentiation giving rise mostly to neurons with GABAergic markers. In cocultures with hippocampal neurons, GE6 neurons became electrically excitable and received both inhibitory and excitatory synapses. After withdrawal of FGF2 in cultures of GE6 alone, neurons matured to express III-tubulin, and staining for synaptophysin and vesicular GABA transporter were robust after 1-2 weeks of differentiation. GE6 neurons also became electrically excitable and displayed synaptic activity, but synaptic currents were carried by chloride and were blocked by bicuculline. The results suggest that the GE6 clone, which is ventrally derived from the GE, resembles GABAergic interneuron progenitors that migrate into the developing forebrain. This is the first report of a relatively stable fetal clone that can be differentiated into GABAergic interneurons with functional synapses.

Complicated grief (CG) is a disorder marked by intense and persistent yearning for the deceased, in addition to other criteria. The present article reviews what is known about the immunologic and neuroimaging biomarkers of both acute grief and CG, Attachment theory and cognitive stress theory are reviewed as they pertain to bereavement, as is the biopsychosocial model of CG. Reduced immune cell function has been replicated in a variety of bereaved populations. The regional brain activation to grief cues frequently includes the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex and insula, and also the posterior cingulate cortex. Using theory to point to future research directions, we may eventually learn which biomarkers are helpful in predicting CG, and its treatment.
The Siberian sturgeon (Acipenser baerii Brandt), a chondrostean, occupies an important position in the evolution of the electroreceptor. In order to more fully understanding the evolution of these receptors, we examined the development of the lateral line system during early ontogeny of the Siberian sturgeon by using light and scanning electron microscopes. We detected four major events in this process: the lateral line placodal development, the sensory ridge formation, the receptor formation and the canal formation. On day 1 of post hatching, all six lateral line placodes are present and the posterior lateral line placode starts actively migrating posteriorly along the mid-line of the trunk, depositing neuromasts at intervals on the way of migration. The other lateral line placodes elongate to form sensory ridges according to its destination line pattern over the head, all containing primordial neuromasts. By day 7, ampullary organs rise from the lateral zones of the ventral of the head, though this may lag up to one week behind of that of the neuromasts. On day 9, the epidermis under the neuromast slowly invaginates, and the bony lateral line canals begin to form. Towards day 29, the epidermal cells surrounded some single openings of the ampullary organs at the ventral surface of the head, begin to migrate, and then transform into 3 to 4 aggregate openings. By this point, abundant microvilli are visible on the surface of the receptor epithelium, similar to the structure in elasmobranches and other sturgeons. On the day 57 of post hatching, the trunk canal is fully embedded into the lateral scutes. By then, the majority of ampullary organs are highly concentrated on the ventral rostrum, arranged in clusters of 3-4, distributing closely such as the shape of quincunx, thus completing the formation of the lateral line system.


The mGlu5 receptor (mGluR5) has been implicated in the rewarding effect of various drugs of abuse and drug-seeking behaviour. In the present study we investigated the impact of antagonism of mGluR5 with the selective negative allosteric, modulator 3-[(2-methyl-1,3-thiazol-4-yl)ethynyl]pyridine (MTEP) on operant self-administration of morphine as well as cue-induced drug-seeking in adult CD1 mice. Administration of MTEP (20 mg/kg, i.p.) attenuated operant responding for morphine (0.1 mg/kg/infusion) and cue-induced morphine-seeking after a period of forced abstinence. Collectively, these data implicate mGluR5 in the reinforcing effects of opiates and support the proposition that mGluR5 is a potential therapeutic target for treatment of drug addiction.





Severe mental illnesses have been linked to white matter abnormalities, documented by postmortem studies. However, cause and effect have remained difficult to distinguish. CNP (2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase) is among the oligodendrocyte/myelin-associated genes most robustly reduced on mRNA and protein level in brains of schizophrenic, bipolar or major depressive patients. This suggests that CNP reduction might be critical for a more general disease process and not restricted to a single diagnostic category. We show here that reduced expression of CNP is the primary cause of a distinct behavioural phenotype, seen only upon aging as an additional 'pro-inflammatory hit'. This phenotype is strikingly similar in Cnp heterozygous mice and patients with mental disease carrying the AA genotype at CNP SNP rs2070106. The characteristic features in both species with their partial CNP 'loss-of-function' genotype are best described as 'catatonia-depression' syndrome. As a consequence of perturbed CNP expression, mice show secondary low-grade inflammation/neurodegeneration. Analogously, in man, diffusion tensor imaging points to axonal loss in the frontal corpus callosum. To conclude, subtle white matter abnormalities inducing neurodegenerative changes can cause/amplify psychiatric diseases.
A considerable number of mood induction (MI) procedures have been developed to elicit emotion in normal and clinical populations. Although external procedures (e.g., film clips, pictures) are widely used, a number of experiments elicit emotion by using self-generated procedures (e.g., recalling an emotional personal episode). However, no study has directly compared the effectiveness of two types of internal versus external MI across multiple discrete emotions. In the present experiment, 40 undergraduate students watched film clips (external procedure) and recalled personal events (internal procedure) inducing 4 basic emotions (fear, anger, joy, sadness) and later completed a self-report questionnaire. Remarkably, both internal and external procedures elicited target emotions selectively, compared with nontarget emotions. When contrasting the intensity of target emotions, both techniques showed no significant differences, with the exception of Joy, which was more intensely elicited by the internal procedure. Importantly, when considering the overall level of intensity, it was always greater in the internal procedure, for each stimulus. A more detailed investigation of the data suggest that recalling personal events (a type of internal procedure) generates more negative and mixed blends of emotions, which might account for the overall higher intensity of the internal mood induction.

An accurate treatment of first episodes in schizophrenia and bipolar disorders has a significant impact on compliance and prognosis. However, existing therapeutic guidelines may be poorly respected and may concern only typical clinical situations. Medical attitudes in clinical practice have been collected and structured on the basis of small interactive meetings (Focus Group [FG]), and a synthesis of practical attitudes has been compared with updated guidelines. The FG method applied to treatment initiation in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder is seen as complementary to evidence-based guidelines. It reveals that, in a reflexive manner, clinical attitudes are often more diverse and frequently consider first treatments after global evaluation, taking more into account external factors such as clinicians' experience, patient's history and willingness, clinical setting, and environment. A symptomatic approach is sometimes preferred, and a better alliance is always considered as a main objective. The FG method could be a supplementary support to continuous medical education.

The previously undisputed neuroprotective role of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) has been challenged by recent observations in IGF-1 receptor (IGF-1R) defective mutants. As new ligand-dependent and ligand-independent roles for IGF-1R are now emerging, new insights into the biologic role of brain IGF-1R and its connection with serum and brain IGF-1 function are urgently required. In the meantime, treatment of specific neurodegenerative diseases with IGF-1 may still be explored using adequate preclinical procedures.


The dorsal vagal complex of the hindbrain, including the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), receives neural and humoral afferents that contribute to the process of satiation. The gut peptide, cholecystokinin (CCK), promotes satiation by activating gastrointestinal vagal afferents that synapse in the NTS. Previously, we demonstrated that hindbrain administration of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptor antagonists attenuate reduction of food intake after ip CCK-8 injection, indicating that these receptors play a necessary role in control of food intake by CCK. However, the signaling pathways through which hindbrain NMDA receptors contribute to CCK-induced reduction of food intake have not been investigated. Here we report CCK increases phospho-ERK1/2 in NTS neurons and in identified vagal afferent endings in the NTS. CCK-evoked phospho-ERK1/2 in the NTS was attenuated in rats pretreated with capsaicin and was abolished by systemic injection of a CCK1 receptor antagonist, indicating that phosphorylation of ERK1/2 occurs in and is mediated by gastrointestinal vagal afferents. Fourth ventricle injection of a competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, prevented CCK-induced phosphorylation of ERK1/2 in hindbrain neurons and in vagal afferent endings, as did direct inhibition of MAPK kinase. Finally, fourth ventricle administration of either a MAPK kinase inhibitor or NMDA receptor antagonist prevented the reduction of food intake by CCK. We conclude that activation of NMDA receptors in the hindbrain is necessary for CCK-induced ERK1/2 phosphorylation in the NTS and consequent reduction of food intake.
Estrogens affect a diversity of peripheral and central physiological endpoints. Traditionally, estrogens were thought to be peripherally derived transcription regulators (i.e. slow acting). More recently, we have learned that estrogens are also synthesized in neuronal cell bodies and synaptic terminals and have potent membrane effects, which modulate brain function. However, the mechanisms that control local steroid concentrations in a temporal and spatial resolution compatible with their acute actions are poorly understood. Here, using differential centrifugation followed by enzymatic assay, we provide evidence that estrogen synthesis within synaptosomes can be modulated more dramatically by phosphorylating conditions, relative to microsomes. This is the first demonstration of a rapid mechanism that may alter steroid concentrations within the synapse and may represent a potential mechanism for the acute control of neurophysiology and behavior.


We here review the literature on Child Behaviour Checklist-Dysregulation Profile (CBCL-DP) index, which potentially represents a developmental profile of major psychopathology in early adulthood. The understanding of the neural underpinnings of children and adolescents with altered regulation of affect and behaviour may ultimately help in planning strategies to prevent psychiatric syndromes during development.
Human Cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a ubiquitous herpesvirus that infects and establishes latency in the majority of the human population and may cause fatal infections in immunocompromised patients. Recent data implies a close interaction between HCMV encoded proteins and cellular epigenetic mechanisms such as histone acetylation and deacetylation. In this study, we investigated the interactions between HCMV infection and the DNA methylation machinery in different host cells using several approaches. We found that colon cancer cell line HCT-116 lacking the DNMT1 and DNMT3b methyltransferases was susceptible to HCMV-AD169 infection, while wild-type cells were non-susceptible. Treatment of wild-type HCT-116 cells with 5-azacytidine rendered them susceptible to infection. Further investigation of HCMV infected MRC-5 fibroblasts demonstrated significant global hypomethylation, a phenomenon that was virus strain-specific and associated with the re-localization of DNMT1 and DNMT3b from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. The cytoplasmic accumulation of DNMT1 was also evident in in vitro infected macrophages and in epithelial cells in tissue samples from patients with inflammatory bowel disease and concomitant HCMV infection. Foscavir treatment of virus infected fibroblasts did not affect the majority of the virus induced nuclear exclusion of DNMT1, which suggest that it is dependent on viral IE gene products. In conclusion, HCMV infection results in profound effects on the host cell DNA methylation machinery and is associated with inflammation in vivo. Our results improve the understanding of cytomegalovirus pathogenesis and open the search for new antiviral therapy targets. These findings may also contribute to the further understanding of mechanisms involved in DNA methylation abnormalities in physiological and pathological conditions.
Childhood epilepsy can be severe and even catastrophic. In these instances, cognition can be impaired-leading to long-term intellectual disabilities. One factor that could potentially cause cognitive deficits is the frequent seizures that characterize intractable epilepsy. However, it has been difficult to separate the effects seizures may have from those of preexisting neuropathologies and/or the effects of ongoing anticonvulsant therapies. Therefore, important questions are: Do early life seizures produce the learning deficits? And if they do, how do they do it? Results from recent animal models studies reviewed here show that recurrent seizures in infancy stop the growth of CA1 hippocampal dendrites. We speculate that the molecular mechanisms responsible for seizure-induced growth suppression are homeostatic/neuroprotective, used by the developing nervous system in an attempt to limit neuronal and network excitability and prevent the continued generation of seizures. However, by preventing the normal growth of dendrites, there is a reduction in CA1 glutamatergic synapses that supports long-lasting forms of synaptic plasticity thought to be the cellular basis of learning and memory. Therefore, dendrite growth suppression would reduce the neuroanatomic substrates for learning and memory, and in so doing could contribute in important ways to spatial learning and memory deficits that may be relevant to the cognitive deficits associated with childhood epilepsy.
Numerous animal models of epileptogenesis demonstrate neuroplastic changes in the hippocampus. These changes occur not only for the mature neurons and glia, but also for the newly generated granule cells in the dentate gyrus. One of these changes, the sprouting of mossy fiber axons, is derived predominantly from newborn granule cells in adult rats with pilocarpine-induced temporal lobe epilepsy. Newborn granule cells also mainly contribute to another neuroplastic change, hilar basal dendrites (HBDs), which are synaptically targeted by mossy fibers in the hilus. Both sprouted mossy fibers and HBDs contribute to recurrent excitatory circuitry that is hypothesized to be involved in increased seizure susceptibility and the development of spontaneous recurrent seizures (SRS) that occur following the initial pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. Considering the putative role of these neuroplastic changes in epileptogenesis, a critical question is whether similar anatomic phenomena occur after epileptogenic insults to the immature brain, where the proportion of recently born granule cells is higher due to ongoing maturation. The current study aimed to determine if such neuroplastic changes could be observed in a standardized model of neonatal seizure-inducing hypoxia that results in development of SRS. We used immunoelectron microscopy for the immature neuronal marker doublecortin to label newborn neurons and their HBDs following neonatal hypoxia. Our goal was to determine whether synapses form on HBDs from neurons born after neonatal hypoxia. Our results show a robust synapse formation on HBDs from animals that experienced neonatal hypoxia, regardless of whether the animals experienced tonic-clonic seizures during the hypoxic event. In both cases, the axon terminals that synapse onto HBDs were identified as mossy fiber terminals, based on the appearance of dense core vesicles. No such synapses were observed on HBDs from newborn granule cells obtained from sham animals analyzed at the same time points. This aberrant circuit formation may provide an anatomic substrate for increased seizure susceptibility and the development of epilepsy.
Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase type II (CaMKII) is a highly abundant serine/threonine kinase comprising a significant fraction of total protein in mammalian forebrain and forming a major component of the postsynaptic density. CaMKII is essential for certain forms of synaptic plasticity and memory consolidation and this is mediated through substrate binding and intramolecular phosphorylation of holoenzyme subunits. CaMKII is multifunctional; it targets a variety of cellular substrates, and this diversity depends on holoenzyme subunit composition. CaMKII comprises homooligomeric and heterooligomeric complexes generated from four subunits (, , , and ) encoded by separate genes that are further expanded by extensive alternative splicing to more than 30 different isoforms. Much attention has been paid to understanding the regulation of CaMKII function through its structural diversity and/or substrate specificity. However, given the importance of subunit composition to holoenzyme activity, it is likely that specificity of cellular expression of CaMKII isoforms also plays a major role in regulation of enzyme function. Herein we review the cellular colocalization of CaMKII isoforms with special regard to the cell-type specificity of isoform expression in brain. In addition, we highlight the remarkable specificity of subcellular localization by the CaMKII isoform. In addition, we discuss the role that this cellular specificity of expression might play in propagating the type of recurrent neuronal activity associated with disorders such as temporal lobe epilepsy.


This study aimed at investigating psychological features before and two years after epilepsy surgery. Fifty patients, 39 with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and 11 with frontal lobe epilepsy (FLE), were assessed at baseline and two years postoperatively with the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP). Baseline group level outcome was normal while individual level analyses delineated some mild to moderate degrees of psychological problems exceeding the normal range in subsets of patients. Features of hostility characterized half of the FLE and one-fourth of the TLE patients. Above 1/3 in each group had dependency features. About 1/3 of the TLE patients suffered from psychasthenia. In conclusion, even though group levels were normal, several patients had psychological problems. The main longitudinal result was that the personality features were stable and did not change after epilepsy surgery.
Hypothalamic hamartomas (HH) are congenital malformations of the hypothalamus, often generating medically refractory gelastic seizures. There is great risk of progression to various complex partial and generalized seizures and of cognitive and behavioral deterioration. Hence, various surgical approaches have been introduced to resect or disconnect the HH from surrounding tissue, and stereoendoscopic disconnection has been advocated as one of the most lenient approaches to sessile HH embedded in the third ventricle. In fact, no long-term neurological or cognitive impairments have hitherto been reported after this procedure. Yet, unforeseen complications may arise in any surgical intervention on this region. We found serious deterioration of memory and reading skills by comprehensive neuropsychological assessments pre- and postoperatively in a child who, before surgery, was age-appropriate with respect to cognitive, emotional, and behavioral development. The child also contracted a permanent oculomotor paresis. Our results are discussed in light of previous relevant findings.
Carbamazepine-induced abnormal movements have been reported in children and adult patients, and both non-epileptic myoclonus and tic-like movements have been reported in the same patient. Although a pathogenetic mechanism underlying carbamazepine-induced epileptic negative myoclonus has been proposed, a causative role of carbamazepine for positive myoclonus has not been fully identified. Here, we describe the video-documented case of an adult patient with non-epileptic myoclonus and tic-like movements persisting for 21 years, which appeared after he started carbamazepine treatment at 10 years of age. [Published with videosequences].
In reflex seizures induced by proprioceptive stimuli, the activated network may be identified as a single anatomo-functional circuit; the sensory-motor network. These seizures may be considered as epileptically-enhanced stretch reflexes. Proprioceptive reflex epilepsies are a good example of the so-called &quot;system epilepsies&quot;. We present three cases discussing the clinical features of such epilepsies. [Published with videosequences].


Given the significant socioeconomic impact of progressive multiple sclerosis (MS) and the paucity of treatment options, there is an urgent need to develop new and effective therapies for this disabling condition. The relatively recent appreciation that progressive disability is largely driven by neuronal loss has focused considerable research attention on neuroprotective strategies. This has coincided with the emergence of oxidative damage as a prominent effector mechanism of axonal damage in studies of MS pathogenesis, which has opened up a new range of putative targets for neuroprotective therapy in MS. Mitochondrial sirtuins are NAD(+)-dependent protein deacetylases associated with the control of metabolism, aging, and stem cell proliferation and differentiation. Their role in inflammatory demyelinating disease has not been fully characterized, and is the subject of ongoing research. Here, we expound the rationale behind selecting mitochondrial sirtuins as a therapeutic target in demyelinating disease, and report preliminary data that warrant further investigation.
Therapeutic strategies are often based on two general principles: interference with the pathogenic process and repair of the damaged tissues. Recent studies, however, have suggested that several pathological conditions may result from the interplay between genetic susceptibility traits and environmental influences that, by modulating the epigenome, also affect disease onset and progression. Based on lessons from neural development, it is conceivable that new lines of preventive and possibly therapeutic intervention might be developed to modulate disease onset or decrease the severity of the symptoms. This review will discuss these concepts within the context of multiple sclerosis, the most common demyelinating disease of the central nervous system, and the leading cause of progressive neurological disability in young adults.
Schizophrenia is a devastating disorder that is common, usually chronic, frequently associated with substantial co-morbidity for addictive and medical disorders and, as a consequence, very costly in both personal and economic terms. At present, no proven means for preventing or modifying the course of the illness exist. This review discusses evidence supporting the ideas that: (i) impairments in certain cognitive processes are the core feature of schizophrenia; (ii) these cognitive impairments reflect abnormalities in specific cortical circuits; and (iii) these circuitry abnormalities arise during childhood-adolescence. The implications of these findings for the development and implementation of safe, preemptive, disease-modifying interventions in individuals at high risk for a clinical diagnosis of schizophrenia are considered.
In a recently published report, the European Brain Council estimated that the annual cost of brain disorders is larger than the cost of all other disease areas combined, including cardiovascular diseases, cancer, and diabetes. The World Health Organization concluded that approximately one-third of the total burden of disease in Europe is attributable to brain disorders. Therefore, drug development for neural diseases should flourish and attract large pharmaceutical companies and smaller enterprises alike. However, this is far from being the case: industry is cutting down on research and investment in brain disorders in Europe. Political reasons may be contributing to this, but they do not constitute the only explanation. An important reason for the decreasing interest and investment is the lack of drug targets in neural diseases. In order to change this, greater efforts at understanding the etiologies and pathogenetic mechanisms of disorders of both the developing and the adult brain are required. We need to strengthen basic research to understand the brain in health and disease. A shift from translational to basic research is required to meet the need for drugs and therapies in the future. In support of this, I summarize some recent studies indicating that the developing brain has much to offer in this respect. The processes and genes involved in brain development are linked to the etiologies not only of neurodevelopmental but also of neurodegenerative diseases.

Here we examined the influence of the visual response in the superior colliculus (SC) (an oculomotor control structure integrating sensory, motor and cognitive signals) on the development of the motor command that drives saccadic eye movements in monkeys. We varied stimulus luminance to alter the timing and magnitude of visual responses in the SC and examined how these changes correlated with resulting saccade behavior. Increasing target luminance resulted in multiple modulations of the visual response, including increased magnitude and decreased response onset latency. These signal modulations correlated strongly with changes in saccade latency and metrics, indicating that these signal properties carry through to the neural computations that determine when, where and how fast the eyes will move. Thus, components of the earliest part of the visual response in the SC provide important building blocks for the neural basis of the sensory-motor transformation, highlighting a critical link between the properties of the visual response and saccade behavior.
Adenosine and extracellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP) have multiple physiological central nervous system actions including regulation of cerebral blood flow, inflammation and sleep. However, their exact sleep regulatory mechanisms remain unknown. Extracellular ATP and adenosine diphosphate are converted to adenosine monophosphate (AMP) by the enzyme ectonucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase 1, also known as CD39, and extracellular AMP is in turn converted to adenosine by the 5'-ectonuleotidase enzyme CD73. We investigated the role of CD73 in sleep regulation. Duration of spontaneous non-rapid eye movement sleep (NREMS) was greater in CD73-knockout (KO) mice than in C57BL/6 controls whether determined in our laboratory or by others. After sleep deprivation (SD), NREMS was enhanced in controls but not CD73-KO mice. Interleukin-1 beta (IL1) enhanced NREMS in both strains, indicating that the CD73-KO mice were capable of sleep responses. Electroencephalographic power spectra during NREMS in the 1.0-2.5 Hz frequency range was significantly enhanced after SD in both CD73-KO and WT mice; the increases were significantly greater in the WT mice than in the CD73-KO mice. Rapid eye movement sleep did not differ between strains in any of the experimental conditions. With the exception of CD73 mRNA, the effects of SD on various adenosine-related mRNAs were small and similar in the two strains. These data suggest that sleep is regulated, in part, by extracellular adenosine derived from the actions of CD73.
Ampakines are chemical compounds known to modulate the properties of ionotropic -amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate (AMPA)-subtype glutamate receptors. The functional effects attributed to ampakines involve plasticity and the increase in synaptic efficiency of neuronal circuits, a process that may be intimately associated with differentiation of newborn neurons. The subventricular zone (SVZ) is the main neurogenic niche of the brain, containing neural stem cells with brain repair potential. Accordingly, the identification of new pharmaceutical compounds with neurogenesis-enhancing properties is important as a tool to promote neuronal replacement based on the use of SVZ cells. The purpose of the present paper is to examine the possible proneurogenic effects of ampakine CX546 in cell cultures derived from the SVZ of early postnatal mice. We observed that CX546 (50 m) treatment triggered an increase in proliferation, evaluated by BrdU incorporation assay, in the neuroblast lineage. Moreover, by using a cell viability assay (TUNEL) we found that, in contrast to AMPA, CX546 did not cause cell death. Also, both AMPA and CX546 stimulated neuronal differentiation as evaluated morphologically through neuronal nuclear protein (NeuN) immunocytochemistry and functionally by single-cell calcium imaging. Accordingly, short exposure to CX546 increased axonogenesis, as determined by the number and length of tau-positive axons co-labelled for the phosphorylated form of SAPK/JNK (P-JNK), and dendritogenesis (MAP2-positive neurites). Altogether, this study shows that ampakine CX546 promotes neurogenesis in SVZ cell cultures and thereby may have potential for future stem cell-based therapies.



Decreased prefrontal activation (hypofrontality) in schizophrenia is thought to underlie negative symptoms and cognitive impairments, and may contribute to poor social outcome. Hypofrontality does not always improve during treatment with antipsychotics. We hypothesized that antipsychotics, which share antagonism at dopamine receptors, with a relatively low dopamine receptor affinity and high serotonin receptor affinity may have a sparing effect on prefrontal function compared to strong dopamine receptor antagonists. We systematically investigated the relation between serotonin and dopamine antagonism of antipsychotics and prefrontal functioning by reviewing neuroimaging studies. The weight of the evidence was consistent with our hypothesis that antipsychotics with low dopaminergic receptor affinity and moderate to high serotonergic affinity were associated with higher activation of the prefrontal cortex. However, clozapine, a weak dopamine and strong serotonin antagonist, was associated with decrease in prefrontal activation. Future studies should further elucidate the link between prefrontal activation and negative symptoms using prospective designs and advanced neuroimaging techniques, which may ultimately benefit the development of treatments for disabling negative symptoms.
Patients with treatment-refractory obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) are sometimes considered for surgical interventions. The identification of reliable predictors of outcome following such interventions would be of great clinical importance, as it would lead to stricter selection of suitable patients, thus avoiding unnecessary surgery and improving the overall response rate. We analyzed data from 24 severe treatment-resistant patients who underwent capsulotomy for OCD and were carefully followed-up one year after the surgery and at long term (mean 10.8 years after surgery). The Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale Symptom Checklist was administered to assess the lifetime presence of the most common symptom types. We applied an algorithm to calculate the patients' scores on 4 well-established symptom dimensions: Contamination/cleaning, forbidden thoughts, symmetry/order and hoarding. Multiple regression models were employed to examine whether scores on certain symptom dimensions were predictive of long-term outcome. The presence and number of lifetime symptoms in the symmetry/order domain were associated with greater severity of OCD, depression and anxiety, as well as greater impairment in various functional domains like work, social and family life at both one-year and long-term follow-ups. These results remained consistently significant after controlling for preoperative psychopathology, scores on other OCD symptom dimensions, sex, age, age of onset, duration of follow-up, type of surgical procedure, number of operations and lesion volume. The results could have implications for existing ablative and deep brain stimulation protocols and challenge our current conceptualization of OCD as a unitary diagnostic entity with a single neurobiological substrate.
Sarcoidosis can involve the central nervous system in approximately 5-15% of cases. Any part of the nervous system can be involved, so presentation can be quite varied. Isolated disease of the spinal cord is even less common and reports are limited to single cases and small series. Although in the setting of systemic disease the diagnosis can be made with skin or lymph node biopsy, isolated disease of the spinal cord presents a diagnostic challenge. We present a case of isolated intramedullary neurosarcoidosis of the distal thoracic spinal cord presenting with posterior column dysfunction. Imaging demonstrated T2 changes in the patient's lower thoracic cord adjacent to disc herniation. Over time, however, his symptoms progressed despite decompression, and the abnormal region began to exhibit focal contrast enhancement. The persistence of symptoms as well as the new enhancement led us to perform a spinal cord biopsy, which demonstrated histopathological findings consistent with sarcoidosis. Further workup failed to reveal any evidence of systemic disease. Intramedullary sarcoidosis without systemic sarcoidosis is extremely rare. With its variable imaging appearance and inconsistent clinical manifestations, it can be difficult to diagnose. It should be considered in the differential diagnosis of a mass-like intramedullary lesion with progressive symptoms. Biopsy with histopathological correlation may be the only definite management option.
Cognitive training is an effective tool to improve a variety of cognitive functions, and a small number of studies have now shown that brain stimulation accompanying these training protocols can enhance their effects. In the domain of behavioral inhibition, little is known about how training can affect this skill. As for transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), it was previously found that stimulation over the right inferior frontal gyrus (rIFG) facilitates behavioral inhibition performance and modulates its electrophysiological correlates. This study aimed to investigate this behavioral facilitation in the context of a learning paradigm by giving tDCS over rIFG repetitively over four consecutive days of training on a behavioral inhibition task (stop signal task (SST)). Twenty-two participants took part; ten participants were assigned to receive anodal tDCS (1.5 mA, 15 min), 12 were assigned to receive training but not active stimulation. There was a significant effect of training on learning and performance in the SST, and the integration of the training and rIFG-tDCS produced a more linear learning slope. Better performance was also found in the active stimulation group. Our findings show that tDCS-combined cognitive training is an effective tool for improving the ability to inhibit responses. The current study could constitute a step toward the use of tDCS and cognitive training as a therapeutic tool for cognitive control impairments in conditions such as attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) or schizophrenia.
The supplementary motor area (SMA) is a secondary motor area that is involved in various complex hand movements. In animal studies, short latency and probably direct excitatory inputs from SMA to the primary motor cortex (M1) have been established. Although human imaging studies revealed functional connectivity between SMA and M1, its electrophysiological nature has been less studied. This study explored the connection between SMA and M1 in humans using a single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) over SMA. First, TMS over SMA did not alter the corticospinal tract excitability measured by the size of motor evoked potential elicited by single-pulse TMS over M1. Next, we measured short-interval intracortical facilitation (SICF), which reflects the function of a facilitatory circuit within M1, with or without a single-pulse TMS over SMA. When the intensity of the second pulse in the SICF paradigm (S2) was as weak as 1.0 active motor threshold for a hand muscle, SMA stimulation significantly enhanced the SICF. Furthermore, this enhancement by SMA stimulation was spatially confined and had a limited time window. On the other hand, SMA stimulation did not alter short-interval intracortical inhibition or contralateral silent period duration, which reflects the function of an inhibitory circuit mediated by gamma-aminobutyric acid A (GABA(A)) or GABA(B) receptors, respectively. We conclude that a single-pulse TMS over SMA modulates a facilitatory circuit within M1.
5'-adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is an evolutionarily conserved cellular and organismal energy integrator that responds to numerous stimuli with the overall intention to facilitate energy conservation and enhance energy balance while also affecting cellular survival and behaviors. AMPK has been appreciated for many years to function in peripheral organs that contribute to the generation or disposition of cellular energy, while its role in the brain has been only recently elucidated. While acknowledged to respond to organismal energy balance, we now recognize that energy balance within neurons also affects the brain's response to these peripheral signals. In this review, we discuss AMPK's regulation and its ever-expanding role as a neuronal energy integrator at both the cellular and systems levels.
Serum antibodies to different gangliosides have been identified in some Guillain-Barr (GBS) subtypes and variants. In the January issue of Experimental Neurology Susuki and colleagues (2012) showed that in experimental neuropathies associated with antibodies to GM1, GD1a and GD1b the common mechanism is a complement mediated dysfunction and disruption of the nodes of Ranvier which causes a pathophysiological continuum from early reversible conduction failure to axonal degeneration. These observations, correlated and integrated with electrophysiological and pathological findings in humans indicate that the GBS subtypes acute motor conduction block neuropathy, acute motor axonal neuropathy, acute motor and sensory neuropathy and acute sensory neuropathy and possibly also a chronic disorder as multifocal motor neuropathy represent a spectrum of the same immunopathologic process. Being the nodal axolemma and the paranode the focus of the nerve injury, these immune mediated neuropathies could be more properly classified as nodo-paranodopathies.
Recent reports suggest that experiencing a mild closed head trauma or mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) is associated with a greater incidence of anxiety disorders. Dysfunction of limbic structures, such as the medial prefrontal cortex, amygdala and hippocampus, is associated with the symptoms of anxiety disorders. Therefore, the goal of the current studies was to characterize the consequences of closed mTBI on these limbic structures and associated fear and anxiety-related behaviors. A weight-drop procedure was employed to induce mTBI in male rats. Rats were transcardically perfused 4 or 9 days following exposure to mTBI or control procedures, and neuronal number, brain region area, and the number of apoptotic cells in each region were determined. In separate groups of rats, the effects of mTBI on anxiety-like behaviors, motor function, nociception, and acquisition, retention and extinction of contextual fear were also assessed. Findings suggest that mTBI was associated with significant neuronal cell loss in the CA1 region of the dorsal hippocampus and increased cell number in subregions of the amygdala, both of which appear to be related to alterations to apoptosis in these regions following mTBI. Furthermore, mTBI increased expression of anxiety-like behaviors and conditioned fear, with no effect on motor performance or nociception. Overall, a single impact to the skull to mimic mTBI in rats produces discrete alterations to neuronal numbers within the limbic system and specific emotional deficits, providing a potential neurobiological link between mTBI and anxiety disorders.

Respiratory dysfunction is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality following traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI). Injuries targeting mid-cervical spinal cord regions affect the phrenic motor neuron pool that innervates the diaphragm, the primary respiratory muscle of inspiration. Contusion-type injury in the cervical spinal cord is one of the most common forms of human SCI; however, few studies have evaluated mid-cervical contusion in animal models or characterized consequent histopathological and functional effects of degeneration of phrenic motor neuron-diaphragm circuitry. In an attempt to target the phrenic motor neuron pool, two unilateral contusion injury paradigms were tested, a single injury at level C4 and a double injury both at levels C3 and C4, and animals were followed for up to 6 weeks post-injury. Both unilateral cervical injury paradigms are reproducible with no mortality or need for breathing assistance, and are accompanied by phrenic motor neuron loss, phrenic nerve axon degeneration, diaphragm atrophy, denervation and subsequent partial reinnervation at the diaphragm neuromuscular junction, changes in spontaneous diaphragm EMG recordings, and reduction in phrenic nerve compound muscle action potential amplitude. These findings demonstrate significant and chronically persistent respiratory compromise following mid-cervical SCI due to phrenic motor neuron degeneration. These injury paradigms and accompanying analyses provide important tools both for understanding mechanisms of phrenic motor neuron and diaphragm pathology following SCI and for evaluating therapeutic strategies in clinically relevant cervical SCI models.
Micro RNAs (miRNAs), small and labile ~22 nucleotide-sized fragments of single stranded RNA, are important regulators of messenger (mRNA) complexity and in shaping the transcriptome of a cell. In this communication, we utilized amyloid beta 42 (A42) peptides and interleukin-1beta (IL-1) as a combinatorial, physiologically-relevant stress to induce miRNAs in human primary neural (HNG) cells (a co-culture of neurons and astroglia). Specific miRNA up-regulation was monitored using miRNA arrays, Northern micro-dot blots and RT-PCR. Selective NF-B translocation and DNA binding inhibitors, including the chelator and anti-oxidant pyrollidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC) and the polyphenolic resveratrol analog CAY10512 (trans-3,5,4'-trihydroxystilbene), indicated the NF-B sensitivity of several brain miRNAs, including miRNA-9, miRNA-125b and miRNA-146a. The inducible miRNA-125b and miRNA-146a, and their verified mRNA targets, including 15-lipoxygenase (15-LOX), synapsin-2 (SYN-2), complement factor H (CFH) and tetraspanin-12 (TSPAN12), suggests complex and highly interactive roles for NF-B, miRNA-125b and miRNA-146a. These data further indicate that just two NF-B-mediated miRNAs have tremendous potential to contribute to the regulation of neurotrophic support, synaptogenesis, neuroinflammation, innate immune signaling and amyloidogenesis in stressed primary neural cells of the human brain.


Braak's proposal that, in patients with Parkinson's disease, Lewy bodies and neurites progressively invade the brain through regions connected to autonomic and olfactory centers remains contentious. Confounding factors include the lack of an in vivo marker to examine the progression of Lewy pathology, the retrospective nature or absence of clinical information for many cross-sectional pathological datasets, and for those with limited disease (clinically or neuropathologically), the absence of information concerning additional conditions. Despite these data limitations at this time, the brain pathology for most patients with typical Parkinson's disease can be predicted using Braak's scheme. What this tells us about the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease will be explored in this review.
Substantial developments in the field of stem cell research point toward novel therapies for the treatment of diseases such as stroke. This review covers the establishment of tissue damage in stroke and the status of current therapies. We evaluate stem cell therapy with respect to other treatments, including clinical, preclinical, and failed, and provide a comprehensive account of stem cell clinical trials for stroke therapy currently underway. Finally, we describe mechanisms through which stem cells improve outcome in experimental stroke as well as potential pitfalls this basic research has identified.
The neonatal rodent spinal cord maintained in vitro is a powerful model system to understand the central properties of spinal circuits generating mammalian locomotion. We describe three enabling approaches that incorporate afferent input and attached hindlimbs. (i) Sacral dorsal column stimulation recruits and strengthens ongoing locomotor-like activity, and implementation of a closed positive-feedback paradigm is shown to support its stimulation as an untapped therapeutic site for locomotor modulation. (ii) The spinal cord hindlimbs-restrained preparation allows suction electrode electromyographic recordings from many muscles. Inducible complex motor patterns resemble natural locomotion, and insights into circuit organization are demonstrated during spontaneous motor burst 'deletions', or following sensory stimuli such as tail and paw pinch. (iii) The spinal cord hindlimbs-pendant preparation produces unrestrained hindlimb stepping. It incorporates mechanical limb perturbations, kinematic analyses, ground reaction force monitoring, and the use of treadmills to study spinal circuit operation with movement-related patterns of sensory feedback while providing for stable whole-cell recordings from spinal neurons. Such techniques promise to provide important additional insights into locomotor circuit organization.
Infectious diseases, mostly caused by bacteria and viruses but also a result of fungal and parasitic infection, have been one of the most important public health concerns throughout human history. The first step in combating these pathogens is to get a timely and accurate diagnosis at an affordable cost. Many kinds of diagnostics have been developed, such as pathogen culture, biochemical tests and serological tests, to help detect and fight against the causative agents of diseases. However, these diagnostic tests are generally unsatisfactory because they are not particularly sensitive and specific and are unable to deliver speedy results. Nucleic acid-based diagnostics, detecting pathogens through the identification of their genomic sequences, have shown promise to overcome the above limitations and become more widely adopted in clinical tests. Here we review some of the most popular nucleic acid-based diagnostics and focus on their adaptability and applicability to routine clinical usage. We also compare and contrast the characteristics of different types of nucleic acid-based diagnostics.

In biomedical research, one key stage of translating basic science knowledge to clinical practice is the reconciliation of phenotypes employed for laboratory animal studies with those important for the clinical condition. Alcohol dependence (AD) is a prototypic complex genetic trait. There is a long history of behaviour-genetic studies of AD in both human subjects and various genetic animal models. This review assesses the state of the art in our understanding of the genetic contributions to AD. In particular, it primarily focuses on the phenotypes studied in mouse genetic animal models, comparing them to the aspects of the human condition they are intended to target. It identifies several features of AD where genetic animal models have been particularly useful, and tries to identify understudied areas where there is good promise for further genetic animal model work.
Epilepsy is a neurological disorder affecting approximately 1% of the worldwide population. Mutations in voltage-gated sodium channels have been identified in several monogenic epilepsy syndromes. Over 800 mutations have been identified in the voltage-gated sodium channel genes SCN1A and SCN2A in human epilepsies, including genetic epilepsy with febrile seizures plus (GEFS+) and Dravet syndrome. In GEFS+ families, affected members with the same mutation often display variability in clinical severity of the disease. This suggests that additional genes modify the effect of the primary mutation, resulting in the variable clinical presentation. The Scn2a(Q54) transgenic mouse model has an epilepsy phenotype that varies depending on the genetic strain background. Scn2a(Q54) mice congenic on the C57BL/6J strain exhibit delayed seizure onset and improved survival compared to (C57BL/6J  SJL/J)F1.Q54 mice. Two modifier loci of Scn2a(Q54) seizure susceptibility were mapped and designated Moe1 (modifier of epilepsy) on chromosome (chr) 11 and Moe2 on chr 19. To confirm Moe1 and refine its position, we generated interval-specific congenic lines carrying C57BL/6J-derived chr 11 alleles on the SJL/J strain and refined the map position to 89-104 Mb. We then used RNA-Seq for candidate analysis in the modifier region. C57BL/6J and SJL/J male and female brain RNAs were sequenced, revealing numerous significant transcriptome differences and coding single-nucleotide polymorphisms. Additional consideration of gene function and expression suggested several strong candidate modifier genes, including two voltage-gated calcium channel subunits, Cacna1g and Cacnb1, and the proline and acidic amino acid-rich basic leucine zipper transcription factor, Hlf.
Behavioral studies on genetically diverse mice have proven powerful for determining relationships between phenotypes and have been widely used in alcohol research. Most of these studies rely on naturally occurring genetic polymorphisms among inbred strains and selected lines. Another approach is to introduce variation by engineering single-gene mutations in mice. We have tested 37 different mutant mice and their wild-type controls for a variety (31) of behaviors and have mined this data set by K-means clustering and analysis of correlations. We found a correlation between a stress-related response (activity in a novel environment) and alcohol consumption and preference for saccharin. We confirmed several relationships detected in earlier genetic studies, including positive correlation of alcohol consumption with saccharin consumption and negative correlations with conditioned taste aversion and alcohol withdrawal severity. Introduction of single-gene mutations either eliminated or greatly diminished these correlations. The three tests of alcohol consumption used (continuous two-bottle choice and two limited access tests: drinking in the dark and sustained high alcohol consumption) share a relationship with saccharin consumption, but differ from each other in their correlation networks. We suggest that alcohol consumption is controlled by multiple physiological systems where single-gene mutations can disrupt the networks of such systems.
This study investigated whether somatic markers mediate the effect of serotonin transporter genotype on Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) performance. Participants (N = 135) were genotyped for the insertion/deletion and single-nucleotide (rs25531) polymorphisms in the promoter region of the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTTLPR). The results of mediation analyses indicated that skin conductance responses that anticipated IGT card selections partially (i.e. 42% of the total effect) mediated the effect of genotype on IGT performance. In comparison with high-functioning 5-HTTLPR genotypes, the low-functioning genotypes were associated with higher total IGT scores. This suggests that the higher synaptic availability of serotonin, associated with the low-functioning 5-HTTLPR genotypes, may confer differential susceptibility to decision making under risk, and that almost half of this effect is explained by facilitated somatic markers during IGT.
The fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, is generally diurnal, but a few mutant strains, such as the circadian clock mutant Clk(Jrk), have been described as nocturnal. We report here that increased nighttime activity of Clk mutants is mediated by high levels of the circadian photoreceptor CRYPTOCHROME (CRY) in large ventral lateral neurons (l-LN(v)s). We found that CRY expression is also required for nighttime activity in mutants that have high dopamine signaling. In fact, dopamine signaling is elevated in Clk(Jrk) mutants and acts through CRY to promote the nocturnal activity of this mutant. Notably, dopamine and CRY are required for acute arousal upon sensory stimulation. Because dopamine signaling and CRY levels are typically high at night, this may explain why a chronic increase in levels of these molecules produces sustained nighttime activity. We propose that CRY has a distinct role in acute responses to sensory stimuli: (1) circadian responses to light, as previously reported, and (2) noncircadian effects on arousal, as shown here.
On account of the limited effectiveness of pharmacological treatments in Alzheimer's disease (AD), there is a growing interest on nonpharmacological treatments, including musical intervention. Despite the large number of studies showing the multiple benefits of music on behavioral, emotional and cognitive disorders of patients with AD, only a few of them used a rigorous method. Finally, the specificity of musical as compared to non-musical and pleasant interventions has rarely been addressed. To investigate this issue, two randomized controlled trials were conducted contrasting the effects of musical to painting (Study 1) or cooking (Study 2) interventions on emotional state of 33 patients with AD. The patients' emotional state was assessed by analyzing professional caregivers' judgments of the patient's mood, then facial expressions and valence of the discourse from short-filmed interviews. In the first study (n=22), each intervention lasted 3 weeks (two sessions per week) and the patients' emotional state was assessed before, during and after intervention periods. After the interventions, the results showed that facial expression, discourse content and mood assessment improved (more positive than negative expressions) as compared to pre-intervention assessment. However, musical intervention was more effective and had longer effects as compared with painting. In the second study (n=11), we further examined long lasting effects of music as compared to cooking by adding evaluation of the patients' emotional state 2 and 4 weeks after the last intervention. Again, music was more effective to improve the emotional state. Music had positive effects that remained significant up to 4 weeks after the intervention, while cooking only produced short-term effect on mood. In both studies, benefits were significant in more than 80% of patients. Taken together, these findings show that music intervention has specific effects on patients' emotional well being, offering promising methods to improve the quality of life of patients with AD.
The goal of this paper is to give some indications on the concept of affect in psychoanalysis. There is no single theory of affect, and Freud gave successive definitions, which continue to be deepened in contemporary psychoanalysis. We review some steps of Freud works on affect, then we look into some present major questions, such as its relationship to soma, the nature of unconscious affects and the repression of affect, which is particularly developed in the field of psychoanalytic psychosomatic. From Freud's definitions of affect as one of the drive representative and as a limit-concept between the somatic and the psychic, we develop some major theoretical perspectives, which give a central place to soma and drive impulses, and which agree on the major idea that affect is the result of a process. We then note some parallelism between psychoanalysis of affect and psychology and neurosciences of emotion, and underline the gaps and conditions of comparison between these different epistemological approaches.


Spiral ganglion cell (SGC) degeneration following hair cell loss can be prevented by administration of exogenous neurotrophic factors. Many of these neurotrophic factors, in particular the neurotrophins brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), have been described to be involved in the development of the rodent cochlea. While expression of most of the neurotrophins has decreased to below detectable levels during adulthood (only NT-3 remains highly expressed), their respective receptors remain present in SGCs. Indeed much less is known about the function of neurotrophins in the mature cochlea. Such knowledge is crucial in the search for tools to improve SGC survival following cochlear implantation. In this review, we will critically regard the current experimental findings of neurotrophic treatment of the SGCs in the perspective of fundamental cellular mechanisms underlying neurotrophin signaling. We conclude that, in order to fully apprehend the effects of neurotrophic treatment of degenerating SGCs and in order to consider clinical application of neurotrophins, future research should focus (a) on characterizing the expression pattern of neurotrophins in the cochlea after deafening, (b) on more detailed characterization of functional and morphological changes of SGCs associated with both deafening and neurotrophic treatment and (c) on the possible self-supporting state of SGCs after cessation of short-term neurotrophic treatment.
The lateral entorhinal cortex (LEC) provides a major cortical input to the hippocampal formation, equaling that of the medial entorhinal cortex (MEC). To understand the functional contributions made by LEC, basic knowledge of individual neurons, in the context of the intrinsic network, is needed. The aim of this study is to compare physiological and morphological properties of principal neurons in different LEC layers in postnatal rats. Using in vitro whole cell current-clamp recordings from up to four post hoc morphologically identified neurons simultaneously, we established that principal neurons show layer specific physiological and morphological properties, similar to those reported previously in adults. Principal neurons in L(ayer) I, LII, and LIII have the majority of their dendrites and axonal collaterals alone in superficial layers. LV contains mainly pyramidal neurons with dendrites and axons extending throughout all layers. A minority of LV and all principal neurons in LVI are neurons with dendrites confined to deep layers and axons in superficial and deep layers. Physiologically, input resistances and time constants of LII neurons are lower and shorter, respectively, than those observed in LV neurons. Fifty-four percent of LII neurons have sag potentials, resonance properties, and rebounds at the offset of hyperpolarizing current injection, whereas LIII and LVI neurons do not have any of these. LV neurons show prominent spike-frequency adaptation and a decrease in spike amplitudes in response to strong depolarization. Despite the well-developed interlaminar communication in LEC, the laminar differences in the biophysical and morphological properties of neurons suggest that their in vivo firing patterns and functions differ, similar to what is known for neurons in different MEC layers.
Principal neurons in different medial entorhinal cortex (MEC) layers show variations in spatial modulation that stabilize between 15 and 30 days postnatally. These in vivo variations are likely due to differences in intrinsic membrane properties and integrative capacities of neurons. The latter depends on inputs and thus potentially on the morphology of principal neurons. In this comprehensive study, we systematically compared the morphological and physiological characteristics of principal neurons in all MEC layers of newborn rats before and after weaning. We recorded simultaneously from up to four post-hoc morphologically identified MEC principal neurons in vitro. Neurons in L(ayer) I-LIII have dendritic and axonal arbors mainly in superficial layers, and LVI neurons mainly in deep layers. The dendritic and axonal trees of part of LV neurons diverge throughout all layers. Physiological properties of principal neurons differ between layers. In LII, most neurons have a prominent sag potential, resonance and membrane oscillations. Neurons in LIII and LVI fire relatively regular, and lack sag potentials and membrane oscillations. LV neurons show the most prominent spike-frequency adaptation and highest input resistance. The data indicate that adult-like principal neuron types can be differentiated early on during postnatal development. The results of the accompanying paper, in which principal neurons in the lateral entorhinal cortex (LEC) were described (Canto and Witter,2011), revealed that significant differences between LEC and MEC exist mainly in LII neurons. We therefore systematically analyzed changes in LII biophysical properties along the mediolateral axis of MEC and LEC. There is a gradient in properties typical for MEC LII neurons. These properties are most pronounced in medially located neurons and become less apparent in more laterally positioned ones. This gradient continues into LEC, such that in LEC medially positioned neurons share some properties with adjacent MEC cells.
Deficits in episodic memory are associated with deficits in the ability to imagine future experiences (i.e., mental time travel). We show that K.C., a person with episodic amnesia and an inability to imagine future experiences, nonetheless systematically discounts the value of future rewards, and his discounting is within the range of controls in terms of both rate and consistency. Because K.C. is neither able to imagine personal uses for the rewards nor provide a rationale for selecting larger future rewards over smaller current rewards, this study demonstrates a dissociation between imagining and making decisions involving the future. Thus, although those capable of mental time travel may use it in making decisions about future rewards, these results demonstrate that it is not required for such decisions.
Cannabis consumption results in impaired learning. The proper synchronization of neuronal activity in the mammalian hippocampus gives rise to network rhythms that are implicated in memory formation. Here, we have studied the impact of cannabinoids on hippocampal sharp waves and associated ripple oscillations using field- and whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings. We demonstrate that the activation of cannabinoid receptor 1 suppresses sharp wave-ripples (SWRs) in mice in vivo and in vitro. This suppression was paralleled by a selective reduction of SWR-associated inward but not outward charge transfer, demonstrating an impairment of excitation due to cannabinoid exposure. Adenosine, a presynaptic modulator of glutamate release, mimicked and occluded the observed consequences of cannabinoids on SWRs. We conclude that inhibition of glutamatergic feed-forward excitation can explain cannabinoid-mediated disruption of SWRs and may account for cannabinoid-induced impairment of hippocampus-dependent memory.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling has been implicated in the onset of depression and in antidepressant efficacy, although the exact role of this neurotrophin in the pathophysiology of depression remains to be elucidated. Also, the interaction between chronic stress, which may precede depression, corticosteroids and BDNF is not fully understood. The present study aimed at investigating whether long-lasting, recurrent tethering of sows during a period of 1.5 or 4.5 years leads to enduring effects on measures that may be indicative of chronic stress, compared with animals kept in a group housing system ('loose' sows). Immediately after slaughter, the frontal cortex, dorsal and ventral hippocampus were dissected and protein levels of BDNF and its receptors were analyzed and compared with plasma cortisol levels and adrenal weights. Results indicate that tethering stress reduced BDNF protein levels in the dorsal hippocampus and the frontal cortex, but not in the ventral hippocampus. In addition, levels of TrkB, the high affinity receptor for BDNF, were increased in the dorsal hippocampus. Plasma cortisol levels and adrenal weight were increased after tethering. These stress effects on BDNF levels were more pronounced after 4.5 years of recurrent tethering and negatively correlated in particular in the frontal cortex with cortisol levels and adrenal weight. This suggests that the stress effect of tethered housing on neurotrophin levels may be mediated via cortisol. Taken together, these data indicate that recurrent tethering stress in sows over 4.5 years results in a loss of neurotrophic support by BDNF, mediated by an overactive neuroendocrine system.
Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is characterized by central obesity, hypertension, insulin resistance, and hypercholesterolemia. Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity is frequently abnormal in MetS, and excessive cortisol exposure may be implicated in metabolic derangements. We investigated the hypothesis that cortisol and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) responses to a standardized neuroendocrine challenge test would be associated with indices of MetS in a community sample of healthy adults. Healthy adults, 125 men and 170 women, without significant medical problems or chronic medications were recruited from the community. Participants completed the dexamethasone/corticotropin-releasing hormone (Dex/CRH) test, and anthropometric measurements, blood pressure, glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c), and cholesterol were measured. Participants reported on their history of early life stress and recent stress, as well as mood and anxiety symptoms. Cortisol and ACTH responses to the Dex/CRH test were negatively associated with measures of central adiposity (p&lt;0.001) and blood pressure (p&lt;0.01), and positively associated with HDL cholesterol (p&lt;0.01). These findings remained significant after controlling for body mass index (BMI). Measures of stress and anxiety and depressive symptoms were negatively correlated with cortisol and ACTH responses in the Dex/CRH test but were not related to MetS indices. That altered HPA axis function is linked to MetS components even in a healthy community sample suggests that these processes may be involved in the pathogenesis of MetS. Identification of premorbid risk processes might allow for detection and intervention prior to the development of disease.
In small laboratory species, steroid measures can be obtained more frequently and less invasively from urine than blood. Insofar as urinary levels reflect systemic levels, they could provide advantages particularly for measurement of glucocorticoids, whose blood levels react rapidly to handling and stress. In Experiment 1, urinary samples were collected from male mice every second hour over a 14:10 h light:dark cycle. Samples were analyzed via enzyme immunoassay for corticosterone, testosterone, and creatinine. Corticosterone had peak concentrations 1 h after light offset and a trough 1 h after light onset. Testosterone showed peak concentrations 5-7 h after light onset and lowest concentrations during the dark phase of the cycle. Creatinine showed some variation over the light-dark cycle, but steroid measures showed similar trends with and without adjustment for creatinine. In Experiment 2, mice were stressed via an injection at times close to the determined peak and trough levels of corticosterone. In urinary samples taken 90 min after injection, corticosterone was significantly higher in injected animals at both times relative to levels in control animals, but testosterone was unaffected by injection stress. In Experiment 3, serum and urine samples were collected from mice every sixth hour across the diurnal cycle. Corticosterone peaked in urine and serum immediately after light offset, and urinary measures predicted those in serum. These data indicate that urinary corticosterone reflects systemic levels in mice, document circadian variation in urinary testosterone, and indicate that circadian variation in creatinine is minimal, but potentially relevant in stressed animals.
Numerosity and duration processing have been modeled by a functional mechanism taking the form of an accumulator working under two different operative modes. Separate investigations of their cerebral substrates have revealed partly similar patterns of activation, mainly in parietal and frontal areas. However, the precise cerebral implementation of the accumulator model within these areas has not yet been directly assessed. In this study, we asked participants to categorize the numerosity of flashed dot sequences or the duration of single dot displays, and we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to examine the common neural correlates of these processes. The results reveal a large right-lateralized fronto-parietal network, including the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) and areas in the precentral, middle and superior frontal gyri, which is activated by both numerosity and duration processing. Complementary psychophysiological interaction (PPI) analyses show a functional connectivity between the right IPS and the frontal areas in both tasks, whereas the right IPS was functionally connected to the left IPS and the right precentral area in the numerosity categorization task only. We propose that the right IPS underlies a common magnitude processing system for both numerosity and duration, possibly corresponding to the encoding and accumulation stages of the accumulator model, whereas the frontal areas are involved in subsequent working-memory storage and decision-making processes.
Parochial altruism--a preference for altruistic behavior towards ingroup members and mistrust or hostility towards outgroup members--is a pervasive feature in human society and strongly shapes the enforcement of social norms. Since the uniqueness of human society critically depends on the enforcement of norms, the understanding of the neural circuitry of the impact of parochial altruism on social norm enforcement is key, but unexplored. To fill this gap, we measured brain activity with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while subjects had the opportunity to punish ingroup members and outgroup members for violating social norms. Findings revealed that subjects' strong punishment of defecting outgroup members is associated with increased activity in a functionally connected network involved in sanction-related decisions (right orbitofrontal gyrus, right lateral prefrontal cortex, right dorsal caudatus). Moreover, the stronger the connectivity in this network, the more outgroup members are punished. In contrast, the much weaker punishment of ingroup members who committed the very same norm violation is associated with increased activity and connectivity in the mentalizing-network (dorsomedial prefrontal cortex, bilateral temporo-parietal junction), as if subjects tried to understand or justify ingroup members' behavior. Finally, connectivity analyses between the two networks suggest that the mentalizing-network modulates punishment by affecting the activity in the right orbitofrontal gyrus and right lateral prefrontal cortex, notably in the same areas showing enhanced activity and connectivity whenever third-parties strongly punished defecting outgroup members.
The question of whether the neural encodings of objects are similar across different people is one of the key questions in cognitive neuroscience. This article examines the commonalities in the internal representation of objects, as measured with fMRI, across individuals in two complementary ways. First, we examine the commonalities in the internal representation of objects across people at the level of interobject distances, derived from whole brain fMRI data, and second, at the level of spatially localized anatomical brain regions that contain sufficient information for identification of object categories, without making the assumption that their voxel patterns are spatially matched in a common space. We examine the commonalities in internal representation of objects on 3T fMRI data collected while participants viewed line drawings depicting various tools and dwellings. This exploratory study revealed the extent to which the representation of individual concepts, and their mutual similarity, is shared across participants.
The neuronal causes of individual differences in mental abilities such as intelligence are complex and profoundly important. Understanding these abilities has the potential to facilitate their enhancement. The purpose of this study was to identify the functional brain network characteristics and their relation to psychometric intelligence. In particular, we examined whether the functional network exhibits efficient small-world network attributes (high clustering and short path length) and whether these small-world network parameters are associated with intellectual performance. High-density resting state electroencephalography (EEG) was recorded in 74 healthy subjects to analyze graph-theoretical functional network characteristics at an intracortical level. Ravens advanced progressive matrices were used to assess intelligence. We found that the clustering coefficient and path length of the functional network are strongly related to intelligence. Thus, the more intelligent the subjects are the more the functional brain network resembles a small-world network. We further identified the parietal cortex as a main hub of this resting state network as indicated by increased degree centrality that is associated with higher intelligence. Taken together, this is the first study that substantiates the neural efficiency hypothesis as well as the Parieto-Frontal Integration Theory (P-FIT) of intelligence in the context of functional brain network characteristics. These theories are currently the most established intelligence theories in neuroscience. Our findings revealed robust evidence of an efficiently organized resting state functional brain network for highly productive cognitions.
Medial temporal lobe (MTL) dependent long-term memory for novel events is modulated by a circuitry that also responds to reward and includes the ventral striatum, dopaminergic midbrain, and medial orbitofrontal cortex (mOFC). This common neural network may reflect a functional link between novelty and reward whereby novelty motivates exploration in the search for rewards; a link also termed novelty &quot;exploration bonus.&quot; We used fMRI in a scene encoding paradigm to investigate the interaction between novelty and reward with a focus on neural signals akin to an exploration bonus. As expected, reward related long-term memory for the scenes (after 24 hours) strongly correlated with activity of MTL, ventral striatum, and substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area (SN/VTA). Furthermore, the hippocampus showed a main effect of novelty, the striatum showed a main effect of reward, and the mOFC signalled both novelty and reward. An interaction between novelty and reward akin to an exploration bonus was found in the hippocampus. These data suggest that MTL novelty signals are interpreted in terms of their reward-predicting properties in the mOFC, which biases striatal reward responses. The striatum together with the SN/VTA then regulates MTL-dependent long-term memory formation and contextual exploration bonus signals in the hippocampus.
Advances in our ability to modify the mouse genome have enhanced our understanding of the genetic and neurobiological mechanisms contributing to addiction-related behaviors underlying substance use and abuse. These experimentally induced manipulations permit greater spatial and temporal specificity for modification of gene expression within specific cellular populations and during select developmental time periods. In this review, we consider the current mouse genetic model systems that have been employed to understand aspects of addiction and highlight significant conceptual advances achieved related to substance use and abuse. The mouse models reviewed herein include conventional knock-out and knock-in, conditional knockout, transgenic, inducible transgenic, mice suitable for optogenetic control of discrete neuronal populations, and phenotype-selected mice. By establishing a reciprocal investigatory relationship between genetic findings in humans and genomic manipulations in mice, a far better understanding of the discrete neuromechanisms underlying addiction can be achieved, which is likely to provide a strong foundation for developing and validating novel therapeutics for the treatment of substance abuse disorders.
We recently reported increased mitochondrial fission and decreased fusion, increased amyloid beta (A) interaction with the mitochondrial fission protein Drp1, increased mitochondrial fragmentation, impaired axonal transport of mitochondria and synaptic degeneration in neurons affected by AD. In the present study, we extended our previous investigations to determine whether phosphorylated tau interacts with Drp1 and to elucidate mitochondrial damage in the progression of AD. We also investigated GTPase activity, which is critical for mitochondrial fragmentation, in postmortem brain tissues from patients with AD and brain tissues from APP, APP/PS1 and 3XTg.AD mice. Using co-immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence analyses, for the first time, we demonstrated the physical interaction between phosphorylated tau and Drp1. Mitochondrial fission-linked GTPase activity was significantly elevated in the postmortem frontal cortex tissues from AD patients and cortical tissues from APP, APP/PS1 and 3XTg.AD mice. On the basis of these findings, we conclude that Drp1 interacts with A and phosphorylated tau, likely leading to excessive mitochondrial fragmentation, and mitochondrial and synaptic deficiencies, ultimately possibly leading to neuronal damage and cognitive decline. Treatment designed to reduce the expression of Drp1, A and/or phosphorylated tau may decrease the interaction between Drp1 and phosphorylated tau and the interaction between Drp1 and A, conferring protection to neurons from toxic insults of excessive Drp1, A and/or phosphorylated tau.
Several parameters related to the timing, grip force and load force involved in a precision grasping task were studied in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) at different moments of medication and healthy controls, using a sensorized anthropomorphic device which was totally adapted to the human hand. The aim of this work was to carry out an accurate study of the reach-load-grip-hold-place-release subtasks to identify any physical motor impairment, its relation to medication and Parkinsonian strategies. Twenty seven patients in ON and OFF-like medication moments, and twenty seven age-matched controls took part in the experiment, which consisted of using the index finger and the thumb to perform a precision motor task involving different experimental objects. Visual cues were used as distracting elements. Results showed several motor parameters impaired in OFF-like medication moment but attenuated in ON state, suggesting a medication effect on the performance of the task.
The number of elderly patients seeking clinical treatment for memory problems will rise sharply in coming years as our population ages. These patients present a challenge for diagnosis and prognosis since cognitive problems in older patients can arise from many etiologies, some of which are curable. With the development of clinically available biomarkers for detecting Alzheimer's disease pathology in living patients, evaluation of cognitively impaired elderly patients is about to undergo a major paradigm shift. This article describes the two classes of biomarkers available for assessing Alzheimer's disease risk: those that indicate presence of amyloid pathology and those that provide evidence of neuronal injury and neurodegeneration. We argue that, currently, incorporation of biomarkers of neurodegeneration can help in patient prognosis whereas tests for amyloid, if used in isolation, have potential for harm. Amyloid tests are clinically useful only when evidence suggests progressive cognitive decline or neurodegeneration.
Infants' responses to other people's distress reflect efforts to make sense of affective information about another person and apply it to oneself. This study sought to determine whether 12-month olds' responses to another person's display of negative affect reflect characteristics that support social learning and predict social functioning and language skills at 36 months. Measures of infants' responsiveness include congruent changes in affect and looking time to the person in distress. Attention to the examiner displaying positive affect, analyzed as a control condition, was not related to social functioning or language skills at 36 months. Neither attention nor affective response to the examiner's distress at 12 months was related to social functioning at 36 months. However, longer time spent looking at the examiner feigning distress predicted higher language scores. Moreover, infants who demonstrated a congruent affective response to distress had higher receptive language scores at 36 months than children who did not respond affectively. Importantly, these relations were not mediated by maternal education, household income, or 12-month verbal skills. These findings are consistent with the notion that adaptation to changes in a social partner's affective state supports an infants' ability to glean useful information from interactions with more experienced social partners. Infants' sensitivity to affective signals may thus be related to the ability to interpret other people's behavior and to achieve interpersonal understanding through language.
The reach-to-eat movement, transport of a hand to grasp an object that is withdrawn and placed in the mouth, is amongst the earliest developing functional movements of human infants. The present longitudinal study is the first description of the maturation of hand-rotation, hand shaping, and accuracy associated with the advance and withdrawal phases of the movement. Eight infants, aged 6-12 months, and eight adults, were video recorded as they reached for familiar objects or food items. Hand, arm, and trunk movements were assessed frame-by-frame with the Skilled Reaching Rating Scale, previously developed for the assessment of adult reaching, and supplementary kinematic analysis. Reach-to-eat maturation was characterized by three changes. First, for advance, a simple open hand transport gradually matured to a movement associated with pronation and hand shaping of the digits for precision grasping. Second, for withdrawal to the mouth, a direct withdrawal movement gradually became associated with hand supination that oriented the target object to the mouth. Third, associated with the maturation of rotational movements, inaccurate and fragmented hand transport and withdrawal movements developed into precise targeting of the hand-to-object and object-to-mouth. Across the age range, there was a decrease in bimanual reaching and an increase in right handed reaching. The results are discussed in relation to the idea that the maturation of the reach-to-eat movement involves the development of rotational and shaping movements of the hand and visual and somatosensory guidance of a preferred hand.
Within the last decade several genes have been identified as candidate risk genes for developmental dyslexia. Recent research using animal models and embryonic RNA interference (RNAi) has shown that a subset of the candidate dyslexia risk genes--DYX1C1, ROBO1, DCDC2, KIAA0319--regulate critical parameters of neocortical development, such as neuronal migration. For example, embryonic disruption of the rodent homolog of DYX1C1 disrupts neuronal migration and produces deficits in rapid auditory processing (RAP) and working memory--phenotypes that have been reported to be associated with developmental dyslexia. In the current study we used a modified prepulse inhibition paradigm to assess acoustic discrimination abilities of male Wistar rats following in utero RNA interference targeting Kiaa0319. We also assessed spatial learning and working memory using a Morris water maze (MWM) and a radial arm water maze. We found that embryonic interference with this gene resulted in disrupted migration of neocortical neurons leading to formation of heterotopia in white matter, and to formation of hippocampal dysplasia in a subset of animals. These animals displayed deficits in processing complex acoustic stimuli, and those with hippocampal malformations exhibited impaired spatial learning abilities. No significant impairment in working memory was detected in the Kiaa0319 RNAi treated animals. Taken together, these results suggest that Kiaa0319 plays a role in neuronal migration during embryonic development, and that early interference with this gene results in an array of behavioral deficits including impairments in rapid auditory processing and simple spatial learning.
Mood is conceptualized as a long-lasting emotional state, which can have profound implications for mental and physical health. The development of neuroimaging methods has enabled significant advances towards elucidating the mechanisms underlying regulation of mood and emotion; however, our understanding of mood and emotion dysregulation in stress-related psychiatric disorders is still largely lacking. From the cognitive-affective neuroscience perspective, achieving deeper, more mechanistic understanding of mood disorders necessitates detailed understanding of specific components of neural systems involved in mood dysregulation and stabilization. In this review, we provide an overview of neural systems implicated in the development of a long-term negative mood state, as well as those related to emotion and emotion regulation, and discuss their proposed involvement in mood and anxiety disorders.
In this study we investigated the correlation between affinity, efficacy, peripheral receptor occupancy, and kinetic properties of D dopamine receptor ligands with time-course evaluations of prolactin release in rat blood. We profiled typical and atypical antipsychotic antagonists at D receptors, the partial agonist aripiprazole, and four novel partial agonist compounds with different properties. Clozapine and quetiapine revealed lower prolactin release and fast dissociation kinetics, linking fast dissociation and prolactin-sparing properties. Surprisingly, haloperidol, a highly prolactin-releasing antagonist, shared intermediate dissociation properties. Factors other than kinetic properties may thus contribute to prolactin-releasing properties of antagonists. Partial agonists sharing similar efficacies and receptor occupancies differed markedly in their ability to induce hyperprolactinaemia. Aripiprazole moderately released prolactin even at high receptor occupancies, with slow dissociation from D receptors. Other compounds displaying low affinities and fast dissociations released prolactin substantially, although less than haloperidol. The effect augmented after repeated administrations. Compounds with high affinities and slow dissociation rates stimulated moderate prolactin release at high receptor occupancies, reaching a ceiling effect at 50-60% occupancy. Moreover, the effect developed tolerance. In conclusion, we investigated the affinity and kinetic properties of D partial agonists associated with their ability to induce prolactin release in blood. We propose that for D partial agonists, at comparable intrinsic activities and peripheral occupancies, the prolactin-releasing properties are linked to their kinetic rate properties. Differently from D antagonists, partial agonists display slow dissociation and high affinity associated with a low prolactin release profile.
Levels of several cytokines were evaluated in the sera of patients with neuromyelitis optica (NMO) and paraneoplastic or nonparaneoplastic autoimmune encephalitis (AE) and healthy controls (HC). AE patients had higher serum interleukin-17 (IL-17), interferon-gamma (IFN-), and IL-12 levels than NMO patients and HC. Also, AE patients with antibodies to cell surface antigens (voltage-gated potassium channel, N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor) displayed increased serum Th17 cytokine (IL-17, IL-23) levels as compared with AE patients with antibodies to intracellular antigens (Hu, Yo), NMO patients, and HC. Aquaporin-4 (Aqp-4) antibody positive NMO patients had higher serum IL-9 levels than Aqp-4 antibody negative NMO patients. IL-17, IL-23, IL-12, and antibody levels were significantly correlated in AE patients with antibodies to cell surface antigens. Our results support the notion that different pathogenic mechanisms are involved in central nervous system diseases associated with antibodies to intracellular and cell surface neuronal antigens. T helper 1 (Th1)-/Th17-type immunities and IL-9 might be important therapeutic targets in AE and NMO, respectively.
To explore the effectiveness of court-supervised drug treatment for California parolees, offender characteristics, treatment experiences, and outcomes were examined and contrasted to those of probationers. The analysis used statewide administrative data on 4,507 parolees and 22,701 probationers referred to treatment by Proposition 36 during fiscal year 2006-2007. Compared with probationers, parolee problems were more severe at treatment entry, more were treated in residential settings, treatment retention was shorter, and fewer completed treatment. Regarding outcomes, fewer parolees were successful at treatment discharge and more recidivated over 12-months post admission. Both groups improved in many areas by treatment discharge, but improvements were generally smaller among parolees. Significant interaction effects indicated that parolees benefited from residential care and more treatment days, even after controlling for covariates. Court-supervised drug treatment for parolees can &quot;work;&quot; however, parolees have more frequent and diverse needs, and their outcomes are enhanced by more intensive treatment. Findings suggest methods for optimizing the effectiveness of criminal-justice-supervised programs for treating drug-dependent offenders.

A new era in speech-language pathology practice is pending, and one that impels us to innovate and diversify as we move forward into the 21(st) century. The impetus for this transformation will include the increasing cost and demand for healthcare services as the population ages, changes in Australian society, rapid developments in technology, and major advances in neuroscience. New models of service delivery will need to be considered in line with evidence-based treatment protocols, the concept of a continuum of care for chronic disorders, and the need to engage clients in self-management. Innovations in technology will provide the means by which these new models of service delivery might be achieved. The exponential increase in electronic therapy resources and devices will transform the therapeutic process and provide clinicians with engaging and flexible therapy options. Clinicians will be challenged by this paradigm shift in service delivery, and their long-held perceptions of their clients' capacity to respond to these changes. Other challenges will include the preparation of future speech-language pathologists, reimbursement for services, availability of appropriate technology, and widespread connectivity. The future of the profession is an exciting one as we move forward into an era of unprecedented change.
Bone loss after stroke is pronounced, and contributes to increased fracture risk. People who fracture after stroke experience reduced mobility and increased mortality. Physical activity can maintain or improve bone mineral density and structure in healthy older adults, likely reducing fracture risk. The purpose of this systematic review was to investigate the skeletal effects of physical activity in adults affected by stroke. A search of electronic databases was undertaken. Selection criteria of trials were  prospective and controlled  physical activity-based intervention  participants with history of stroke, and  bone-related outcome measures. Effect sizes were calculated for outcomes of paretic and nonparetic limbs. Three of 349 identified records met the inclusion criteria. Small effect sizes were found in favor of physical activity in adults with chronic stroke (n=95, 40% female, average age 638 years, more than one-year poststroke). Patients in intervention groups had significantly higher changes in femoral neck bone mineral density, tibial cortical thickness and trabecular bone mineral content of the paretic limb, compared with controls (P&lt;005). It is not known whether these benefits reduced fracture risk. There are limited studies investigating the skeletal effect of physical activity for adults poststroke. Given the increased risk of, and poor outcomes following a fracture after stroke, randomized trials are warranted to investigate the benefits of physical activity on bone, after stroke. Interventions are likely to be beneficial if implemented soon after stroke, when bone loss appears to be rapid and pronounced.
Pre-, pro-, and symbiotics are endowed with a broad spectrum of beneficial effects when administered to animals and humans. A series of experimental and clinical studies have clearly demonstrated that prebiotics, probiotics, or their combination are very effective in attenuating chronic inflammatory conditions such as inflammatory bowel disease or obesity. In addition, these natural products are able to prevent or arrest tumor development, acting on the intestinal microbiota as well as potentiating the immune response.Aging is characterized by a dramatic reduction of both innate and adaptive immune responses, the so-called immunosenescence. This leads to an increased incidence of infections, autoimmune diseases, and cancer in the elderly. Pre-, pro-, and symbiotic administration has been shown to ameliorate the immune response in aging. In particular, administration of a symbiotic to free-living elderly was able to potentiate the release of interleukin-8, thus increasing neutrophils in the host, perhaps explaining the reduced frequency of winter infections in the elderly.

In August 2011, the 12th international symposium of ISIN was held by Lake Balaton in Tihany, Hungary. This convivial and stimulating meeting provided a forum for discussion of a range of invertebrate organisms in neuroscience research. Here the main topics covered at the meeting are reviewed.

Personality influences lifestyle behaviors, and particularly dietary behavior. The possible association of personality with adherence to the Mediterranean diet pattern (MDP) has not been reported. The objective of this study was to analyze the possible association of personality traits with adherence to the MDP, controlling for sociodemographic variables, presence of chronic illnesses, minor psychiatric morbidity, body mass index (BMI), daily smoking, and physical activity. This cross-sectional study included 206 patients, age 18 to 65 years, recruited at a primary health service in Granada, Spain, during 2007 to 2008. The participants answered a questionnaire, including sociodemographic characteristics, data on personality, and MDP. Personality was measured by the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI-125). Adherence to MDP was measured using the validated 14-point Mediterranean Diet Adherence Screener (MEDAS). MEDAS score was directly associated with the character dimension of self-directedness, age, and minor psychiatric morbidity score; and inversely with marital status (widowed, separated, or divorced) and BMI. Because highly self-directed individuals may respond better to diet advice, consideration of personality may prove helpful in the design of interventions to enhance the adherence to MDP. To improve the adherence to MDP in interventions with patients with low self-directedness, more intensive professional support and counseling with tailored messages about the health benefits of MDP may be indicated.
The placebo effect has evolved from being thought of as a nuisance in clinical research to a biological phenomenon worthy of scientific investigation. The study of the placebo effect and of its evil twin, the nocebo effect, is basically the study of the therapeutic ritual around the patient, and it plays a crucial role in the therapeutic outcome. In recent years, different types of placebo responses have been analyzed with sophisticated biological tools that have uncovered specific mechanisms at the neuroanatomical, neurophysiological, biochemical, and cellular levels. Most of our knowledge about the neurobiological mechanisms of the placebo response comes from pain and Parkinson's disease, whereby the neuronal networks involved in placebo responsiveness have been identified. In the first case, opioid, cannabinoid, and cholecystokinin circuits have been found to be involved. In the second case, dopaminergic activation in the striatum and neuronal changes in basal ganglia have been described. This recent research has revealed that these placebo-induced biochemical and cellular changes in a patient's brain are very similar to those induced by drugs. This new way of thinking may have profound implications in clinical trials and medical practice both for pharmacological interventions and for nonpharmacological treatments such as acupuncture.



We have carried out a series of experimental manipulations in the chick embryo to assess whether the notochord, neural tube and spinal nerves influence segmental patterning of the vertebral column. Using Pax1 expression in the somite-derived sclerotomes as a marker for segmentation of the developing intervertebral disc, our results exclude such an influence. In contrast to certain teleost species, where the notochord has been shown to generate segmentation of the vertebral bodies (chordacentra), these experiments indicate that segmental patterning of the avian vertebral column arises autonomously in the somite mesoderm. We suggest that in amniotes, the subdivision of each sclerotome into non-miscible anterior and posterior halves plays a critical role in establishing vertebral segmentation, and in maintaining left/right alignment of the developing vertebral elements at the body midline.
Cochlear function changes throughout the human lifespan. Distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) were recorded in 156 ears to examine these changes and speculate as to their mechanistic underpinnings. DPOAEs were analyzed within the context of current OAE generation theory, which recognizes distinct emission mechanisms. Seven age groups including premature newborns through senescent adults were tested with a swept-tone DPOAE protocol to examine magnitude and phase features of both the mixed DPOAE and individual distortion and reflection components. Results indicate (1) 6-8-month-old infants have the most robust DPOAE and component levels for frequencies &gt;1.5 kHz; (2) older adults show a substantial reduction in DPOAE and distortion-component levels combined with a smaller drop in reflection-component levels; (3) all age groups manifest a violation of distortion phase invariance at frequencies below 1.5 kHz consistent with a secular break in cochlear scaling; the apical phase delay is markedly longer in newborns; and (4) phase slope of reflection emissions is most shallow in the older adults. Combined findings suggest that basilar membrane motion in the apical half of the cochlea is immature at birth and that the cochlea of senescent adults shows reduced nonlinearity and relatively shallow reflection-component phase slope, which can be interpreted to suggest degraded tuning.
Social disability represents a unifying feature in the diverse group of individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Social neuroscience is the study of brain mechanisms supporting interpersonal interaction. In this paper, we review brain imaging studies of the social brain and highlight practical applications of these scientific insights. Understanding of social brain mechanisms holds promise as a tool for defining meaningful subgroups of children with ASD to facilitate genetic analyses and to inform treatment selection. Because social brain systems emerge in infancy, social neuroscience may help to detect atypical development before symptoms manifest. This conceptualization of ASD is a hopeful one, as social brain systems remain malleable well into development and are thus amenable to targeted intervention.
Despite the psychosocial difficulties common among young adults with autism spectrum disorders (ASD), little to no evidence-based social skills interventions exist for this population. Using a randomized controlled trial (RCT) design, the current study tested the effectiveness of an evidence-based, caregiver-assisted social skills intervention known as PEERS for Young Adults with high-functioning young adults with ASD (ages 18-23) using self- and caregiver-report measures. Results revealed that treated young adults reported significantly less loneliness and improved social skills knowledge, while caregivers reported significant improvements in young adults' overall social skills, social responsiveness, empathy, and frequency of get-togethers. Results support the effectiveness of using this caregiver-assisted, manualized intervention for young adults with ASD.
The present study examines the efficacy and durability of the PEERS Program, a parent-assisted social skills group intervention for high-functioning adolescents with ASD. Results indicate that teens receiving PEERS significantly improved their social skills knowledge, social responsiveness, and overall social skills in the areas of social communication, social cognition, social awareness, social motivation, assertion, cooperation, and responsibility, while decreasing autistic mannerisms and increasing the frequency of peer interactions. Independent teacher ratings revealed significant improvement in social skills and assertion from pre-test to follow-up assessment. Examination of durability of improvement revealed maintenance of gains in nearly all domains with additional treatment gains at a 14-week follow-up assessment.
Appropriate modulation of imitation according to social context is important for successful social interaction. In the present study we subliminally primed high-functioning adults with ASC and age- and IQ-matched controls with either a pro- or non- social attitude. Following priming, an automatic imitation paradigm was used to acquire an index of imitation. Whereas imitation levels were higher for pro-socially primed relative to non-socially primed control participants, there was no difference between pro- and non- socially primed individuals with ASC. We conclude that high-functioning adults with ASC demonstrate atypical social modulation of imitation. Given the importance of imitation in social interaction we speculate that difficulties with the modulation of imitation may contribute to the social problems characteristic of ASC.
Songbirds have emerged as attractive model systems in many areas of biological research. Notably, songbirds are used in studies of the neurobiological and neuroendocrine mechanisms that shape vocal communication, and zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata) are the most commonly studied species. In these studies, some form of chemical restraint is often needed to facilitate procedures and to minimize the risk of injury during handling. To determine the minimum dose of the benzodiazepine diazepam that is adequate to achieve deep sedation across individual birds, a low dose (5 mg/kg) and a high dose (10 mg/kg) was administered intramuscularly to 20 zebra finches. Results showed that a 10 mg/kg dose of diazepam resulted in deep sedation, defined by dorsal recumbency, which was achieved in minutes and lasted for several hours. Sedation was induced without complication, because no birds displayed signs of distress during sedation or lethargy after recovery, and was adequate to permit minimally invasive surgical procedures. In addition, the duration of sedation was dose dependent, which provides additional information for researchers who seek to match the depth of sedation to their experimental requirements. Finally, complete recovery from the deeply sedated state was induced by a 0.3 mg/kg dose of the antagonist flumazenil, which enabled birds to more rapidly resume homeostatic behaviors to promote well-being and survival. Together, these results indicate that diazepam is a safe and reliable sedative for use in zebra finches and support specific recommendations to achieve rapid and reliable sedation and recovery.
Amyloid -precursor protein (APP) is primarily cleaved by - or -secretase to generate membrane-bound, C-terminal fragments (CTFs). In turn, CTFs are potentially subject to a second, intramembrane cleavage by -secretase, which is active in a lipid raft-like membrane microdomain. Mature APP (N- and O-glycosylated APP), the actual substrate of these secretases, is phosphorylated at the cytoplasmic residue Thr(668) and this phosphorylation changes the overall conformation of the cytoplasmic domain of APP. We found that phosphorylated and nonphosphorylated CTFs exist equally in mouse brain and are kinetically equivalent as substrates for -secretase, in vitro. However, in vivo, the level of the phosphorylated APP intracellular domain peptide (pAICD) generated by -cleavage of CTFs was very low when compared with the level of nonphosphorylated AICD (nAICD). Phosphorylated CTFs (pCTFs), rather than nonphosphorylated CTFs (nCTFs), were preferentially located outside of detergent-resistant, lipid raft-like membrane microdomains. The APP cytoplasmic domain peptide (APP(648-695)) with Thr(P)(668) did not associate with liposomes composed of membrane lipids from mouse brain to which the nonphosphorylated peptide preferentially bound. In addition, APP lacking the C-terminal 8 amino acids (APP-C8), which are essential for membrane association, decreased A generation in N2a cells. These observations suggest that the pCTFs and CTFC8 are relatively movable within the membrane, whereas the nCTFs are susceptible to being anchored into the membrane, an interaction made available as a consequence of not being phosphorylated. By this mechanism, nCTFs can be preferentially captured and cleaved by -secretase. Preservation of the phosphorylated state of APP-CTFs may be a potential treatment to lower the generation of A in Alzheimer disease.
RNA-binding proteins mediate posttranscriptional functions in the circadian systems of multiple species. A conserved RNA recognition motif (RRM) protein encoded by the lark gene is postulated to serve circadian output and molecular oscillator functions in Drosophila and mammals, respectively. In no species, however, has LARK been eliminated, in vivo, to determine the consequences for circadian timing. The present study utilized RNA interference (RNAi) techniques in Drosophila to decrease LARK levels in clock neurons and other cell types in order to evaluate the circadian functions of the protein. Knockdown of LARK in timeless (TIM)- or pigment dispersing factor (PDF)-containing clock cells caused a significant number of flies to exhibit arrhythmic locomotor activity, demonstrating a requirement for the protein in pacemaker cells. There was no obvious effect on PER protein cycling in lark interference (RNAi) flies, but a knockdown within the PDF neurons was associated with increased PDF immunoreactivity at the dorsal termini of the small ventral lateral neuronal (s-LNv) projections, suggesting an effect on neuropeptide release. The expression of lark RNAi in multiple neurosecretory cell populations demonstrated that LARK is required within pacemaker and nonpacemaker cells for the manifestation of normal locomotor activity rhythms. Interestingly, decreased LARK function in the prothoracic gland (PG), a peripheral organ containing a clock required for the circadian control of eclosion, was associated with weak population eclosion rhythms or arrhythmicity.
The present article investigates gait stability of healthy older persons during weight transfer. Ten healthy older persons and ten younger persons walked 10 min each on a treadmill at 3 different gait speeds. The intra-stride change in gait stability was defined by the local divergence exponent (t) estimated by a newly developed method. The intra-stride changes in (t) during weight transfer were identified by separating each stride into a single and double support phase. The intra-stride changes in (t) were also compared to changes in the variation of the gait kinematics, i.e., SD(t). The healthy older persons walked at the same preferred walking speed as the younger persons. However, they exhibited significantly larger (t) (p&lt;0.001) during weight transfer in the double support phase. Local divergence was closely related to intra-stride changes in SD(t) of the feet in the anterior-posterior direction. Furthermore, a high correlation was found between local divergence and the variation in step length and step width for both older (R&gt;0.67, p&lt;0.05) and younger persons (R&gt;0.67, p&lt;0.05). The present results indicate that the gait kinematics of older adults are more dynamical unstable during the weight transfer compared to younger persons. Furthermore, a close relationship exists between intra-stride changes in dynamical stability and variation in step length and step width. Further work will validate the results of the present study using real-life perturbations of the gait kinematics of both younger and older adults.
The misfolding and progressive aggregation of specific proteins in selective regions of the nervous system is a seminal occurrence in many neurodegenerative disorders, and the interaction between pathological/toxic proteins to cause neurodegeneration is a hot topic of current neuroscience research. Despite clinical, genetic and experimental differences, increasing evidence indicates considerable overlap between synucleinopathies, tauopathies and other protein-misfolding diseases. Inclusions, often characteristic hallmarks of these disorders, suggest interactions of pathological proteins enganging common downstream pathways. Novel findings that have shifted our understanding in the role of pathologic proteins in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer, Parkinson, Huntington and prion diseases, have confirmed correlations/overlaps between these and other neurodegenerative disorders. Emerging evidence, in addition to synergistic effects of tau protein, amyloid-, -synuclein and other pathologic proteins, suggests that prion-like induction and spreading, involving secreted proteins, are major pathogenic mechanisms in various neurodegenerative diseases, depending on genetic backgrounds and environmental factors. The elucidation of the basic molecular mechanisms underlying the interaction and spreading of pathogenic proteins, suggesting a dualism or triad of neurodegeneration in protein-misfolding disorders, is a major challenge for modern neuroscience, to provide a deeper insight into their pathogenesis as a basis of effective diagnosis and treatment.
Arterial spin labelling (ASL) is increasingly available for noninvasive cerebral blood flow (CBF) measurement in stroke research. Here, a pseudo-continuous ASL technique (pCASL) was evaluated against (99m)Tc-D, L-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime ((99m)Tc-HMPAO) autoradiography in a rat stroke model. The (99m)Tc-HMPAO was injected (intravenously, 225MBq) during pCASL acquisition. The pCASL and (99m)Tc-HMPAO autoradiography CBF measures, relative to the contralateral hemisphere, were in good agreement across the spectrum of flow values in normal and ischemic tissues. The pCASL-derived quantitative regional CBF values (contralateral: 157 to 177mL/100g per minute; ipsilateral: 9 to 104mL/100g per minute) were consistent with the literature values. The data show the potential utility of pCASL for CBF assessment in a rat stroke model.
Disruptions to LIS1 gene expression result in neuronal migration abnormalities. LIS1 heterozygosity is a significant cause of lissencephaly, while overexpression has recently been noted in cases of microcephaly, ventriculomegaly, and dysgenesis of the corpus callosum with normal cortical gyration. We report a partial LIS1 duplication in a child with microcephaly, neurodevelopmental delays, and profound white matter atrophy in the absence of overt lissencephaly. The duplicated genetic segment was contained entirely within the first intron of LIS1, a segment that often contains inducers of transcription. Normal gyral patterns with mild volume loss were observed at birth. Follow-up cranial imaging revealed further white matter loss, diminished sulcation, and ventriculomegaly, suggesting expanding hydrocephalus ex vacuo. The radiographic pattern has not been documented in the presence of a LIS1 gene abnormality, and suggests that altered expression of LIS1 has wider phenotypic manifestations than currently defined.
Children with neurodevelopmental disabilities, such as cerebral palsy, frequently have associated oral motor dysfunction, which leads to feeding difficulties, risk of aspiration, prolonged feeding times, and malnutrition with its attendant physical compromise. The authors propose a comprehensive multidisciplinary assessment, including neurological and dysphagia examination and ear, nose, and throat examination, to evaluate clinical indicators and severity of feeding impairment in children affected by neurodevelopmental disorders. A representative sample of 40 children with cerebral palsy (spastic, dyskinetic, or mixed), intellectual disability, and feeding problems was included in the study. A specific multidisciplinary evaluation and standardized mealtime observation in patients with cerebral palsy appear feasible and appropriate to recognize proactive indicators of dysphagia and to establish personalized programs of gastric and rehabilitative interventions.

A liquid chromatographic method with fluorescence detection was developed and validated for the quantification of the antidepressant reboxetine (RBX), a selective noradrenalin reuptake inhibitor, in rat brain microdialysates. After modification of the method in terms of sample preparation and sensitivity, it was also validated for the quantification of RBX in rat plasma samples. To enable fluorescence detection, a pre-column derivatization step with 9-fluorenylmethyl chloroformate was included. Separations were performed on a reversed phase C column using gradient elution. The retention time for RBX was found to be 8.8 min. The assay of RBX in brain microdialysis samples showed a linear relationship in the calibration curve from 2 to 200 ng/mL, with a correlation coefficient 0.999. The limit of detection (LOD) and the lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) were 0.6 and 2.0 ng/mL respectively. The intra-day and the inter-day precision (RSD %) ranged between 1.5% and 11.7% with an average recovery of 101.28.2% (meanSD, n=40). For the analysis of plasma samples, the calibration curve was linear between 20 and 700 ng/mL with a correlation coefficient 0.999. LOD and LLOQ were 6 and 20 ng/mL respectively. The intra-day and the inter-day precision (RSD %) ranged between 1.7% and 11.5% with an average recovery of 98.57.3% (meanSD, n=40). We demonstrated the applicability of the method to determine the concentration-time profiles of RBX in brain and plasma following systemic administration.
The safety and efficacy of osmotic therapy with mannitol and 3% saline in the pediatric head-injured population has been widely reported; the use of 23.4% saline in children for the treatment of refractory intracranial hypertension has not. The clinical and physiologic responses of multiple 23.4% saline boluses in two children with severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) are presented. No complications were associated with the use of 23.4% saline in either patient.
Migraine headache is commonly associated with signs of exaggerated intracranial and extracranial mechanical sensitivities. Patients exhibiting signs of intracranial hypersensitivity testify that their headache throbs and that mundane physical activities that increase intracranial pressure (such as bending over or coughing) intensify the pain. Patients exhibiting signs of extracranial hypersensitivity testify that during migraine their facial skin hurts in response to otherwise innocuous activities such as combing, shaving, letting water run over their face in the shower, or wearing glasses or earrings (termed here cephalic cutaneous allodynia). Such patients often testify that during migraine their bodily skin is hypersensitive and that wearing tight cloth, bracelets, rings, necklaces and socks or using a heavy blanket can be uncomfortable and/or painful (termed her extracephalic cutaneous allodynia). This review summarizes the evidence that support the view that activation of the trigeminovascular pathway contribute to the headache phase of a migraine attack, that the development of throbbing in the initial phase of migraine is mediated by sensitization of peripheral trigeminovascular neurons that innervate the meninges, that the development of cephalic allodynia is propelled by sensitization of second-order trigeminovascular neurons in the spinal trigeminal nucleus which receive converging sensory input from the meninges as well as from the scalp and facial skin, and that the development of extracephalic allodynia is mediated by sensitization of third-order trigeminovascular neurons in the posterior thalamic nuclei which receive converging sensory input from the meninges, facial and body skin.


Dehiscence after a wound has healed is a known complication of craniotomy for tumor resection. We conducted a retrospective analysis of 64 patients who underwent craniotomy for tumor resection followed by radiation or radiosurgery between 2006 and 2010. Five patients (7.8%) were identified who showed wound dehiscence from two to eight months after the craniotomy wound had healed. Four patients had previously undergone additional craniotomies, additional radiosurgery or had been treated with the anti-angiogenic factor, bevacizumab. These treatments may be risk factors for developing delayed dehiscence and, in combination, may potentiate local wound healing problems. Potential mechanisms and management strategies are discussed.
The purpose of this study was to assess the clinical and radiological outcomes of minimally invasive transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (MI-TLIF) surgery for lumbar spondylolisthesis. A prospective analysis was conducted of 23 consecutive patients with grade I or grade II lumbar spondylolisthesis who underwent a MI-TLIF using image guidance between August 2008 and September 2010. The patient group comprised 13 males and 10 females (mean age 57 years), 22 of whom underwent single level fusion and one patient with a two level fusion. All patients underwent postoperative CT scans to assess pedicle screw and cage placement and fusion at six months. The Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) scores were recorded preoperatively and at the six-month follow-up. We found that 22 of 23 (95.7%) patients showed evidence of fusion at six months with a mean improvement of 26.7 on ODI scores. The mean length of hospital stay was four days. The mean operative time was 172 minutes. Anatomical reduction of the spondylolisthesis was complete in 16 patients and incomplete in seven. Regarding complications, we observed: one of 94 (1.1%) pedicle screws misplaced, which did not require revision postoperatively; one of 23 patients (4.3%) with a pulmonary embolism and one of 23 (4.3%) patients with transient nerve root pain. There were no occurrences of infection and no postoperative cerebrospinal fluid leaks. We conclude that MI-TLIF offers patients a safe and effective surgical option for lumbar spondylolisthesis treatment. Furthermore, it may offer patients additional advantages in terms of postoperative pain and recovery.

Smoking is associated with the induction of the CYP 1A2 enzyme, and hence with diminished levels of drugs metabolized by this enzyme. This article presents a hypothetical patient, diagnosed with schizophrenia, who smokes about 10 cigarettes a day. The progress of the patient is examined across several follow up meetings, each of which presents a fresh clinical problem related to smoking and its interaction with the medication. Clinical guidance for each problem is presented along with a brief discussion on the subject. The article concludes with a discussion of other pharmacokinetic considerations related to smoking and its treatment in patients with schizophrenia.

Perception of known patterns results from the interaction of current sensory input with existing internal representations. It is unclear how perceptual and mnemonic processes interact when visual input is dynamic and structured such that it does not allow immediate recognition of obvious objects and forms. In an fMRI experiment, meaningful visual motion stimuli depicting movement through a virtual tunnel and indistinct, meaningless visual motion stimuli, achieved through phase scrambling of the same stimuli, were presented while participants performed an optic flow task. We found that our indistinct visual motion stimuli evoked hippocampal activation, whereas the corresponding meaningful stimuli did not. Using independent component analysis, we were able to demonstrate a functional connectivity between the hippocampus and early visual areas, with increased activity for indistinct stimuli. In a second experiment, we used the same stimuli to test whether our results depended on the participants' task. We found task-independent bilateral hippocampal activation in response to indistinct motion stimuli. For both experiments, psychophysiological interaction analysis revealed a coupling from posterior hippocampus to dorsal visuospatial and ventral visual object processing areas when viewing indistinct stimuli. These results indicate a close functional link between stimulus-dependent perceptual and mnemonic processes. The observed pattern of hippocampal functional connectivity, in the absence of an explicit memory task, suggests that cortical-hippocampal networks are recruited when visual stimuli are temporally uncertain and do not immediately reveal a clear meaning.
Oscillatory brain activity is attracting increasing interest in cognitive neuroscience. Numerous EEG (magnetoencephalography) and local field potential (LFP) measurements have related cognitive functions to different types of brain oscillations, but the functional significance of these rhythms remains poorly understood. Despite its proven value, LFP activity has not been extensively tested in the macaque lateral intraparietal area (LIP), which has been implicated in a wide variety of cognitive control processes. We recorded action potentials and LFPs in area LIP during delayed eye movement tasks and during a passive fixation task, in which the time schedule was fixed so that temporal expectations about task-relevant cues could be formed. LFP responses in the gamma band discriminated reliably between saccade targets and distractors inside the receptive field (RF). Alpha and beta responses were much less strongly affected by the presence of a saccade target, however, but rose sharply in the waiting period before the go signal. Surprisingly, conditions without visual stimulation of the LIP-RF-evoked robust LFP responses in every frequency band--most prominently in those below 50 Hz--precisely time-locked to the expected time of stimulus onset in the RF. These results indicate that in area LIP, oscillations in the LFP, which reflect synaptic input and local network activity, are tightly coupled to the temporal expectation of task-relevant cues.
Although the voice-sensitive neural system emerges very early in development, it has yet to be demonstrated whether the neonatal brain is sensitive to voice perception. We measured the EEG mismatch response (MMR) elicited by emotionally spoken syllables &quot;dada&quot; along with correspondingly synthesized nonvocal sounds, whose fundamental frequency contours were matched, in 98 full-term newborns aged 1-5 days. In Experiment 1, happy syllables relative to nonvocal sounds elicited an MMR lateralized to the right hemisphere. In Experiment 2, fearful syllables elicited stronger amplitudes than happy or neutral syllables, and this response had no sex differences. In Experiment 3, angry versus happy syllables elicited an MMR, although their corresponding nonvocal sounds did not. Here, we show that affective discrimination is selectively driven by voice processing per se rather than low-level acoustical features and that the cerebral specialization for human voice and emotion processing emerges over the right hemisphere during the first days of life.
The electronic linking of neuroscience information, including data embedded in the primary literature, would permit powerful queries and analyses driven by structured databases. This task would be facilitated by automated procedures that can identify biological concepts in journals. Here we apply an approach for automatically mapping formal identifiers of neuroanatomical regions to text found in journal abstracts, applying it to a large body of abstracts from the Journal of Comparative Neurology (JCN). The analyses yield over 100,000 brain region mentions, which we map to 8,225 brain region concepts in multiple organisms. Based on the analysis of a manually annotated corpus, we estimate mentions are mapped at 95% precision and 63% recall. Our results provide insights into the patterns of publication on brain regions and species of study in JCN but also point to important challenges in the standardization of neuroanatomical nomenclatures. We find that many terms in the formal terminologies never appear in a JCN abstract, and, conversely, many terms that authors use are not reflected in the terminologies. To improve the terminologies, we deposited 136 unrecognized brain regions into the Neuroscience Lexicon (NeuroLex). The training data, terminologies, normalizations, evaluations, and annotated journal abstracts are freely available at http://www.chibi.ubc.ca/WhiteText/.
Spinal cord injury axotomizes neurons and induces many of them to die, whereas others survive. Therefore, it is important to identify factors that lead to neuronal death after injury as a first step toward developing better strategies for increasing neuronal survival and functional recovery. However, the intrinsic molecular pathways that govern whether an injured neuron lives or dies remain surprisingly unclear. To address this question, we took advantage of the large size of giant reticulospinal (RS) neurons in the brain of the lamprey, Petromyzon marinus. We report that axotomy of giant RS neurons induces a select subset of them to accumulate high levels of synuclein, a synaptic vesicle-associated protein whose abnormal accumulation is linked to Parkinson's disease. Injury-induced synuclein accumulation occurred only in neurons that were classified as &quot;poor survivors&quot; by both histological and Fluoro-Jade C staining. In contrast, post-injury synuclein immunofluorescence remained at control levels in neurons that were identified as &quot;good survivors.&quot; Synuclein accumulation appeared in the form of aggregated intracellular inclusions. Cells that accumulated synuclein also exhibited more ubiquitin-containing inclusions, similar to what occurs during disease states. When synuclein levels and cell vitality were measured in the same neurons, it became clear that synuclein accumulation preceded and strongly correlated with subsequent neuronal death. Thus, synuclein accumulation is identified as a marker and potential risk factor for forthcoming neuronal death after axotomy, expanding its implications beyond the neurodegenerative diseases.
The application of data-driven time series analysis techniques such as Granger causality, partial directed coherence and phase dynamics modeling to estimate effective connectivity in brain networks has recently gained significant prominence in the neuroscience community. While these techniques have been useful in determining causal interactions among different regions of brain networks, a thorough analysis of the comparative accuracy and robustness of these methods in identifying patterns of effective connectivity among brain networks is still lacking. In this paper, we systematically address this issue within the context of simple networks of coupled spiking neurons. Specifically, we develop a method to assess the ability of various effective connectivity measures to accurately determine the true effective connectivity of a given neuronal network. Our method is based on decision tree classifiers which are trained using several time series features that can be observed solely from experimentally recorded data. We show that the classifiers constructed in this work provide a general framework for determining whether a particular effective connectivity measure is likely to produce incorrect results when applied to a dataset.

Adults use eye contact as a cue to the mental and emotional states of others. Here, we examined developmental changes in the ability to discriminate between eye contact and averted gaze. Children (6-, 8-, 10-, and 14-year-olds) and adults (n=18/age) viewed photographs of a model fixating the center of a camera lens and a series of positions to the left/right or upward/downward and judged whether the model's gaze was direct or averted to the left/right or upward/downward. The horizontal range of fixation positions leading to the perception of direct gaze (the cone of gaze) was more than 50% larger in 6-year-olds than in adults, but it was adult-like and smaller than the vertical cone of gaze by 8 years of age. The vertical cone of gaze was large and statistically adult-like by age 6, with only a small linear reduction thereafter. In all age groups, the horizontal cone of gaze was centered on the bridge of the participant's nose and the vertical cone was centered slightly below the participant's eye height. These findings indicate that until after age 6, relatively poor sensitivity to direct versus averted gaze limits children's ability to use gaze cues to make social judgments.
When presented with a sequence of visual stimuli in rapid succession, participants often fail to detect a second salient target, a phenomenon referred as the attentional blink (AB; Raymond, Shapiro, &amp; Arnell, 1992; Shapiro, Raymond, &amp; Arnell, 1997). On the basis of a vast corpus of experiments, several cognitive theories suggest that the blink results from a discrete structuring of attention, sampling information from temporal episodes during which several items can access encoding process (Wyble, Bowman, &amp; Nieuwenstein, 2009; Wyble, Potter, Bowman, &amp; Nieuwenstein, 2011). The objective of this work is to explore the AB when multiple items are presented at the fovea during ocular movements. The authors reasoned that each fixation may cohesively form an episode and hence expected that the blink may vanish within a single fixation. In turn, they expected saccades to accentuate episodic borders and hence shorten the regime of interference when 2 targets are presented fovealy in successive fixations. Evidence is provided in favor of this hypothesis, showing that the blink vanishes when both targets are presented in the core of a single fixation (far from the saccadic boundaries) and that it recovers more rapidly in successive fixations. These studies support current views that episodes should have an effect on the AB and provide evidence that eye movements play an important role in the formation of episodes.
The ability to ignore task-irrelevant information and overcome distraction is central to our ability to efficiently carry out a number of tasks. One factor shown to strongly influence distraction is the perceptual load of the task being performed; as the perceptual load of task-relevant information processing increases, the likelihood that task-irrelevant information will be processed and interfere with task performance decreases. However, it has also been demonstrated that other attentional factors play an important role in whether or not distracting information affects performance. Specifically, object-based attention can modulate the extent of distractor processing, leaving open the possibility that object-based attention mechanisms may directly modulate the way in which perceptual load affects distractor processing. Here, we show that object-based attention dominates perceptual load to determine the extent of task-irrelevant information processing, with distractors affecting performance only when they are contained within the same object as the task-relevant search display. These results suggest that object-based attention effects play a central role in selective attention regardless of the perceptual load of the task being performed.
This study investigated emotion during interpersonal conflicts between mates. It addressed questions about how clearly couples express emotion (encoding), how accurately they recognize each other's emotion (decoding), and how well they distinguish between types of negative emotion. It was theorized that couples express and perceive both: (a) event-specific emotions, which are unique to particular people on particular occasions, and (b) contextual-couple emotions, which reflect the additive effect of emotions across different events and across both partners. Eighty-three married couples engaged in a series of two conflict conversations. Self-report ratings, observer ratings, and partner ratings were used to assess two types of negative emotion: hard emotion (e.g., angry or annoyed) and soft emotion (e.g., sad or hurt). Couples were reasonably accurate in encoding, decoding, and in distinguishing between types of emotion. Emotion expression was strongly associated with general levels of contextual-couple emotion summed across two conversations, whereas emotion perception was more closely tied to specific events. Hard emotion was readily perceived when it was overtly expressed, and soft emotion could sometimes be recognized even when it was not expressed clearly.
Despite the success of highly active antiretroviral therapy in combating human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection, the virus still persists in viral reservoirs, often in a state of transcriptional silence. This review focuses on the HIV-1 protein and regulatory machinery and how expanding knowledge of the function of individual HIV-1-coded proteins has provided valuable insights into understanding HIV transcriptional regulation in selected susceptible cell types. Historically, Tat has been the most studied primary transactivator protein, but emerging knowledge of HIV-1 transcriptional regulation in cells of the monocyte-macrophage lineage has more recently established that a number of the HIV-1 accessory proteins like Vpr may directly or indirectly regulate the transcriptional process. The viral proteins Nef and matrix play important roles in modulating the cellular activation pathways to facilitate viral replication. These observations highlight the cross talk between the HIV-1 transcriptional machinery and cellular activation pathways. The review also discusses the proposed transcriptional regulation mechanisms that intersect with the pathways regulated by microRNAs and how development of the knowledge of chromatin biology has enhanced our understanding of key protein-protein and protein-DNA interactions that form the HIV-1 transcriptome. Finally, we discuss the potential pharmacological approaches to target viral persistence and enhance effective transcription to purge the virus in cellular reservoirs, especially within the central nervous system, and the novel therapeutics that are currently in various stages of development to achieve a much superior prognosis for the HIV-1-infected population.
European Union requirements are discussed for the long-term follow-up of advanced therapy medicinal products, as well as how they can be applied to cancer patients treated with gene therapy medicinal products in the context of clinical trials, as described in a specific guideline issued by Gene Therapy Working Party at the European Medicine Agency.

Age-related changes in neural circuits, neural networks, and their plasticity are central to our understanding of age changes in cognition and brain structure and function. This paper summarizes selected findings on these topics presented at the Cognitive Aging Summit II. Specific areas discussed were synaptic vulnerability and plasticity, including the role of different types of synaptic spines, and hormonal effects in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex of nonhuman primates, the impact of both compensatory processes and dedifferentiation on demand-dependent differences in prefrontal activation in relation to age and performance, the role of vascular disease, indexed by white matter signal abnormalities, on prefrontal activation during a functional magnetic resonance imaging-based cognitive control paradigm, and the influence of amyloid- neuropathology on memory performance in older adults and the networks of brain activity underlying variability in performance. A greater understanding of age-related changes in brain plasticity and neural networks in healthy aging and in the presence of underlying vascular disease or amyloid pathology will be essential to identify new targets for intervention. Moreover, this understanding will assist in promoting the utilization of existing interventions, such as lifestyle and therapeutic modifiers of vascular disease.
Epigenetic regulation of gene expression plays an important role in learning and memory, mediating the influence of experience on critical mechanisms of plasticity. Speakers in the opening session of the Summit reviewed research on epigenetic contributions to age-related cognitive decline and discussed strategies for the development of interventions targeting epigenetic mechanisms. The presentations focused on experience-dependent DNA methylation, the regulatory role of microRNAs, histone deacetylases as potential therapeutic targets, and strategies for exploring epigenetic contributions to the aging of brain and cognition. This session established useful mileposts for gaging progress in this rapidly advancing area of research.
Insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1 is an important neurotrophic hormone. Deficiency of this hormone has been reported to influence the genesis of cognitive impairment and dementia in the elderly patients. Nevertheless, there are studies indicating that cognitive function can be maintained into old age even in the absence of circulating IGF-1 and studies that link IGF-1 to an acceleration of neurological diseases. Although IGF-1 has a complex role in brain function, synaptic effects appear to be central to the IGF-1-induced improvement in learning and memory. In this review, synaptic mechanisms of learning and memory and the effects of IGF-1 on synaptic communication are discussed. The emerging data indicate that synaptic function decreases with age and that IGF-1 contributes to information processing in the brain. Further studies that detail the specific actions of this important neurotrophic hormone will likely lead to therapies that result in improved cognitive function for the elderly patients.
One of the main causes for age-related declines in working memory is a higher vulnerability to retroactive interference due to a reduced ability to suppress irrelevant information. However, the underlying neural correlates remain to be established. Magnetoencephalography was used to investigate differential neural patterns in young and older adults performing an interference-based memory task with two experimental conditions, interrupting and distracting, during successful recognition. Behaviorally, both types of retroactive interference significantly impaired accuracy at recognition more in older adults than in young adults with the latter exhibiting greater disruptions by interrupters. Magnetoencephalography revealed the presence of differential age-related neural patterns. Specifically, time-modulated activations in temporo-occipital and superior parietal regions were higher in young adults compared with older adults for the interrupting condition. These results suggest that age-related deficits in inhibitory mechanisms that increase vulnerability to retroactive interference may be associated with neural under-recruitments in a high-interference task.


Originally adapted from the neurosphere assay, the nonadherent mammosphere assay has been utilized to assess early progenitor/stem cell frequency in a given population of mammary epithelial cells. This method has also been used to measure the frequency of tumorsphere initiating cells in both primary mammary tumors as well as in tumor cell lines. Although, the mammosphere assay has been used extensively in the mammary gland field, a standard method of quantifying and analyzing sphere growth in this assay has remained undefined. Here, we discuss the use and benefit of using a limiting dilution analysis to quantify sphere-forming frequency in primary mammary epithelial cells grown in nonadherent conditions.
The present work critically examines two assumptions frequently stated by supporters of cognitive neuroenhancement. The first, explicitly methodological, assumption is the supposition of effective and side effect-free neuroenhancers. However, there is an evidence-based concern that the most promising drugs currently used for cognitive enhancement can be addictive. Furthermore, this work describes why the neuronal correlates of key cognitive concepts, such as learning and memory, are so deeply connected with mechanisms implicated in the development and maintenance of addictive behaviour so that modification of these systems may inevitably run the risk of addiction to the enhancing drugs. Such a potential risk of addiction could only be falsified by in-depth empirical research. The second, implicit, assumption is that research on neuroenhancement does not pose a serious moral problem. However, the potential for addiction, along with arguments related to research ethics and the potential social impact of neuroenhancement, could invalidate this assumption. It is suggested that ethical evaluation needs to consider the empirical data as well as the question of whether and how such empirical knowledge can be obtained.



Forensic services face the challenge of reducing relapse among clients with a history of violent crime. An automated interactive voice response (IVR) service of the complex Telephone-Linked Care (TLC) type, with a focus on reducing impulsivity, could improve the adequacy of service responses to client needs. Theoretically based in Dialectical Behavior Therapy (DBT), Cognitive Behavior Therapy (CBT) and Motivational Interviewing (MI), the forensic TLC system offers interactive conversations on coping with the emotions of anger, shame and loneliness; activities of daily life such as getting out of bed, asking for help, visiting social services and taking medication; and other areas such as hearing voices, drinking alcohol and self-critical thoughts. We describe the user's flow through the system, with an in-depth synopsis of the hearing voices intervention. Issues regarding voluntary versus mandatory use of the system are addressed in connection with prospective introduction of the system in forensic settings.
We examined the permeability of connexin36 (Cx36) homotypic gap junction (GJ) channels, expressed in neurons and -cells of the pancreas, to dyes differing in molecular mass and net charge. Experiments were performed in HeLa cells stably expressing Cx36 tagged with EGFP by combining a dual whole-cell voltage clamp and fluorescence imaging. To assess the permeability of the single GJ channel (P()), we used a dual-mode excitation of fluorescent dyes that allowed us to measure cell-to-cell dye transfer at levels not resolvable using whole-field excitation solely. We demonstrate that P() of Cx36 for cationic dyes (EAM-1 and EAM-2) is ~10-fold higher than that for an anionic dye of the same net charge and similar molecular mass, Alexa fluor-350 (AFl-350). In addition, P() for Lucifer yellow (LY) is approximately fourfold smaller than that for AFl-350, which suggests that the higher negativity of LY significantly reduces permeability. The P() of Cx36 for AFl-350 is approximately 358, 138, 23 and four times smaller than the P()s of Cx43, Cx40, Cx45, and Cx57, respectively. In contrast, it is 6.5-fold higher than the P() of mCx30.2, which exhibits a smaller single-channel conductance. Thus, Cx36 GJs are highly cation-selective and should exhibit relatively low permeability to numerous vital negatively charged metabolites and high permeability to K, a major charge carrier in cell-cell communication.
Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling plays a critical role in the regulation of activity-dependent protein synthesis in neurons. It is well established that the GTPase-activating protein tuberous sclerosis complex proteins (2TSC2) is an upstream inhibitor of mTOR. In this study, we show that glutamate stimulation down-regulates TSC2 protein in cortical cultures via NMDA receptor (NMDAR) activation. Interestingly, the mTOR-specific inhibitor rapamycin blocks the glutamate-induced TSC2 down-regulation. This finding suggests that NMDAR activation evokes an mTOR-mediated negative regulation of TSC2. In addition, we also show that the glutamate-induced down-regulation of TSC2 protein is blocked by proteasome inhibitor MG132, indicating the involvement of proteasome-mediated protein degradation. We propose that the NMDAR activation stimulates an mTOR-proteasome pathway to degrade TSC2 protein.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurological disorder which is emanated by dopaminergic death cell and depletion. Curcumin as a nontoxic matter has antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antiproliferative activities, and it involves antioxidant property same to vitamins C and E. In this study, we investigated the neuroprotective properties of the natural polyphenolic antioxidant compound, curcumin, against homocysteine (Hcy) neurotoxicity. Curcumin (50 mg/kg) was injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) once daily for a period of 10 days beginning 5 days prior to Hcy (2 mol/l) intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection in rats. The studies included immunohistological and locomotor activity tests. These results suggest that homocysteine intracerebroventricular administration (2 mol/l i.c.v.) may induce changes in rat brain, and subsequently, polyphenol treatment curcumin 50 mg/kg (i.p.) was capable in improving locomotor function in insulted animal by protecting the nervous system against homocysteine toxicity.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a hereditary neurodegenerative disorder resulting from the expansion of a polyglutamine tract in the huntingtin protein. The expansion of cytosine-adenine-guanine repeats results in neuronal loss in the striatum and cortex. Mutant huntingtin (HTT) may cause toxicity via a range of different mechanisms. Recent studies indicate that impairment of wild-type HTT function may also contribute to HD pathogenesis. However, the mechanisms regulating HTT expression have not been well defined. In this study, we cloned 1,795 bp of the 5' flanking region of the human huntingtin gene (htt) and identified a 106-bp fragment containing the transcription start site as the minimal region necessary for promoter activity. Sequence analysis reveals several putative regulatory elements including Sp1, NF-B, HIF, CREB, NRSF, P53, YY1, AP1, and STAT in the huntingtin promoter. We found functional Sp1 response elements in the huntingtin promoter region. The expression of Sp1 enhanced huntingtin gene transcription and the inhibition of Sp1-mediated transcriptional activation reduced huntingtin gene expression. These results suggest that Sp1 plays an important role in the regulation of the human huntingtin gene expression at the mRNA and protein levels. Our study suggests that the dysregulation of Sp1-mediated huntingtin transcription, combining with mutant huntingtin's detrimental effect on other Sp1-mediated downstream gene function, may contribute to the pathogenesis of HD.
Duplication of alpha-synuclein gene (SNCA) is a recognized cause of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the penetrance in families with SNCA duplication is as low as 30%, indicating that factors other than the SNCA gene dosage have an important role in neuronal death. In this study, using lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) derived from a parkinsonian kindred with SNCA duplication, we examined whether there is difference in (1) the level of SNCA mRNA and protein expression and cell viability and (2) the vulnerability to various insults relevant to PD between a patient, asymptomatic carrier, and unaffected control. Expression of SNCA mRNA and protein increased in the LCLs from subjects with SNCA gene duplication, irrespective of the disease status. In the absence of treatment, LCLs from the patient and carrier showed decreased viability compared with the LCL from the control. The LCL from the patient also showed decreased viability compared to the carrier. When susceptibility to various insults including lactacystin, dexamethasone, 3-methyladenine, H(2)O(2), and rotenone was examined, surprisingly, the LCL from the patient was more resistant than the LCL from the control to all agents except for lactacystin. This study shows that both intrinsic and extrinsic factors and their interaction have important roles in cell death and in the development of PD and further indicates that the relationship between cell death and the level of alpha-synuclein may be more complicated than previously thought.
Subdural electrode arrays provide stable, less invasive electrocorticogram (ECoG) recordings of neural signals than multichannel needle electrodes. Accurate reconstruction of intracortical local field potentials (LFPs) from ECoG signals would provide a critical step for the development of a less invasive, high-performance brain-machine interface; however, neural signals from individual ECoG channels are generally coarse and have limitations in estimating deep layer LFPs. Here, we developed a high-density, 32-channel, micro-ECoG array and applied a sparse linear regression algorithm to reconstruct the LFPs at various depths of primary motor cortex (M1) in a monkey performing a reach-and-grasp task. At 0.2 mm beneath the cortical surface, the real and estimated LFPs were significantly correlated (correlation coefficient (r); 0.66  0.11), and the r at 3.2 mm was still as high as 0.55  0.04. A time-frequency analysis of the reconstructed LFP showed clear transition between resting and movements by the monkey. These methods would be a powerful tool with wide-ranging applicability in neuroscience studies.
Apart from its hematopoietic activity, erythropoietin (EPO) is also known as a tissue-protective cytokine. In the brain, EPO and its receptor are up-regulated in response to insult and exert pro-survival effects. EPO binds to its receptor (EPOR) via high- and low-affinity binding sites (Sites 1 and 2, respectively), inducing conformational changes in the receptor, followed by the activation of downstream signaling cascades. Based on the crystal structure of the EPO:EPOR(2) complex, we designed a peptide, termed Epobis, whose sequence encompassed amino acids from binding Site 1. The present study shows that the Epobis peptide specifically binds to EPOR and induces neurite outgrowth from primary neurons in an EPOR-expression dependent manner. Furthermore, Epobis promoted the survival of hippocampal and cerebellar neuronal cultures after kainate treatment and KCl deprivation, respectively. Thus, we identified a new functional agonist of EPOR with the potential to promote neuroregeneration and neuroprotection.
Neuropsychiatric disorders characterized by behavioral disinhibition, including disorders of compulsivity (e.g. obsessive-compulsive disorder; OCD) and impulse-control (e.g. impulsive aggression), are severe, highly prevalent and chronically disabling. Treatment options for these diseases are extremely limited. The pathophysiological bases of disorders of behavioral disinhibition are poorly understood but it has been suggested that serotonin dysfunction may play a role. Mice lacking the gene encoding brain tryptophan hydroxylase 2 (Tph2-/-), the initial and rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of serotonin, were tested in numerous behavioral assays that are well known for their utility in modeling human neuropsychiatric diseases. Mice lacking Tph2 (and brain 5HT) show intense compulsive and impulsive behaviors to include extreme aggression. The impulsivity is motor in form and not cognitive because Tph2-/- mice show normal acquisition and reversal learning on a spatial learning task. Restoration of 5HT levels by treatment of Tph2-/- mice with its immediate precursor 5-hydroxytryptophan attenuated compulsive and impulsive-aggressive behaviors. Surprisingly, in Tph2-/- mice, the lack of 5HT was not associated with anxiety-like behaviors. The results indicate that 5HT mediates behavioral disinhibition in the mammalian brain independent of anxiogenesis.
Abnormal hyperexcitability of primary sensory neurons contributes to neuropathic pain development after nerve injury. Nerve injury profoundly reduces the expression of big conductance Ca(2+) -activated K(+) (BK) channels in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG). However, little is known about how nerve injury affects BK channel activity in DRG neurons. In this study, we determined the changes in BK channel activity in DRG neurons in a rat model of neuropathic pain and the contribution of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) to reduced BK channel activity. The BK channel activity was present predominantly in small and medium DRG neurons, and ligation of L5 and L6 spinal nerves profoundly decreased the BK current density in these neurons. Blocking BK channels significantly increased neuronal excitability in sham control, but not in nerve-injured, rats. The BDNF concentration in the DRG was significantly greater in nerve-injured rats than in control rats. BDNF treatment largely reduced BK currents in DRG neurons in control rats, which was blocked by either anti-BDNF antibody or K252a, a Trk receptor inhibitor. Furthermore, either anti-BDNF antibody or K252a reversed reduction in BK currents in injured DRG neurons. BDNF treatment reduced the mRNA levels of BK1 subunit in DRG neurons, and anti-BDNF antibody attenuated the reduction in the BK1 mRNA level in injured DRG neurons. These findings suggest that nerve injury primarily diminishes the BK channel activity in small and medium DRG neurons. Increased BDNF levels contribute to reduced BK channel activity in DRG neurons through epigenetic and transcriptional mechanisms in neuropathic pain.
Thyroid transcription factor 1 (TTF1), a member of the Nkx family of transcription factors required for basal forebrain morphogenesis, functions in the postnatal hypothalamus as a transcriptional regulator of genes encoding neuromodulators and hypophysiotrophic peptides. One of these peptides is gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH). In the present study, we show that Ttf1 mRNA abundance varies in a diurnal and melatonin-dependent fashion in the preoptic area of the rat, with maximal Ttf1 expression attained during the dark phase of the light/dark cycle, preceding the nocturnal peak in GnRH mRNA content. GnRH promoter activity oscillates in a circadian manner in GT1-7 cells, and this pattern is enhanced by TTF1 and blunted by small interfering RNA-mediated Ttf1 gene silencing. TTF1 transactivates GnRH transcription by binding to two sites in the GnRH promoter. Rat GnRH neurones in situ contain key proteins components of the positive (BMAL1, CLOCK) and negative (PER1) limbs of the circadian oscillator, and these proteins repress Ttf1 promoter activity in vitro. By contrast, Ttf1 transcription is activated by CRY1, a clock component required for circadian rhythmicity. In turn, TTF1 represses transcription of Rev-erb, a heme receptor that controls circadian transcription within the positive limb of the circadian oscillator. These findings suggest that TTF1 is a component of the molecular machinery controlling circadian oscillations in GnRH gene transcription.
Short-term oestradiol treatment modulates hippocampus-dependent memory and synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus. Long-term oestradiol treatment can also enhance hippocampus- dependent memory, although the effects of long-term oestradiol treatment on synaptic plasticity are unknown. We investigated the effects of long-term oestradiol treatment on synaptic plasticity at the Schaeffer Collateral/CA1 synapse in 8-month-old female rats. In addition, we determined the role of endogenous activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) in synaptic transmission and plasticity using scopolamine (1 m), an antagonist of mAChRs. Hippocampus slices from ovariectomised rats that were treated with oestradiol-containing capsules for 5 months were compared with slices from ovariectomised rats that received cholesterol-containing capsules. Unexpectedly, scopolamine application significantly increased the baseline field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSP) and decreased paired pulse facilitation (PPF) in slices from cholesterol-treated rats. Baseline fEPSPs and PPF were not significantly modulated in slices from oestradiol-treated rats by scopolamine. Slices from oestradiol-treated rats showed enhanced long-term potentiation relative to slices from cholesterol-treated rats. Scopolamine significantly reduced the magnitude of plasticity in slices from oestradiol-treated rats. Taken together, these results suggest that mAChRs have a significant effect on baseline synaptic transmission through a decrease in the probability of glutamate release in slices from cholesterol-treated rats. Long-term oestradiol treatment blocks this effect and enhances theta-burst stimulation-induced synaptic plasticity in the middle-aged female rat, and this effect is mediated by activation of mAChRs.
Interleukin (IL)-6 deficient mice develop mature-onset obesity. Furthermore, i.c.v. administration of IL-6 increases energy expenditure, suggesting that IL-6 centrally regulates energy homeostasis. To investigate whether it would be possible for IL-6 to directly influence the energy homeostasis via hypothalamic regulation in humans and rodents, we mapped the distribution of the ligand binding IL-6 receptor  (IL-6R) in this brain region. In the human hypothalamus, IL-6R-immunoreactivity was detected in perikarya and first-order dendrites of neurones. The IL-6R-immunoreactive (-IR) neurones were observed posterior to the level of the interventricular foramen. There, IL-6R-IR neurones were located in the lateral hypothalamic, perifornical, dorsal and posterior hypothalamic areas, the hypothalamic dorsomedial nucleus and in the zona incerta. In the caudal part of the hypothalamus, the density of the IL-6R-IR neurones gradually increased. Double-labelling immunofluorescent studies demonstrated that IL-6R immunoreactivity was localised in the same neurones as the orexigenic neuropeptide, melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH). By contrast, IL-6R-immunoreactivity was not observed in the orexin B-IR neurones. To determine whether the observed expression of IL-6R is evolutionary conserved, we studied the co-localisation of IL-6R with MCH and orexin in the mouse hypothalamus, where IL-6R-immunoreactivity was present in numerous MCH-IR and orexin-IR neurones. Our data demonstrate that the MCH neurones of the human hypothalamus, as well as the MCH and orexin neurones of the mouse hypothalamus, contain IL-6R. This opens up the possibility that IL-6 influences the energy balance through the MCH neurones in humans, and both MCH and orexin neurones in mice.



Humans and chimpanzees are the natural hosts for HIV. Non-human primate models of SIV/SHIV infection in rhesus, cynomologus and pigtail macaques have been used extensively as excellent model systems for pathogenesis and vaccine studies. However, owing to the variability of disease progression in infected macaques, a phenomenon identical to humans, coupled with their prohibitive costs, there exists a critical need for the development of small-animal models in which to study the untoward effects of HIV-1 infection. Owing to the fact that rodents are not the natural permissive hosts for lentiviral infection, development of small animal models for studying virus infection has used strategies that circumvent the steps of viral entry and infection. Such strategies involve overexpression of toxic viral proteins, SCID mice engrafted with the human PBLs or macrophages, and EcoHIV chimeric virus wherein the gp120 of HIV-1 was replaced with the gp80 of the ecotropic murine leukemia virus. Additional strategy that is often used by investigators to study the toxic effect of viral proteins involves direct stereotactic injection of the viral protein(s) into specific brain regions. The present report is a compilation of the applications of direct administration of Tat into the striatum to mimic the effects of the viral neurotoxin in the CNS. Added advantage of this model is that it is also amenable to repeated intraperitoneal cocaine injections, thereby allowing the study of the additive/synergistic effects of both the viral protein and cocaine. Such a model system recapitulates aspects of HAND in the context of drug abuse.
In the post-human genome project era, high throughput techniques to detect and computational algorithms to analyze differentially expressed genes have proven to be powerful tools for studying pathogenesis of neuroAIDS. Concurrently, discovery of non-coding RNAs and their role in development and disease has underscored the importance of examining the entire transcriptome instead of protein coding genes alone. Herein, we review the documented changes in brain RNA expression profiles in the non-human primate model of neuroAIDS (SIV infected monkeys) and compare the findings to those resulting from studies in post-mortem human samples of neuroAIDS. Differential expression of mRNAs involved in inflammation and immune response are a common finding in both monkey and human samples - even in HIV infected people on combination antiretroviral therapy, a shared set of genes is upregulated in the brains of both infected monkeys and humans: B2M, IFI44, IFIT3, MX1, STAT1. Additionally, alterations in ion channel encoding genes have been observed in the human studies. Brain miRNA profiling has also been performed, and up-regulation of two miRNAs originating from the same transcript, miR-142-3p and miR-142-5p, is common to human and monkey neuroAIDS studies. With increases in knowledge about the genome and advances in technology, unraveling alterations in the transcriptome in the SIV/monkey model will continue to enrich our knowledge about the effects of HIV on the brain.
There is a rebirth of humanized mouse models in reflecting human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) pathobiology. This has allowed new investigations of viral diversity, immunity and developmental therapeutics. In the past, HIV infection and disease were, in part, mirrored in immune deficient mice reconstituted with human hematopoietic stem cells. What remained from early studies reflected the ability to mirror central nervous system (CNS) disease. As the wide spread use of combination antiretroviral therapies has changed the severity, but not prevalence, of HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND), mimicking such virus-induced CNS morbidities in humanized animals is essential for HIV/AIDS research activities. To this end, we now review the evidence for how and under what circumstances humanized mice may be utilized for studies of HIV-1 neuropathogenesis.
Combined antiretroviral therapy (ART) tremendously improved the lifespan and symptoms associated with AIDS-defining illness in affected individuals. However, chronic ART-treated patients frequently develop age-dependent complications, including dementia, diabetes, and hyperlipidemia: all risk factors of Alzheimer's disease. Importantly, the effect of ART compounds on amyloid generation and clearance has never been systematically examined. Nine prescribed HIV protease inhibitors were tested for their effect on amyloid- peptide (A) clearance in primary cultured human monocyte-derived macrophages. Atazanavir, ritonavir, and saquinavir modestly inhibited of A degradation, while lopinavir, nelfinavir, and ritonavir enhanced secretion of undigested A after phagocytosis. Lopinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir, and saquinavir inhibited endogenous A40 production from primary cultured human cortical neurons, which were associated with reduction in Beta-site APP Converting Enzyme 1 (BACE1) and -secretase enzyme activities. However, ART compounds showed little inhibition of purified BACE1 activity in vitro, suggesting the indirect effect of ART compounds on BACE1 activity in neurons. Finally, nefinavir or lopinavir/ritonavir (Kaletra) were orally administered for 30days into APP SCID mice expressing a double mutant form of APP 695 (KM670/671NL + V717F) in homozygosity for the scid allele of Prkdc. There was no difference in beta-amyloidosis by ART drug administration as determined by both immunohistochemistry and ELISA measurements although the therapeutic doses of the ART compounds was present in the brain. These data demonstrated that ART drugs can inhibit A clearance in macrophages and A production in neurons, but these effects did not significantly alter A accumulation in the mouse brain.
DJ-1 (PARK7) is a neuroprotective protein that protects cells from oxidative stress. Accordingly, loss-of-function DJ-1 mutations have been linked with a familial form of early onset Parkinson disease. Mechanisms by which DJ-1 level could be enriched in the CNS are poorly understood. Recently we have discovered anti-inflammatory activity of sodium benzoate (NaB), a metabolite of cinnamon and a widely-used food additive. Here we delineate that NaB is also capable of increasing the level of DJ-1 in primary mouse and human astrocytes and human neurons highlighting another novel neuroprotective effect of this compound. Reversal of DJ-1-inducing effect of NaB by mevalonate, farnesyl phosphate, but not cholesterol and ubiquinone, suggests that depletion of intermediates, but not end products, of the mevalonate pathway is involved in the induction of DJ-1 by NaB. Accordingly, either an inhibitor of p21(ras) farnesyl protein transferase (FPTI) or a dominant-negative mutant of p21(ras) alone was also able to increase the expression of DJ-1 in astrocytes suggesting an involvement of p21(ras) in DJ-1 expression. However, an inhibitor of geranyl geranyl transferase (GGTI) and a dominant-negative mutant of p21(rac) had no effect on the expression of DJ-1, indicating the specificity of the effect. Similarly lipopolysaccharide (LPS), an activator of small G proteins, also inhibited the expression of DJ-1, and NaB and FPTI, but not GGTI, abrogated LPS-mediated inhibition. Together, these results suggest that NaB upregulates DJ-1 via modulation of mevalonate metabolites and that p21(ras), but not p21(rac), is involved in the regulation of DJ-1.
The differential diagnosis of idiopathic parkinsonism can be very challenging, especially early in the course of the disease. Oculomotor function has been reported to differ between the diseases constituting idiopathic parkinsonism. A detailed examination of the oculomotor functions could thus possibly be useful in the early differential diagnostic procedure. Oculomotor function could also differ between subgroups of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). We examined the oculomotor function in a population-based incidence cohort with newly diagnosed idiopathic parkinsonism and 38 controls. We examined 135 patients with parkinsonism 105 PD, 11 progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), and 19 multiple system atrophy with predominant parkinsonism (MSA-P)] within 3 months of their first visit to our clinic and before initiation of dopaminergic medication. The oculomotor measurements were repeated after 12 months. The clinical diagnosis was that of the latest clinical follow-up (median follow-up was 3 years). All patients were examined with (123)I-N-(omega)-fluoropropyl-2--carbomethoxy-3--(4-iodophenyl) nortropane single-photon emission computed tomography (FP-CIT SPECT), and only patients with pathological uptake of the ligand were included. Pathological changes in the oculomotor function were found in all patient groups compared to controls at the baseline examination. In PD, there were correlations between total axial motor scores and vertical saccade velocity and precision, horizontal saccade velocity and precision, and smooth pursuit gain at 20 and 30/s. Oculomotor test results could not separate the different forms of idiopathic parkinsonism in the early phase from each other. Few changes in the oculomotor functions were observed between the baseline and the 12-month follow-up examinations. No correlations were found between the oculomotor measurements and disease severity or duration.
Ethanol is known to improve tremor in a proportion of patients with essential tremor. Increased incidence of alcoholism has been suspected in essential tremor patients; however, no objective evaluation has been performed using laboratory markers to date. Data on alcohol intake in the last 30 days were acquired in 95 essential tremor patients and 35 healthy controls. Blood and urine markers related to alcohol metabolism and liver function were evaluated. Self-reported alcohol intake and biomarker levels were higher in essential tremor, but the difference was only significant for carbohydrate-deficient transferrin. None of the subjects presented with laboratory parameters reflecting chronic alcohol abuse. Our data do not reflect a higher incidence of alcoholism in patients with essential tremor. Their alcohol intake is well controlled and does not exceed the limits of healthy social drinking.
The increased visual dependence noted in some vestibular patients may be secondary to their vertigo. We examine whether a single, brief vertigo attack, such as in benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV), modifies visual dependency. Visual dependency was measured before and after the Hallpike manoeuvre with (a) the Rod and Frame and the Rod and Disc techniques whilst seated and (b) the postural sway induced by visual roll-motion stimulation. Three subject groups were studied: 20 patients with BPPV (history and positive Hallpike manoeuvre; PosH group), 20 control patients (history of BPPV but negative Hallpike manoeuvre; NegH group) and 20 normal controls. Our findings show that while both patient groups showed enhanced visual dependency, the PosH and the normal control group decreased visual dependency on repetition of the visual tasks after the Hallpike manoeuvre. NegH patients differed from PosH patients in that their high visual dependency did not diminish on repetition of the visual stimuli; they scored higher on the situational characteristic questionnaire ('visual vertigo' symptoms) and showed higher incidence of migraine. We conclude that long term vestibular symptoms increase visual dependence but a single BPPV attack does not increase it further. Repetitive visual motion stimulation induces adaptation in visual dependence in peripheral vestibular disorders such as BPPV. A positional form of vestibular migraine may underlie the symptoms of some patients with a history of BPPV but negative Hallpike manoeuvre. The finding that they have non adaptable increased visual dependency may explain visuo-vestibular symptoms in this group and, perhaps more widely, in patients with migraine.
Multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) is a rare immune-mediated disorder and is characterized by male predominance, the presence of serum anti-GM1 IgM antibodies in up to half of all patients, responsiveness to intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIg) and an increased frequency of HLA type HLA-DRB1*15. The aim of this study was to assess whether the frequency of autoimmune diseases (AID) is increased in patients with MMN and their first-degree family members, since this would indicate that MMN shares pathogenic mechanisms with other AID. We conducted a case-control study using questionnaires to evaluate the prevalence of AID in MMN and controls, and their first-degree relatives. Questionnaires from 81 MMN patients (417 first-degree relatives) and 438 controls (2,377 first-degree relatives) were analyzed. Overall prevalence of AID was higher in MMN patients (11%) than in controls (5%) (OR 2.4, 95% CI 1.1-5.5, p = 0.037). Type 1 diabetes, Hashimoto's thyroid disease, and celiac disease were significantly more prevalent in family members of patients than controls. The presence of an additional AID was not associated with age at MMN onset, disease duration, titer of serum anti-GM1 IgM antibodies or HLA type HLA-DRB1*15. The higher frequency of AID in patients with MMN indicates a common autoimmune diathesis.
This study reviews empirical evidence on the association between personality traits and Parkinson's disease (PD), with a twofold aim. First, to better identify non-motor symptoms, such as affective symptoms and personality changes, that could help to define the pre-motor phase of PD; second, to better understand the neurobiological bases of personality traits, a goal that is not fully accomplished by a purely anatomical approach. A literature review was performed on studies of personality traits in PD patients, in electronic databases ISI Web of Knowledge, Medline and PsychInfo, conducted in July 2011. We found evidence that the existence of a characteristic premorbid personality profile of PD patients is not actually sustained by robust empirical evidence, mainly due to the methodological bias of the retrospective assessment of personality; PD patients present a personality profile of low novelty seeking and high harm avoidance. We concluded that the definition of a pre-motor phase of PD, based on non-motor symptoms, should search for the presence of concomitant affective disorders and for a positive psychiatric history for affective disorders rather than for a typical personality profile or personality changes. The low novelty seeking profile is probably related to the dopaminergic deficit, while the high harm avoidance profile is probably associated with the presence of affective disorders. Clinical implications of these findings, in regard to personality assessment and pharmacological treatments in PD, are also discussed.
Striatal hypermetabolism on 18FDG-PET scan is a neuroradiological finding that has been described in association with autoimmune disorders such as Sydenham chorea, lupus or antiphospholipid syndrome. Here, we report three patients with non-paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis characterized by 18FDG-PET hypermetabolism of both striata, in contrast with diffuse hypometabolism in the rest of the brain. All patients developed subacute dementia, and antibodies to voltage-gated potassium channels were found in all cases. Brain metabolism and neurological status improved within a few months of immunosuppressive therapy. The finding of striatal hypermetabolism on 18FDG-PET images could thus be highly indicative of limbic encephalitis associated with anti-neuropil antibodies. It could be of significant help in the diagnosis of this rare and treatable condition, and may also provide a useful marker of disease outcome.


In this update on rehabilitation technology, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), a technique that allows noninvasive stimulation of the brain, is examined. The background and basic principles of TMS are reviewed, and its usefulness as a tool to inform and possibly augment the rehabilitation process is discussed. The three main paradigms by which TMS is applied-physiological measurement, disruption/virtual lesion studies, and modulation of cortical excitability-are discussed relative to the types of scientific information each paradigm can provide and their potential clinical usefulness in the future. One of the more exciting prospects is that, when combined with rehabilitation training, TMS modulation of cortical excitability could potentially enhance the effects of rehabilitation and lead to greater levels of recovery than are currently attainable with rehabilitation alone. It is concluded that current studies must focus on the mechanisms of recovery based on the specific structures and processes affected by the disorder and the neural effects of specific rehabilitation interventions in order for the potential of TMS-augmented rehabilitation to be realized.


In surgery for tumors of the dominant hemisphere, the attention devoted to quality of resection and preservation of language function has not been accompanied by comparable interest in preservation of cognitive abilities which may affect quality of life. We studied 22 patients undergoing awake surgery for glioma removal in the language areas of the brain. Besides monitoring tumor variables (size, location, histology, edema), we used a multifaceted battery of tests to investigate mood, cognition, and language in an attempt to assess the burden of disease and treatment, and the relationships between these three dimensions. Baseline assessment showed that 45% of the patients were depressed and 23% anxious; some cognitive and language impairment was noted for 59 and 50%, respectively. A general decline in postoperative cognitive performance (significant for memory and attention only) and language function (significant for picture naming) was observed, whereas depression was unchanged and anxiety decreased. Tumor histology, but not demographic variables or extent of resection, correlated with postoperative cognitive changes: patients undergoing surgery for high-grade tumors were more likely to improve. No correlation was observed between scores for mood, cognition, and language function. A subset of patients with low-grade glioma was followed up for 3-6 months; although some improvement was observed they did not always regain their preoperative performance. In conclusion, we believe that cognitive assessment performed in conjunction with language testing is a necessary step in the global evaluation of brain tumor patients both before and after surgery.
Two main varieties of recognition disorders are distinguished in neuropsychology: agnosias and semantic disorders. The term agnosias is generally used to denote recognition defects limited to a single perceptual modality (which is itself apparently intact), whereas the term semantic disorders is used to denote recognition defects involving all the sensory modalities in a roughly similar manner. Brain tumors can be one of the aetiologies underlying agnosias and semantic disorders. However, due to the heterogeneity and the rarity of recognition disorders, their investigation can be useful only to suggest or exclude the oncological nature of a brain lesion, but not to systematically monitor the clinical outcome in tumor patients. Furthermore, the relevance of recognition disorders as a hint toward a diagnosis of brain tumor varies according to the type of agnosia and of semantic disorder and the localization of the underlying brain pathology. The hypothesis that a variety of agnosia (or of semantic disorder) may be due to a neoplastic lesion can, therefore, be advanced if it is consistent with our knowledge about the usual localization and the growing patterns of different types of brain tumors.
Although validated tools (neuropsychological tests, patient reported outcomes, mood and psychological profile) were first introduced many years ago in clinical practice, the impact of the tumor itself on patient cognition has not been extensively studied. Furthermore, while outcome research is evolving in an attempt to adapt the use of different tools to the preoperative and postoperative phases, the standard guidelines for evaluating outcome after brain surgery, by neurological examination and complication assessment, are frequently neglected in the current literature. This article attempts to provide an appraisal of the evidence for the impact of surgical treatment on cognitive function of brain tumor patients within the context of general outcome.
Patients with neglect fail to report, respond to, or orient to stimuli presented on the opposite side of the brain lesion. Spatial neglect is a multi-componential syndrome and many of its symptoms and signs need specific testing to detect their different clinical manifestations. Given that neglect has a dramatic effect on the outcome of these patients, it is of paramount importance for accurate assessment all its manifestations. Thus, the purpose of this study is to assess visuo-spatial functions with a newly-built neuropsychological battery to determine the incidence of visuo-spatial disorders and spatial neglect in patients with right brain tumour. We tested 14 patients undergoing tumour resection, both pre-operatively and post-operatively. Pre-operatively, we found an incidence of 42.86% for visuo-spatial deficits and of 14.29% specifically for spatial neglect. This incidence increases post-operatively to 57.14% for visuo-spatial deficits and to 42.86% specifically for spatial neglect. The present study has important implications for a better knowledge of the spatial disorders in patients with right-brain tumour, thus providing a clearer picture on the everyday life problems faced by these patients, both within the family and in working contexts.
The ascending reticular activating system (ARAS) mediates arousal, an essential component of human consciousness. Lesions of the ARAS cause coma, the most severe disorder of consciousness. Because of current methodological limitations, including of postmortem tissue analysis, the neuroanatomic connectivity of the human ARAS is poorly understood. We applied the advanced imaging technique of high angular resolution diffusion imaging (HARDI) to elucidate the structural connectivity of the ARAS in 3 adult human brains, 2 of which were imaged postmortem. High angular resolution diffusion imaging tractography identified the ARAS connectivity previously described in animals and also revealed novel human pathways connecting the brainstem to the thalamus, the hypothalamus, and the basal forebrain. Each pathway contained different distributions of fiber tracts from known neurotransmitter-specific ARAS nuclei in the brainstem. The histologically guided tractography findings reported here provide initialevidence for human-specific pathways of the ARAS. The unique composition of neurotransmitter-specific fiber tracts within each ARAS pathway suggests structural specializations that subserve the different functional characteristics of human arousal. This ARAS connectivity analysis provides proof of principle that HARDI tractography may affect the study of human consciousness and its disorders, including in neuropathologic studies of patients dying in coma and the persistent vegetative state.
Like insulin, glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) may have direct trophic actions on the nervous system, but its potential role in supporting diabetic sensory neurons is uncertain. We identified wide expression of GLP-1 receptors on dorsal root ganglia sensory neurons of diabetic and nondiabetic mice. Exendin-4, a GLP-1 agonist, increased neurite outgrowth of adult sensory neurons in vitro. To determine the effects ofexendin-4 in comparison with continuous low- or high-dose insulin in vivo, we evaluated parallel cohorts of type 1 (streptozotocin-induced) and type 2 (db/db) mice of 2 months' diabetes duration with established neuropathy during an additional month of treatment. High-dose insulin alone reversed hyperglycemia in type 1 diabetic mice, partly reversed thermal sensory loss, improved epidermal innervation but failed to reverse electrophysiological abnormalities. Exendin-4 improved both sensory electrophysiology and behavioral sensory loss. Low-dose insulin was ineffective. In type 2 diabetes, hyperglycemia was uncorrected, and neither insulin nor exendin-4 reversed sensory electrophysiology, sensory behavior, or loss of epidermal axons. However, exendin-4 alone improved motor electrophysiology. Receptor for advanced glycosylated end products and nuclear factor-B neuronal expression were not significantly altered by diabetes or treatment. Taken together, these results suggest that although GLP-1 agonists and insulin alone are insufficient to reverse all features of diabetic neuropathy, in combination, they might benefit some aspects of established diabetic neuropathy.
Recent findings suggest that neural representations in early auditory cortex reflect not only the physical properties of a stimulus, but also high-level, top-down, and even cross-modal information. However, the nature of cross-modal information in auditory cortex remains poorly understood. Here, we used pattern analyses of fMRI data to ask whether early auditory cortex contains information about the visual environment. Our data show that 1) early auditory cortex contained information about a visual stimulus when there was no bottom-up auditory signal, and that 2) no influence of visual stimulation was observed in auditory cortex when visual stimuli did not provide a context relevant to audition. Our findings attest to the capacity of auditory cortex to reflect high-level, top-down, and cross-modal information and indicate that the spatial patterns of activation in auditory cortex reflect contextual/implied auditory information but not visual information per se.
Intracellular studies have revealed the importance of cotuned excitatory and inhibitory inputs to neurons in auditory cortex, but typical spectrotemporal receptive field models of neuronal processing cannot account for this overlapping tuning. Here, we apply a new nonlinear modeling framework to extracellular data recorded from primary auditory cortex (A1) that enables us to explore how the interplay of excitation and inhibition contributes to the processing of complex natural sounds. The resulting description produces more accurate predictions of observed spike trains than the linear spectrotemporal model, and the properties of excitation and inhibition inferred by the model are furthermore consistent with previous intracellular observations. It can also describe several nonlinear properties of A1 that are not captured by linear models, including intensity tuning and selectivity to sound onsets and offsets. These results thus offer a broader picture of the computational role of excitation and inhibition in A1 and support the hypothesis that their interactions play an important role in the processing of natural auditory stimuli.
In vitro studies have repeatedly demonstrated that the neurotransmitters -aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glycine depolarize immature neurons in many areas of the CNS, including the spinal cord. This widely accepted phenomenon was recently challenged by experiments showing that the depolarizing action of GABA on neonatal hippocampus and neocortex in vitro was prevented by adding energy substrates (ES), such as the ketone body metabolite dl--hydroxybutyric acid (DL-BHB), lactate, or pyruvate to the artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF). It was suggested that GABA-induced depolarizations in vitro might be an artifact due to inadequate energy supply when glucose is the sole energy source, consistent with the energy metabolism of neonatal rat brain being largely dependent on ESs other than glucose. Here we examined the effects of these ESs (DL-BHB, lactate, pyruvate) on inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) recorded from neonatal rat lumbar spinal cord motoneurons (MNs), in vitro. We report that supplementing the ACSF with physiologic concentrations of DL-BHB, lactate, or pyruvate does not alter the reversal potential of IPSPs (E(IPSP)). Only high concentrations of pyruvate hyperpolarized E(IPSP). In addition, the depolarizing action of GABA on primary afferent terminals was not affected by supplementing the ACSF with ES at physiologic concentrations. We conclude that depolarizing IPSPs in immature MNs and the primary afferent depolarizations are not caused by inadequate energy supply. Glucose at its standard concentration appears to be an adequate ES for the neonatal spinal cord in vitro.
Our understanding of the neural control of locomotion has been greatly enhanced by the ability to identify and manipulate genetically defined populations of interneurons that comprise the locomotor central pattern generator (CPG). To date, the dI6 interneurons are one of the few populations that settle in the ventral region of the postnatal spinal cord that have not been investigated. In the present study, we utilized a novel transgenic mouse line to electrophysiologically characterize dI6 interneurons located close to the central canal and study their function during fictive locomotion. The majority of dI6 cells investigated were found to be rhythmically active during fictive locomotion and could be divided into two electrophysiologically distinct populations of interneurons. The first population fired rhythmic trains of action potentials that were loosely coupled to ventral root output and contained several intrinsic membrane properties of rhythm-generating neurons, raising the possibility that these cells may be involved in the generation of rhythmic activity in the locomotor CPG. The second population fired rhythmic trains of action potentials that were tightly coupled to ventral root output and lacked intrinsic oscillatory mechanisms, indicating that these neurons may be driven by a rhythm-generating network. Together these results indicate that dI6 neurons comprise an important component of the locomotor CPG that participate in multiple facets of motor behavior.
Optogenetics is an emerging field of neuromodulation that permits scaled, millisecond temporal control of the membrane dynamics of genetically targeted cells using light. Optogenetic technology has revolutionized neuroscience research; however, numerous biophysical questions remain on the optical and neuronal factors impacting the modulation of neural activity with photon-sensitive ion channels. To begin to address such questions, we developed a computational tool to explore the underlying principles of optogenetic neural stimulation. This &quot;light-neuron&quot; model consists of theoretical representations of the light dynamics generated by a fiber optic in brain tissue, coupled to a multicompartment cable model of a cortical pyramidal neuron embedded with channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) membrane dynamics. Simulations revealed that the large energies required to generate an action potential are primarily due to the limited conductivity of ChR2, and that the major determinants of stimulation threshold are the surface area of illuminated cell membrane and proximity to the light source. Our results predict that the activation threshold is sensitive to many of the properties of ChR2 (density, conductivity, and kinetics), tissue medium (scattering and absorbance), and the fiber-optic light source (diameter and numerical aperture). We also illustrate the impact of redistributing the ChR2 expression density (uniform vs. nonuniform) on the activation threshold. The model system developed in this study represents a scientific instrument to characterize the effects of optogenetic neuromodulation, as well as an engineering design tool to help guide future development of optogenetic technology.
Recent studies have shown that saccadic inward adaptation (i.e., the shortening of saccade amplitude) and saccadic outward adaptation (i.e., the lengthening of saccade amplitude) rely on partially different neuronal mechanisms. There is increasing evidence that these differences are based on differences at the target registration or planning stages since outward but not inward adaptation transfers to hand-pointing and perceptual localization of flashed targets. Furthermore, the transfer of reactive saccade adaptation to long-duration overlap and scanning saccades is stronger after saccadic outward adaptation than that after saccadic inward adaptation, suggesting that modulated target registration stages during outward adaptation are increasingly used in the execution of saccades when the saccade target is visually available for a longer time. The difference in target presentation duration between reactive and scanning saccades is also linked to a difference in perceptual localization of different targets. Flashed targets are mislocalized after inward adaptation of reactive and scanning saccades but targets that are presented for a longer time (stationary targets) are mislocalized stronger after scanning than after reactive saccades. This link between perceptual localization and adaptation specificity suggests that mislocalization of stationary bars should be higher after outward than that after inward adaptation of reactive saccades. In the present study we test this prediction. We show that the relative amount of mislocalization of stationary versus flashed bars is higher after outward than that after inward adaptation of reactive saccades. Furthermore, during fixation stationary and flashed bars were mislocalized after outward but not after inward adaptation. Thus, our results give further evidence for different adaptation mechanisms between inward and outward adaptation and harmonize some recent research.
Infrared laser irradiation has been established as an appropriate stimulus for primary sensory neurons under conditions where sensory receptor cells are impaired or lost. Yet, development of clinical applications has been impeded by lack of information about the molecular mechanisms underlying the laser-induced neural response. Here, we directly address this question through pharmacological characterization of the biological response evoked by midinfrared irradiation of isolated retinal and vestibular ganglion cells from rodents. Whole cell patch-clamp recordings reveal that both voltage-gated calcium and sodium channels contribute to the laser-evoked neuronal voltage variations (LEVV). In addition, selective blockade of the LEVV by micromolar concentrations of ruthenium red and RN 1734 identifies thermosensitive transient receptor potential vanilloid channels as the primary effectors of the chain reaction triggered by midinfrared laser irradiation. These results have the potential to facilitate greatly the design of future prosthetic devices aimed at restoring neurosensory capacities in disabled patients.
